 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Our Morning Edition colleague David Greene just spent a week in Cuba. There is been talk of change on the island for years now but the Castros still stifle political dissent. Wages are stunningly low. David went there to get a sense of whether Cubans are growing impatient and to understand how they have adjusted to this uncertainty. He joins me now from Miami. David welcome.  Thanks Melissa.  And today you are going to bring us the story of one Cuban man you met. His name is Isbel Diaz Torres. What got you interested in him and why do you think his story is important?  Well he is 38 years old Melissa. And he is part of a group called the Critical Observatory. They are kind of a network of organizations of people who want to talk about politics and have a political dialogue. And what really interested me - I mean when you think about and when we talk about countries like Cuba like Russia where I was based for NPR for a few years often I think there can be this tempting narrative that these countries are just on this inevitable path to you know one day have an American style of democracy. And it is just not necessarily where countries like this are going. And Isbel you know he is a socialist which means he is really ideologically an ally of the Castros. But he is critical of the current government in Cuba. He does not think they allow free expression or freedom of the press. And so he is sort of followed by the government. They do not let him speak openly. And we met in this park in Havana. And he said it is the kind of place that he often goes with his friends to talk about politics.  We face the risk of receiving these kind of visitors you know that we do not like. People of the security trying to record or just to listen what we are talking about.  So David he is saying that people from the security system within Cuba are trying to record their conversations.  He is followed all the time. So much so that he recognizes some of the security officials that often come and record him and watch his every move. So it was really a story that struck me especially when it comes to him trying so hard to get his message out in this environment. He writes. He will send his writing out to be published on the Internet. His audience Melissa he admitted not very big - in part because a lot of people in Cuba do not have access to the Internet including often him. I mean he said he is not able to always get online and see what he is written.  I do see it sometimes. We find ways to have some money to pay. And we go to these offices and we can access to Internet now. But that is very recent.  And you can a hotel - right? - and pay to use the Internet if you...  Yes. Yes we can go to a hotel and do that. It is very expensive for us - very. It varies but a WiFi connection is about 8 per hour. Which is...  Eight dollars for an hour of Internet...  Yes.  We should say in a country where a lot of people make wages of about 30 in a month which gives you an idea I guess of...  Yes yes. You know I receive 15 a month for my work.  We were sitting there with his boyfriend. We should say Melissa he is gay which is another challenge for him. You know Cuba has become much more open to same-sex couples. But you know he said that he and his boyfriend are often stopped on the streets by police - not for their political conversation but because they' David when you and I were chatting earlier you mentioned to me that Isbel had just spent a month in the United States. How did that happen? Is he free to travel?  You know it is becoming much easier for Cubans to go to the United States in his case for you know a conference this time. So that was not the hard part. The hard part Melissa was when he arrived back home in Havana. He ran into trouble at the airport. I mean he was stopped. He had his cell phone taken away from him. He had a book he was reading taken away from him. And with all of that I asked Isbel is there time when you are just going to want to get out of Cuba and defect? And here's what he said.  I think my duty is here. But not only my duty you know my people my boyfriend and my mother and my family and the people I love is here. So I think I should stay here. I like to stay here. I want to stay here.  And so he is really adjusted to this life right now. And you know there could be big changes coming in Cuba at some point. The embargo could one day end. You know the Castros might be gone. But as the future kind of gets figured out in this country he is the kind of person I am going to keep my eye on.  That is our Morning Edition colleague David Greene with one of the voices he heard during a week of reporting in Cuba. David thanks so much.  Great to be with you Melissa. 