 But as NPR's Sylvia Poggioli reports many in Italy worry less about Gadhafi says and far more about his increasingly powerful role in the Italian economy.  This was Gadhafi's fourth visit to Italy in just over a year and it marked the second anniversary of a friendship treaty between the African country and its former colonial master. Gadhafi brought a surprise with him.   Bedouin-clad riders mounted on 30 thoroughbred horses flown in from Libya performed for the Italian hosts. Nearly the entire government as well as leaders of the business establishment were present at what one daily quipped was a circus spectacle with Gadhafi acting as ringmaster. But Berlusconi had only words of praise for Gadhafi and even kissed his hand.   It is an advantage for everyone that relations between Italy and Libya have changed and are definitely positive. Those who do not understand this and who criticize Libya belong to the past and are prisoners of outdated ideas.  Economic journalist Stefano Feltri points out that in the last two years Libya has invested nearly 40 billion in Italy.  It is the most important foreign investor in terms of strategic investments. They are the only foreign country who can buy shares in companies like our biggest bank and our biggest energy firm.  In fact Gadhafi's Libya is now the biggest shareholder in Unicredit Italy's biggest bank. It is planning to raise its stake in ENI the state-owned energy company to 15 percent and it has interest in construction helicopters telecommunications and insurance as well as in the Juventus soccer team. Libya is today the fifth-largest investor on the Italian stock market. And the friendship treaty stipulates that Italy will provide 20 billion worth of infrastructure in Libya.  Opposition PM Furio Colombo says 50 percent of those seeking to enter Italy are asylum seekers and Italy cannot turn them back under international law.  They wanted someone to perform the dirty work for Italy paid by Italy but without the Italians being involved and without the public opinion - to know anything to make sure no boats of refugees could pass through.  Sylvia Poggioli NPR News Rome. 