 Infants school children and now hospital workers are among the thousands of people being kidnapped for ransom in Nigeria. According to one analyst more than 1300 Nigerians were abducted in June. That is about 45 people a day. And ransom kidnappings by heavily armed criminal gangs have become an industry especially in the country's northwest. Authorities are overwhelmed and have told Nigerians that they need to protect themselves. Joe Parkinson has been covering this for The Wall Street Journal and he joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  Now people may have been familiar with about seven years ago when Boko Haram an Islamist militant group took schoolgirls in the northeast part of the country. This is not the same kind of kidnapping but they are related. Can you tell us what we are looking at?  That is right. Well I think anyone who is been paying attention over the last six months now will have seen this huge surge in kidnappings in the northwest of Nigeria - as you say something like 3000 people since the beginning of the year and half of them are school children. And immediately what comes to mind is the abduction in Chibok seven years ago which ignited the global Bring Back Our Girls campaign. Now that was conducted by Boko Haram the jihadist group. But what is happening now is actually different. It is in a slightly different part of the country and Boko Haram tended to kidnap children and also adults for ideological reasons. They wanted to recruit. They wanted to indoctrinate. In some cases with young women they wanted to force them into marriage. What is happening now is much more about money. It is much more mercenary and it is much more transactional.  So that was a blueprint of sorts right?  It was a blueprint. This was the kind of origin story if you like. And although they are being kidnapped for different reasons the same thing is happening now - 11 high school kidnappings since the beginning of the year.  So the targets have been vulnerable people - schools hospitals and children in particular. Can you talk about how these gangs work?  Yes. The targets are actually widening. In recent days as you say we have seen babies kidnapped from hospitals. We have seen traditional rulers. We have seen high-profile targets celebrities. And what these groups are doing is basically moving into a political vacuum a power vacuum where the government has lost control over law and order in a huge part of the country. So this is just one of the many different conflicts and insurgencies the Nigerian government is trying to fight simultaneously. And it is clearly being overwhelmed. I mean what clearer metric can you have for state failure than the mass kidnapping of children from schools a place where they should be safe? I think it is very clear now that the government is losing control and that this has become such a growing business that it is going to be very very difficult to stop.  We have said that the government is basically telling citizens they need to protect themselves. How are they doing that? Is it keeping their kids from school? How is this playing out?  Well Nigeria now has more children out of school than any other country on Earth. And that is partly to do with the kidnapping epidemic partly to do with longer-term insecurity across the northeast. What communities are doing is trying to get organized. They are trying to get hold of weapons. And several of the state governors in the north of the country have actually encouraged this. What we are seeing unfortunately is kind of the rise of more and more sort of civilian militias and vigilantism because communities have no choice but to defend themselves.  What is being talked about in terms of what to do in particular with children if this crisis continues? I mean is there a long-term impact here that people are not understanding the bigger picture of?  So the concern now really is that there will be a lost generation in Nigeria. Nigeria's Africa's most populous country - 200 million people. And millions of children are now out of school with no chance of getting back. And so the concern is that there will be a whole generation of children without the means to escape the poverty without the means to escape the security crisis in their region and possibly even more susceptible to radicalization or extreme ideas. And so you get into this vicious cycle which will be very very difficult to turn around.  That is Joe Parkinson Africa bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal co-author of the book Bring Back Our Girls. Thank you for speaking with us.  Thanks so much for having me. 