 The crackdown on opponents of Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega continues. Yesterday a reporter was arrested and charged with aiding foreign intervention in the country. These are similar accusations that have led to the arrest of nearly 20 opposition figures including former government officials and key business leaders. This crackdown which began late last month has virtually wiped out opposition to President Ortega who is set to run for a fourth consecutive term in November. New York Times reporter Anatoly Kurmanaev was recently denied entry into Nicaragua to cover all of this. He covers Mexico and South America for The Times and joins us now from Mexico City. Welcome.  Thank you for having me.  So I understand the airline actually canceled your ticket to Managua shortly before you were even boarding. What happened exactly?  Nicaraguan authorities did not approve my entry into the country. I asked them if there was anything wrong. They said no it is - you have been blacklisted and...  Wow.  ...You are off a plane.  And did they tell you the grounds for quote unquote blacklisting you at that point?  I have tried contacting the vice president of the country and I only received a one-sentence reply - thank you for your interest.  Well it is not just you who is gotten targeted. Journalists in Nicaragua have also been targeted as well. Yesterday there was a raid on a prominent journalist's home I understand. And another journalist was arrested yesterday as well. Do you have a sense of how widespread this targeting of journalists is?  This was always quite a restrictive environment for journalists to operate. And this latest wave of repression that we are seeing this month - it just went into the overdrive.  And why? Why is this wave happening now in particular? What is behind this?  It is very hard to speculate. There has been some hopes that the government will use all the advantages it has as an incumbent to divide the oppositions and you know to use the advantage to basically win the election.  I saw one of your tweets earlier where you write every day someone you spoke with is arrested. You start writing someone and realize they have just been charged. I mean we are talking not just about journalists. We are talking about prominent opposition figures some of them past allies of Ortega. What are they being charged with exactly?  In the last few months the government has passed several laws and two of them are being used to basically eliminate their opponents. One is the so-called sovereignty law which allows to call anyone a traitor and jail them for that. And the other one is cybercrimes law which allows the government to arrest any journalist and charge them with publishing you know false news. And of course it is the government itself that decides what is false news. So these are two very broad laws that basically eliminate the last modicum of you know legal and civil rights in the country.  Well what options are available for the U.S. to address this? I mean the U.S. has already sanctioned members high up in the Ortega government. What else can the U.S. and the rest of the international community do to respond to what is happening?  So far sanctions have been focused on provisionals  but the U.S. can still roll out economic sanctions against Nicaragua. Whether it wants to do it of course is another question because of course the Biden administration is very worried about rising flow of migrants from Central America. And we are beginning to see some interesting signs. So Argentina and Mexico two left-wing governments in Latin America who have been quite cautious about criticizing Nicaragua up to now had recalled their ambassadors recently just in the last couple of days for consultations as a response to the crackdown. This is something quite unprecedented because they - you know these countries have voted against resumption  recently international resolution to condemn the government for repression. Even for the standards of Latin America I think what is happening in Nicaragua is beginning to shock some governments.  Anatoly Kurmanaev covers Mexico and South America for The New York Times. Thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you. 