 So what can be done to stop these wildfires ravaging the Amazon? That is a question that is being asked by everyone from world leaders to protesters on the streets of Rio de Janeiro.   .  .  .  .  Pressure is building on Brazil's president to do more. We are going to go now to NPR's Philip Reeves who is at that protest in Rio de Janeiro. Hey Phil.  Hi.  So what are those people chanting about?  Well they are chanting about a number of things but mostly their anger and their indignation and their dismay about what is going on in the Amazon rainforest. They are here behind me now about 50 yards from where I am sitting. I am in downtown Rio de Janeiro in one of the best-known squares in the city - chanting singing waving banners saying forest is life SOS Amazon and Bolsonaro out - a reference to Jair Bolsonaro Brazil's president. And when you talk to them they are angry and upset about what is going on. They are aware that the rest of the world has very strongly reacted to this. And they are keen to try to draw the attention of their fellow Brazilians to the crisis and the catastrophe that is been playing out in the Amazon rainforest in recent days.  So after all of this criticism has been hurled at Bolsonaro for not protecting the Amazon enough what is he doing now to limit the spread of these fires?  Well his position has changed somewhat today. If you recall a couple of days ago he was almost contemptuous of those who were drawing attention to the crisis that is happening there.  Right.  He at one point suggested that the fires were being set by nongovernmental organizations a claim that led to astonishment and outrage not only in Brazil but around the world. Today though he is changed. He held a meeting of his ministers. And he signed an executive order that enables him to send the army into the rainforest to try to combat these fires. Now how the army deals with thousands and thousands of fires that are raging in an area that is 10 times the size of Texas is not known yet. But people here when you talk to them say that one thing they could do is arrest some of the farmers that are deliberately setting these fires to clear land because that would send a message if you publicize those arrests to the rest of the - those in the forest who are committing these illegal acts.  Yeah. I mean there is been a lot of intense diplomatic pressure on Bolsonaro especially from Europe. Has that had a lot of impact?  Well Bolsonaro takes a very nationalistic line on this. He says that the Amazon rainforest is Brazil's concern and he sees international pressure as foreign interference. But that pressure has really been building especially from Europe. At the G-7 summit of world leaders the French president Emmanuel Macron has said that he is going to highlight the issue there. He is actually accused Bolsonaro of lying to him about climate change at an earlier summit. So the pressure really is considerable and people here are not comfortable with that. They are concerned that it is damaging the image of the country. And they are also worried that that could lead to some sort of sanctions maybe boycotts - or some cost will be paid in terms of trade. So it is an issue that Bolsonaro has to face up with - up to.  And real quick are more demonstrations planned in Brazil?  Yes. There is one more here on Sunday and there will be demonstrations over the weekend in dozens of cities around this country.  That is NPR's Philip Reeves in Rio de Janeiro. Thanks Phil.  You are welcome. 