 In Gaza a cease-fire has been extended while Israelis and Palestinians negotiate. And we are going to hear now about efforts to return life to normal for children. The United Nations says more than 450 children were killed in Gaza during the month-long war. Israel blames militants for operating in civilian areas. For parents and educators the focus is on getting kids back into a routine. But NPR's Alice Fordham reports school will not be opening on time.   There is clamor and hustle here outside a school-system office in Gaza City. They were delayed by the month of fighting but now this year's high school students are getting their diplomas. Their joy feels loud and luminous in a city numbed by war.  .  Words cannot describe how happy I feel says Said Siyam. He got 80 percent - a good grade that will allow him to go to college to study Arabic literature.  .  He would planned to have a little party with his friends to celebrate - have some sweets. But he is canceled - cannot stop thinking about those who died in the fighting. And he tells me it is not been easy to get these grades.  .  Gaza is short on electricity Siyam says. When there is no lights you lose hours every day when you could be studying. Because of restrictions on goods allowed into Gaza they would be a month into the school year before they got their books. More than 200 schools have been damaged perhaps a couple dozen of them completely destroyed. Israel says it does not target civilians but that militants used schools as bases.   With tens of thousands left homeless there are a lot of people sheltering in schools. Nearby I go to meet Ali Tolba a school principal who is just been to visit his school now teeming with displaced people.  . I have seen it and you cannot tell that it is a school. It looks like a market - people from different areas of the Gaza Strip different backgrounds. They are frustrated. They are angry. They are sad. They are not happy with anything. So actually I believe it is going to take a long time to rehabilitate the people and the building.  He adds that part of the problem is that people still do not know whether the war's over and they can start rebuilding. There is a cease-fire now. But will fighting start again? Either way it is clear school will not start on August 24th as planned. His 11-year-old nephew Mohammad is also one of his students.  .  Usually I would like the holiday he says. But this time it is a war. At his school at least two children were killed. The traumatized kids need the routine of class says his uncle the principal.  . Of course it is very important because the best thing now is that the kid is with other kids who have seen the same scenes.  UNICEF spokeswoman Catherine Weibel agrees.  Going back to school is something that will help them recover. It will help them have again a sense of normalcy in their lives.  UNICEF and other groups are planning activities to help the children recover before they start studying again. But it will be tough to find space. Even before this conflict Weibel says most of Gaza's nearly half-million school-aged children were studying in shifts because of a classroom shortage.   Down where the high school diplomas are being handed out I meet Rima Abu Aida who wants to be a teacher. She says some kids in Gaza cannot see the point of overcoming the obstacles to study and to get an education.  .  I will encourage them she says. They can never be frustrated. They need to keep trying. Alice Fordham NPR News Gaza. 