 Pakistan's ambassador to the U.S. Husain Haqqani says the aid package sends a positive message to his country.  I think that 7.5 billion over five years shows American commitment to the Pakistani people that the United States is not going to cut and run from Pakistan as Pakistanis believe it did in the past.  Is it fair in light of recent history for the U.S. to insist on those conditions and such frequent recertification?  In effect once we have built the relationship of trust that we are seeking to build between the United States and Pakistan many of these concerns on both sides it will go away. It is a bit like nurturing a relationship which in the past has been transactional and has never been nurtured in this manner.  The New York Times has a lead story today on its front page about the network that launched the notorious attack on Mumbai 10 months ago. In the words of The Times story that network is and I quote largely intact and determined to strike India again. If the conditions in Kerry-Lugar are completely in keeping with Pakistan's interest why is that still intact? Why is the ?  Now the government of Pakistan is determined to make sure that no militant or terrorist group that has been identified as such by the United Nations by our allies such as the United States can operate out of Pakistan. But rooting them out will take time. We will eliminate them it is just that it will not happen overnight.  When it comes down to it people are puzzled - how could groups thrive on Pakistani soil without the Pakistani government going after them pushing them out and defeating them?  Well Pakistan over the years of course has not been able to maintain good police capacity. Our intelligence capacities have been overstretched. Our military has been overstretched. It is only a question of rebuilding the state apparatus. The most important thing is that in the last 14 months we have apprehended and killed more terrorists in Pakistan than was done in the preceding seven years.  But do you believe that at its root it is a struggle that can be won by an army and by good police work? Or is there a more basic challenge somehow to head off this rather substantial movement in your country?  Look a young man who is looking forward to a college education and a good job is less likely to become a suicide bomber especially if he does not have just the simple choice of falling for extremist ideology. There has to be an alternative and the alternative in Pakistan is democracy and opportunity.  Yeah. Although actually in the case of al-Qaida and the case of the World Trade Center attacks Americans were rather surprised to find people who were educated who were .  Absolutely and that does happen. It is not a silver bullet so that is why I always say it is one part of the equation. Another is fighting the terrorist and extremist ideology.  Ambassador Husain Haqqani of Pakistan thank you very much for talking with us today.  Pleasure talking to you. 