 In Pakistan the Taliban is praising a federal cabinet minister. That is because he offered a 100000 bounty to anyone who kills the maker of a video that disparages the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. The bounty offer which was extended to the Taliban and al-Qaida sparked international condemnation. But in an NPR interview the Pakistani Cabinet minister stands by it. NPR's Jackie Northam reports.  Ghulam Ahmed Bilour says he is a man of great faith and passionately devoted to the Prophet Muhammad. The slight silver-haired minister of railways says he was angry when he saw the online video portraying the prophet as a womanizer and child molester. Bilour says he could not tolerate any insult to Muhammad and felt he had to do something about it.   I thought the U.S. and Europe would make some law prohibiting any insult to any prophet but that did not happen. Since they did not make the law then I thought this is the way to stop it.  Pakistan's government and Bilour's own secular political party have distanced themselves from the Cabinet minister. Bilour says he does not care.   I said it in my personal capacity and not as a member of the government and because of the fact that I have political vision and I think that was important.  The government may dismiss Bilour's offer but the Pakistani Taliban has embraced him. A spokesman for the group told local reporters that the Taliban is taking Bilour off its hit list. Bilour's bounty offer has also garnered support from some of Pakistan's Islamist politicians such as Hafiz Hussain Ahmed. On a poor phone line Ahmed says he is a political opponent of Bilour's but he agrees if someone ridicules the prophet the punishment is death.   Did you not see hundreds of thousands of people who took to the streets saying a blasphemer should be beheaded? This is our Islamic order and law. If a person like Bilour belonging to a secular party has such feelings then you should easily understand what may be the feelings of an ordinary Pakistani.  But Muhammad Malik senior editor of Dunya News one of the leading news channels in Pakistan sees things with a more jaundiced eye. He says Bilour's offer is a desperate attempt to get publicity that as the minister of Pakistan's decrepit railway system Bilour has been a failure. Malik says Bilour may also have been trying to curry favor with his highly conservative constituents in the northwest city of Peshawar. He says one of the targets during recent violent demonstrations in Peshawar was movie theaters.  One of the cinemas was owned by Mr. Bilour and I think it made a lot of sense for him to - political and business sense for him to sort of come out very strongly because these things could always happen again and maybe he was buying some security for a future mob attack or anybody targeting the cinemas.  Malik says Bilour has made several controversial statements over the years and is often the butt of jokes. He says many Pakistanis question whether the elderly Cabinet minister is still all there.  Nobody takes Bilour seriously in Pakistan. Now the problem is the West or the other countries they do not know him. So for him - for them he is just  they see oh he is a federal minister for railways and he is made such an idiotic statement such big deal. But over here we know Bilour. I would say by his standards it is a pretty sensible thing that he is done.  And for his part Bilour says he has no regrets about offering the bounty. Jackie Northam NPR News Islamabad. 