 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Now the latest in what is shaping up to be the biggest Russia-U.S. spy swap since the Cold War. The U.S. and Russia have struck a deal in which 10 people arrested last month as Russian undercover agents will be sent back to Russia and four people Russia accused of spying will be released and flown to the West. A key step occurred in a New York courtroom today and joining us to talk about that is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. Dina tell us what happened in court today.  Well you know we have been hearing since yesterday that Russian and U.S. officials have been working out an agreement in which they would make this swap. And essentially what happened is we knew that the people in the courtroom were going to plead guilty to being unregistered agents of a foreign country which was sort of a lesser charge that they have been charged with. It carries a five-year sentence. And rather than go to jail then they would be quickly deported to Russia and that is exactly what happened. They all came into the courtroom. Some were in street clothes. Some were in prison garb. And the sort of key moment in the entire proceeding was when they announced their real names which all sounded very Russian. Then the judge accepted their pleas. And now the next step is deporting them which is supposed to happen very quickly.  Now there were reports out of Russia that an imprisoned researcher there had already been put on a plane and flown I believe to Vienna. What do you know about that?  Well two officials told me that Igor Sutyagin - he is an arms control researcher with a Moscow think tank - was taken out of a Moscow prison and was put on a plane to Vienna. And people had camped out in front of the prison in hopes of catching a glimpse of him and it appears he left without anybody knowing. And he would been serving a 15-year sentence. He would been convicted of having been a CIA spy something that he would always denied. And we understand that he is supposed to end up in the U.K. It just is not clear if he is already arrived there or if he is staying in Vienna for a short amount of time and then going onto the U.K. And there a couple of other people who are also thought to be on the U.S. list in the swap. One is a high-ranking Russian intelligent agent who was convicted of spying for the U.S. and there is another one who apparently was convicted of spying for the U.K.  Dina amid all of this drama of the spy swap what is so odd here is that the people being deported to Russia did not manage to get any secrets or even near any secrets.  Yes I know. That is our understanding. I mean basically it looks like the U.S. is getting the better end of the deal even it only gets four you know Russian prisoners for the 10 that they are giving back to Russia. Basically these people who were here did not seem to have befriended any important people and did not seem to get any secrets. In the whole bunch probably the most valuable is this one that everybody has been talking about Anna Chapman. Apparently her father was quite a high-ranking person in Russian intelligence or least was a Russian diplomat and she is expected to leave for Russia this evening.  Okay thank you Dina.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston speaking to us from New York. 