 It is been weeks since President Trump declared talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as a great success. But today the Washington Post is reporting that U.S. intelligence officials have concluded North Korea does not intend to fully surrender its nuclear stockpile. We thought this would be a good moment to check in with someone who spent decades working on arms reduction and denuclearization treaties. Especially today - it is 50 years after the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was presented for signatures. Lawrence Weiler was one of the American negotiators of the treaty. He had a long career in government service. He served as the ambassador and U.S. Coordinator for the U.N. General Assembly special session on disarmament and worked under six different presidents - from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Jimmy Carter. Earlier this week Ambassador Weiler welcomed us into his home for a conversation and I asked him what he thinks about the latest denuclearization talks with North Korea.  Well I think it is a good thing that we are talking. That was a major step - whatever the reasons - that we are now talking to each other about the subject of their returning presumably to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. They did withdraw from it. And from this point to the next success in the negotiations may be quite a while. And it is going to be hard. We will see what happens.  But given that they have a history of changing their minds I think a lot of people are trying to figure out how to assess the possibility of progress. I mean some people are just deeply skeptical because they feel that this signifies just a willingness to - they just want to have the talks to have them because it serves purposes of their own. What is your thought on that?  Well you are never going to succeed unless you start to talk. So starting to talk is important. That is an important step really talking to each other during the Cold War period with the test ban and the hotline and the - and then the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Someone had to start talking each time. And it will be - my guess is it is going to be a long haul in the North Korean case. But it is in both sides' interests in the long run to reach a successful conclusion. That is the hope.  It certainly is. But can you just talk a little bit about what the benefit is of holding talks even if progress does not appear to be imminent? And the reason I ask is that you know people feel these are very different contexts. I mean you know public opinion matters in a democracy.  It does matter.  It matters a very great deal less in an autocracy. So could you just talk from the standpoint of a person who is been in those talks of what is the benefit of just having talks when they have very different pressures on very different levers pushing each side?  The benefits are that you have to gin up the capacity to have talks. That means in both capitals you have to have enough competent informed people to be your spokesman. And that is not always present in either capital all the time. I do not doubt - I do not know whether it is the case here. I doubt it because I - we have not been in talks and it takes time to build up a competence. We had it in time for the Non-Proliferation Treaty because we had just established the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency which added about a hundred-fold to the capacity to have negotiators and was probably one of the reasons we got the Non-Proliferation Treaty when we did. That was the result of public pressure to strengthen the government's capacity to negotiate on arms control.  Before we let you go do you have any advice for the Trump administration as they proceed?  How long have you got?   I have got time.  No I - if I were giving advice to the president I would urge him to engage in talks. I would urge him to do something about the Iranian problem different than what is being done.  Talk a little bit more about Iran if you would. What would you do differently?  We have got to accept the fact that Iran is a member of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. As a result of the negotiations they are being held to certain things as sort of semi-punishment for the fact that we did not feel - the world did not feel that they had been forthcoming many years ago. And the feeling that they can remain excluded from full participation in the benefits of the Non-Proliferation Treaty is my judgment incorrect. But it is necessary to have some minimum amount of relationship with Iran. And I would not go any further with that right now. But - and I think we have to talk to the Russians about stability. So we need to beef up the staff for dealing with arms control. That is a - perhaps a parochial thing because I have worked on this for - with six different presidents and it makes a difference how energetic the staff is. It is sort of a national scandal that we put so little effort into government in developing staff. And not that - the present staff is competent but so little time. So that means you are just not as well-equipped.  I do not know if you think in these terms but given your experience and given current events I am wondering if you are optimistic or not.  I am always optimistic. I do not know when the effort will be made but I have been through too many times when it did not seem like things were possible. The - we had at the end - or the beginning of the end of the Cold War we went through a trauma - the Cuban missile crisis - and that changed the feelings and the attitudes of leaders on both sides obviously. And I hope we do not have to have that kind of a thing to stimulate the effort. I think we have a better understanding now of the dangers of a world with nuclear weapons and with no control over them on - in terms of arms agreements. There will always be problems in life but it is a different world than when we had the Non-Proliferation Treaty.  Ambassador thank you so much for speaking with us.  It is my pleasure. 