 I am Ari Shapio with the story of a man who was recently deported from Michigan to Iraq. Friends and lawyers of Jimmy Aldaoud say he was sick and scared and that he has now died. Daoud did not speak Arabic and his family says he never lived in Iraq. Friends say he was mentally ill and that he had a series of run-ins with the law. NPR's Jane Arraf joins us from Iraq to tell us more. Hi Jane.  Hi Ari.  Tell us what happened. Why was this man deported?  So it is really because ICE - Immigration and Customs Enforcement as part of a White House order has been increasing deportations of non-Americans ever convicted of a felony. And Daoud fell into that category. But he would never been to Iraq. He did not speak Arabic. He would been in the U.S. since he was about 6 months old. And like almost all those deported he did not have Iraqi ID. But ICE put him on a plane to Najaf the Shia holy city in the south of Iraq even though he is Christian. And things went downhill from there. This is Daoud speaking from Baghdad about two weeks after he arrived. It is from a video - a video posted on Facebook.   I do not understand the language anything. I have been sleeping in the street. I am diabetic. I take insulin shots. I have been throwing up throwing up - sleeping in the street trying to find something to eat. You know I got nothing over here as you can see. I was kicked in the back a couple days ago.  So there is a lot of street noise over that. But he is saying he is having trouble getting food he does not have a place to sleep. He is obviously disoriented. And this week Daoud was found dead.  Do we know anything about how he died?  Well we spoke with his younger sister in the U.S. Mary Bolis and she says he was afraid to go to the hospital. She persuaded him to go and then she got a call the next morning on Monday saying he died.  To know that he died alone in a country he would never been in - so that is like you are going to take me and just throw me somewhere I have never been and bury my body there. That is what is hurting.  I spoke though with two of his friends who were also deported from the U.S. to Iraq who said Daoud had talked of killing himself. This is Naser al-Shimary who was with him in immigration detention in the U.S.  He told me twice that - he was like if I cannot find a way - if I cannot leave then there is only one way out. I was like but you have to be strong. He - I was like you cannot give in.  His sister says he had a history of mental illness but she says he would never have killed himself. And according to Shimary he was a person that someone had to take care of. He says Jimmy needed help. But Ari without Arabic and without Iraqi ID he could not rent an apartment. He could not get a phone. He could not even go out without being afraid of being arrested. He was just terrified all the time.  Has ICE said anything about his case?  They have put out a statement pointing out that he had a series of felonies. And they say they deported him with a full complement of insulin. It is not clear exactly what that means. They did not explain why he was sent to Najaf with absolutely no means of support to support himself or even to stay safe. But this is a pattern that we have been seeing. There are now at least half a dozen of these deportees in Baghdad and they arrive with no IDs. Some of them have never lived in Iraq. Most of them do not speak the language. And it is not a place where you can get around if you do not have ID if you do not know what is going on if you do not have a tribe or a family to protect you. They are powerless. And in the case of Daoud his health problems mental and physical made it even worse for him.  That is NPR's Jane Arraf reporting from Iraq. Thank you Jane.  Thank you. 