 We end this hour in India where an iconic folk art is disappearing. Snake charmers used to be a common sight at Indian markets and festivals beguiling people with their ability to control some of the world's most venomous reptiles. But critics say it is a tradition based on cruelty and that it cannot stop fast enough. NPR's Corey Flintoff hit the streets of New Delhi in search of a snake charmer.  It is not easy to find a snake charmer these days even on Nag Panchami the yearly religious festival in honor of the king cobra. It took a full day of searching to find Buddhanath a thin brown man sitting cross-legged on the pavement behind a round flat container a bit like a tortilla basket. Buddhanath has a long white beard a loosely wrapped orange turban and a sweet joyous expression as he taps the basket.    He is Lord Shiva's cobra and we worship him Buddhanath says. The blue-skinned Hindu god is usually portrayed wearing a king cobra around his neck. The charmer flips the lid off the basket and the cobra pops up like a jack-in-the-box. Scanning around with its hood fully extended it fixes its gaze on the tip of Buddhanath's gourd flute.   The cobra's black scales glisten as it sways following the movement of the tip of the flute. It looks to be about four feet long coiled in the basket with a small almost jewel-like head and glittering black eyes above the outstretched hood. For a couple of minutes the man and the snake seem connected in a very ancient intricate dance but the snake cannot hear a thing.  Snakes do not have ears. Most people do not know that.  This is Kartick Satyanarayan a co-founder of the animal rescue group Wildlife SOS.  But snake charmers use the pipe so what the snake sees is simply something which is menacing above him which is swaying. So the snake's attention is focused on the swaying object and moves along with that. So it appears to people that the snake is actually dancing to the tune of his pipe.  Satyanarayan says the illusion of the poisonous snake tamed and charmed by music is often based on very cruel practices. In order to prevent the snake from biting snake charmers sometimes break off the animal's fangs or sew its mouth shut and the result is that the snake cannot eat and slowly starves to death. Buddhanath insists that he has done nothing of the kind. He says the snake has merely been tamed and will not bite. He also says that he is about to release the snake back into the wild because he can only keep it for six months. A 1972 law forbids anyone from keeping a snake but it has not been enforced much in the case of snake charmers until recently. The Indian government has tried to accommodate traditional snake charmers while trying to keep them from capturing more snakes. The government implanted identification chips under the skin of some snakes that were already in captivity so that it can scan the animals and confiscate any that are newly captured and have no chips. Satyanarayan says his group is trying to rehabilitate snake charmers by turning them into snake rescuers the people who are called to remove venomous snakes from city and suburban gardens and restore them to the wild.  Instead of catching the snake and using it exploiting it killing it they actually help us protect snakes.  And he says it is not just the law that is working against the snake charmers as performers. People in India are now more attuned to television shows and video games than they are to street performers of any kind. Still if it were possible to save something from the art of snake charming it might be this.   That seductive little song that snakes can never hear. Corey Flintoff NPR News New Delhi.   I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 