 We are going to go now to the point where northern France comes closest to England. It is there that thousands of migrants from - from the Middle East and Africa have pitched tents. And they have been allowed to put up their shelters in a campsite that is come to be called The Jungle. Many want to cross the English Channel into the U.K. and some have died trying. NPR's Ari Shapiro visited The Jungle and found these migrants are doing more than simply attempting to leave.  The people here who get the most attention on the news are men like Awas Andeh. He is 25 from Eritrea. Since he arrived at The Jungle a week ago he has tried daily to cross the English Channel into Britain.  I tried so many times. It is so difficult to get a chance.  Will you go in a truck or on a train?  If we get the train by train. If we get a truck by truck.  There are many men here who are not like Andeh. This campsite has only existed in this part of Calais since April. And already some people are putting down roots. In the Afghan area one man runs a restaurant out of a tent. In the Ethiopian section Solomon Getacho has built a church out of plywood and plastic with a steeple reaching up to the sky. In Ethiopia were you a house builder or did you learn how to do this here?  No no. In Ethiopia I have different work. But when I came here not any church. So because of that I will build.  Will you show us the church?  Welcome go.  Thank you.  Yeah.  We take off our shoes and step inside. It is cool and cavernous. The floor is covered with rugs. And on the wall there are icons. There is pictures of Jesus and Mary...  Yeah that one is Michael.  That is Michael?  Yeah.  There are small tables little altars with candles.  Yeah. For candle yeah.  The roof is corrugated plastic. And a few of the plastic sheets are clear so the sunlight shines through. Getacho says he will leave for the U.K. and hand custody of this church to someone else. That is how it works here. Maya Konforti is a volunteer with a local aid group called L'Auberge des Migrants.  Last week I talked with an Afghan guy who has a shop. And he says yeah I bought it because the man who build it succeeded to go to the U.K. And he is - when he arrived in the U.K. he said I am selling my shop.  It went for 1500. In this campsite once you move beyond the piles of trash and dirt there are expressions of individuality nearly everywhere. Alpha Jaigne comes from the Fulani people shepherds in West Africa. He has built a traditional Fulani home with a conical-thatched grass roof. What have you created here?  I created my - I create my house.  You have created more than a house. You have created an entire compound that is full of art with vegetables and chickens. And it does not seem like a part of The Jungle. It seems like a home.  Thank you very much. I do that because I respect myself first. Second thing I do that because the government they throw us here. We show them we are not animals. We are human beings and we can do something.  His courtyard has tomato plants and an herb garden. There is a chicken coop. And he is painted phrases on the walls. One says in French here we sell immunization shots against racism. Another says I am not afraid of death. You can kill me but you will not dishonor me. Alpha Jaigne says this is his way of reminding everyone who passes by that people need more than money. They need humanity. Ari Shapiro NPR News Calais France. 