 With U.S. help Kurdish and Iraqi officials believe that they can push the Sunni Islamist fighters all the way back to Syria. But Yazidis say that will not solve their problem. Members of the religious minority persecuted for centuries say they cannot go home again. That is because they say their Arab neighbors have helped to rob or kidnap them or kill their family members. NPR's Peter Kenyon spoke to some Yazidis who have survived this onslaught in northern Iraq.  In a camp for the displaced near the Syrian border 21-year-old Abbas Khader Soullo unbuttons his shirt to show the bullet wounds that have his neighbors calling him a walking miracle. Before the Kocho massacre made news last week when 80 Yazidis were killed there was Jazira. Abbas Soullo says he was the only survivor of a mass killing in Jazira on the third of August. Soullo says the Islamist fighters rounded up 58 men and took them to a field. He says they referred to their leader as the prince. But before the prince gave the order to fire Soullo realized it was a former neighbor an Iraqi-Arab who had lived in the village for years.  . He was one of us. He lived with us for 30 years. But after Saddam Hussein was toppled he left the village. Now there he was giving the order to shoot us all.  Few other families have a story quite this dramatic but a common thread runs through the tales of Yazidis fleeing for their lives. They were usually running from a limited number of foreign fighters who were accompanied by Arabs from their own or nearby villages.  . That is it. There is no life between us anymore says Hodeyda Qassem whose current address is a lean-to along the highway to Syria. If we go back either they will kill us or we will kill them he says. There is no living together.  These are raw emotions from people still traumatized by horrific violence. But their apparent finality that this is the last straw is all the more remarkable coming from a people that has suffered religious persecution for centuries. Yazidis call it a firman when the majority culture decides to drive them out of their land. By their count the atrocities committed by the so-called Islamic State make up the 74th firman in their troubled history. The Ottomans and Muslim Kurds pushed them out of parts of Anatolia and northern Iraq in the 18th and 19th centuries. During World War I when Turks committed mass killings of Armenians Yazidis took the survivors in only to be hit with another Ottoman firman for doing so. They have been attacked in Syria and by Saddam Hussein's regime. Many Arab Iraqis stung by the accusation that they are all in league with marauding jihadists say it is a small group of extremists who are cooperating with Islamic State fighters. Mohammed Abdul Wahad a Sunni Arab from Mosul who fled to Duhok when Islamist fighters arrived in June says most Arabs cannot wait to see these people driven out of Iraq.  . We would never seen anything like these guys except in the movies. They had long hair long beards and were filthy. And they had no red lines. They would do any. We knew right away we had to get out of there.  Mohammed's father Mekdad says it is not just Arabs aiding the jihadists. He says nearby Sunni Turkmen are also playing a role. He says yes there are Arabs helping but not the ones who have always lived in the north.  They came over the years. Some came under Saddam Hussein's program and some were driven up here by the violence after 2003.  For the moment at least Yazidis do not have faith in their Arab neighbors or the Kurdish Peshmerga forces to protect them. And without that trust they are unlikely to return to their villages.   On a hilltop overlooking the abandoned Yazidi village of Bashiqa a Peshmerga unit stands guard. In the distance the flag of the Islamic State flutters - beyond that a few villages and then Mosul City. The commander Esmat Rajab says he hopes Yazidis will regain their trust in both the Peshmerga and their neighbors.  .  But as he points down to the villages below he seems to have his doubts. He says you see this area? When the Yazidis ran away from their village the Arabs came from over there and stole everything from their homes. He sighs at the thought of the long road back to peace and then turns his attention to preparations for an offensive against the Islamic State. Peter Kenyon NPR News northern Iraq. 