 People from Iraq and Syria are trying to escape the conflicts in their countries by setting off for Europe. We have heard of the EU's struggle to deal with people crossing the Mediterranean in rickety boats. And the migration crisis is growing on another front - those coming to Europe by foot. That journey takes them to Bulgaria's border with Turkey. NPR's Ari Shapiro drove through Bulgaria to reach the eastern-most edge of the European Union.  We have just passed a sign that says Turkey - 3 kilometers. And now we have turned off the road and we are rolling along a rutted dirt track to get to the actual spot where Bulgaria meets Turkey. Down in the valley below - on one side there is a big Turkish flag. And then just a few feet away there is a huge Bulgarian flag. Next to it a European Union flag which in some ways is even more important. If you are trying to escape a war in the Middle East on foot and you want to enter the European Union this is where you have to come.   You can see it is 90 degrees out here and everybody's on patrol.  Plamen Dinev is the chief of surveillance for Bulgaria's Border Guard. He is worked here for 30 years. Most years about a thousand people would successfully cross the border. This year 7000 have crossed already. Last weekend alone 650 people tried to cross most of them unsuccessfully.   They keep trying two three five times. If they do not get through here they go down the road. You can never stop them.  So you are fighting the wind?   I am Don Quixote tilting at windmills. This is the problem.  The European Union has provided money for surveillance cameras here. There is a border fence three helicopters and more. But a smuggler gets paid about 1500 for two-hours work taking a group into Europe so there is a huge incentive to break through. To get a sense of what happens here when guards meet migrants I spoke with a small-town police officer who was part of a human wall blocking entry at the border. His commander told him everybody trying to cross was Taliban. He could see right away that was not true.   They looked like nomads. They had been on the road a long time. I could see their clothes were torn and dirty.  We are not using his name because he could get fired for talking to us. He says he had no training or preparation as a border guard.   We were given orders not to fire our weapons at any cost and we were also given orders not to let anybody in at any cost.  How do you do both of those things at the same time?   I have no idea.  He says the migrants who showed up during the day looked old tired sick hungry. The ones who showed up at night were stronger and healthier. He would shout at them in Bulgarian and English.  Stop. Do not cross the border. Turn around. Go back to Turkey.  Many of them did not understand the language. Sometimes they would run at the guards and sometimes the guards used their batons.   They beat people once or twice a day.  He admits his colleagues hit people but he says he never had to. Groups from the UN to Human Rights Watch documented those abuses and worse a year ago. Since then things seem to have improved.  At a police center near the border an official takes us inside a building. In a room with bare white walls three families sit in a large metal cage - about a dozen people. The children look bored. A man sleeps on a wooden table. They were all picked up at the border in the last 24 hours. We walk down the hall to another room. We are in a room now where a woman with a headscarf is getting fingerprinted and she is got grass on her shirt. Her shoes are dirty. It looks like she is been walking for a long time. Now her new life in Europe is about to begin. Ari Shapiro NPR News on Bulgaria's border with Turkey.  And tomorrow on the program we will hear from some of those Syrians who have recently made their way into Bulgaria. 