 Even though there is an official cease-fire Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine are still at war with forces loyal to Kiev. Mortar shells explode daily along a 300-mile line that separates the country from eastern Ukraine's breakaway regions. An information war also rages in the former Soviet state. Its latest combatant is a military radio station that is backed by an American charity. NPR's David Welna traveled to Ukraine and brings us this story.  Above a musty old officer's club in downtown Kiev battle flags and rocket launchers decorate the walls of a brand-new radio studio. It is home to a hit talk show called Polygraph.   .  .  The show is featured guest - the American ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt.   Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak directly to some of the brave Ukrainian men and women who are defending your country in the east.  Since March this radio station Army FM has been broadcasting to troops along Ukraine's eastern front. Ambassador Pyatt warns them their worst enemy may be pro-Russian propaganda.   The objective of this Russian informational warfare is not to win the argument. It is to win the war. As we say they have weaponized information.  Ever since fighting broke out in eastern Ukraine two years ago pro-Russian radio and TV stations have dominated the airwaves here. Ruslan Kavatsuk is a top adviser at Ukraine's Defense Ministry. In the war of words he says his country is badly outgunned.  If we had enough resources we would have launched TV radios beautiful magazines. But we do not have as much money as Russians do.  But there was the memory of this.    Good morning Vietnam. Hey this is not a test. This is rock 'n' roll.  Robyn Williams' screen portrayal of an unbridled radio deejay entertaining the troops is what inspired Army FM a station to inform troops on the front lines with uncensored news and only in the Ukrainian language - no Russian - and entertain them with music half of it Ukrainian. But who could pay for it? Enter Internet entrepreneur Jim Hake and Spirit of America.  We are a non-governmental organization but we are a unique one in that we are not neutral.  Hake founded Spirit of America after 911 to support the work of U.S. troops and diplomats in hotspots around the world. So why back Army FM? Hake says the decision to do so was ultimately about keeping American troops safe.  Russia has aggressive tendencies in this part of the world. And the worst thing that could happen is to have American troops have to take up the fight because the Ukrainians failed.  Is it right expression for us break a leg?  Yes I think so.  In downtown Kiev Hake teams up with a Ukrainian military interpreter an army engineer and me. And we head east to the front line near Russia. Spirit of America has sunk 76000 into Army FM. For Hake who is sporting a Spirit of America ball cap and T-shirt this is his first chance to see how it is playing in the war zone. About nine hours into the bone-jarring road trip Hake pulls out a portable radio. He tries tuning in Army FM.   No luck. Army FM's signal Hake says still has limited reach.  We funded three transmitters out on the front-line war zone to reach the soldiers who are closest to the fight with Russia and Russian-backed separatists. What we are traveling to the frontlines right now to see is how effective those three transmitters have been what traction Army FM is getting and the effect that it is having on the soldiers.  Inside the conflict zone we stop at an army base near the city of Kramatorsk. Ukrainian music plays over a loudspeaker.   Turns out this is a live broadcast of Army FM. The 81st Airborne Brigade that is based here just lost two of its men to enemy shelling and had eight others wounded. Chief Sergeant Konstantin Tatargan says the new radio station is good for troop morale.  Three times a day - morning supper and dinner - we turn on Army FM here on this loudspeaker.  And do the soldiers like it?  Yeah. We can just go and ask any soldier if you want.  Here's what a soldier who goes by Sergeant Dima tells me.  I think it is nice. Guys have a new idea to help army in information war. I think it is good. Yeah.  Who do you think is winning the information war right now?  I think Ukraine is winner .   .  Here in the conflict zone both sides speak Russian. But on Army FM it is all Ukrainian. Sergeant Tatargan likes that. Ukrainians he says should be using their own language.  Because all of soldiers of Ukraine all of people of Ukraine understand Ukrainian language. But they do not want to speak them. It is very easy to speak Russian because our parents - my parents speak Russian.  And you speak Russian too.  Yeah and I speak Russian too because I grew up in a family that speaks Russian.  And Russian is what you hear anywhere else on the radio dial.   .  Radio Komsomolskaya Pravda  quite literally Radio Truth of the Young Communists is beamed into eastern Ukraine from Moscow. Back in Ukraine's capital Kiev the Defense Ministry's Kavatsuk says broadcasts like these can fill Ukrainian soldiers with doubts.  Even if you do not believe it you start hesitating after some point of listening to that crap. And then you start being less active less passionate less convinced.  Army FM says morning talk show host Philip Boiko has just the opposite effect.  Just good optimistic information just good optimistic music. Maybe some jokes - only positive.  This Spirit of America-backed military radio station is winning praise but not financing from American officials. General Ben Hodges commands the U.S. Army in Europe.  I thought it was a wonderful idea that Ukraine wants to find a way to communicate to their soldiers about what is going on because they are getting bombarded all day long every day.  But Army FM's signal still only reaches about a quarter of the soldiers stationed on the eastern front. Spirit of America is buying five more transmitters to expand coverage. And while Kiev is home to the military's high command the station has not yet been granted a frequency to broadcast there. That is no surprise to U.S. Ambassador Pyatt.  What it says to me is that there are still big sectors of the Ukrainian government that have still to be reformed.  For Jim Hake all this is simply growing pains.  By proving the results of Army FM the right things will happen. And it just takes persistence.  And likely more help from Spirit of America an unabashedly partisan charity that is joined the fight in Ukraine's information war. David Welna NPR News Kiev. 