 This weekend the borders of Venezuela opened for the first time in a year allowing some Venezuelans the opportunity to travel to Colombia for much needed food and medicine. The Venezuelan government had closed its borders to prevent mass exodus as the nation struggles with shortages of food and supplies. The global collapse of the oil industry has left Venezuela mired in a severe economic crisis. It is not a stretch to say some Venezuelans are starving. To get an update on the humanitarian crisis we reached out to Hannah Dreier. She is a correspondent for the AP in Venezuela. I asked her how the situation has worsened there over the summer.  Yeah. It feels like we are seeing a collapse of society on just about every level this summer. Here in the capital families are having such a hard time finding food that they are basically spending all day in bed just to save calories. We are seeing a wave of women coming in to be sterilized because it is just gotten too hard to raise a child here with no diapers no soap no milk. And just lately we are seeing an uptick in reports of infanticide. It is like every social norm has broken down and it is really shocking to see because until just recently this was the richest country in South America.  That sounds just horrible. Now you have been spending time in hospitals in Caracas I gather. What are you seeing there?  Yeah going into these hospitals is some of the bleakest reporting that I have ever done. You go in and you see these tiny emaciated children who doctors say are way past the point of saving. Elderly people come in like that too where they have wasted away and the only thing to do is give them morphine. Children are also being hospitalized because they are eating things that are poisonous. For example this month a few kids died because they ate bitter yuca. That is a plant that is common here but it contains cyanide and it is poisonous if you do not process it right. And I am also seeing children die from illnesses that really nobody should die from. This summer I followed one family that was racing around Caracas trying to find medicine for a toddler's diarrhea. They did not find it and the girl died. And it is like the dark ages trying to save lives with no medicine.  Is the government getting help from anybody outside or are there outside aid groups coming in to help the country? It just sounds dire.  Right. You said earlier that there is a humanitarian crisis here but that is something that the socialist government would deny. The government says there is no crisis here and because of that there is no need for humanitarian aid. And that is really maddening for activists because there are all sorts of people outside who want to help but the government does not let aid in so there is not much that can be done.  Now as we mentioned President Maduro and Colombian President Santos have agreed to reopen the border. Can you tell us why and how this agreement came together?  So the borders opened this weekend for the first time in a year and it is going to be permanently opened now. The move comes after hundreds of Venezuelans rushed the border and crossed illegally to buy food and medicine. The border with Colombia was closed a year ago after Venezuela said that the shortages here were caused by people taking food and medicine as contraband and selling it in Colombia. But as the situation has worsened here it is just become untenable to have that border closed. People are really excited because it means that they are going to be able to buy food and medicine in Colombia for the first time in a year. It is not really a long-term solution but Venezuela - lately it feels like a deserted island and just being able to have one kind of escape valve where if you really desperately need something you can go take a 10-hour bus ride and cross the border and get it. That is a big deal.  So is it safe to say that if you go into any store there is either no food on the shelves or what is there is so expensive it is just out of reach of most people?  Yeah. So Venezuelans - it is funny. There is kind of a pride in the way that they stock their shelves so you rarely see empty shelves. What you will see instead is maybe a store and all it has is baby wipes on every shelf or all it has is ketchup. It is never what you want and it is always very expensive. And then you can go to the black market. There are these kind of outdoor stalls where they will be selling say bananas but if you ask they will also have sugar or flour. But that is way out of the reach of most Venezuelans these days and even for me. I earn in dollars and it is become very expensive.  That was Hannah Dreier from the Associated Press. We reached her in Caracas Venezuela. Thanks so much for joining us Hannah.  Thanks Allison. 