 Today is the first election in Zimbabwe without Robert Mugabe on the ballot. The longtime president was ousted last year by his former vice president who is now running to stay in office. He is got stiff competition from a younger opponent. The results are not in yet but many people there are worried about whether they will be accepted peacefully. NPR's Eyder Peralta joins us now from Harare. Hey Eyder.  Hey Ailsa.  First can you just tell us more about these top candidates? Who are they?  Yep. So you have Emmerson Mnangagwa. He for a long time was Robert Mugabe's enforcer. He served as his vice president and now he is running against that legacy. And then you have Nelson Chamisa who is a lawyer. He is a pastor and he is kind of a powerhouse. He - you know he has great oratory skills and he is really young. He is 40 years old. And compared to Mugabe who was in his 90s when he stepped down he is really young. But what is interesting about these two guys is they are both in some ways running on the same platform which is a platform of change a platform that Zimbabwe needs a new way forward.  And as you have traveled around the country today what has the voting been like? Has it been relatively smooth?  It has remarkably smooth. You know some of the observers that I have spoken to said that you know they saw some irregularities. I saw some myself - one woman who said that when she showed up at 5 oclock - at 5 in the morning to the polling place...  Wow.  ...You know she was stopped by people who wanted to take her name. And these are intimidation tactics that have been used before in Zimbabwe quite a lot. And I also spoke to Faris Mashava . In 2008 this country had incredible political violence and he had to flee the country because of that political violence. And he said today it was different. Today  able to go into the polling booth and vote his heart. Let us listen to a bit of what he said.  The outcome is what we are trying to see - whether they will accept the defeat or not. But I am not really confident that they will accept it. It is not that easy.  How are people - oh.  So what he is really saying is that basically the elections went fine but the counting...  Oh.  ...Is what is going to matter in this election.  What about the mood out there? How are people feeling about this first election without Mugabe on the ballot?  You know right now I am in the middle of downtown Harare and you hear silence. That is not very usual here. In fact in previous elections there had been celebrations on the streets right after people voted. They went to drink. They went to dance. And today that is not happening. I think Zimbabwe is holding its breath right now.  And when do we expect results to come in?  So they will not come in tonight. One party official told me to expect them Wednesday. Constitutionally they have until Saturday to give results.  All right that is NPR's Eyder Peralta in Harare Zimbabwe. Thank you Eyder.  Thank you Ailsa.  