 Welcome to the program.  Glad to be here Bob.  And tell me as you would have it the thing that we get wrong about the end of the Soviet Union is the notion that it was the economic failure of the country or it was the failure of political integration of minorities in the republics. That is not the central problem as you would see it.  And I believe that it started with a moral quest first by the leadership and then by the elite and eventually by enough men and women in the country at large - a quest for more dignified more moral life than the one that they had.  You are describing a revolution of rising moral expectations.  Moral expectations yes. But I would even say of more exacting moral standards. In other words what happened is that people looked - a country I should say - looked at itself in the mirror and it was horrified. And people realized that the society that they considered fairly just and fairly happy is nothing of the kind.  Something similar happened in Tunisia this year when people in the coastal cities people exposed perhaps more to a European way of life read about saw pictures of life in the interior where a fruit vendor was humiliated and set himself afire. Similar people were aghast at what their country turned out to be like.  And I think this is the route that Iran has traveled but it was suppressed. This was the route that eventually China will travel. It is inevitable. People once they realize that their dignity is daily insulted they generally try to do something about it.  So one message from Eastern Europe to the Middle East would be a successful revolution is one that continues to maintain the dignity of people.  Precisely. And here we come to a problem because the initial impulse could be to dislodge the insulting regime but not enough say in the case of Russia. It is still a far more dignified place than it used to be but not as dignified as those who preached in the time of glasnost hoped for. And here you come to the lack of leadership and I think even more importantly to the traditional political culture. And that is a very very hard thing to dislodge or change but not impossible.  Leon Aron thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you Bob.  Leon Aron speaking to us from Saint Petersburg. His article Everything You Think You Know About The Collapse Of The Soviet Union Is Wrong is in the current issue of Foreign Policy. It is also the first chapter of a forthcoming book.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 