 Here's an important election that could affect nearly 200 countries - The race for the next U.N. secretary general. Ban Ki-Moon's term ends this year and there are 10 candidates vying to replace him. The one leading the straw polls is the former head of the U.N.'s refugee agency. He is well-respected but this election process is not playing out the way many had hoped. NPR's Michele Kelemen explains why.  At a time when the world is facing so many global challenges the U.N. needs a skilled diplomat with moral authority says Mogens Lykketoft who is president of the U.N. General Assembly.  There were very high expectations and the world needs the best possible person.  The Danish diplomat tried to pry open this election process beyond just the 15 Security Council members letting all U.N. member states hear from the candidates directly in a first-ever televised debate. But these days the council is back to its usual non-transparent straw polls where the 15 members either encourage or discourage each candidate.  It is a little ridiculous that there is no official announcement but half an hour after the end of the straw polls all the media know the results.  Lykketoft also has been surprised that women have not polled well even though many U.N. member states would like to see a woman at the helm. That frustrates Jean Krasno too. She teaches at the City College of New York and runs a website devoted to the female candidates.  It is so so frustrating that the Security Council is just not really listening.  There are still five women in the running including a Bulgarian who heads the U.N.'s cultural organization Argentina's foreign minister a New Zealander who runs the U.N.'s development program and a Costa Rican woman who led successful international climate negotiations but who came in last in Monday's straw poll. There are various reasons for these outcomes says Richard Gowan who teaches at Columbia University.  Some people believe that this is because in secret a lot of male ambassadors in New York prefer the U.N. to be a boys' club. I think there is some truth in that but I think there are also a lot of political games involved.  And as usual he says it mostly comes down to the U.S. and Russia.  Susanna Malcorra from Argentina is seen as being very close to the U.S. which has been to her disadvantage with Russia and China. Irina Bokova from Bulgaria is seen as being very close to Russia which means that Western powers are wary of her. So it is partly about gender but it is also a lot to do with big power politics at a time when the U.N. is a very divided place.  This U.S.-Russia struggle could prove difficult for the front runner too. The former head of the U.N.'s Refugee Agency Antonio Guterres is from Portugal and Gowan points out Russia says it is Eastern Europe's turn to have a U.N. secretary general.  Moscow feels that if the next U.N. chief is from one of its near neighbors it will have additional power over him or her. However the Russians are realists and they may eventually be prepared to make a deal. And there have been some hints that they might even be willing to accept Guterres as secretary general.  That is if Guterres appoints a deputy from Eastern Europe. Gowan says that is the kind of horse trading going on now as candidates campaign before the next straw poll. The voting only gets serious when the veto-holders use color-coded ballots and candidates learn whether they are being discouraged by a powerful permanent member. Michele Kelemen NPR News Washington. 