 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. In Iraq swaths of the country of fallen to Islamist militants. They took the largest city of Mosul earlier this week. Now they are heading south. Today there are reports the militants have taken the city of Tikrit an hour's drive from the capital Baghdad. NPR's Alice Fordham has the latest.  The radical group is called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or ISIS. It is a rogue Al Qaeda offshoot and in the last few days it is come closer than ever to achieving its goal - sweeping away the sandy borders between Iraq and Syria and imposing its rules on the territory. The biggest city that is yet fallen to the militants is Mosul. About half a million people have fled Mosul and at this checkpoint hundreds are trying to get into the safest city of Erbil in northern Iraq. It is a sad scene. Not everyone is allowed to pass. They are relying on charitable locals bringing food and water. God knows they say when they will go back. But they also say what happened in Mosul was not a simple defeat of the Iraqi army by Isis. First they say the Army did not put up a fight. This man sheltering in a patch of shade Mahmoud Khoudr says militants overran his neighborhood cars were aflame people were terrified and left helpless by government troops.   They did not have any plans to fight back. That was all wrong - all wrong. This is crazy - just to lose a big city in four days like this. It is illogical. Even a child would laugh at this.  And people say it was not just the militants they were trying to escape.   No no no the armed men did not harm anyone. On the contrary they reassured the people and told them to stay home. They told them we are not coming to your houses we are coming to bring down the army and the government.  Several people say the militants did not fire a single shot at the civilians. He is eager to talk but gives only his first name Fouad because he worries about threats from ISIS but then he adds he is much more afraid of the army.   All those people you see lined up here - they are most afraid of the reaction of the government. You know the government will surely retaliate. So they will shell with barrel bombs and things like that. So everyone would like to escape alive.  So far the militant offensive has struck only in Sunni Muslim areas where it can draw strength from deep distrust of the Shiite-led government. I meet Atheel Nujaifi the governor of Mosul taking refuge in Erbil.  The army who was in Mosul they did very bad things. The people in Mosul think that the Army doing that because it is for sectarian purpose.  Nujaifi says the groups in Mosul tell the largely Sunni population that they are Sunni like them and they will not treat them badly like the Army which is mostly Shiite did. He alleges the militants took over a branch of the central bank and is now disturbing money to the citizens. Nujaifi adds that bolstering the numbers of the hardcore ISIS fighters are many Iraqi Sunni groups fighting alongside them. Many of them fought against American troops here or with the army under Saddam Hussein and have some support among the population. Nujaifi seems to loathe the army who he says took over Mosul and assured him they were equipped to fight militants.  I feel they cheating me.  You felt they were cheating you?  I feel they are cheating me by cheating all the Iraqi people and Moslawi people.  Today in Mosul militants stormed the Turkish consulate taking schools of people hostage. And in Baghdad Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said his country was ready for a long battle against terrorism. Alice Fordham NPR News Erbil. 