 For just a moment today the president of Iran seemed to admit the existence of the Holocaust. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is in New York where many diplomats walked out of his speech at the United Nations. That is partly because of repression after Iran's disputed election but it was also because Ahmadinejad has repeatedly questioned the genocide of millions of Jews during World War II. Last week in Iran he called the Holocaust a myth. Today he sat down with NPR's Steve Inskeep who is with us from New York now. So Steve what happened? Does the president of Iran just not think it is a myth anymore - what did he say?  Well he certainly did not recant anything he would said before but he continued this constant shifting of terms that he is employed for years on this issue using different words depending on his audience - or sometimes it seems the time of day. What we are going to hear is a classic example. We asked about this now since Ahmadinejad did deny the Holocaust just the other day. And some analysts were wondering why he brought up the subject again just now amid widespread protest at home. Let us listen. Are you trying to distract from your political problems?   Whatever anyone says could basically be said that - is being used to distract others. And you cannot really prove that. I mean it is hard.  Before coming to this conversation I spoke with Elie Wiesel a Nobel Prize winner Holocaust survivor and author of a book that I would recommend to you called Night which is his description of his family's murder and his own near death in the Holocaust. Mr. Wiesel described you as the number one Holocaust denier in the world. Are you proud of such a distinction? Pres.   I have no opinion about what people and others think about me. It does not matter. But would you like to hear my views on the Holocaust? Are you willing to hear it?  If you would like to describe to me what specifically you believe happened between 1942 and 1945 I would be interested. Pres.   The first question is is the Holocaust an historical event or not? It is a historical event. So the next question is why is it that this specific event has become so prominent?  Are you acknowledging that millions of people were killed millions of Jews specifically Pres.    were killed during World War II? Pres.   Well I personally was not alive 60 years ago. I happen to be alive now. And I can see that genocide is happening now under the pretext of an event that happened 60 years ago. So the fundamental question I raise here is that if this event happened where did it happen? A couple of academics in Europe were actually prosecuted because of it and arrived at conclusions other than what was said by the officials and by the you know official channels  These are not official channels. These are thousands of survivors who witnessed the deaths of their family. Pres.   Well these are claims.  Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad speaking through an interpreter in New York today with NPR's Steve Inskeep who is here now. And Steve it sounds like he is just taken every possible position. First he says it is a myth the Holocaust then an historical event and finally he sounds very vague - who knows about these claims.  Yeah. And as he himself points out we cannot prove what he is doing here but he is playing to an Iranian audience at the same time as he is playing to an Arab audience and a Western audience and it may get hard to keep his story straight Madeleine.  Now this is the second time that you have interviewed him. You interviewed him a year ago when he was in New York.  Mm-hmm that is true.  And what was it like meeting him again?  Well I had learned more since then because I would been to Iran since then. And we are going to talk more about that tomorrow on MORNING EDITION because in February I was in Iran. I spoke with many people. I learned a lot about the country. And some of the people who are most informative to me then have been arrested since and thrown in prison. And so I asked the president about that.  And we look forward to hearing that tomorrow on MORNING EDITION. NPR's Steve Inskeep thank you.  You are welcome. 