 You probably cannot quantify a war but Michael O'Hanlon of the Brookings Institutionhas gotten close. For years he has been compiling and publishing often on the New York Times op-ed page Iraq by the numbers. And on this milestone we thought we would check back with him on his metrics of the U.S. combat role and Iraq's progress and development. Welcome to the program once again. Mr. MICHAEL O' Nice to be with you.  And first the U.S. war effort this is the formal end of the combat mission what has the toll been for us in terms of lives and money? Mr. O' Well the United States has spent about 700 billion in direct costs. Of course there are estimates that there may have been broader ripple effects on the economy. And so estimates have gone as high as Joseph Stiglitz's famous 3 trillion but that is a more debatable proposition. So it will be pushing a trillion by the time all is said and done. And right now it is in the 750 billion to 800 billion range. And in terms of losses we are in the general range of 4500 American fatalities as well as perhaps 100000 to 150000 Iraqi fatalities on their civilian side and probably 10000 fatalities in their armed forces.  And U.S. injuries that is non-fatal casualties? Mr. O' Well the U.S. injuries have been roughly 10-to-1 in terms of the ratio relative to killed. And so we are looking at depending on just how many of the smaller injuries you actually count 10-to-1 12-to-1 is the ratio. So somewhere around 60000 Americans have been wounded. And about half of those would be considered rather serious and the other half not as serious.  And turning to Iraq and its economy the core of the economy is oil. How does oil production compared today with before the war? Mr. O' Oil production today is not that much better than before the war. It is around two and a half million barrels a day. But there is a lot of talk of possible production of six million barrels a day seven eight nine million barrels a day. That is getting up into Saudi and Russian levels. And some people think it is possible based on Iraqi reserves. But I am skeptical we are going to get there any time in the foreseeable future because partly I am not sure those numbers really are feasible. And secondly there is enough violence and ongoing residual investor nervousness about Iraq that I think people will be a little more guarded in just how fast they jump in with both feet.  For you what is a credible number for the unemployment rate in Iraq? Mr. O' I think the unemployment rate is still in the 30-plus percent range and therefore not hugely improved. Even as you are starting to see some aspects of life get better Iraq is still such an oil-dependent economy that is not the kind of a system that produces a lot of jobs. And I have not seen other evidence of let us say more normal investment flowing into the country because it is still very violent. And so I am afraid that unemployment is probably still in that 30-plus percent range.  Electricity? Mr. O' Electricity is finally better and for many years under the post-Saddam government and during our presence in Iraq we saw electricity struggle to even inch ahead of the levels of Saddam Hussein roughly 4000 megawatts typical power. We have now seen those numbers get much bigger to the range of 7 or 8000 megawatts. And that is obviously very good news. But of course demand has gone way up as well because average Iraqis have felt a yoke lifting off their shoulders. They have gone out and bought air conditioners. They expect a better quality of life. At least now we have the two going up together. Unfortunately demand is still a lot greater than supply but I would say on balance electricity has finally become a relatively encouraging story.  We have read about displacement of population within Iraq and refugees. Any credible numbers as to how many people have left their homes in Iraq in these years? Mr. O' There is been some pretty good work done on this and I think probably close to five million people were displaced in one way or another during the war. Many of them staying internally within Iraq but relocating either within their province or to a difference province maybe two million going primarily to Jordan and Syria. And so you have got several million people displaced and only perhaps one million have come back. So I think you have still got a lot of this displacement much of it internal much of it abroad.  And that is out of an Iraqi total population of what? Mr. O' Total Iraqi population is more than 25 million but it is been so long since a good census was done that it is hard to be more precise than that.  Michael O'Hanlon thank you very much for talking with us. Mr. O' My pleasure thank you.  Michael O'Hanlon is senior fellow and director of research in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. 