 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Eric Westervelt sitting in for Arun Rath. The first of two American aid workers infected with the Ebola virus arrived at a hospital in Atlanta today. They will be treated at a special isolation unit at Emory University Hospital. In West Africa the toll from the deadly outbreak has topped 700 with hundreds more infected in the three nations most affected by the outbreak. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton is monitoring developments from her base in Senegal and she joins us now. Ofeibea what is the latest on the regional response to what global health officials are calling really the worst outbreak of Ebola?  This past week Sierra Leone and Liberia before it have imposed tough new measures. They say they are going to use the army and police to quarantine communities zones and even homes at the epicenters of the virus. And they are warning people that they have to bring their loved ones to a health center. Also three presidents met on Friday. They said that they are going to do much more at the border crossings to screen people coming in and out of. That will also happen at the airports into Sierra Leone Liberia and the third country affected Guinea.  Ofeibea this latest outbreak was first reported in February. You reported in March that Doctors Without Borders in Guinea was already feeling overwhelmed. It is August. Why did it take African and world health officials months to mobilize an aggressive response to this very serious situation?  We have got to remember that this is a region that is emerging from deadly devastating civil wars. So they are already dealing with all sorts of problems. Ebola on top of it has made people frightened jittery. They are nervous and there is a lot of suspicion. Many health workers are saying there has not been enough sensitization and awareness campaigns. And then there is the possibility of survival. So mixed messages and confusion have led to people keeping their loved ones at home hidden even. So much so that Liberia and Sierra Leone have said that we will prosecute you if you do not bring those suffering or thought to be suffering from Ebola to centers where they can be cared for.  As you point out local authorities are up against some fear worry confusion and ignorance. Briefly Ofeibea what are the biggest cultural hurdles in battling Ebola in West Africa that you have seen?  The one that is most mentioned is traditional burial rituals where of course you wash down the body of your loved one who has died. Now that is a way that Ebola spreads easily. And people do not want to give up. You know that is the way they have looked after their dead for hundreds of years. Suddenly being told no you cannot touch them and that they must be buried in a hole in the ground is absolute anathema. And that is why many people are saying who brought this disease to West Africa? It was the White health workers. That is why we have seen that health centers run by Westerners have been attacked. People who are trying to help the communities have been attacked because it is not known in this region. And people just trying to get used to it but it is obviously tough.  NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton with us from Dakar. Thank you Ofeibea.  Always a pleasure. 