 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Louisa Lim has been following Mullen's visit. And she was one of the few journalists allowed inside Chinese army bases along with him.   The troops were out to salute Admiral Mike Mullen for his official welcoming ceremony. One day earlier speaking to the Beijing University students Mullen had noted that China's time has come.  It is no longer a rising power. It has in fact arrived as a world power.  Let us shake hands.   China's newfound confidence was visible as Mullen met his counterpart General Chen Bingde on Monday. As Mullen tried to showcase three new agreements for cooperation Chen had another agenda. He criticized U.S. drills with Australia and Japan in the South China Sea as inappropriate. He noted that China's fleet of what he called small ships was not commensurate with its status. He said that the U.S. ought to behave in a prudent and modest manner and he hit out at U.S. military spending.   I know U.S. is still recovering from financial crisis still have some difficulties in its economy. Given such circumstances you are still spending so much money on the military. Is not it placing too much pressure on the taxpayers? If U.S. could reduce a bit military spending to spend more on the improvement of livelihood of American people and also do more good things for world people would not it be a better scenario?  Engaged in constant terrorist attacks killing over 30 government employees and civilians.  As cicadas buzzed outside I spoke to Colonel Yang Yujun from China's Ministry of Defense Information office. He had his own reading of the military press conference. It was you might paraphrase the tough love defense. He saw the outspoken criticism as a sign of closeness not distance.  I do not believe that between enemies they could speak quite frankly because they may have tried to guard against the others so that they cannot tell all the truth. But only between their friends they could speak so frankly.   But in all Mullen's visit made no breakthroughs on the major stumbling blocks namely U.S. concerns about China's military assertiveness and China's opposition to American surveillance close to the Chinese coast. But Mullen is cautiously upbeat.  The relationship is just recently renewed so we have a long way to go. And the leaders are very committed to that. So I am actually confident in the future of the military-military relationship.  Third generation fighters it can reach up to 122 to 280 hours per year.  I put that question to the deputy chief of China's PLA General Ma Xiaotian.   Of course there is a positive outcome. See how open we are? In the future you cannot keep saying we are not transparent. Next time I go to the U.S. I want this kind of transparency. I want to be able to get into a plane's cockpit instead of just looking at the plane surrounded by red ropes 60 feet away.  Louisa Lim NPR News Hangzhou. 