 Thousands of people took to the streets in Brazil today in a nationwide protest against the government.   .  That is from Rio de Janeiro's famous Copacabana beach where protesters came out dressed in yellow and green the colors of the Brazilian flag. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro has been covering the demonstrations and she joins us from Rio. Lulu what are people saying and asking for?  Well we are seeing protests in 16 states across Brazil - tens of thousands of people coming out to protest the administration of Dilma Rousseff the president. Her approval ratings right now are in the single digits - around eight percent if you can believe it. So there is just widespread discontent here especially in the midst of just a slew of corruption scandals that have engulfed the country. So let us listen to what a few people had to say today.  I would like to see these people that are involved in corruption behind bars to have a government that thinks about the people of Brazil.  Right now we lost a little bit of the hope.  That was Jose Posada a real estate broker and Marcos Lima a businessman. There is a loss of hope as was mentioned but also as you might have heard a lot of anger about the direction Brazil is headed.  Yeah and these protests and the general dissatisfaction come at a really bad time for Brazil right?  Yeah that is right. You have this massive corruption scandal at the state oil company and its engulfed almost everyone both heads of congress have been implicated. The head of the biggest company in Brazil called Odebrecht - he is under arrest. The list just goes on and on. And of course this all comes at a time when the economy is slowing down - you know after a decade of record growth here and a feeling that you know things were finally turning around for them that this was a prosperous countries. Millions had been lifted out of abject poverty. Now there is near recession inflation the currency has devalued some 24 percent against the dollar just this year - terrible terrible economic news. And because of the corruption scandal no one has any political capital to address the very real problems.  Well if that is the case then what is President Rousseff trying to do to deal with the situation?  That is exactly the issue. There is a feeling that she is no longer leading the country. Her enemies in congress and frankly at this point even her allies are now out to get her she says. She has been trying to push through austerity measures to gain favor with the international markets to get the economy moving. But that has alienated you know her leftist base. And because of the political turmoil as I mentioned she has not even been able to do that very effectively. So she is essentially stuck a year into her second term and she is now being seen already as a lame duck.  Well and I know there have been calls for impeachment as well. How likely is that though?  That is the million-dollar question - or the billion-dollar question actually  because we are talking about the Brazilian economy.  Right.  That is what many people are calling for. Polls show an overwhelming support for it among the public. And even among the poorest members of the public which are usually the people that support Dilma Rousseff - so a big turnaround for her. But you cannot just impeach someone because you do not like them. So far there is been no proof that she has acted criminally or was involved in the Petrobas scandal. And so therefore while it is the subject of discussion while it clearly is something that the public wants so far it is not happening.  That is NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro in Rio. Lulu thank you.  You are welcome. 