 Now an update on the attack that killed the U.S. ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens along with three other Americans. More than two weeks have gone by and a fight is brewing about whether the Obama administration has been hiding what really happened whether the attack was planned in advance whether it was a terrorist attack and whether al-Qaida played a role. Earlier today aboard Air Force One White House spokesman Jay Carney insisted the administration has been transparent.  Every step of the way the information that we have provided to you and the general public about the attack in Benghazi has been based on the best intelligence we have had in the assessments of our intelligence community.  Again that is White House spokesman Jay Carney earlier today. Well to sort this out NPR's Dina Temple-Raston joins me now. And Dina what about that question. Has the administration in fact been transparent about that attack in Benghazi?  Well you know all of this is taking place during a very politically charged time ahead of the election so that is coloring how everything is being seen. The most problematic statement from the Obama administration came really early on from Ambassador Susan Rice. She appeared on all the Sunday news shows back on September 16th five days after the attack and here's what she said on NBC's Meet The Press.  Our current assessment is that what happened in Benghazi was in fact initially a spontaneous reaction to what had just transpired hours before in Cairo almost a copycat of the demonstrations against our facility in Cairo.  Now she was referring to the protests in Egypt that were sparked by that video that mocked the Prophet Mohammed. And then she said after that that the U.S. thought that extremists had hijacked the demonstrations and then attacked the consulate. And this is one of the big controversies. Were they protests that were hijacked or was this a planned terrorist attack?  And as to that question about was this in fact planned what have you found out?  Well what we are learning is this was not entirely spontaneous that there was some terrorism connection. What Ambassador Rice was not saying was that the administration knew within a day or two of the attacks that there had been telephone contacts between extremists in Libya and al-Qaida's arm in North Africa a group called al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb. What is less clear is just how much al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb was involved.  Well yesterday in New York Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said for the first time that that al-Qaida affiliate al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb was involved which seems to be quite different from what the U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice said earlier. Is the administration changing its story here?  Well you know there is been a lot of focus on the comments that Secretary Clinton made at the U.N. And while it is true that was the first time that she has said al-Qaida might be involved one of the administration's top terrorism officials Matthew Olsen said the very same thing last week. This is what he said.  We are looking at indications that individuals involved in the attack may have had connections to al-Qaida or al-Qaida's affiliates in particular al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb.  Now he is the head of the National Counterterrorism Center and he was testifying before Congress. And to be honest several news organizations including NPR had reported on these phone calls between AQIM and extremists in Libya last week. The important thing about those phone calls is that they came on the day of the attacks September 11th not in advance. So if this was planned it looks like it was planned pretty quickly.  Now Dina the FBI is still investigating what happened and apparently agents still have not gotten to the scene of the attack to the consulate in Benghazi. Why is that?  Well the way it was described to me is that basically no one is in charge in Benghazi right now so there are real safety concerns for agents there. One official told me that the reality is everything that can really help with an investigation is gone 24 hours after a crime is committed especially in a place like Benghazi where people were actually looting the compound. So the FBI's presence on the ground is not as critical as it might first appear. The FBI had interviewed people who were there when they were flown to Germany right after it happened. They have intelligence intercepts. They have been working this from Tripoli and they expect to go to Benghazi soon. But right now the situation there was described to me as just too dicey.  Okay Dina thank you.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. 