 ISIS has made life hell for a lot of children. We have heard the horror stories of young girls sold as sex slaves.   .  But in propaganda clips like this one we see what ISIS does to boys - elementary school-aged kids in camouflage assembling assault rifles pledging their allegiance to the cause.   .  .  Richard Engel chief foreign correspondent for NBC met two teenage boys in Turkey who managed to escape ISIS. We should warn you there are some unavoidably gruesome details in these stories.  We met Ahmed and he had been cooperating with rebels. So when ISIS took over he went into hiding. And after a while he was seduced by ISIS's offers of amnesty.  .  They said if I went with them gave up my weapon that I would be unharmed he says. And when he went back home he realized he had to go on a two-month ISIS-run indoctrination course in which he was constantly told that it was wrong he. He had to apologize for everything he would ever believed in in the past. And after he took this course he thought he was done but he was not done. And there were more responsibilities to come.  And when the indoctrination is finished what do they do with kids like Ahmed? How are they used?  Well many of them are encouraged to become suicide bombers. He was told during the class as soon as you are done with this class then everything is fine. You will then be a true Muslim and a member of the ISIS community. And then just as the class was ending one of the ISIS Amirs one of the leaders came in and said congratulations you are all now new soldiers in the Islamic Army. And he is like what are you talking about? We are - the way the Amir who was telling him that he was now a soldier was holding a pistol and said oh really? You are not happy to be joining the ranks of the Islamic Army? Do you want to fight us? So he did not really have a choice. You cannot say no. And Ahmed was loaded onto a bus and taken to the front lines. And they said they had barely any food any water just a machine gun some ammunition and they were sent there effectively to die.  Now let us talk about the other teen you talked with Mohammed who refused to cooperate with ISIS. What happened to him?  So like Ahmed Mohammed had been cooperating with the Free Syrian Army. He would been part of the rebel group and he was grabbed in the middle of the night.  .  After they found me he says I faced all kinds of torture beatings and electric shocks. Then ISIS said to Mohammed now we have to send you to the same indoctrination school. He decided he is - was no - there was no way he was going to go to this indoctrination school not after what he would just been through. So Mohammed was brought before an ISIS judge and the ISIS judge sentenced him to have his opposing hand and foot chopped off. And the sentence was carried out the next day.  .  I put my arm on a table and they brought in the butcher and he cut it he says. They sewed up his wounds. They dumped him in a local health clinic. His mother collected him and managed to smuggle him across the border.  Can you tell us what Ahmed and Mohammed's lives are like now in Turkey and any sense of what their future might be like?  Well Ahmed's chances obviously are better. He is unharmed. He has not been brutalized. His situation is comparable to the some two million Syrian refugees who are living in this country. Now he is not going to school. He has not been going to school in a long time. He does not really have friends or money here. Mohammed's is a - is in much worse shape. He does not have money for bandages. He does not have money for painkillers. He does not have money for a hospital. This is all very new. This just - he just got his hand and foot chopped off about two weeks ago.  Was it hard to get to these kids? Why did they want to tell their stories?  It was difficult to get to them. They were nervous but I think both of these boys wanted to tell their stories because - think about if you are Mohammed you are sitting there. You have had this horrendous traumatic experience that is happened to you. People just walk by. You feel a victim you feel ignored you feel forgotten. And so it is not that they were dying to tell their story but once they did start talking they did not want to stop.  Richard Engel is NBC's chief foreign correspondent. This week he reported on ISIS's recruitment of child soldiers. You can find his story at nbcnews.com. 