 With a tweet this morning President Trump intensified a fight with a longtime if contentious U.S. ally Turkey. The president said the U.S. will double tariffs on Turkish steel and aluminum and then he punctuated his announcement with simply quote our relations with Turkey are not good at this time. But there is more to this than tariffs. The dispute seems to route back to the case of a U.S. pastor. NPR's Michele Kelemen joins us now from the State Department to discuss all of this. Hey Michele.  Hi Ailsa.  So this feud seems to be getting pretty bitter now. Trump even took a moment to note today that the Turkish currency fell. What is driving this?  Yeah I mean it looks very personal at the moment between these two strong-willed leaders. As you said Trump talked about the Turkish lira on a downward slide. And his tweet warning of higher tariffs is making that worse. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for his part says his country will withstand what he is calling an economic war. Now I asked a Turkey expert Soner Cagaptay of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy about all this. He wrote a book that is called The New Sultan which is a biography of Erdogan. And he is expecting the Turkish leader to really dig in his heels and blame the U.S. for Turkey's economic woes.  You have to understand how Erdogan functions. He is a prototype of populist leaders globally. He has demonized his opponents but he is also built a loyal conservative base that loves him. This is a very loyal crowd half of the country that literally worships and adores Erdogan. And they also believe that Erdogan has a historic mission as he suggests to make Turkey great and Muslims proud again.  Yeah and Erdogan is already encouraging his supporters to sell their dollars and euros to prop up the faltering lira. So you are seeing him dig in already.  And also in the middle of this dispute is the case of an American pastor Andrew Brunson. Remind us who he is.  That is right. He is a pastor who is lived in Turkey for more than two decades. And he was one of several Americans swept up in this massive crackdown - you know tens of thousands of people arrested after a failed coup attempt against Erdogan two years ago. The White House rarely raises the other cases but it does focus on Brunson. He is been an important case for Trump's base. And Trump seems to be taking all of this very personally. He reportedly thought he had a deal to get Pastor Brunson home. Brunson was released from prison but he remains under house arrest.  But the dispute between the two countries extends far beyond Brunson right? I mean how bad would you say relations are right now between Turkey and the U.S.?  Pretty bad. I mean there is also - the U.S. is angry for instance that Turkey a NATO ally is buying Russian missiles. Again I talked to Soner Cagaptay about this. He thinks the relations are worse than they have been in decades. And he says it is important that they start improving it. Let us listen again to what he had to say.  Whether or not you like the government of President Erdogan Turkey is an important ally. And number one it borders Iran Iraq Syria Russia across the Black Sea and ISIS-held territory in the Middle East. So whatever our U.S. policy is regarding these five entities and states - Russia ISIS Iran Iraq Syria - those policies are much easier much less costly and much less cumbersome to implement with if Turkey is a U.S. ally.  And his advice to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and other administration officials is do not escalate this further. In his words they should provide a ladder so that the two sides can climb down.  That is NPR's diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen. Thanks Michele.  Thank you. 