 When the coronavirus first struck South Africa it was a model for its early response to the pandemic. The country locked down early hired thousands of health workers and flattened the curve. But now South Africa is reporting half a million cases becoming the country with the fifth-largest caseload in the world. NPR's Eyder Peralta reports.   Funerals in South Africa used to take place from Thursday through Sunday. Now machines are digging graves every day.  There are funerals every day. And they are mostly weekends - Saturday Sunday. It is too much. So it is bad really.  That is one of the grave diggers who did not give his name because he is not authorized to speak to the press. Journalist Mathilde Boussion recorded this scene at one of the biggest cemeteries in Johannesburg where the number of people buried has doubled between June and July. It means seven days a week nonstop family and friends gather to say goodbye.   .  The South African government has argued that with 8000 dead its death rate is among the lowest in the world. But in July the country consistently reported more than 10000 cases a day. It blew past Italy the U.K. and Mexico in confirmed cases. I feel like the world is looking at that curve. And they are saying oh my God. It is another Brazil. It is another U.S. Is it an unfair comparison to say...  Completely unfair yeah.  On the phone is Salim Abdool Karim the top scientist advising the government.  In South Africa government takes this very seriously.  He says indeed the true number of deaths in South Africa is likely double the official number. But it could have been so much worse. Karim argues that despite the fact that South Africa was already in a recession when the pandemic started it implemented one of the strictest lockdowns in the world. It allowed the government he says to build field hospitals and stock up on oxygen and medicine. Even now at the peak of the country's epidemic hospitals are not overwhelmed.  I do not want to romanticize that or overstate the level of preparedness because we made a lot of mistakes. But the preparations we did are enabling us to save lives.  One mistake he says is that they moved too slowly to start educating South Africans on what they could do to stop the spread.  We did not move fast enough to transition people from being anxious and scared to feeling like they had the power to control their risk.  Another total lockdown is off the table so the only way to flatten this curve he says is for South Africans to change their behavior. He says he takes hope from the AIDS epidemic. It was when South Africans started seeing their families and neighbors die that they took precautions.  It is now not somebody telling you what to do. It becomes personal. You have now - firsthand you have seen this. You have seen its impact.  During the last few days cases have started declining. He hopes it is a sign South Africans have begun to take the pandemic personally. Eyder Peralta NPR News Nairobi. 