 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. French investigators searched former president Nicolas Sarkozy's office and home today. They were looking for evidence of illegal campaign financing. The allegations are not new but Sarkozy's loss of presidential immunity is. From Paris NPR's Eleanor Beardsley sends this report.  French news bulletins detail how a dozen police from a financial crimes unit searched the luxury home Sarkozy shares with his wife former model and pop singer Carla Bruni. The probe centered around whether Sarkozy took about 70000 in illegal campaign contributions in 2007 from France's richest woman L'Oreal cosmetics heiress Liliane Bettencourt. Christopher Mesnooh an American lawyer practicing in Paris says there are witnesses who say they saw Sarkozy with cash-filled envelopes.  There have been different employees working for Madame Bettencourt who claimed that he showed up in her home back in 2007 for the express purpose of receiving money.  It is not the first time Bettencourt has been in the news. The grand dame has been in a long-running feud with her daughter over her fortune. It was their court battle in 2010 that ballooned into a multilayered political affair that led to the current investigation. Savalise Lom is an investigating journalist with newspaper Le Monde.  .  Officially Sarkozy has not been charged with anything but the suspicions are swirling around him says Lom. Sarkozy's predecessor Jacques Chirac was convicted last year of fraud for providing fictitious jobs for his pals when he was mayor of Paris. Things could be even worse for Sarkozy who is the first former French president to be investigated on several incidents at once. There is another ongoing probe into whether Sarkozy was involved in a French defense deal with Pakistan in the 1990s involving kickbacks that may have led to a deadly bomb attack. The magnitude of what could befall their former leader has the French riveted says Jean-Marquis Lous a correspondent with France 2 Televisions.  The French are fascinated by the Watergate-style American scandal that a French president barely out of office is being investigated.  Sarkozy who is on vacation in Canada denies any wrongdoing. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris. 