 Associated Press reporter David Wivell has been in Zhouqu and he says the disaster began with storms on Saturday night.  And then when the water eventually built up enough to break down the mud and rock barrier left by the landslide the whole sludge of mud rock boulders and water just poured right down on the city and left a corridor of mud and destruction right through the center of town.  David you have been in some of the worst affected areas. Why do not you describe what these places look like now?  The area surrounding the town looks quite normal. But once you get to the town there are a few meters of mud. It is covered the first floor's buildings it is pushed cars and tractors and motorcycles around and squashed them into buildings. And in parts where the direct flow was the mud goes up to the third fourth floor buildings. So you are often on a level with what used to be the third or fourth floor of a building or a hotel. But it is ground level now.  I have read about a couple of rescues yesterday. Is that right?  So many people are gone. And I think they will never actually find many of the bodies. Some whole families were destroyed and there is nobody to even file a report. So it is quite possible that the official death toll that is very much on the low side.  When you talk to people in this town Zhouqu what have they told you about how the government has responded?  They have been learning from these and they have got a process and a system. The troops go in the doctors go in the rescue teams go in and they are well provided for in terms of equipment when they can get it in. There is a full-on effort for this. And I think that is definitely recognized by the people there.  Given the damage of what is happened there in Zhouqu would the plan be to evacuate everyone to relocate Zhouqu entirely?  I do not think so. From what we have seen they are working very hard to clean out the mud that is there and return the city to its original shape. Stores are already starting to open up on the streets that just two days ago were two meters thick with mud. People have opened those doors cleared the - whatever mud got in and some of them are opening back up and selling things to the rescuers.  I have been talking with Associated Press reporter David Wivell about the devastation from flooding and landslides in Zhouqu in northwestern China. David thanks very much.  Thanks for calling me. 