 And to Iraq now where women make up more than half the population at 55 percent but less than a quarter having paying jobs. Women who run and own their own businesses are even more rare. But since 2005 some women have won work on Pentagon-funded projects. That is why with the U.S. withdrawal from Iraq now on a fixed timetable Iraqi businesswomen are worried. When DOD contracts dry up they are afraid that they will lose out. NPR's Deborah Amos reports from Baghdad.  These Iraqi businesswomen meet once a month to talk about success strategies and close calls. When Khalida Abid Sharhan a 33-year-old mother of two was supervising a contract to build a car park on a U.S. base she got kidnapped at gunpoint before the job was done.   Ms.  I managed to finish of course.  You went back to Mosul even though you had been beaten almost to death? Ms.   I had already finished 80 percent of the project. So how can I leave it like this?  Over the past four years women-owned businesses in Iraq earned about a half a billion dollars. Only about 100 companies are successful at the top end. So these women are the cream of the crop. Thirty-five-year-old Nadia al-Izzi bids for the big projects to build embassies police stations and primary schools. Ms.  It is a jungle.  Ms.  Seriously it is a jungle. I mean being a woman and giving orders to men it is not easy.  The only woman in her company called D-Jerusalem for construction and design Nadia Izzi employs more than 60 men. Her problem is with male competitors who use scare tactics to discourage her work. Ms.  Just only two weeks ago I got like three four messages and ask for 40000. If I do not pay it I will be kidnapped. I just delete it. We get used to seeing such a thing.  Thirty-two-year-old Intisar Salman takes risks too. She bid to build a water treatment plant in a hostile town. Salman is a Shiite Muslim in a head scarf and a long black robe. The job was in a militant Sunni town. Now her biggest concern what happens when the U.S. military pulls out of Iraq? The Department of Defense reserves about four percent of all contracts for businesses owned by Iraqi women. But the work must be done by 2011 when the U.S. withdrawal is complete. Ms.   We would rather deal with the Americans because they treat us better. The Iraqi side believes if there is a male contractor the results will be better.  The Iraqi government does have a cabinet minister in charge of women's affairs. So this delegation of businesswomen have come to make their case.  We always hope the best.  They want their government to adopt the Pentagon' quotas for women and Iraqi government contracts. Aza Hamudi a project manager for the Defense Department program comes with them to the minister's office to present the plan. Ms.  I do have some worries but I cross my fingers. Inshallah who knows what will happen?  Hamudi is passionate about the DOD program that has created a small core of successful women. But without a dedicated number of contracts from the Iraqi government she is sure they will not be able to compete in Iraq's old boy network. The minister shares their concerns but tells the group that despite her cabinet post she has no budget and little clout over government policies. They leave the meeting disappointed says Hamudi. Ms.  I know - I can understand their worries because they have been working for the past five years with the Americans. Their money has been secured. The way they were treated was excellent in terms of my program.   Still there is plenty of other work to be done. Nadia Izzi won a contract to build an embassy for the government of Jordan. She is supervising her construction crew on a scorching afternoon reminding them to wear their safety helmets despite the heat.   She got the job because she meets the deadlines says Khalid Hamid a Jordanian official on site and because so many other Iraqi companies are corrupt. Mr.  In Iraq especially in Iraq they were not honest to me.  So you are saying the men are more corrupt - that the women are not corrupt?  Mr.  It is this company Nadia and her team all of them .   Mr.  Us.  Mr.  Not only the woman.   The mood is light but even the men in her team know it will be hard for women-owned companies to survive. Iraq is already slipping back into old patterns as American influence wanes. Deborah Amos NPR News Baghdad. 