 Disney released its live-action remake of the movie Mulan in theaters in China three days ago. And it was a slow start. The film is about a young woman who disguises herself as a man and takes her father's place in the army to defend Imperial China from invaders.    Your job is to bring honor to the family. Do you think you can do that?  It was meant to be a hit in one of the world's biggest movie markets. Instead it is been embroiled in controversy. NPR's John Ruwitch explains.  Mulan drew an estimated 23.2 million during opening weekend in China. That is a soft start in a target market of over a billion people but just the latest headache the movie's given Disney. There was controversy last year when lead actress Liu Yifei supported Hong Kong police in their crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations. And this month keen-eyed critics noticed that part of the movie was filmed in the Chinese region of Xinjiang. Disney thanked Xinjiang authorities in the credits. The Chinese government is accused of persecuting Muslims in Xinjiang in the name of fighting terrorism. Calls for a boycott of Mulan have grown. Disney is keeping its head down.  The calculus is that this is just going to blow over.  Chris Fenton is a movie executive and author of a book about the dilemmas American movie studios and other businesses face in China. He says he can understand why Disney might have filmed in Xinjiang. In 2005 he wanted to shoot the World's Strongest Man competition in Beijing for ESPN. The Chinese government suggested they consider the inland city of Chengdu instead. It was not really a choice.  If we do not do that well then I do not know if you will get access. If we do do that oh we will give you a thousand policemen. We will give you free rooms at the nicest hotel. Like that is sort of how it works.  And with China poised to surpass the U.S. in box office revenue it is an impossible market to ignore. For Disney it goes beyond box office. The company owns a big chunk of a multi-billion-dollar Disneyland Resort in Shanghai and its partner is the city government. Asked about the controversies Disney referred NPR to comments by CFO Christine McCarthy last week. She said some scenery from Mulan was shot in China. She said acknowledging governments that let you film on location is a widely followed practice. Aynne Kokas of the University of Virginia says in China Disney basically acts like a Chinese company and its response to the Mulan controversies has been in character.  I think it is going to help them in terms of their ability to remain in the mainland market - the fact that they have held this line so firmly. And I do not see it hurting them in the U.S. market to be perfectly honest.  Stanley Rosen is a professor at the University of Southern California.  For Hollywood the distinction is a very fine one. You have to in some way sell out in order to cash in.  Tolerance for selling out maybe waning though. American views on China have dimmed and there is now bipartisan support in Washington for getting tough against Beijing. Chinese influence over Hollywood is in the crosshairs. In Shanghai at least one moviegoer said he would not pay a cent to see Mulan on moral grounds even though he is a Disney fan. He acknowledges though that he is in the minority when it comes to views in China on Hong Kong and Xinjiang.  I am quite on an isolated island  when I talk to my colleagues. Most of them does not know the situation.  The man named Michael asked NPR not to use his full name because Hong Kong and Xinjiang are politically sensitive subjects in China. Mulan may flop in China anyway. The cartoon version did. The live-action film gets a rating of 4.9 out of 10 on the Chinese social networking site Douban. The consensus seems to be that foreigners have failed once again to tell this Chinese story right. John Ruwitch NPR News. 