 More than 2000 miles west of Chile lies one of South America' Easter Island. It is best known for its mysterious pre-Columbian stone statues but the descendants of the people who made those statues the Rapanui have a modern-day conflict with the Chilean state. When Chile took over the Rapanui were pushed off their lands. They say outsiders now control the island including its lucrative tourism industry. And one family is taking a stand as Annie Murphy reports.  Set on a breathtaking rocky point that juts out into sapphire-blue water the Hanga Roa Hotel is a luxury eco-resort and spa - at least it was supposed to be until the Hito clan took it over. On this day dozens of men women and children were camped out on the lobby's couches. Theyve evicted hotel staff and cook traditional Rapanui food on outdoor fires like this pan of green plantains with milk and sugar. Santi Hitorangi is part of this Rapanui clan and he says he started this chain of events by planting a garden next to the hotel which sits on land that used to belong to his clan. Decades ago the property was acquired by the government and then traded between private owners. And when charges were pressed against Hitorangi he went to the U.S. where he is now based. By law only Rapanui can own land on Easter Island but that is not strictly enforced. Hitorangi says the Rapanui want to recover ownership of the entire island. Mr.  The first and foremost is title to the land. By extension you the right to determine local policies to represent the Rapanui people the Rapanui interests the Rapanui culture. Bear in mind the colonial presence of the Chilean government in Rapanui it has one main purpose which is to assimilate us.  The Rapanui are the original inhabitants of this windswept piece of grass rock and sand. Geographically it is part of Polynesia and it is home to nearly 1000 mysterious statues called moai positioned across the island like sentries. I am on a hillside and you can see out over the island for miles just these rolling grasslands with horses grazing these sheer dark volcanic stone cliffs that drop into the ocean. It is very dramatic very foreboding and these statues are just incredibly solemn not giving anything away. They are pretty intimidating. The Rapanui are descended from the people who made those statues. When Chile laid claim to the island just over a century ago it simply corralled the Rapanui into the island's one town the village of Hanga Roa and leased the rest to a sheep farm. And it was not until the 1960s that the Rapanui became Chilean citizens. Today Hanga Roa is in decent shape. A steady stream of tourists means it has regular light and water. Many Rapanui work in tourism and live in small cement or wood houses topped by metal roofs. Some still use horses to get around and do work.  .  A French couple wanders the eastern shore of the island with their two young kids snapping photos and admiring the statues. For a tourist  beautiful scenery warm climate and world-class archaeological sites.  .  And the Rapanui are fine with tourists coming to their island. Its the unchecked flow of Chileans they are upset about. Angela Tuki is part of the clan that has taken over the Hanga Roa Hotel. Ms. ANGELA TUKI  We are tired of explaining everything to the state. Everything they do here goes badly especially immigration. It is not immigration it is an invasion. Since there is no border between the island and the mainland the state does not listen to us as a distinct ethnic group.  The Hito clan is just one group taking over one hotel but there are dozens of other properties all over town being occupied by other clans with ancestral claims. In fact the island's governor resigned because of the situation. Interim Governor Jorge Miranda who is from mainland Chile says that the Rapanui cannot just expect the current government to solve century-old problems.   Unfortunately it is true that there were abuses and human rights violations. But it happened in another context under another administration. We have good intentions to dialogue and resolve this problem peacefully.  But many Rapanui have lost faith in the Chilean government and do not even identify as Chilean. Tihi Tuki is another member of the clan occupying the Hanga Roa Hotel. He is wearing fatigues as if in combat and has a topknot of rust-colored hair. As he tuned his guitar I noticed some homemade tattoos on his knuckles.   Tuki spent years collecting garbage in town and says he quit because he felt like a servant to Chile. He tattooed the word trash on his right hand in Rapanui so he would not forget the experience. Now he plays music does woodworking and finds odd jobs.  Mr.  .  Tuki lives in a shelter made of salvaged metal near Anakena Beach an isolated cove on the north end of the island that is also popular with tourists. Mr.  .   I am the heir to this place this has nothing to do with the Chilean government. And I am going to occupy the land that rightfully belongs to me. But the Rapanui face big challenges and constant setbacks. Police recently evicted the Hito clan from the Hanga Roa Hotel. The clan went right back and reoccupied it. For NPR News this is Annie Murphy in the town of Hanga Roa Easter Island. 