 The Supreme Court of Kenya handed down a stunning decision today. It threw out last month's re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ordered a new election within two months. It is a rare show of strength by a judiciary on the African continent as NPR's Eyder Peralta reports.  A few weeks ago Kibera an opposition stronghold in Nairobi was in flames. People were angry over what they said was a stolen election. So today after the Supreme Court annulled the results it was all celebration.  .  Jane Akini says she was expecting tear gas. And instead she says the judiciary stood up for the little guy.  We are happy because there is justice. Justice - we have found justice.  Just down the street George Ochieng says that this is a proud moment for Kenya.  I thank God that in Kenya we still have brave Kenyans who can make decisions against the big man syndrome the big-headedness and the so-called computer-generated leaders. The have been told that the common man here is the one who makes the decision and we shall decide come two months' time.  The court's decision was surprising for many reasons. Kenya is a country with deference toward the presidency. An incumbent has never lost an election. And international observers gave these elections a thumbs-up. Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner by more than a million votes. But hearing a challenge from Odinga the Supreme Court said they were convinced that there were quote illegalities and irregularities that compromised the integrity of the entire presidential election. Odinga called the ruling historic. He said it sends a message that will reverberate across the continent.   Our judiciary now knows that they have the power in law and with courage to challenge the mighty powers too many African presidents wield against the will of their people.  President Uhuru Kenyatta said he respected the decision but he did not agree with it.   Millions of Kenyans queued made their choice and six people have decided that they will go against the will of the people.  On the streets there were some protests against the decision but they were small and fairly quiet. Ibrahim Momar was celebrating Eid in Kibera. He says he does not want to think about politics because it has brought this country to a standstill. And his business has suffered.  You have to eat. You have to feed your children. You have to pay rent in the house. So we want to move on.  But as we talk a big group of Odinga supporters crosses in front of us blaring their political party's theme song.  .  And at the same time across town Uhuru Kenyatta is holding a campaign rally. He calls the justices hawa wakora - thugs who should remember they are dealing with a sitting president. Eyder Peralta NPR News Nairobi.  