 On Saturday voters in Afghanistan are once again being asked by their government and its Western allies to head to the polls this time to elect a new parliament. But growing violence and predictions of widespread fraud could render these elections even less credible than last year's controversial presidential vote. As NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson reports from Kabul many voters are thinking they should just stay home.    Financier Habiburahman says he is not planning to vote tomorrow.    Nor is Kabul University Professor Abdul Nasir Wojohat. These registered voters and many others - interviewed near a Kabul high school that will be converted into a polling station on election day - say they do not see the point. They have lost faith in the Afghan government's ability to improve their lives. More optimistic Afghans who want to vote are also hesitating. They wonder whether it is worth the risk given a formal warning Thursday from the Taliban that militants will launch attacks to disrupt the elections.  The threat is stoking fears especially in areas where the Taliban controls large swaths of territory like Ghazni province a two-hour drive south of Kabul. Incumbent lawmaker Daoud Sultanzoi who risked the dangerous drive to visit with constituents says he finds the situation frustrating. Mr.  You know we are letting them down. The government should have created enough security. We knew that this election will take place five years ago. What is the 150000 foreign troops and 134000 Afghan troops and 100000 policemen doing in this country? What are they doing? What is their job?  Two businessmen sitting in Sultanzoi's cramped campaign office in the provincial capital smirk at a visitor who asks whether the elections will at least be fair. Mr.    No honest elections in Ghazni predicts one of the men whose name is Monir Ahmad. Mr.    He says fake voter registration cards abound in this province and that cards can be bought for as little as 1 a piece. His friend Ershad says the guy selling them is a district field coordinator - in other words a Kabul-appointed election official. Back in the Afghan capital such claims are distressing to the head of the country's Independent Election Commission Fazel Ahmad Manawi. Mr.    He says he is worked hard to limit the potential for fraud that go around. He blacklisted 6000 workers accused of vote-rigging and other illegal behavior during last year's presidential polls. He is traveled across the country to meet with poll workers and impressed upon them the importance of holding an honest election. Manawi says he is also made the 34 provincial election chiefs take an oath on the Quran that they will obey the law. Yet despite these efforts he estimates that as many as one in five candidates and their supporters might cheat or try to intimidate voters. Nader Nadery of the Free and Fair Election Foundation of Afghanistan shares that worry. Mr.  The areas where even an escort of American Marines cannot take you to those places polling centers are being opened or shown to be opened. So that means that again elections will not take place there and ballot boxes will be stuffed.  Officials say there are also fewer independent observers this time to ensure transparency. For example only half the number of international monitors are here compared to the presidential polls. Among the poll watchers is the U.S.-based Democracy International. Jed Ober is the chief of staff of the group's Afghanistan mission. Despite the challenges he hopes voters will turn out to select a new Afghan parliament or Wolesi Jirga. Mr.  The Wolesi Jirga perhaps more than any institution over the past year has been able to provide some balance to executive authority. They have displayed some of the characteristics that you would want to see of a parliament in a developed democracy and that is very encouraging. And I think it underscores the importance of this election process.  Ballots will be counted after the polls close tomorrow night. But officials say preliminary results are not expected for several days at least. Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson NPR News Kabul.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 