 Fighters from the self-declared Islamic State have enshrined a theology of rape. A deeply disturbing report in today's New York Times describes an entrenched system in which ISIS not only glorifies sexual slavery but claims that the rape of women is encouraged by the Quran. New York Times correspondent Rukmini Callimachi wrote the story. And a word of caution - by its nature this story will not be suitable for young listeners. Rukmini welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me Melissa.  You talked with 21 women and girls from the Yazidi religious minority in Iraq who had escaped from ISIS control. And as you write about what they told you they say that rape is being used not just as weapon of war but also as a key part of the fighters' faith. Explain how that is working.  Yes. I think that is accurate Melissa. What we have seen in conflict in the past is that rape is often used as a weapon of war. What is very different here is that the Islamic State is not making any attempt to hide or minimize what they are doing. The rape of the Yazidi women has been now publicized in - they are official publications in pamphlets and policy memos and in manuals that they have put out where they say very clearly that this was a practice that was current during the days of the Prophet Muhammad. That much is true. And then they go a step further and make the conclusion that because it was practiced in the time of the Prophet Mohammed by the prophet and also by his companions that therefore it is something virtuous and the partaking in it is spiritually beneficial to their Islamic project.  And some of the accounts from the victims describe the ISIS fighters praying before and after the rape itself.  Yes. And the girls talked about how - the girls - the women - they were very perplexed. You know they are taking into a room. Their hands are often bound and they of course know what is going to happen. And then the man who is about to rape them takes you know a couple of minutes to kneel next to the bed and pray before he rapes her. The then prays again after having completed the act. In effect this act of sexual torture is being bookended by an act of faith.  And just as a sense of how ingrained this culture and this system is you describe Islamic State courts that are notarizing sale contracts for slaves - a how-to manual that is been published wholesalers that are buying women who are given numbers and then advertising the sale of these girls to buyers.  That is the thing that was the most shocking for me when I came to Iraq to start reporting on this story. What I did not realize is the extent of the infrastructure that has been put in place the extent of a bureaucracy of rape if you will. You know horrifyingly some of these women were sold five six times. Every single sale entails a rape by a new man.  Is there any way of knowing Rukmini how many Yazidi women have been seized as sex slaves by the Islamic State?  What we know from community activists is that over 5000 Yazidi people have been taken captive since August of last year. And around 3000 are still being held and I am told that the major are women and girl. The Yazidis are not Muslim. They are seen as polytheists. They believe in seven sacred angels. And this you know has put them at the tail end of the hate spectrum of ISIS because they are not believers in a faith and they do not have a sacred text unlike Christians and Muslims which puts them in further jeopardy.  Given the stigma that is still attached to rape and to rape victims what kind of future do these women and girls have assuming they do manage to make it to freedom?  Their religious leader has come out more than once and said that no stigma should be attached to these young women that the rape was not their fault. That is quite powerful you know? Imagine if the Pope you know came out and said that to Catholic women. It would of course resonate. I was expecting that the interviews would be much more tortured. And they were very very painful but they were not tortured because of the shame of their direct family. The families that I saw very much supported their daughters very much saw it as not their fault. And that was encouraging you know? That is something that in this part of the world I find as - you know is not usually the case.  That is New York Times correspondent Rukmini Callimachi. Rukmini thank you very much.  Thank you Melissa. It is a pleasure. 