 It started 32 years ago with the sexual assault of a 13-year-old girl in Los Angeles. Now it is an international incident with France and Poland sending letters of protest to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. It is the case of film director Roman Polanski who was arrested in Switzerland over the weekend on an international warrant. Polanski the director of films including Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown has been a fugitive after he pleaded guilty to one count of having sex with a minor then fled the U.S. before sentencing. Prosecutors in Los Angeles want Polanski extradited. His lawyers say he is in a fighting mood. And Matthew Belloni editor of The Hollywood Reporter's entertainment law blog joins us to explain what is happened so far. Welcome to the program. Mr. MATTHEW BELLONI  Thanks very much.  Now Roman Polanski pleaded guilty back in 1977 served 42 days in state prison then was supposed to appear for sentencing under the plea bargain and fled. Why did he flee? Mr.  Well at the time he felt that the judge in the case had it in for him and that he was not going to honor the terms of the plea. Since he is been a fugitive there have been a lot of things that have come to light about the trial and the judge most recently in an HBO documentary about the case that really called into question some of the judge's tactics. And featured interviews from people on both sides of the case that suggested that there was a bit of misconduct going on with the judge who has since died. He did not want to deal with this anymore.  Right. So instead of being sentenced to time served he would have been facing a much - many years in prison. Mr.  Absolutely.  Roman Polanski has been living in France. He has French citizenship so he could not be extradited from there. But he is traveled widely. He shot lots of new movies over the last three decades. There would have been presumably lots of opportunities to have arrested him before. Why now? Mr.  That is the question I think a lot of people are asking. The L.A. County district attorney's office has said that they have been actively seeking him since about 2005 and they have even worked with the Swiss government to try to bring him in. And I think what happened is a couple of things here. First the opportunity to get him where they knew where he was going to be he was receiving an award at the Zurich Film Festival and he had agreed to accept it. And it was sort of the - an opportune moment. In the past they have made efforts to get him and for whatever reason had backed out at the last moment. Either Polanski or his lawyers caught wind of it or they just decided it was not an opportune time. And I think all of the elements came together here when they decided to go for it and they got him.  And now presumably a long legal battle over whether he will in fact be extradited. Mr.  Yeah. His French lawyer is already saying they are going to fight extradition. The - you know the L.A. County reps are already saying that you know you could fight all you want but it is not going to happen. It is interesting now - it will be interesting to see how high this goes up. If the governments get involved or if this stays as sort of a local issue.  And do we know what sentence the prosecutors there in Los Angeles are asking for? Mr.  No. There is another complication here in that the - a few years ago based in part on the HBO documentary Polanski's lawyers have been attempting to have the case dismissed. The judge in the case essentially said you know you may have a point here but I am not going to hear this with Polanski not here in America. So that is now on appeal. And the California Court of Appeal is going to hear the matter as to whether they should be able to appeal or possibly have the sentence dismissed.  Now the victim in this case the girl who was 13 at the time of the attack has spoken out over the years. She is been quite public about this. She has actually criticized the DA's office for as she puts it victimizing her again publicizing lurid details of the attack in court documents. And she said sometimes I feel like we both got a life sentence. Mr.  It is interesting there. She actually came out supporting the effort to have the case dismissed. And her position at the time -  We have been through this all. I do not want to go through this anymore. The damage has been done to both of us so let us just move on. And I think she recognized that everything in with the first trial was not exactly on the up and up. And she just wants to move on.  Matthew Belloni edits the entertainment law blog for The Hollywood Reporter. Matthew thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you. 