 Cape Town in South Africa is going through one of its coldest winters in recent memory. But NPR's Africa correspondent Eyder Peralta - who is a Floridian by the way - found something that baffled him - swimmers still taking to the water. He sent us this postcard.   Camps Bay is a beach all the way on the southern tip of the African continent. It is where the jagged edges of Table Mountain dive into the Atlantic Ocean.   Not far from here there are penguins. Right now it is winter. And in the past few weeks it is dipped into the 30s and the water is in the low 50s. And yet as I look out into the ocean with the fog hugging the tops of the mountain swimmers cautiously wade into the water.  .  I see Tania Ritter emerging from the bay. She is shivering even though she is German and even though she is wearing a wetsuit. How do you get the courage to get in there?  .  Because I have to say I stepped in it and I was like no way no way.  Well I just needed a little bit of me time.  She recently moved and things have not gone as planned. So she jumped into the water trying to shake life off. And it worked she says.  Yes.  Somehow .  It helped . I have a clear head again .  Cold water swimming goes back to antiquity. Hippocrates the father of medicine wrote about its therapeutic use. Thomas Jefferson swore by regular cold water footbaths. Maybe because I am from Miami but a foot bath in this water felt like walking into shards of glass. On the rocks overlooking the beach I find Joy du Plessis watching the swimmers. This is crazy I tell her.  Oh yeah. But Cape Town people are like different. They do like swimming in the winter.  In the winter.  Yes. It is a thing yeah.  You have like a benefits...  It is good for you skin...  Yeah.  ...And to start your day and...  That is what I hear over and over. Joy's friend did it to team build. I spoke to a couple who had their first cold water swim to get away from their comfort zone young dancers who wanted to cool off their muscles. Wow.  But especially when you are hungover it is such a quick fix.  . There is nothing like a plunge in freezing cold water to bring you back to life apparently. Nearby Luke Hanning walks out of the water wearing just his boxers. It is his 20th birthday. He had no plans for a swim but his aunt said there would be no cake if they did not get in the water. So he took the plunge and emerges smiling pumped with adrenaline. Is it painful?  No. It is actually a exciting feeling.   So you get out and you feel like oh.  You feel good. You feel energized. Why? Do you want to try?  I entertain it for a second. But honestly there is no way I am ever getting in that water. But what I do come to realize is that this is not as crazy as it seems. Eyder Peralta NPR News Cape Town.  