 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. In western Afghanistan today a newly recruited Afghan policeman turned a gun on his American military trainers killing two and wounding one. A short time later in southern Kandahar province an Afghan soldier shot and wounded two foreign troops. That makes seven times in two weeks that an Afghan in uniform has opened fire on Western forces. Such assaults were rarely heard of a few years ago. This year they account for more than one in 10 deaths of NATO troops in Afghanistan. From Kabul NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson reports on efforts to prevent these attacks.    Afghan soldiers hurry along a batch of nervous recruits to biometrics office at the Kabul Military Training Center.    Inside a soldier asks 19-year-old recruit Saeed Hassan about his ethnicity then types the answer into a U.S.-provided laptop. His fingerprints physical characteristics and personal history are also recorded and run through databanks. The goal says Colonel Mohammad Akbar Stanikzai is to root out anyone with a criminal record or links to militants among the 8500 recruits who are processed here each month.    The Afghan intelligence officer says applications that used to be one page are now three pages. Recruits must also provide written character references from village elders as well as stamps of approval from a host of government agencies. The process for vetting national police recruits is similarly complex in a country where most people are illiterate. Stanikzai says the stringent vetting is necessary to prevent militants from infiltrating the Afghan National Security Forces. Yet he and many other Afghans blame the Taliban when asked why members of those security forces are turning their weapons on their Western coalition partners in such alarming numbers.    He says even troops who are experienced and served loyally can become disillusioned with the continued insecurity and economic pressures and that makes them susceptible to Taliban persuasion. Fabrizio Foschini of the Afghanistan Analysts Network agrees that constant battlefield pressure can lead to a breakdown of relationships between Western and Afghan troops.  I would not say it is normal but I think it is understandable in a war situation which is lasting now for more than a decade. And the presence of foreign troops does not seem in the eyes of many Afghans to have brought positive changes.    That is a sentiment Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid says his group hopes to exploit. He claims that increasingly Afghans are beginning to reject the presence of foreigners here. But the NATO-led coalition dismisses such assertions. Coalition officials blame many of the attacks on personal disputes and they say such incidents are rare. German Air Force Brigadier General Gunter Katz is the top coalition spokesman. We must not forget that as we speak we have about 500000 people and soldiers and policemen working together today and fighting together sleeping in the same tents some of them eating the same food drinking the same water. And when you talk to those guys they build actually trust. They build friendship. Nevertheless some officials like U.S. Ambassador James Cunningham say the attacks are damaging troop morale on both sides.  Relationships among militaries are built on confidence and trust and obviously this is - this undermines that or attacks that confidence and trust. But it is also something that both our folks and the Afghans are determined to get over.  Others are not as convinced. Some analysts question whether the recruitment is being rushed because of the Western plan to hand over security responsibilities to the Afghans before most of the international troops depart in 2014. The shooter who killed the two Americans today was a new recruit for the Afghan Local Police. These are village militias being created and trained by NATO forces. Daoud Sultanzoi a TV show host here and former lawmaker says it is paramount that both Western and Afghan officials get to the bottom of such attacks.  Those we are training to rely on and deliver responsibility if they are doing this then what are we doing wrong?  Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson NPR News Kabul. 