 Thanks for listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Kelly McEvers. And now a story from Mexico about the civilian militias that have challenged a powerful drug cartel and by-and-large have won. These militias are in part made up of migrants men who lived in the U.S. for years then returned to Mexico. We are going to hear from one of those migrants - a man who grew up in California and got involved in drug trafficking then wound up back home in Michoacan fighting a drug cartel. Here's a Michael Montgomery of member station KQED.  Rene Pineda's life today revolves around the vast lemon groves that perfume the fertile low lands of Michoacan. It is a region known as Tierra Caliente the hot lands.  Right now we are at the - they call it melgas.  Recently I took a stroll with Pineda at a farm near his home about 20 miles from the town of Apatzingan.  This is a good lemon to pick. This kind is small but you see all the lemons this is what we do here. We pick lemons and this is our money right here.  Pineda is 41 with dark curly hair and a stop soft dimpled smile. He was born here but left Mexico as a young boy when his family headed north to California. He grew up in Los Angeles where he graduated high school. He remembers those years as good ones despite the challenges.  I had good grades actually. There was a couple of college - they offer me financial aid. But I was illegal. I did not have no papers.  Four years ago something happened that changed Pineda's life forever. He returned to Mexico leaving his wife and four kids back in California. We will get back to why he left but it involved drugs and the law. When he arrived in Michoacan he found the place of his childhood was no more.  Before when I was little kid we could go anywhere. And when I came back and there was like - totally different.  Different and extremely violent. Pineda discovered that a drug cartel that controlled heroin and methamphetamine production had expanded into a ruthless extortion and kidnapping ring. The Knights Templar terrorized local communities squeezing money from shops ranches and farms.  They demanded money from the owners of the land. You have 10 acres. You are going to have to pay let us say 100 for each acre a month.  Like a tax.  Like a tax exactly.  And if you did not pay?  They will take away the land or they will kill you. That is it - that simple. That is what they did.  Cartel members also raped women and young girls and killed hundreds of people. Five of Pineda's friends simply disappeared.  It was terrible. I mean it was really hard.  People had nowhere to turn for help because the police were often working for the drug cartel. So last year Pineda and some of his relatives joined a civilian militia created by farmers and ranchers.  .  .  Using whatever weapons and vehicles they could find the militia's challenge cartel members in wild shootouts like this one which was recorded by a photographer from Magnum Photos.   When you get involved in a battle like that it is - you get scared but at the same time the adrenaline is pumping right? And you get excited. I mean that is what happens with me.  When the drug lords ruled this area even talking about the cartel was enough to get you killed. Now with the uprising people are speaking out about life at the epicenter of Mexico's drug war. In addition to being interviewed Pineda even agreed to record himself with his iPhone while on patrol.  .  On this day they are hunting a top cartel leader.  .  We are here in La Tuta's territory. We have found caves where they used to gather or where they used to live or where they used to hide.  Pineda's convoy disembarks at a roadside checkpoint.  People does not know Mike how difficult it is to be out here looking for these bad guys.  It is not in my uncle's nature to fight.  That is Chucho Mendoza. He is a community organizer in Fresno and part of Pineda's large extended family living in California. MENDOZA It is interesting to see how much fight the town the people have when people honestly believe in themselves and so seeing our uncle Rene just as other uncles and cousins. It is something that motivated us to contribute in whatever way we can.  Mendoza says his uncle has been an inspiration for the rest of the family. But he is an unlikely hero. Taking on the cartel was the last thing on Pineda's mind when he returned to Mexico. Turns out he got caught up in a meth trafficking case in Los Angeles. And instead of facing possible prison time he fled across the border while his wife and kids stayed California.  I regret what I did but I cannot change the past. I wish I could but I cannot. So now that is my punishment. I have to live with it.  When he is on patrol Pineda is constantly reminded of the gulf between his family life he knew in Los Angeles and his new world in Michoacan.  I am right here at the spot where they found the bodies of 16 - actually 16 bodies.  Recently he came upon a remote farm where months earlier the cartel had executed an entire family including a baby. The victims were shot and buried in a mass grave.  You see where they actually dug out the bodies. They kill for nothing. They could do it to me. They could do to anybody.  A year and a half of fighting has weakened the cartel's grip. More than 30 municipalities are now under the control of the militias and federal authorities.    That prompted celebrations this spring that would have been unimaginable even six months ago. I caught up with Pineda at a party in the town of Buena Vista with a beer in his hand and a pistol strapped to his belt. He was exuberant.  I am happy to see all of these people gathering right here with us at the plaza 'ecause they are free. They are free of organized crime. They are free of these bad people.  Since then the Mexican government has ordered the militias to disband or become part of a new rural police force. There are tensions and some vigilantes have been arrested. Still with the security situation improving some of Pineda's relatives who fought alongside him are returning to California. He cannot do that because of his legal problems. So he is working at the lemon grove picking fruit.  You see the tools shovels. Over there there is another one. So this is what we want. We want to work our terenos - like they call it terenos. Artieras you know our land.  He says he is happy.  We are like - we are reborn right? We are reborn. And this is what we do - work.  Pineda says he can earn almost 50 a day picking lemons. And for now none of that money is going to the drug cartel. For NPR News I am Michael Montgomery.  That story was produced as part of a collaboration between member station KQED and the Center for Investigative Reporting. 