 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Today Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced a panel to investigate last week's deadly attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi Libya. NPR's Leila Fadel is in Benghazi and she reports on new details about the attack.  On September 9th two days before the attack that stunned the United States and killed four Americans in Benghazi three U.S. officials met with leaders of para-governmental militias working to provide security in a post-revolution Benghazi. They included Mohammed el Gharabi leader of one of the more prominent pro-government militias. In that meeting which included the American economic and political counselors Gharabi says he warned them that the security situation in Benghazi was deteriorating.    Assassinations are becoming rampant. No one is safe including us he said he told them. He asked for help to secure Benghazi and suggested scaling back or possibly closing diplomatic missions until things were more secure. He did not cite any specific threat but said already there would been an attack in June on the fortified U.S. consulate enclosed by a high wall topped with concertina wire.    They did not heed the warning he says and now Americans are dead. So far the U.S. has been tight-lipped about the security procedures that fatal day when a two-pronged attack on the consulate and later a safe house startled the diplomatic world. Clinton has formed a panel to investigate.  We are concerned about the internal security in these countries because ultimately that puts at risk the men women and children of these societies on a daily ongoing basis if actions are not taken to try to restore security and civil order.  This comes a day after Clinton said the mission in Benghazi was secured properly and they had no indication of an imminent threat.  Let me assure you that our security in Benghazi included a unit of host government security forces as well as a local guard force of the kind that we rely on in many places around the world.  But Libyan witnesses are asking how Ambassador Chris Stevens was apparently left completely alone at the consulate when the attack by heavily armed men was over fires raged and people looted the compound. Fahed al Bakkosh captured video of Libyans pulling what apparently is Chris Stevens from a room at the consulate and put it on YouTube. Bakkosh walked into the consulate after midnight. There were no Americans and no visible security as people looted the compound. He heard a young man scream dead body. Libyans then pulled the man out of a smoke-filled room. Bakkosh says he was still breathing. They took him to the hospital. Later Bakkosh says Libyans discovered it was Stevens. The doctor who treated him said he died of asphyxiation and his heart had stopped by the time he reached the hospital.    The most important person is the ambassador and he was left alone Bakkosh says. Where were the bodyguards he asks? How could they leave him? There was not even an ambulance. Hours after the consulate attack Libyan authorities sent security forces to the airport to meet a U.S. team sent to bring out Americans. One of the Libyans Fathi Obeidi described the U.S. group as some seven Marines in civilian clothes. Using GPS they guided him to a secret safe house inside a walled compound.    There they found three villas one of which was occupied by more than 20 Americans who had fled the consulate says Obeidi. Within 15 minutes that house came under fire by either RPG or mortar he said. The assailants he said appeared to have been laying in wait. They fired from a distance and it was impossible to identify them. After the attack stopped the U.S. team and the Libyans evacuated the Americans to the airport. They asked Libyan security forces to bring Stevens' body from the hospital. Obeidi says it took two planes to evacuate all the Americans. He shakes his head shocked he says by the Americans' inability to secure themselves. Leila Fadel NPR News Benghazi. 