 Finally this hour drama from the world of soccer. It is been over a month since the World Cup ended in Brazil and Brazilians are facing up to an uncomfortable new reality. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro sent this story from So Paulo on how Brazilians are sick of hearing about these two numbers - 7 to 1.  It is a moment Brazilians would rather forget. In fact inside Brazil no one really talks about it.   Brazil's stunning defeat by Germany in the semifinals of the World Cup. It is now referred to here simply by the numbers 7 to 1 - no need for further explanation or more importantly discussion. But while Brazilians inside Brazil can practice willful amnesia no such luck for those traveling abroad.  Hi how are you?  I am good thank you. And you?  That is Irani Scarbossa a Brazilian who lives in London. The first inkling that something had changed for Brazilians she says started pretty early after that game.  I have a very close friend who is German and then she was the first one to come to me and kind of apologize for the result.  Scarbossa says she was not offended and she brushed it off. She is not a soccer fanatic she tells me. Then she went to work the next day and people would not stop talking about it.  Really like everyone apologizing saying they were sorry.  By the end of the day she would had enough.  And I was getting kind of annoyed by that. And everyone was just like making silly jokes or pretending it was really bad for me.  It has not stopped since. Every time she meets someone and says she is Brazilian they mention it. The way she shuts them up - by reminding people that Brazil is still a five-time world champion. So you went from someone who did not really care about soccer to now having to defend Brazil's honor?  Yes because that is the way they stop talking about it.  It was not always this way. Brazilians I have spoken to talk with nostalgia about the days before the great defeat. Then they would show up in any country hop in a cab and immediately the wave of love came cresting over them.   Everyone revered us because we had the best football in the world. Talking about football we were seen as an excellent country says Aarao Miranda. He is a lawyer he travels a lot. But this summer he was unfortunate enough to be in Germany on vacation during that ill-fated game on the eighth of July.   We started watching and suddenly - goal goal goal. We went up to the room during halftime because we were ashamed. When we woke up the next morning everyone at the hotel knew we were Brazilian he says and they would not leave them alone. At breakfast he says it was so sorry for the humiliation so sorry for your defeat. Oh you are Brazilians? Poor guys. He too resorted to changing the subject. Ana Claudia Sniesko has just come back from traveling and she says the defeat is still on everyone's mind. But it is also led to some bonding experiences.   I was on a tour bus and an Argentinean guy behind me was lamenting talking about the Germany and Argentina final she says. And I joined the conversation telling him to just stop complaining. That is nothing I told him. What about me who is Brazilian? She got a hug in return. Others though are choosing to deal with a future of endless rehashes in a different way.   Lawyer Aarao Miranda says if I go back to Germany I will probably not tell them I am Brazilian. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News So Paulo. 