 NPR's David Folkenflik fills us in.  Prime Minister Cameron started by condemning the practices alleged to have occurred at News of the World.  Over the past few days the whole country has been shocked by the revelations about the phone-hacking scandal - murder victims terrorist victims families who have lost loved ones sometimes defending our country. That these people could have had their phones hacked into in order to generate stories for a newspaper is simply disgusting. I cannot think what was going through the minds of the people who did this.  He also promised a full investigation to determine whether police officers took illegal payments from the News of the World and why an earlier police inquiry into the paper was shut down in 2006. He said self-regulation by newspapers had failed and pledged a new system.  My starting presumption is that it should be truly independent. Independent of the press so the public will know that newspapers will never again be solely responsible for policing themselves but vitally independent of government so the public will know that politicians are not trying to control or muzzle a press that must be free to hold politicians to account.  But Cameron blamed his own profession too.   There is a less noble reason. Because party leaders were so keen to win the support of newspapers we turned a blind eye to the need to sort this issue.  Cameron now says he would have accepted Brooks' resignation and today's news about Coulson is even worse for him.  Cops raid Cam's man. That is the headline the News of the World might have put over pictures of detectives confiscating computers from the house of the man who once ran the paper the man...  Ed Miliband is the leader of the opposition Labour Party.  I think we saw a prime minister today who still does not seem to get it. And I am afraid he is someone who does not seem to be able to lead the change we need in the way the press works in this country because he could not even bring himself to apologize for hiring Andy Coulson.  David Folkenflik NPR News London.   More is coming up on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 