 U.S. headlines do not usually feature the country of Oman but it is deeply involved in efforts to lessen tensions between the U.S. and Iran. Geography in part dictates that it play this role because it sits just across the water from Iran and next door to Yemen and Saudi Arabia. NPR's Ruth Sherlock flew to Oman after Iran shot down a U.S. drone over the Strait of Hormuz and she joins us now from the capital Muscat. And Ruth first just explain to us why you decided to go to Oman.  Well this is an interesting place because it is got this long history of helping to resolve conflicts. And it tries to do that by providing a neutral ground for warring sides to come and meet and talk. So it is a sort of Switzerland of the Middle East. And it is also very calm in a region which has many conflicts. You know this is an area where there are rivalries between Saudi Arabia and Iran. There is a war in Yemen and in Syria. Somehow Oman has managed not to let itself become engulfed in these conflicts despite being a neighbor to some of these countries. And that is no easy thing. And you know the country was a key interlocutor in the 2015 Iran nuclear deal. So the U.S. special representative for Iran Brian Hook was just here.  You said somehow. I mean help us understand the politics how it manages to avoid getting drawn into conflict.  Well it is all about history culture and religion. So Omanis practice Ibadism which is a different school of Islam. And so they are not so entangled in the Sunni and Shiite regional struggle here. Whilst they are Arabs there are influences from India and other parts of the world too because they are a trading nation on the sea. And it is also run by an elderly sultan. He is got a very orderly vision for the country. To understand this better we spoke with Zakariya Almuharrmi  a known Omani writer and historian about all this.  The history of Oman the tradition of Oman the culture Oman also the openness of Oman to see all of these factors - they shape the Omani people. So all of this they merge together to make the new Oman as a peaceful oh-see-us  in all of this area of conflicts.  He means oasis there. And you know they really have. It is a very tranquil place here. It is a tree-lined place manicured gardens. And most importantly all citizens are required to be calm. It is really frowned upon to argue in public here. And all of this kind of approach to life feeds into their foreign policy.  It is interesting. You actually met with a key diplomat there who had some advice for the U.S. What did he tell you?  Yeah. So we met with Mohammed bin Awadh al Hassan. So he was a senior official in the Omani foreign ministry until recently and he is now transitioning to be the permanent representative to the U.N. He said look. The Iranians have a rich history that goes back thousands of years and they are just not going to accept U.S. intimidation. He says ultimately diplomacy should be about trying to seek the positive and the peaceful in each situation. So he even has a kinder interpretation of President Trump than a lot of people in this region. Some people here see him as being impulsive and dangerous. The Omanis prefer to see him as someone who wants to leave a real legacy. And in that they see an opportunity to provide him with guidance.  Does Oman think conflict between Iran and the U.S. can be avoided?  Well the Omani representative to the U.N. thinks that sanity is needed. And he says you know it is always important when negotiating these situations to try to leave something on the table that will entice the other side into dialogue whereas you know for the last few days we have been hearing very heavy escalating rhetoric from the U.S. and Iran. And European diplomats I have spoken to here are quite gloomy in their predictions for the future. So it was quite refreshing to speak with the Omani representative to the U.N. because when I asked him about prospects for the future he said I am an Omani diplomat I always see chances for peace.  That is NPR's Ruth Sherlock in Oman. Ruth thanks for your reporting.  Thank you very much. 