 In Arabic language media it is called the Tahrir Harassment trial. In Cairo last week seven men were sentenced to life in prison and another two will face 20 years for the sexual assault of women into Tahrir Square. Sexual assault including rape has been rampant at events in the square. It drew international attention during the political uprisings in 2011. But few of the perpetrators are ever brought to trial. The country's new president Abdel Fatah al-Sisi has called for strict measures - those are his words - to crack down on assault. But activists question how sincere he is. To learn more we turn to Nadine Marroushi. She is a freelance journalist in Cairo. She explained how these particular assaults received so much attention. One of them last month was caught on video.  A man in Tahrir Square filmed it on his phone and uploaded it onto YouTube and that video which showed the bloodied and bruised naked body of this woman being attacked in Tahrir Square. It went viral and it really caused a scandal because people saw for the first time what it was really like to be mob sexually assaulted in Tahrir Square. So that is the reason why it garnered so much attention this time. And why given that it happened at rallies that were in support of Sisi - why the president felt that really he had to be seen to be doing something given that women were a big support base for him.  So talk to us a little bit about what the president has actually done in the short time he is been in office to try and address the issue of sexual assault.  Firstly it is been to acknowledge that these crimes actually happen. To make sure that a trial takes place and that the perpetrators of these crimes have been convicted. He went to visit the women in hospitals which is a real you know acknowledgment that this woman needs respect. And he said you know that we will get you your rights back. The police have expanded their violence against women units. I have heard that they are going to start you know a better patrolling unit during public holidays during mass gatherings so that the perpetrators of these crimes do not just walk freely. That they are caught and they feel somewhat afraid to even take part in these attacks.  And it is been widely reported that as head of the military President al-Sisi once approved so-called virginity tests for female protesters in Tahrir Square. Do people believe that this new effort is sincere or part of some kind of propaganda?  Well no. A lot a female activists and female survivors of sexual violence crimes believe that a lot of the steps are just propaganda - efforts by the current regime in order to kind of have a veneer of female friendliness. In fact you know ironically the day before that video of the woman went viral I met with senior police women of the Interior Ministry in Cairo who denied that mob sexual assaults took place in Tahrir Square. And it left me feeling so depressed and my heart sank when I heard that. And then that night the video went viral. And I just thought you know this completely you know sets the picture for what is wrong. You know you have a state not fully acknowledging the problems that are happening within Egyptian society. And this is what leads to the problem just getting worse.  We should note sexual harassment is not just a problem in Tahrir Square. In 2008 a survey by the Egyptian Center for Women's Right found that 83 percent of Egyptian women had experienced sexual harassment. How widespread would you say this problem is in Egypt?  I mean even more recently than the 2008 survey Thomson Reuters issued a survey in which it was found that Egypt was the worst place in the Arab world to be a woman. So it is a problem that happens across the country not just in Tahrir Square. It happens on university campuses. It happens in rural areas and sexual harassment - you know where women are stared at where comments are made - is a day-to-day occurrence. You know it is very hard to feel safe as a woman in Egypt.  Nadine Marroushi - she is a freelance journalist in Cairo. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 