 A decade ago in Venezuela President Hugo Chavez fired 20000 striking oil workers - geologists engineers managers and others - with years of experience. They were forced out of the country. So what became of them? Many of those workers are now helping to boost oil production in other places. And Venezuelan oil production? It has fallen dramatically. NPR's Juan Forero has the story of one of the new oil frontiers in southern Colombia. He found a lot of Venezuelans there.   Roughnecks in soiled overalls direct a drill bit into the ground.   It is punching a hole down deep  today the country's biggest private oil producer.   Nearby thousands of workers pave roads lay pipelines and build huge oil tanks. Across 700 sun-baked square miles  producing more oil to add to the quarter million barrels pumped each day. It is a far different place than it was a few years ago when Marxist guerrillas targeted oil installations and production here barely topped 14000 barrels daily. Then the Venezuelans came. One of them was Ronald Pantin now chief executive of the company.  We knew that that oil was here because we understand very well all the geology here in South America. We bought the Rubiales field and now you see what had happened.  Back in 2002 Venezuela's oil workers were on the front lines of huge protests against that country's fiery leftist leader President Hugo Chavez. Chavez got the upper hand and purged dissident workers from the state oil company. Pantin a former executive was among those who had previously quit. But his colleagues - many with a quarter century of experience - were among those fired.  He fired knowledge. And then you have all this diaspora of Venezuelans going everywhere - to Canada Colombia the Arab countries everywhere - people with pretty good experience in the oil sector.  Hundreds landed here. The fact that Colombia was largely unexplored was attractive to Venezuelan oilmen like Humberto Calderon. He had founded Vetra Energy with other Venezuelans. He knew Colombia shared some of the same geological formations as his homeland.  security policies that weakened the rebels and favorable financial terms that lured investors.  The conditions were here. The opportunities to grow here were present and at the same time we feel very well-protected that any political interference would not come here to affect us.  Colombia's gain has been Venezuela's loss. That country had once been the world's fifth largest exporter. But now it is down to 11th place. While here in Colombia production has risen from just over 500000 barrels a day in 2005 to nearly 1 million barrels today. Most is exported and the biggest recipient is the United States. A quarter of the production is right here in the southern plains an inhospitable land known for its horsemen and harp-based ballads.     But these days it is a beehive of human activity.   Helicopters ferry oil workers from one end of the Rubiales field to the other. There is a school here a hotel and streets of prefabricated housing for workers. German Hernandez a Colombian who oversees oil operations remembers a far different place a decade back when he first arrived.    There were fewer than 20 workers he says and they lived in tents.    Today Hernandez says we are the country's biggest oil field. The goal for this company he says proudly is to double production to half a million barrels a day in five years. Juan Forero NPR News. 