 Hurricane Dorian made landfall today on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. Now it is headed out to sea having largely sideswiped the eastern U.S. coast. In the Bahamas the scene is far more grim. Thirty people are confirmed dead. And as we keep noting that number is sure to rise. I spoke earlier with NPR's Jason Beaubien on Great Abaco Island. And I want to note that some of his reporting is hard to hear.  I am at the dock in Marsh Harbour. I am actually standing under the shell of what used to be a Customs building that is just torn apart. It is shattered concrete and like there is tin roofing all around us. And off to the side there is hundreds of people who are trying to get onto a mail boat. It is a boat that carries more than just mail but it does a regular run between here and Nassau. And these people are trying to get on there. The prime minister was just here a few minutes ago assuring them that they are going to be able to get on for free that they will have some place to go once they get to Nassau. But there are all of these people here. They have been waiting out in the sun trying to get on this boat to get off the island.  And you have been travelling around the island today. Give us a sense of how much of it you have been able to see. And what does it look like?  So we have been spending most of the day in Marsh Harbour today and it is obliterated. I mean there are parts of neighborhoods that look more like piles of lumber than actual you know neighborhoods. Things are destroyed all across this town. This is a town about 17000 people relies on tourism. Yeah things are just torn up everywhere you look boats thrown into the streets. Things are bad.  Jason I referenced the death toll and that it may continue to rise. We have been reading and seeing reports that there are bodies just in the street. Have you seen any of that?  Yes. Just walking around one neighborhood here this morning we saw four bodies just out in the open. And in addition there is really a smell in the air. Sometimes you are not seeing the bodies but you are coming through rubble and there is a very distinct smell of rotting human flesh. So we definitely believe that this death toll is going to rise significantly.  It is an awful detail to hear. It speaks to the fact that services are just not functioning - that they are not able to collect these bodies is that what is going on?  Yeah. And there is great frustration over that as well.  So as you are talking to people what are they telling you? How are they coping?  People say that they are really getting desperate. People just want to get out. That seems to be the main thing. Both rich people want to get out poor people want to get out. I was talking to this one woman who was trying to get on the mail boat right in front of me at the moment. Her name's Lanita Johnson  and she is here with her three children. And she is saying that she just wants to get out of here. That is her top priority.  Going on those speedboats we cannot carry our bags.  And you would be willing to get on the speedboat and leave your bag.  I want to come off this rock. I do not have no other way. That is a free ride for me. I do not have no money buying clothes. And I have to get me and my children out of mildew. That will make us sick and then make it worse. If I stay there then what? They get sick.  What about people who cannot travel? They are maybe too old or too young or too sick not in good health. Are rescue operations still underway?  Yes. Rescue operations are still underway. They are flying people out of the main airport which is still officially closed to general aviation. But they are getting flights in there to evacuate people who are sick elderly. So things are moving in the right direction. You know we are getting boats in here. We are getting planes that are able to land at the main airport. But people's homes are destroyed. People do not have water or people do not have food to eat. The situation here is pretty dire.  That is NPR's Jason Beaubien reporting there from the dock in Marsh Harbour on Great Abaco Island in the Bahamas. Jason thanks so much.  You are welcome. 