 As Islamic State fighters have seized a wide swath of territory in Syria and neighboring Iraq they have begun to establish an entrenched system of governance. New York Times Middle East correspondent Ben Hubbard has been reporting on how ISIS has stitched itself into the fabric of those communities. He joins us from Istanbul to talk about what he is learned. Welcome to the program Ben.  Thank you.  And your describing an Islamic State that is providing services to the people it controls in cities from Rocca in Syria to Mosul in Iraq. What services exactly is it providing?  Well there is a range of services. I mean there is everything from trying to fix local infrastructure from electricity networks water networks. There are programs to distribute food. And there is a lot of other kind of projects that seem to be mainly for PR purposes. They will hire work crews to paint buildings and to paint sidewalks and things like that just to sort of make the place look a bit better. And one reason that they have been so successful - it is not that they are providing these amazing services and everything is great. It is just that conditions in these countries have gotten too bad after the wars that have been going on that they are providing a bare bare minimum that a lot of people who are living in their areas do not feel that they can find anywhere else.  Yeah so basically an alternative to the chaos that existed before.  Yeah. I mean I think it is a very good indication of the dramatic political failures that have happened both in Syria and Iraq that you know these communities that ISIS has come into the people who have chosen to remain there have lost complete faith in their central governments to provide them with any sort of governance you know be it court systems be it just basic security be it you know electricity water things like that. And so a lot of these people have basically come to the bargain that well you know even if we do not accept all the ideology even if a lot of the gratuitous violence of this group makes us uncomfortable it is really you know countries that are sort of falling apart. This is about the best that we can do.  Along with setting up some semblance of order and security in some of the cities that it controls is it fair to talk about a reign of terror under the Islamic State in these communities?  I mean there definitely is. There is sort of a number of steps that the group goes through when it enters a new community. I mean - and I think the reign of terror is usually the first step. They come in and they do everything that they can to absolutely terrify everybody who is there who has reason to be scared of them. And so usually when you hear about the mass atrocities that this group is committing they tend to be right when they have taken over a place. And so what you are left with is a very sort of - a demographic that in some ways can actually live on what they are doing. And that was one thing that was very surprising in this reporting is that you do talk to people that tend to be not incredibly well-educated or wealthy. Usually most ones tend to be very devout and do not really like their government who say you know if you do not have any problem with them they do not have any problem with you. I do not think that quite qualifies for support but I think for people that do kind of set their model of the state that they want to build you know there is room for people to have a sort of life there.  Ben one of the most disturbing things that you write about is the indoctrination and military training of children to be Islamic State fighters. What did you hear about that?  Well it is very clear that this group is not just thinking short-term. They are really trying to build a generation of people who are going to come up thinking the way that they think and ready to defend the state that they are trying to create. So you know in both Syria and Iraq we have seen cases of them reformatting the school systems whether it is changing the curricula. They have also made threats to former government teachers that they need to come back to work but saying that before they are allowed back into classrooms they have to go through a  course. You know the group itself has put out videos of military training for young boys that appear to be probably in their early- to mid-teens army crawling and using firearms and learning martial arts and things like that and - you know so they are very much trying to train a younger generation that really is on board. And this is something that you know makes many many other people in the region very scared that the longer they remain in these communities you know the more they are going to be able to kind of create this next generation.  That is New York Times correspondent Ben Hubbard. He is just back from a reporting trip to northern Iraq. He spoke with us from Istanbul. Ben thanks so much.  Thank you. 