 After Hungary closed its border with Serbia migrants searching for a new route into the European Union are heading west into Croatia. Its western frontier with Serbia had suddenly become a makeshift refugee camp and today thousands of people broke through police lines there. Lauren Frayer sent this report from the Croatia-Serbia border.  At first refugees rest in the shade near a train line just inside Croatian territory. Police tell them to stay behind a chest-high chain-link fence until buses arrive one-by-one to take them to the capital Zagreb.  .  But not enough buses come and people are streaming in from Serbia by the thousands.  Today? We have children.  Small baby - no food no water. No - too much hot. What we doing sit here?  Police allow some children to crawl through holes in the fence. Women get separated from their kids.  My son.  And the temperature hits 90.  Where is the train? Where is the bus? We will die in here - babies.  Nour Abdullah from Iraq slept here last night with her whole family.  My husband my brother my son my uncle.  They clutch each other as they are pressed up against the fence. A Croatian police officer's voice shakes with his own emotion as he tries to keep them calm.  I understand. We do what we can. We are not magicians. Please wait.  .  But the crowd cannot wait. They break through the fence scrambling over one another. Thousands of people start running into Croatia. The Croatian police are overwhelmed but they step aside and do not resort to tear gas or water cannon like Hungarian forces did on their border yesterday.  .  An older man's face turns white and he falls to the ground. His wife wails over him. Someone starts CPR.  .  .  Croatia's interior minister Ranko Ostojic arrives. Reporters yell questions. What will Croatia do with all these people?  They will be arrested by police and they will be bring to the reception centers.  That is a reversal from just 24 hours ago when Croatia said it would provide safe passage for all. For now the crowd fans out into farm fields. There are not enough police here to arrest them. But there is another danger - 50 thousand unexploded land mines left in this region from the 1990s Balkan Wars. Zidan Tami a Kurdish refugee says he would never heard of the country Croatia until today.  We were in the Hungarian border and they said it is all completely closed. So we do not have any choice so they gave us a map - another way from this country. And after that Slovenia and Austria and...  He says he will follow that map as far as he can.  I am worried and maybe happy maybe scared from the unknown future - everything.  Even if he makes it through Croatia there are three more borders to cross before he reaches Germany. For NPR News I am Lauren Frayer in Tovarnik on the Croatia-Serbia border. 