 When Kabul fell to the Taliban August 15 the president of Afghanistan fled the country. It happened fast - so fast that having conquered the country the Taliban did not seem to have a plan to run it. What emerged amid the violence and a brewing humanitarian crisis has been a power vacuum. Well today the Taliban finally announced an interim government. NPR's international affairs correspondent Jackie Northam is with us from Islamabad to sort through who they say is now in charge. Hey Jackie.  Hi Mary Louise.  So who is in charge? Who is in this government?  Well at this point it is a lot of the old guard of the Taliban. You know there is a lot of familiar faces here and certainly there are a lot of hardliners. Mohammad Hassan Akhund is now the head of Afghanistan's interim government and he is considered a hardliner. He is from Kandahar which was the birthplace of the Taliban and he is held various leadership roles within the Taliban for years. Abdul Ghani Baradar who currently heads the Taliban's political office will become deputy prime minister. And this is a bit of a surprise as he was expected to lead the Taliban government in Afghanistan.  Well is it clear why he did not get the top job?  No it is not. The Taliban you know are not known for their transparency so it really is not clear. But again he was the one that was supposed to be slotted into the leadership position.  And instead he will be in the No. 2 job. OK. Who else?  Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob is now the interim defense minister. And he is the son of Mullah Omar who founded the Taliban. And then also Sirajuddin Haqqani has been named the interim interior minister. And this is a pretty controversial appointment. You know he is a member of the Haqqani Network which the U.S. believes is a terrorist organization. And in fact Sirajuddin Haqqani himself has a 5 million bounty on his head.  OK - so a lot of hardliners a lot of familiar names and faces. Is there anybody who is not Taliban anybody who is a surprise? - because the U.S. and U.S. allies have been calling for an inclusive government.  Yeah that is right. Yeah. Well look. Not all the positions have been announced and they said that you know they recognize that this is just sort of a small slice of the interim government. But you know at first blush this does not appear to be an inclusive lineup. There is been talk about including former Afghan President Hamid Karzai or Abdullah Abdullah who was a key figure in the former Afghan government but they were not mentioned today. The other thing and maybe not a big surprise is we did not get any indication that a woman would be part of the new interim government. And you know when asked about this the Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid kind of hedged. He said well there are a lot of ministries yet to be announced. But he really did not say that women will have a role at all.  OK so no women at least for now. Do we know why it took them so long to announce this interim government Jackie?  Well one theory is that the Taliban wanted to have full control of the country and they were trying to capture the one last part of Afghanistan which was the Panjshir Valley. And that is been done. The other reason is you have got this real split between the leadership which wants to sort of have this more moderate face to the world and really the hardcore militants that want a pure Islamic State. And somehow they have to reconcile those two sides if they do not want the Taliban to fracture.  And just to emphasize again this is an interim government. Do we know when we are going to get a final one what the game plan is there?  No no. There is just no way of knowing that. You know I am not certain it is going to be different from what we are seeing now though. Again this is a group of hardline battle-hardened militants that are now in control of Afghanistan. And you know frankly naming the final government is going to be easier than running the country. You know its economy is just tanking. There is ere are challenges to Taliban rule from other militant groups there.  Oh so much to keep track of. NPR's Jackie Northam in Islamabad thank you.  Thank you so much. 