 Now to a story that sounds as if it were ripped from the pages of a Cold War spy novel. Russian attack submarines are circling off the East Coast of the United States. Defense officials say the subs are in international waters and pose no security threat but they do seem calculated to reassert Russian military might as NPR's Mary Louise Kelly reports.  It is been at least a decade since Russia last sent nuclear-powered submarines to patrol the U.S. coastline. Now U.S. intelligence is tracking two such subs but they remain several hundred miles off the coast. And at the Pentagon today spokesman Jeff Morrell said there is no reason to regard them as a threat. Mr.  So long as they are operating in international waters as frankly we do around the world and are behaving in a responsible way they are certainly free to do so and it does not cause any alarm within this building.  Still Morrell did acknowledge that in just the last year or two Russia has stepped up efforts to project military clout. Mr.  We have seen long-range Russian bombers fly to South America. We have seen the Russian naval forces make their way down to South America as well. So clearly there is an effort on their part to project force around the world or at least to take excursions around the world. And we note it and we are mindful of it but again no one here is overly concerned by it.  Besides force projection another motive for the sub patrols which were first reported by the New York Times may be spying. Tom Graham served as the National Security Council's senior director for Russia during the Bush administration. Mr.  Certainly part of this effort would be to pick up intelligence.  And not only are the Russians trying to spy on the U.S. Graham says they are trying to learn how much U.S. intelligence knows about what they are up to. The very fact that the U.S. can track these subs may be valuable information to Russia. Mr.  This was done repeatedly throughout the Cold War. We wanted to test the other side's ability to react to something - how quickly the radars go up for example how quickly they are able to intercept and so forth. So any effort like this it would be surprising if the Russians were not also gathering intelligence on U.S. capabilities.  Those capabilities include underwater sensors U.S. Navy submarines planes flying patrols off aircraft carriers - all designed to track enemy movements underwater all capabilities finely honed during the Cold War. But there are some key differences this time from the way things were done back then says Eric Wertheim. Wertheim wrote the U.S. Naval Institute's guide Combat Fleets of the World. He says it is important to note the type of submarines Russia sent. Mr.  These submarines are not ballistic missile submarines. They are not the kind of submarines that launch nuclear attacks on cities. These are the kind of submarines that are designed to hunt other submarines to attack ships and to collect intelligence. That is a very big difference from the kind that we were used to thinking about in terms of nuclear war and things like that.  Wertheim also notes that Russia may be playing to more than one audience here. Russia's defense industry he says is keen to market its wares to countries building up their own military capabilities - India for example. And he notes the submarines currently patrolling off the U.S. coastline are the same type that Russia has been trying to sell. Not exactly a hunt for Red October but certainly a 21st century plot line. Mary Louise Kelly NPR News Washington. 