 To Argentina now. When you stand in the center of Plaza del Congreso in downtown Buenos Aires looking at the Capitol dome there is a ghost of a building just to the right. It is a deteriorating art nouveau masterpiece closed for decades and now in the middle of a multiyear restoration. It opened to the public for just a few hours recently. NPR's Bob Mondello was there and sent back this postcard.  The crowd started lining up hours early two and three abreast. And when the doors finally opened the line stretched almost three blocks. At least half the visitors appeared young enough that they could never have been inside the extravagant long-shuttered cafe known as the Confiteria del Molino never have passed under the windmill above the entrance to gaze at the Don Quixote windows inside more than a thousand square feet of stained glass that make the marble and mahogany ground floor look like a cross between a cafe and a cathedral a place of such storied romance it even inspired a tango.   .  Jose Maria Contursi a longtime patron of the Confiteria wrote here of his hopeless passion in the tango Gricel. The love of his life was married. And for 22 years he drowned his sorrows here at the del Molino until one day word reached him that the woman he loved was now a widow. They were reunited here married at long last.   .  So there is history going all the way back to 1916 when the cafe opened on July 9 across the street from the recently completed Congress to mark 100 years of Argentine independence. The building above the Confiteria finished the following year was a marvel of its time illuminated by electric lights that windmill on the roof spinning slowly topped by a cupola that rose to more than 200 feet making the Edificio del Molino one of the tallest structures in the city a landmark and gathering place for more than half a century. And then sadly neglect decay vandalism.  .  Guillermo Garcia is with the federal commission that is restoring the del Molino building. It was declared a National Historic Monument in 1997 but has sat empty ever since. Now the Argentine government is returning the building to its former splendor and the plan is to reopen the ground-floor cafe...  .  ...With its original menu. That'ill please Bella Frizmann who positively bubbles as she remembers coming here as a child in the 1930s for teatime treats with her father.  .  Pastries sandwiches and an imperial dessert with caramel.  .  Clearly it made an impression which may be why a bit later her boyfriend a soldier chose this spot...  .  ...To meet on a day she still remembers...  .  ...The 26 of March 1950. She thought he wanted to talk about problems he was having with his regiment. But her girlfriends all said no way. Dress up this is going to be serious.  .  They were right. He was waiting there at the door. And once seated inside he said something clumsily formal to the effect that our closeness is required.  .  It was a marriage proposal and she accepted.  .  So there is history. The history of the del Molino building is being refreshed. All the things Bella remembers - marble stained glass golden chandeliers - are being buffed and polished.  .  On the main level where today a string quartet is playing amid crumbling plaster there is still lots to do. Workers found more than 15000 artifacts from plaster molds to old menus and are now reassembling them as if they were a 3D jigsaw puzzle. Upstairs they have already got a smoking lounge and a ballroom gleaming from the balcony for the orchestra to the herringbone-patterned dance floor. They will be part of a new cultural center says Garcia next year when they get that windmill turning on the roof...  .  ...By fixing the original motor. This one-day glimpse of the Confiteria del Molino he promises is just a taste. And the crowds suggest that that taste is whetting appetites for pastries and for old-world ambience. When we come back next year and it is open will you go with us?  .  We will do that. In Buenos Aires I am Bob Mondello.   . 