 In China an electoral battle is being played out over Twitter or at least over its Chinese equivalent Weibo. Today 200 million Chinese are microblogging. And with local elections approaching a record number are using this platform to run campaigns as independent candidates. As NPR's Louisa Lim reports from Beijing the official reaction has been swift and in many cases forceful.  Liu Ping has her phone tapped. She is followed places by men in black cars. Her electricity was cut off. And she was detained and held incommunicado in a hotel for four days. Her crime? Trying to run for election to the local People's Congress in her hometown Xinyu in Jiangxi province. Non-Communist Party members are allowed to stand but she has a record of labor activism after being laid off by a state-run steel factory. At first no one would even tell her where to pick up the nomination form. She did manage to submit one but in vain.   When the preliminary candidates were announced my name was illegally kicked off the list. They told me it is an election under the leadership of the Communist Party not an election in the United States.  When she asked the election office why she had not been allowed to stand  You want to be a people's deputy? You should be a prostitute. She cried on the way home but she still wanted to stand this time as a write-in candidate whose name voters write on the ballot themselves. She used Weibo a Chinese version of Twitter to publicize her candidacy and the tactics used against her. Five days before the election police turned off her electricity. Two days later they raided her house. The next day she says security officials took her to a hotel confiscated her phone and held her there until the poll was over.   The power of a single person is insignificant because we have been deceived for so long but if other people dare to stand up a day will come when we will see hope.  Her experience unleashed a wave of candidacies with more than 100 people announcing campaigns on Weibo. Some like this candidate Xu Yan upload campaign videos online. There have been signals the government will not tolerate candidates outside its control. One unnamed official told the People's Daily there was no legal basis for independent candidates. Yao Bo for one is undeterred by this. He is a writer better known by his Weibo handle Wuyuesanren. He wants to change the system from within.   The process of democratizing China needs to take one step forward. We do not want a revolution again so there must be something that can replace revolution.  Yao Bo says he feels protected by the 237000 followers to his microblog. He sees the microblog as a soapbox and a way of sourcing campaign help.   I can find people who will nominate me online. I can find lawyers volunteers people who will design my election material people who will print it and people who will canvas for me.  He has not been harassed so far. He is standing in Beijing and he believes the authorities here have to play it by the book. Elsewhere it is a different picture. Sheng Hong a liberal intellectual from the Unirule Institute of Economics fears the central government has lost control of local authorities.   Local officials are increasingly lacking in restraint. They abuse their powers and violate citizens' rights and the central government seems to do nothing to restrain them.  Nonetheless the woman who sparked this Liu Ping believes in her case the strategy of crushing her candidacy has backfired.   They failed and they failed badly. Excluding me from the election worked in my favor. A single spark can start a prairie fire and the more they persecute me the more resistance there will be.  But as yet none of the Weibo candidates have been elected. Even if they were to be their room for maneuver would be limited. But the fact that their fate is a hot topic online shows a growing thirst for public participation and politics. Louisa Lim NPR News Beijing. 