 The city of Cape Town South Africa made a big announcement today. For months people have been afraid of the dreaded day zero. That is when the taps would run dry and people would have to line up for a daily water ration. Well this morning city officials announced that after some heavy rains and extreme cutbacks in water usage there will be no day zero in 2019 - that is if people keep up the restrictions they have been practicing. Our co-host Ari Shapiro was at the press conference today and joins us from the city of Cape Town. Hey there Ari.  Hi Audie.  So give us a sense of what it is like day to day with water restrictions.  The minute we stepped off the airplane in Cape Town the first thing we heard was an announcement saying the city is in an extreme drought. Here at our hotel there is a bucket in the shower so while the water is warming up you can collect whatever's coming out of the showerhead. I mean Cape Town relies on surface water. They do not really tap into the aquifer or use desalination much. That is slowly starting to change. But when this drought hit city officials knew they could not find water sources overnight so the biggest strategy was just to cut usage. Literally city officials drove through neighborhoods that were using too much water with a bullhorn calling them out. In poor neighborhoods where people had leaks they would fix the leaks for free. Even with all that at one point the dams were down to 20 percent of the total level. And Cape Town feared that it would become the first major city in the modern era to run out of water. Today one city official told me Cape Town now wants to be known as the city that saved itself from running out of water.  So is this all about usage or is there something else that changed here? How did Cape Town get out of this crisis?  One big change was after a three-year drought rains finally arrived. It is winter in the southern hemisphere right now. Dams are close to 50 percent full with more rain expected. But the city also did a lot. They lowered water pressure. They raised water taxes. And people cut their usage by more than half. Today the city is telling people they have to keep doing that. I interviewed the deputy mayor. His name is Ian Nielson. And he said he trusts the people in the city will keep these changes permanent even without the threat of that dire day zero.  The approach we have taken is that a well-informed public is going to make the right decisions. And I think we have been vindicated the last six months by that approach.  So if people are being asked to keep up these extreme conservation measures how much of a change is this actually going to be for people in Cape Town for the long term?  If you will pardon the pun I think a huge rain cloud over the city has been lifted today. Here's what Deputy Mayor Neilson said when I asked him about the broader significance of today's announcement.  What we faced over the past year has been a very significant impact on our economy in the city on confidence in the city because the city was always - one of its key brand is that the services work here. So this is our ability now to reset that.  He mentioned to me that there has been a big hit to tourism and to the film industry and they are hoping now to start rebuilding both of those.  I know a lot of cities have been watching Cape Town through this crisis right? I mean what are the lessons that we can take away from it?  Honestly that is one of the reasons we are here on this reporting project. Climate change means severe droughts are going to become more common all over the world. And so other cities may have to learn to do some of the things Cape Town has been doing whether that is Beijing or Los Angeles. The specifics might vary but the broad outlines will probably look similar to what Cape Town's doing.  That is our co-host Ari Shapiro reporting from Cape Town South Africa. Ari safe travels.  Thanks Audie. 