 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. In a message broadcast today Moammar Gadhafi called on his supporters to keep fighting. He said he will never give up. Meantime world leaders met in Paris today in a demonstration that they are turning the page on the Libyan regime. Eleanor Beardsley reports on that gathering from Paris.   Traffic in downtown Paris was snarled as the heads of state and diplomats from more than 60 countries arrived at the Libya conference.   As Libya's rebel leaders walks into the Elysee Palace courtyard an honor guard struck up a tune. President Sarkozy came out to greet them and the three men posed for the world's cameras. For the Libyans and for Sarkozy and British Prime Minister David Cameron who hosted the conference today was a proud moment. Both France and Britain shouldered much of the diplomatic and military campaign that helped end Gadhafi's dictatorship. Sarkozy speaking through an interpreter said the Libya campaign also showed that the West and the Arab world were not at odds.   We have had here Western European African Arab countries all of which have spoken with one voice and with the same language to say that the values of democracy are absolutely universal.  But Libya's transition to democracy will not be easy. Gadhafi stripped the country of nearly every institution that could challenge him or guide the country in his absence. Libya has no parliament no political parties no unions no institutions no constitution and virtually no civil society but most importantly remarked David Cameron Libya no longer has a dictator either.  Last time we met here in Paris Gadhafi's tanks were at the gates of Benghazi and Gadhafi was openly vowing to hunt down and kill his own people as he calls it like rats. Five months later the Libyan people have taken their country back.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton led to Paris for the meeting. She remarked that it was her ninth trip in support of the Libyan people since the crisis began. But Clinton said the leaders of the Transitional National Council and the Libyans themselves had earned the world's support and respect.  Very difficult days. The sacrifice that the Libyan people have been willing to make in order to obtain freedom and dignity has been extraordinary. But the United States and our international partners are also proud of our own contributions.  Transitional National Council head Abdul Jalil said Libyans had been thirsting for democracy and he thanked the international community for betting on the Libyan people. Addressing his fellow countrymen he said the world has stood by you. You must reconcile and now let the rule of law take over. Now he added everything is in your hands. For NPR News I am Eleanor Beardsley in Paris. 