 And now some World Cup news that is not about the U.S. team. Argentina played Switzerland today. The South American country won scoring a goal in overtime. Argentina's fans were out in force in Sao Paulo where the two teams faced off. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro says supporters of Brazil's greatest rival are getting a lot of attention in the host country.  They planted their blue and white flag on Rio de Janeiro's famed Copacabana beach claiming it as their territory. They have had fist fights with police. They have swarmed every match their team has played in. One headline here said 1000 of them tried to bamboozle FIFA officials with fake passes. They have hung up political banners about the Falkland Islands at matches. And they have been singing this song at this World Cup being played in Brazil.  .  It is basically a string of insults to Brazil's soccer legacy ending with this heresy - Maradona is bigger than Pele. Love them or loathe them meet Argentina's passionate fan. There are tens of thousands of them here. And the Brazilian press has been documenting every move they make. There was even a press helicopter hovering over one of their campsites yesterday.  .  There is a great and historic rivalry between Argentina and Brazil in regards to football Ricardo Paredes tells me. He says the point of all this bluster is not to upset the Brazilians - very much.  .  This is all about the folklore of Brazil he says. It is a football tradition to create this kind of rivalry and to feed it. Football has that mystique but it is not with the intention to offend he says. We meet in Sao Paulos Sambadrome where the carnival parades normally happen. Today it is become a little Argentinian village. The city has opened it up to Argentina fans because so many of them drove to Brazil and are sleeping in their cars or in their camper vans like the one Paredes has. His is from 1984. And it looks like it is on its last legs. He is sleeping in it with six other friends. They have tossed a flag over the hood with images of the four sacred M's he jokes - Maradona Messi Mendoza - the state where he is from - and the Malvinas what Argentinians call the disputed Falkland Islands.  .  Nearby in another camper van a group of three fathers and three sons are having lunch. The pot is not big but our heart is Eduardo Peman says charmingly as he invites us to join him. Naturally they are accompanying their pasta lunch with a good bottle of Malbec brought from home. He has nothing but nice things to say about Brazil and Brazilians.  Bien Bien. Bien.  They have been so hospitable he says. We found food lodging and water. It is been good good good. I think we have been received here in a way I am not sure Argentina would have received Brazilians he says. But across town all that love and fraternity was put on hold. Brazilian fans were supporting Switzerland in the hard-won game today.  .  Brazilian Mario Mestre de Casa says basically because of the rivalry I support any team Argentina is playing against. All of us here do he says. But the Argentinians had the last word today.   They cheered when they scored and immediately launched into their taunting song.  .  Brazil how does it feel to be bossed around in your own country they sang. You will be seeing Messi. He is going to bring us home the cup. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Sao Paulo.  ALL THINGS CONSIDERED continues right after this. 