 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Israel rejected a United Nations call today for an independent inquiry into the country's handling of last year's military action in the Gaza Strip. The U.N. report stated that both Israelis and Palestinians committed war crimes and possibly crime against humanity. And although the report has criticism of both sides in the conflict it comes down especially hard on Israel.  Justice Richard Goldstone is head of the United Nations' fact-finding mission on the Gaza conflict which wrote that report. He is a South African jurist who prosecuted war crimes committed in Rwanda and Yugoslavia. He was in New York this morning where he said the report does not pinpoint who in the Israeli military establishment should be blamed.  We looked at the incidents and we found some of them to constitute war crimes and some of them serious war crimes but it was not our brief to have a look at who was responsible at what level. That is a matter really that would be more appropriate for a prosecutor to have a look at and an investigation at that level. Ours was fact-finding and not in anyway prosecutorial.  The report found that Israeli forces had targeted Palestinian civilian government buildings a hospital a mosque used human shields in one case. I want to put to you something that the Israeli ambassador to Washington said yesterday. He said immense efforts were taken to avoid civilian casualties including leafleting civilian areas making hundreds of thousands of phone calls sending MSS messages to areas that were about to be attacked to civilians sort of sacrificing the element of surprise risking our own soldiers' lives in order to minimize those civilian casualties. Do the Israelis in fact do that and was it adequate?  Right. Well you know the humanitarian law is clear. One has to make the crucial distinction between civilians and combatants and civilian objects and military objects. The Israeli defense force certainly sent many telephone messages and they dropped leaflets. We deal with that fully in the report. Some of them helped Palestinian civilians escape harm. This caused confusion. There were telephone calls on two occasions warning of a bombing which never happened. People evacuated nothing happened. They went back days later. There was a second warning nothing happened and they went back. And after the third warning in fact the factory was pretty badly smashed up.  Now you found also that the Palestinian rocket attacks from Gaza on Israeli towns did constitute a deliberate attack on a civilian population.  Absolutely.  Do you hold the Hamas authorities in Gaza responsible for those rocket attacks?  Well they are responsible on two levels. Firstly there were some attacks made by their own military wing the so-called Qasam Brigade. Others were centers as we understand the position by other all groups who operate from Gaza. But the present Palestinian Authority the de-facto authority in Gaza is made up principally of Hamas and they have an obligation to ensure that war crimes are not committed from their territory.  Can you explain the process here the U.N. process? You are calling for criminal investigations I gather both in Israel and in Gaza.  Correct.  And how soon should those investigations take place and what are the consequences of them?  Well we recommended that the Security Council should in fact require such investigations to take place. We have called for an independent monitoring committee to be set-up by the Security Council to report and we have asked for that report to be made within six months. If no such investigations or satisfactory investigations are taking place after a six-month period then our recommendation is that the matter should be referred to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court.  Now the Israelis say they have already investigated and their investigations have  Yeah well I heard that and we have certainly taken that fully into account and dealt with it in our report. The Israeli investigations have been done behind closed doors in secret by the military. That is hardly an investigation by any acceptable standards.  And lastly I would not raise this but for the fact that a story on the Jerusalem Post this morning and - it is interview with your daughter in Canada who says my father loves Israel is a Zionist would not have done this if he did not think it was good for Israel.  Yes. When I read that this morning I was surprised. Apparently they called her in the middle of the night at four oclock this morning but what she says is correct.  Well Justice Goldstone thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  That is Justice Richard Goldstone head of the U.N. fact-finding mission on Gaza. He spoke to us from New York. I also interviewed Israeli spokesman Mark Regev this morning. He disputes much of what Justice Goldstone said including the statement that Israel's own investigation of the Gaza conflict was less than open and transparent. Mr.  That comment just shows the shoddy nature of this investigation which I would remind you that very serious people refuse to have anything to do with it. The first person they approached to be head of this so-called fact-finding team was Mary Robinson the former Irish President and head of the U.N. Human Rights Agency. She said she could not be part of it and I think it is a pity that Goldstone did not follow her lead.  The U.N. group finds that in several instances the Israeli defense force did not take reasonable measures to prevent the unacceptable laws of civilian lives - for example striking a mosque that Israel said was used to store arms but doing so during the hour of evening prayers rather than at the middle of the night or striking at a U.N. school that civilians were using as a shelter. Have all of those instances been investigated by the Israeli courts? Mr.  I believe so by both the military justice system and our own internal investigations and then they can go on to the civilian courts if people want to suggest that the military has not done its own investigations correctly. But let me state here clearly there were countless examples during that unfortunate conflict in Gaza where Hamas used mosques and schools and even U.N. facilities as military installations. That was part unfortunately of the reality we were dealing with. But here lies the fundamental methodological problem of the report. Mr. Goldstone and his team go in to Gaza. They hold public hearings. Now how does one do a public hearing in an area which is under the rule of an authoritarian brutal regime like the Hamas regime?  But the fact-finding groups report does fault Hamas for criminal attacks in the form of rocket attacks on Israeli towns. And some of the instances of Israeli crimes that it alleges do not require coerce testimony that is at what hour did - was the mosque struck? Were there explosions after the Israeli strike which suggested there were explosives being stored there? If there is an Israeli answer to those why did not the Israelis take part and give the answer? Mr.  We made a decision upfront not to cooperate with the Goldstone group precisely because the mandate given was so one-sided.  Of course Justice Goldstone says that he himself has addressed that point in the past and yet as the Jerusalem Post reports this morning having called up Justice Goldstone's daughter in Canada to interview her. Justice Goldstone who is off to Toronto to celebrate Rosh Hashanah is by his and his daughter's account a Zionist somebody who is a great lover of Israel and would not do this if he felt it were not in pursuit of the truth. Mr.  I do not want to make this personal. But if he would have followed the lead of Mary Robinson and said I refuse to have anything to do with this sort of kangaroo court I would have more respect for him.  Mark Regev thank you very much for talking with us. Mr.  My pleasure.  That is Israeli government spokesman Mark Regev in Jerusalem. We were unable to reach Hamas today for a comment on the U.N. Gaza report. Hamas has said that firing rockets into Israel is self defense not a war crime. 