 Honduras is facing further international isolation today after the country's leftist president Manuel Zelaya was overthrown in a military coup last weekend and sent into exile. The Organization of American States the body made up of most of the countries of North and South America is expected to suspend Honduras. In Honduras itself the interim president Roberto Micheletti vowed his government would not bend to international pressure. NPR's Juan Forero is in Tegucigalpa Honduras. And Juan what exactly would suspension from the OAS mean for Honduras?  Well the OAS is a largely symbolic body. And any demands it makes like demanding that Zelaya be reinstated are non-binding. But expelling Honduras isolates the country completely. It means that Micheletti's government has no international recognition and that will make it very difficult if not impossible for Honduras to get credit. That'ill be a huge blow for a poor country of just seven million that is heavily dependent on loans and aid.  And Juan briefly remind us why Manuel Zelaya was overthrown. What were the reasons given?  Micheletti said Zelaya was planning a referendum that would ask Hondurans if they wanted to change the constitution. And they felt that this was the first step to constitutional reform in which Zelaya would find a way to stay in power. Remember that his term is supposed to end in January. But Zelaya is allied with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and other left-leaning leaders in Latin America that have found ways to change their constitutions to stay in power.  Now the interim government Roberto Micheletti's government which has not been recognized internationally says it will hold firm in the face of international condemnation. How long can it hold out?  No one really knows. Clearly Honduras can still trade with the United States which buys its textiles bananas and coffee. But neighbors like Nicaragua have said they will not have anything more to do with Honduras. Very cheap oil offered by Venezuela's Hugo Chavez has also been cut off. What Micheletti hopes to do is hold out until November that is when presidential elections are going to be held. Clearly a tall order if you are cut off from much of the rest of the world.  Juan the ousted president Manuel Zelaya has said he will return to Honduras to reclaim his post. Any idea when that will happen?  It is not clear. He is still saying he will return. And Ecuador's president Rafael Correa said today that Zelaya planned to return Sunday and that he might accompany him. But Zelaya has already vowed to return and then cancelled. And he is got to be watching the Micheletti government which says if he comes here he will be arrested.  And are Hondurans pretty divided over what is been going on? I mean what is been the reaction there to Zelaya's ouster?  It is pretty mixed. There is plenty of people protesting against him but there are large pro-Zelaya protests too. They say Micheletti is nothing more than a coup plotter and that the constitutional order was broken. They are demanding Zelaya's return. Interestingly enough though you see very little of the media the national press that is largely ignores the pro-Zelaya marches and rallies. And some press freedom groups have accused the media of blacking out exactly what happened here like reporting on the international condemnation of the coup.  Well Juan how do you expect this all to play out in the coming weeks?  Unless Zelaya tries to make a return I think this thing is a stalemate for days or weeks to come. The government here seems to think it can hold out and it is remained defiant in the face of international condemnation. Of course there is also a chance of violence. And OAS secretary general Jose Miguel Insulza warned that the country seem to be terribly polarized. Lots of folks will also be looking south to Hugo Chavez to see what he decides to do. He is been the most bellicose leader. At one time he even threatened to overthrow Micheletti to reinstall his friend Zelaya. So I am sure he will have much more to say on all these.  That is NPR's Juan Forero in Tegucigalpa Honduras. Juan thanks very much.  Thank you. 