 My co-host Melissa Block has been reporting from Brazil all this week and now she brings us a chat about language and customs.  And with me here in Rio de Janeiro is our interpreter Catherine Osborn. Catherine hi.  Hi.  And I have been noticing something you do all this week at the beginning and at the end of conversations. You toss in this kind of filigree of flowery language. What is going on there?  That is something Brazilians call gentileza or gentility. To get anything done in the city you have to have relationships with people and so you quickly refer to people extra-affectionately soon after you meet them. To get a sense of what I am talking about I recorded some typical greetings and goodbyes this week.  .  . .  .  And Catherine I am hearing a lot of beautiful hugs kisses in there.  They were saying goodbye. You say beijos - kisses maybe throw in a via com Deus - go with God or if it is more professional you leave it at abracos -  hugs. And this goes all the way up to a more casual use of first names for politicians like Lula and Dilma for the last two presidents who are referred to that way even in newspapers TV everywhere.  And Catherine is this just here in Rio or is it all over Brazil?  In Sao Paulo it is one kiss on the cheek when you greet someone Rio it is two Minas Gerais it is three. So of course this leads to a lot of stereotyping about how much more polite you are than people from other states. One time I was riding the bus and an elderly woman was standing and a young kid would not give up his seat for the elderly woman. And a passenger got very angry at the bus driver and said you think you are acting like a bus driver from Rio right now because you are acting like a bus driver from Sao Paulo.   So some regional rivalry over kindness there. I am reminded Catherine of something we heard earlier on this trip from a pair of traffic clowns and it was the phrase gentileza gera gentileza - kindness breeds kindness. But you do wonder whether this is just the language that is used and actually actions are very different.  Yeah I mean some of the reporting this week has been about how people do not have fair and compassionate treatment all the time by people by organizations. And so then you have this other vocabulary of words for somebody who has taken advantage of somebody else which is not quite appropriate for the radio. But at the end of the day in everyday life and especially when things are difficult I would much rather have people refer to each other with gentility and it is fun to hear what people come up with. If you are ever having a tough spot you can throw in a por gentileza - for the sake of gentility.  OK Catherine thanks so much.  Muito obrigada!  That is our interpreter helping us out in Rio all this week Catherine Osborn. I am Melissa Block. 