 A cyberattack has struck government agencies airports banks and other businesses in at least six countries. Victims include the drug company Merck the Russian oil-giant Rosneft and the Ukrainian system that monitors radiation at Chernobyl. The malware locks computers holding their contents hostage until reportedly the user pays 300 worth of bitcoins. Dmitri Alperovitch of the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike is in the studio with us. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  You come here all too often it seems. This is the second time in just a couple of months that we have had news about ransomware. Is this attack similar to the WannaCry attack that hit computers mostly in Europe back in May?  It is similar but in fact it is actually even more insidious in its ability to spread through the network once it gets inside the organization. The original WannaCry malware last - that was released last month used the NSA weapons - they are believed to have been stolen from the NSA and weaponized by someone to have spread WannaCry. This new technique not only uses that method. It also steals passwords from your machine in order to spread within the network as well.  But this too you would attribute to malware that was stolen from the National Security Agency.  That is right. It is using some of those same tools. Now it was not developed by the NSA. I want to make that very clear. It was stolen from them and publicized in March. So now anyone in the world whether it is criminals or nation-states can weaponize it and use it for their own benefit.  Some reports suggested that North Korea was behind the WannaCry attack. Are there any clues pointing to who is behind this one?  Not yet not yet. And the individuals in this case are asking for 300 in ransom as you mentioned. The interesting thing is that the email address to which you would send the information that you are paying the ransom has now been taken offline. So in fact victims that had their machines and files encrypted would no longer be able to reach the perpetrators and actually pay the ransom.  Do you know if many people are actually paying the ransom?  At the last time I checked it was less than 10000. So a few dozen individuals have actually submitted payments.  Why does it seem that this virus is spreading like wildfire?  Well one of the things that makes it more insidious is the fact that not only is it using those NSA exploits but it is able to steal passwords from the machine and spread even if the machine is perfectly secure and patched against all the latest vulnerabilities that those previous ransomware were using. So this is a huge problem. We have seen these types of attacks in the past. This one in particular seems to be hitting organizations in the U.S. more than the WannaCry attack which was stopped early on at the time when it was impacting organizations in Europe. So it is a big problem.  And for an institution that has been hacked and that did not pay a ransom what sort of jeopardy are they in? What might happen to them?  Well hopefully they have backups to restore their data because unfortunately the encryption in the ransomware is so good that restoring it in any other way is pretty much impossible.  Pretty much impossible.  The security is very good.  And if they do not have a good backup like the National Health Service it seemed was inadequately backed up...  The data is gone.  It is just gone. Dmitri Alperovitch thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  Mr. Alperovitch is co-founder and chief technology officer of the cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike. 