 We have been following the latest news from London and we also just heard a discussion about whether the news reporting on attacks like the recent ones in the U.K. and elsewhere is in line with what analysts and scholars are saying about terrorism. We wanted to talk more about that so we called Charles Kurzman. He is a professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Among his many research interests is Muslim-American involvement with violent extremism. We reached him at his home office in Chapel Hill. Professor Kurzman thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for having me on.  So recognizing that we do not know all the details about this latest attack you know who the attackers are what their personal stories are how do you think we should be thinking about these incidents? And it seems as though the discussions recently fall along different lines. There is the loser theory. You know these were marginalized individuals. They do not fit into society. They are acting out. And then there is the soldier theory that these are people who see themselves as kind of a part of a worldwide army. You know based on your reporting what do you think is true?  Yeah. My research suggests that it is some sort of combination that you have a variety of linked revolutionary movements. They want to make an Islamic revolution and they are trying to recruit anybody they can. Now the folks who respond to that call are a variety of types with social backgrounds of all sorts. The key thing to remember is that they are just are not that many of them fortunately. So we have an attack it appears like yesterday's attack in London. We have had you know - every month it appears there is something somewhere. But out of more than a billion Muslims in the world there yield from this propaganda effort to going - trying to get people to pick up arms on behalf of this revolutionary movement it is very very low.  You know to that point I mean there was a horrific bomb attack in Kabul you know last week and another one yesterday. And a number of people you know people tweeting us people responding on social media you know have made the point that those tend to not get as much attention in the West as the things that happen you know in the West. Should we think of these as all of a piece?  Some of them say that they are linked with one another in some sort of global revolutionary movement and others are more focused on the national or even a very local situation. If you look globally at the data on terrorism around the world a large bulk of it is in a handful of civil war zones. That would be - include Afghanistan and Pakistan. It would include Syria and Iraq a couple other countries that seem to be getting the bulk of this terrorism. And yet in the West it is fortunately - is not all that common. It is not one of the leading causes of death here in the United States or in Western Europe.  Well indeed in one of your monographs you wrote that in 2016 Americans were less likely to be killed by Muslim extremists than for being Muslim. How would you wish us to respond to another event like this which will surely come?  I think our response needs to be to put this in perspective that this is relatively rare. It is totally unfortunate and I am not excusing this violence in any sense but our resilience requires us not to overreact. So one frame for thinking about this is data from the World Health Organization that around the world there are 750000 murders each year approximately. Of those violent extremism accounts for a very small proportion. Here in the United States we have about 15000 murders a year and of those a tiny proportion are from violent extremism. So when we focus just on that tiny proportion even if we were to bring that down to zero which we can unfortunately never count on doing it is not going to make a huge dent in the threat to public safety that we experience each year.  That is Charles Kurzman. He is a professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is co-director of the Carolina Center for the Study of the Middle East and Muslim Civilizations. And you may know his work for his annual report on Muslim-American involvement with violent extremism. Professor Kurzman thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thanks very much for having me on. 