 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. President Obama says the Malaysian plane that crashed in eastern Ukraine was shot down by a surface-to-air missile fired from territory controlled by pro-Russian separatists. Two-hundred-ninety-eight people were on that jet. Mr. Obama stopped short of pointing the finger directly at Russian president Vladimir Putin but he clearly put the blame on the separatists.   We know that they are heavily armed and that they are trained and we know that that is not an accident. That is happening because of Russian support.  The president's comments in a news conference today echoed those made earlier by the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. This morning during an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council Samantha Power called on Russia to assist in allowing a full investigation into the crash and to calm tensions.  This tragedy only underscores the urgency and determination with which we insist that Russia immediately take concrete steps to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine.  Rebel fighters control the sight of the wreckage in Ukraine and they say that they are giving access to investigators. NPR's Corey Flintoff joins us now with more. And Corey the U.N. Security Council called for a thorough and independent investigation of the downing of this plant. How possible is that in the middle of a war zone?  It is likely to be very difficult Robert. You know even though there is been talk of a cease-fire to facilitate an investigation there were reports of fighting today within an earshot of the wreckage site. Normally you know a crash like this would be investigated by the country in whose air space it took place but these paramilitary groups have declared independence in the region and they have been claiming the airspace. The separatists did say today they would allow investigators access to the site as you mentioned just now including experts from the Ukrainian government.  We are hearing that a team of international monitors visited the site today. Any word from them?  Well a group of observers and experts from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe did visit the scene today. But they later told the Reuters News Agency that they did not get the access that they needed. They did not give freedom of movement and they did not get enough time to work. So a spokesman for the group said they will try again tomorrow.  Once the official investigation is underway what do you assume the focus will be?  Well some outside analysts have said they may be able to figure out where the plane was hit and then determine from that roughly where the missile was fired from. Of course they will also be looking for fragments of the missile itself because these weapons generally have markings that show where and when they were made. One big problem here is that this plane of course was hit at a very high altitude and the debris and the bodies of passengers came down over a very wide area. We saw in videos yesterday that the site is not secure. There were armed men and volunteers tramping around and going through the wreckage. So no matter what the outcome of the investigation might be there is probably going to be allegations of evidence tampering.  There has been a lot of discussion of the missile that is said to have brought the plane down. Did you learn anything more about it today. Well Ukrainian officials say the missile was a Soviet and Russian type. It is known as the SA-11. They call it a Buk missile system. There was a lot of discussion today focused on where the paramilitaries would have gotten these weapons and how they would have been able to operate them well enough to hit what was a very fast-moving target at 33000 feet. The Ukrainian ambassador to the U.N. said today that Ukraine intelligence has videos showing the rebels have at least two of these things. They are very complex to operate and it apparently takes a lot of training to use one of effectively. So Ukrainian officials are suggesting that Russian soldiers may have been involved in manning this weapon.  And in a word we know where the black boxes are from this plane?  It is pretty unclear. One piece of news today was that Russia said it did not intend to take custody of the boxes and they should be handed over to international investigators.  That is NPR's Corey Flintoff. Corey thank you.  Thank you Robert. 