 To give us a refresher on the fundamentals of the eurozone crisis we have called on Michael Mackenzie the U.S. markets editor for the Financial Times. Mr. Mackenzie welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Now for clarity's sake I would like to think of the crisis as a spiderweb. And let us start at the center. I am assuming that the spider in this web right at the center would be Greece. Explain what would happen to that web if Greece does finally default.  Well a default from Greece would amount to a debt restructuring whereby they would reduce the amount of debt they are going to pay back to borrowers and people who hold their bonds. So the market's sort of thinking about a 50 percent haircut as it is known. So various banks in Europe who own Greek bonds would take a 50 percent loss as would the European Central Bank which owns a lot of their collateral. And the European Central Bank or the ECB as it is known has become a major player in the bond market.  This is a very big web and it stretches all the way across the ocean to the United States.  Yes.  First what is it that the U.S. is doing that might be helping or even hurting matters? And what effect could one or more European defaults have on an already shaky U.S. economy?  So right now U.S. investors have been flirting with their feet and moving money away from any kind of exposure to European banks and financial institutions.  So if we do see defaults and chaos and uncertainty could you give us a quick picture of what the best-case scenario would look like and the worst-case scenario as well?  The worst-case scenario is that you have this supposed global contagion all banking stocks get hit. Lots of banks here in the U.S. have exposure to banks in the European Zone and there is just an absolute breakdown across markets that takes a lot longer to resolve. And indeed if it really is fearful then the Warren Buffetts of this world will probably think twice and maybe delay before they step in and buy.  I have one last question before I let you go Mr. Mackenzie. This is for the person who is listening to this conversation and they are squeezing the steering wheel right now because they are letting me talk about worst-case scenario. Is there anything that a regular Joe or Josephine should be doing right now in this kind of uncertain market?  I think the best thing is not to panic. And I think you invest in stocks for the long term so your 401K is - you are just making those monthly contributions. And I think as you see over time you build that nest egg. I think that is really the key is do not panic.  I guess in your world it would be keep calm and carry on.   Keep calm and carry on. Yes exactly as the British Ministry of War so famously said back in the 1940.  That is Michael Mackenzie. He is the U.S. markets editor for the Financial Times. Mr. Mackenzie thank you very much.  Thank you. 