 It is not just presidents and prime ministers who are worried about the European financial crisis. The global financial woes are also affecting cities large and small throughout Europe. For one slice of the picture we turn now to Matteo Renzi. He is the mayor of Florence Italy. Mayor welcome to the program.  Hello everybody and good evening.  Now as you well know yesterday Moody's put Italy on a sovereign credit watch. And I am wondering what that means for a city like yours the city of Florence?  Obviously this is not good news. This is a problem also for our city but particularly for our country. I think this is bad news also because the problem in Italy is not only the economic situation. The problem is the lack of a vision by political leadership. And this is a problem also for the cities and for the country.  How has the downturn hit your city? How do you see signs of the recession throughout Florence?  The risk is the presence of a big public debt around the country. You can think when a child in Italy is born obviously everybody is happy. But it' Every child is born with 51000 euro of debt - more or less 42000 - because the old generation left us a very big public debt. So the reason of downgrade is not only for the present for the euro crisis but also for the public debt and the lack of a vision by the central government of Italy.  Mayor Renzi you are relatively young and your leadership style could not be more different than Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi who is in his mid 70s. Last week the Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi won approval for austerity measures and there were protests throughout the country. You have been very outspoken about the current leadership. Is Italy's current political establishment out of step with what is needed in a fast-changing global economy? I have heard a lot of criticism even in this conversation of the current leadership. Where have they gone wrong?  But I am ashamed also as a father because I have two children. And Michele it is very sad women's representation also women's humiliation. So I think the big  for us is create a new generation of young public servants is really to change the things not with the ideological approach but a new generation able to give a future for our country. Our past is beautiful but we love also our future.  Mayor Renzi it has been a pleasure to speak to you. All the best to you. Thank you very much.  Thank you very much Michele.  I have been speaking with Matteo Renzi. He is the mayor of the city of Florence in Italy. 