 So is the map of the Middle East being redrawn before our eyes? And if it is will we also see the emergence of an independent Kurdistan? Iraq's 6 million Kurds live mostly in the autonomous region in the north of the country. Most are Sunni Muslims. Kurds are not Arabs. They have their own language. They also have their own militia the Peshmerga. Fuad Hussein is a strategist for the Kurdistan regional government. He is officially chief of staff to the region's president. This week he is in Washington where the U.S. government has been urging the Kurds to help keep Iraq together and he joins us in studio. Welcome.  Thank you.  Secretary of State Kerry says do not break up Iraq. Both Turkey and Israel have signaled they would welcome an independent Kurdistan. Will the Kurds declare independence?  First we did not break up Iraq. The others they broke up Iraq. The others - I mean the sectarian fight and the policy of Prime Minister Maliki led to a more sectarian fight. And as a result terrorists entered this - became part of the sectarian fight and they control part of Iraq. So geographically Iraq has been divided now in three parts. And Secretary of State was urging the Kurds and Kurdish leader to be part of the process - political process in Baghdad so that we can build again a new government in Baghdad. So it is about first building a new government in Baghdad.  But you feel that you have been part of that process - that the Kurds have tried to be constructive and that it has failed. Where does independence figure in the future as you see it and as Kurds see it?  The current situation and the current reality provide us the chance to think about our future because at the end we have got now a new state between Kurdistan and Baghdad. And that state is the so-called Islamic State. And it is ruled by a terrorist organization. So being far away geographically from Baghdad - and Baghdad did not offer in the last years anything to Iraqi people nor to Kurdistan. Baghdad could not offer democracy when we agreed about that. Baghdad could not offer federal structure when we agreed about that. Baghdad could not offer security when we agreed about that. So the Kurds has the right to protect themselves to establish themselves and exercising self determination - the right of self determination.  If the Kurdish region of Iraq were to become either formally independent or de facto independent would not that naturally lead Kurds in Syria Iran and the much larger Kurdish population of Turkey to say we want autonomy or independence too?  We are responsible for Kurds. I mean our leadership our political parties our Parliament is responsible for the Kurds in Iraqi Kurdistan. And when we are talking about exercising the right of self determination we mean the right - exercising it in Iraqi Kurdistan. But at the same time we are Kurds. We have sympathy with other Kurds in other parts of Kurdistan and we hope that they through negotiation with their own government - through peaceful way they can reach their target.  You have mentioned that the Maliki government did nothing for the people in Kurdistan - or I believe you said anywhere in Iraq. Is there anybody on the Iraqi political scene who you think is capable of actually uniting the country?  To be honest it is not about the individual but Maliki was extreme failure.  Yeah.  But I think it has to do with the culture with the mentality with the ideology with the background. I do not see the culture of democracy in that area. I do not see the culture of tolerance in that area. I do not see the culture of sharing the power with others in that area. I see sectarian culture. I see sectarian ideology. We will try once again. We tried the last 10 years. We failed to build democracy in Iraq. We tried the last 10 years to build federal structure in Iraq. We will give it once again a try although we know we will fail because the others they are not ready to...  When you say once again do you mean another time or one last time?  It is the last time.  Fuad Hussein of the Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq for now but perhaps not for long. Thank you very much for talking with us.  You are welcome. Thank you very much. 