 The United Nations says Gaza is facing a health and humanitarian disaster. At the peak of the conflict more than 270000 people sought shelter in U.N. schools. Earlier today we spoke with Robert Turner. He works for the U.N. Relief and Works Agency which manages the schools. At least seven of them were hit during the fighting. Turner says the U.N. is trying to assess the damage.  It looks like about 100 of our installations have been damaged - some of them lightly just windows blown out from the concussion from blasts some of them much more seriously. The ones that are most seriously damaged are in the eastern and northern areas that was active conflict areas that we have not yet had access to. We are going have to have Mine Action UXO or unexploded ordinance experts survey these buildings before we can go in and do proper engineering studies. But it is - we are supposed to start school on the 24th of August. That is when we are supposed to have you know about 235000 children moving into these schools to start their school year. And it is going to be a huge challenge to be able to meet that date.  Over the last few weeks your organization has also in the course of routine checks discovered rockets hidden in vacant Gaza schools - at least two incidents reported I think upwards of three. What more has your agency found about that and how does that jeopardize your ability to create a safe haven?  Well it was three events. And of course the reason the world knows about that is because we were very open and transparent about it. We informed all of the relevant parties. We were public in our condemnation of whoever was responsible for it. And we were very clear that all parties to the conflict need to respect the neutrality and inviolability of our institutions or installations. And by placing weapons in one of our installations you bring that into question. And that cannot stand - that cannot happen.  The U.N. has appealed for hundreds of millions of dollars to meet what it calls urgent needs. But beyond shelter what would you say are the most urgent needs at this point?  Well I think we are looking at a couple different levels. One right now is particularly power and water - but also just food. I mean the economy has effectively halted for the past month. The banks were open hardly any times. Most of the shops have been closed. A few more are opening today. But the socioeconomic conditions are serious and need to be addressed. There is also I mean initial estimates which I think are probably going to rise as there are 10000 homes that are going to be uninhabitable. That is going to be an enormous reconstruction job. That is not clear that is going to be possible because the Israeli authorities have not allowed construction materials into Gaza for the private sector. If building materials do not become available how are these people going to reconstruct their homes and reconstruct their lives?  Although that is very much a possibility given that Israel says that they were able to destroy 32 Hamas tunnels - tunnels ostensibly built with construction materials correct?  That is right. And so I think this is why you know these discussions that are going on in Cairo - and as we have said from the outset and as has the secretary-general we have to have a cease-fire. We need a cessation of hostilities. The people need a cessation of hostilities. But we need to address some of the underlying issues related to the blockade and of course to Israel's security concerns. But the people of Gaza are the ones that have suffered here. They have been suffering for now - they are in the eighth year of blockade. That question needs to be addressed as part of ongoing discussions about the future of Gaza or we are just going to be referring to this as the third war instead of referring to it as the last war.  Robert Turner can you give us a sense of what you are looking at when you have stepped outside your office what you are seeing on the streets today?  Much busier on the streets today. You know I have been traveling throughout Gaza as frequently as possible over the last four weeks. Every time you go out there is more destruction. But a least now there is people on the streets. I mean maybe this is a bit sad but to have seen how the people have adapted to the conflict - in the first 10 days when I was out the streets were virtually empty. Over time people adapted. They started coming out in larger numbers. A few more shops opened. But I mean people just get used to this constant bombardment. But that is their third war and they have lived their entire life under blockade. So you know what it looks like on the streets today cannot be what it looks like on the streets in another six months or another year. The people cannot go back to the way it was.  That is Robert Turner. He is director of operations for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  You are welcome. Thank you. 