 We have been watching images of Afghans at the Kabul airport frantically trying to flee their country as the Taliban assumes control. Of particular note are Afghan nationals who assisted the U.S. military mission often at great personal risk. They may qualify for special immigrant visas. Well since the U.S. began evacuation flights in July only a small fraction of them have arrived in the U.S. Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service is one of the agencies helping resettle these and other Afghan allies. Krish O'Mara Vignarajah is president and CEO. She is with us now. Hey there. Welcome. KRISH O' Hi. Thanks for having me.  I want to get the latest on how resettlement is going all the work you are doing but if I may begin by asking just what you are feeling. You must be watching these images as well at the airport in Kabul. O' Yeah it is heart-wrenching to see so many fleeing with nothing more than the clothes on their backs. Candidly it is not surprising to advocates like myself and our organization just because we have been predicting this panic for months.  Well let me get into some of the numbers of how many have been evacuated. How many Afghans have arrived in the U.S. already? O' At least 1200 but the numbers coming out from the administration are about 2000.  So it is somewhere in the low four digits. What is your best understanding of how many more may be trying to come? O' So we estimate that there are upwards of 80000 allies and their family. Beyond that number there are countless women's rights activists journalists academics NGO workers and other civil society leaders who worked alongside us during those two decades.  So walk us through how it works. The Afghans who have been approved to come who have made it out - they are arriving and then being processed at Fort Lee Va. Is that right? O' Exactly. So I was actually at Fort Lee a week before was able to meet with some of the families. They arrived there. For some the final step was just the medical exam and so that was conducted on base. And then the vast majority of them are now resettled in communities across the country.  Where are they going? How does that get decided? O' We take into account whether they have family ties to a given state or city whether there is a concentration of other Afghans that could provide a stable community to integrate into. And so we see concentrations particularly in Virginia in California and in Texas.  And then what happens? Because of course there is getting people here and then there is helping them build a life here. What kind of jobs are you helping people connect into? O' Many of them they will go into really all different sectors. We help them to secure their initial housing food clothing meeting their basic needs. Volunteers help us get them to English as a second language courses. We help enroll their children in public schools and we connect them into the community so that you know they will learn to interact with their neighbors who we hope will ultimately become their extended family. For so many of them they are leaving everything but a couple of suitcases behind. They are also grappling with the fear and anxiety of what you know what family - parents siblings...  Yeah. O' ...Other extended family who do not qualify for admissions through the SIV program.  There is urgency to this obviously. Back to the pictures of people trying to frantically to get out of the country because they fear their lives are in danger. What do you need? What could the U.S. government be doing to expedite the process? O' So this is where the increased U.S. military presence is an asset. I have the utmost confidence that with the control of the airport we still can save the lives of our allies but this is where the U.S. needs to act urgently. I truly believe that with community support we can do the rest.  Krish O'Mara Vignarajah thank you. O' Thank you so much.  She is head of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service. 