 President Obama's schedule had a last-minute change today. He was supposed to meet with the new president of the Philippines while they were both in the Asian country of Laos. Filipino President Rodrigo Duterte has been cracking down on drugs and more than 2000 people have died in the last two months. The U.S. has been critical of this program. When President Duterte insulted President Obama's mother the White House canceled the planned meeting. Duterte has since expressed regret over his remarks. Reporter Michael Sullivan joins us now from Manila. Hi there.  Hi Ari.  What exactly were these offensive remarks from President Duterte?  Well it is a little unclear and frankly I think it was taken a little out of context Ari. I mean in theory he said in Tagalog that President Obama was the son of a whore but in reality it was mainly conditional in future tense a kind of - if President Obama says this to me then I am going to tell him this - kind of a thing. But it did not get reported that way and it does not really matter on an optics level because it is out there. It went south and he is owned it.  What is the reaction in the Philippines where you are to this whole kerfuffle?  There is  not a lot really because they are used to it. And his supporters - and there is many - like to say he is got a big mouth but an even bigger heart. But it is the mouth that gets the attention right? In the past year he is called the pope an SOB for clogging traffic in Manila. He is made jokes about the rape of an Australian missionary. He is cursed out the U.N. general secretary for daring to criticize Duterte's war on drugs. Oh and wait wait wait. Last month he called the U.S. ambassador here a gay son of a whore also I believe in connection with the war on drugs. So just add this one to the list.  And so much of this does revolve around the war on drugs. Tell us about what is happening there. How big is the drug problem and the scale of the government's response to it?  They have a huge meth problem here. There is no doubt. And it affects the poor disproportionately and the ripple effects on society are huge too. And that is what Duterte is trying to fix. He did it in Davao where he was mayor for more than 20 years. Ask human rights groups about how he did it there. And now he is taking the show on the road and the people here have given him a mandate to do it.  About 2400 people have died in this war on drugs since Duterte took office two months ago. Can you give us more details about how these killings happen?  Well about a thousand of them Ari have been in encounters with police - shot while resisting arrest police say. And the rest just show up on doorsteps or in the middle of the street and it is not clear how they died. But Duterte's been encouraging both the police and the general public to go after drug dealers and users in their communities and it seems to be working. More than 600000 people Ari have turned themselves in since Duterte took office preferring a record to maybe a bullet. And if you go to some of the worst-hit neighborhoods people tell you the program is working. And here's the bottom line. So far the people are with him - 91 percent approval rating in the last opinion poll in mid-July. That is more than double the percentage of the vote he got in the election in May.  Do you expect this cancelled meeting between President Obama and President Duterte to have any long-lasting impact on U.S.-Philippine relations?  I do not because again everyone knows this is his style and that includes the U.S. And both countries have bigger fish to fry namely China. The U.S. and Philippines have a mutual defense treaty. They have been allies for more than half a decade and they need each other in what is fast shaping up to be a showdown with China over what may be new construction on the Scarborough Shoal. President Duterte over the weekend spoke of reports China might be going ahead with construction there. It is about 130 nautical miles from Manila - not good. And it is been spoken of as a red line for the U.S. in terms of stopping China and their expansion in the South China Sea. So the last thing either the U.S. or the Philippines needs right now is a wedge that drives them apart. Having said that President Obama has made it clear the extrajudicial killings here will be a topic of discussion when and if the two men do sit down to talk in the future - want to be a fly on the wall when that happens.  Reporter Michael Sullivan in the Philippines thanks.  You are welcome Ari. 