 In Ghana there have been elaborate preparations for the president's visit. It is Mr. Obama's first trip to Sub-Saharan Africa since taking office. Tomorrow he will confer with the Ghanaian president and visit Cape Coast Castle that is a notorious site where slaves were imprisoned before being shipped across the Atlantic. As NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports it would be an understatement to say that Ghanaians are excited about hosting the Obamas.  Mr.   Barack Barack Barack Obama. Barack Barack Barack Obama.  Ghanaian singer Blakk Rasta composed this song for the then-candidate Barack Obama. It became a huge hit all over the airways in Ghana during President Obama's inauguration. Mr.   How come black man become president in a moneymaker? Barack   Now the very same reggae song is again raising spirits during a very rainy season here in Ghana. Yet torrential downpours have hardly dampened enthusiasm for the Obama family visit. Everywhere you look it is Obama Obama Obama. Obama t-shirts specially printed cloth with Obama's picture wristbands key holders flags with the president's image and giant welcome home billboards for Africa's first family. TV radio newspapers businesses you name it. Everyone in Accra appears to be proud that President Obama has chosen Ghana. And out of sheer admiration Nancy Sam said she set up an association Friends for Obama last year when he was a senator trying to become president. Ms.  We just want to say . Welcome home means . It is a warm welcome. So we say  to Ghana. Come and we are ready to receive you. Behind every strong successful man there is a woman and we are happy to have Mrs. Obama coming with him meet with the women in Ghana. Oh we cannot wait to see her because we have realized that she has the African spirit in her. She is a dynamic woman and we want her to put some of the vibrate in us the women in Ghana.  Dr. Robert Lee is an 89-year-old U.S. war vet. Born in South Carolina he trained as a dentist and met some of Ghana's future independence leaders at Lincoln University. Those encounters lit a fire in Dr. Lee with his rich baritone voice and he moved to Ghana in the 1950s. He is been here ever since. Lee says he is thrilled at what many African Americans who settled in Ghana are calling a homecoming for President Obama. Dr.  This fellow also shows that being black does not have much to do with what you become. Because Africans in the past in America and in Africa always felt that they could never do these things. These were reserved for white people. But Obama has proved this is not true.  So what song would you sing for President Barack Obama? Dr.  He would probably want to sing that  God bless America land that I love and beside her and guide her. Like that something like that.  Keep going. Dr.   On the mountains through the prairie through the oceans white with foam. God bless America my home sweet home.  I have come to Mary Mother of Good Counsel School and they look as if they are having sports day today. But I want to know what they feel about the Obamas' visit here to Ghana. Ms.  I am Haria Sadu. I am 13 years old. I think he has fulfilled Martin Luther King's dream of there being a black American president and that is cool. Ms.  My name is Stephanie Afakuma-Afqua. I am 12 years. And I am so happy because Obama has encouraged all Ghanaians and all Africans to go ahead with your dreams. And I am so glad he is coming to Ghana. And they should keep on doing what they are doing. We love you Obama and everyone.  Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Accra Ghana.  