 Early this morning a plane took off from the U.S. Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. Onboard were two people who needed medical attention according to the National Science Foundation which runs the station. It is winter in Antarctica right now dark all the time and really cold. To hear how hard a rescue like this is we called Jerry Macala. He was managing the station back in 2001 when the only doctor there got a gallstone. It was bad so Macala called his bosses in the U.S. and requested something that had never happened before. Can we evacuate this man in the middle of winter?  And I just said you know no one's ever explained to me why we cannot fly a plane down here in the winter. And I do not ever want to look back on this year and think that there was something else we could have done to save him.  And so how difficult was it though for the plane to get in and evacuate him?  From the ground support side it was unprecedented. There was no rulebook and there were no instructions. It was extremely cold. It was - it is mind-boggling how cold it gets down there. It was minus-92 when that plane landed in 2001.  And then once the plane did land was not there some trouble getting it back up again?  It is mind-boggling how cold it gets down there. It was minus 92 when that plane landed in 2001.  And then once the plane did land was not there some trouble getting it back up again?  Right. You know it is a small plane. They cannot bring two pilots and you know double-up on the crew. They have a very minimal crew. And that crew has to rest when they land the plane so it had a 10-hour rest time. And during that time the plane sat on the ski-way and unfortunately the skis had frozen down to the ski-way. And well we had a heck of a time breaking the plane loose.  How did you do it?  You know it was just a combination of brute force basically. Everybody pitched in and we rocked the wings and hit the skis with a big piece of the wood. And eventually it broke loose.  So what happened to the doctor who got evacuated? Is he all right?  Yeah. He was not happy to put people at risk but it was a historic operation for sure.  Wow. So when you heard about this current evacuation what did you think? You know what is the first thing that came to your mind?  Well I will tell you I am very concerned about you know everybody involved in the evacuation. It is a risky mission. You know I would obviously try and minimize the risks on all fronts. But it is pretty scary you know to be out there in minus-75 or 95-degree weather with the blowing winds. And the amount of effort that it takes to prepare the station for that kind of a rescue is phenomenal. It really took a lot out of my crew and myself. In fact I was out on the ski-way myself working on setting up the fueling and for the Twin Otter. And I spent a little bit too much time you know in the minus-90-degree weather and managed to do some frostbite on my feet. I was not sure if they were going to have to medivac me out of there with the doctor.  Wow. So you are just thinking like not only is this particular mission hard but it is going to be you know tough on them going forward.  Well it is yes. You know it is already pretty psychologically tough to be down there. In some ways you feel like you are almost in sort of a cocoon because in many ways it is a very safe place to be isolated. But you have your community and you have your you know your friends. And there is reasonably good food down there and you know it is warm when you want it to be warm. So...  Right when you are not jumping on a plane.  Yeah yeah.  And then when something like this happens it kind of breaks that spell.  Absolutely yeah.  Yeah. Well Jerry Macala thank you so much.  Thank you.  Jerry Macala was the station manager in Antarctica from 2000 to 2001. He now lives in Santa Barbara. 