 The arrests of two men in Norway and one in Germany charged with al-Qaeda connections and a bombing plot are reported to be linked to cases in both the U.S. and Britain. The U.S. case that is been cited involves Najibullah Zazi. He is the Afghan immigrant who worked as a driver at Denver airport and was charged with plotting to set off bombs in the New York subway. Zazi pleaded guilty in February. For news of today's arrests and what the connections might be with the Zazi case we turn now to Matt Apuzzo of the Associated Press. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thanks a lot for having me.  And first the arrests of three men two of them in Norway one I gather based in Norway but vacationing in Germany what have they been charged with? Mr.  Well they have been charged with terrorism-related charges -plotting terrorism. And you know officials have said that it is linked to al-Qaida.  Also in Britain yesterday a man named Abid Nasir was arrested and he was charged with being involved in some plot to blow up another shopping mall in England. These cases are supposed to be connected to the Zazi case from the U.S.? Mr.  Correct. What we are seeing is the New York subway plot the shopping center plot in England and now this Oslo plot they are three legs of the stool if you will you know different plots that al-Qaida's operational chiefs have been running against the United States and Europe.  A name that comes up in this story is that of Adnan al Subazuma Saudi-born American-raised. He was charged in Brooklyn yesterday for allegedly plotting both the planned subway bombings the Zazi case and also the planned British shopping center bombing. What do you know about Subazuma? Mr.  Well Subazuma has alluded the FBI for years. He is a most-wanted terrorist there is a 5 million reward out for him. And he appears to have taken on the mantle as the lead al-Qaida figure planning these attacks against the you foreign targets such as the United States U.K. and Norway.  And one thing you have reported that at least the Norwegian case has in common with the American case is the kind of explosive. Mr.  In all three cases what we are seeing is the explosive that was intended to be used was a peroxide bomb. Peroxide bombs are very - they are small but they are powerful they can be transported easily. And in the New York case they were talking about just putting them in a backpack and walking onto a crowded subway during rush hour.  In trying to sort through what is new or different or what is familiar about this case as it is now emerging one thing that seems to be consistent with recent arrests in the U.S. is that the men from Norway and in Britain like those in America were not infiltrated in like the 911 bombers. These are people who had long-established legal residence if not citizenship in these countries. Mr.  That is absolutely right. And I think what you are seeing is it is getting harder and harder to penetrate borders in any country. And certainly in the United States we are seeing more U.S. citizens taking up arms against the United States. There is been a real rash of that. The other thing that is very interesting is that these plots seem to show al-Qaida has become a lot more nimble than it was a decade ago when it was coordinating these very complicated attacks like 911. These attacks we are seeing here these plots do not require a whole lot of coordination. It is a bunch of guys trying to get a recipe for a bomb and they pick their target and just go set it off.  More nimble might be the glass half full from al-Qaida's standpoint. Smaller is another way of describing it. Not colossal you know aircraft flying into skyscrapers. Mr.  Absolutely. But you know what what we saw on Christmas was that you do not need to be - as far as al-Qaida's concerned you do not need to be successful to scare a lot of people.  Matt Apuzzo thanks. Mr.  Any time.  Matt Apuzzo of the Associated Press on the alleged terror cases and the arrests in Norway in Britain and in the U.S. 