 In a region torn apart by violence a leader who promises security can be appealing. And across the Middle East strongmen types seem to prevail. Zaid Al-Ali is an Iraqi-born lawyer. He is written extensively about Iraq Tunisia Libya and Egypt - all countries led by men with ties to the military. Iraqi prime minister Nouri al-Maliki is one of them. Al-Ali says Maliki is partly to blame for the disaster now unfolding in Iraq.  His control over the security sector has been a disaster. He is managed to construct this huge house of cards to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars. And and a lot of that money is invested into the security sector right? Our army's supposed to be well-trained. It is supposed to be well-equipped. It is had the benefit of a significant amount of assistance from international forces including of course United States military. And here they are incapable of securing one of the Middle East's largest cities. Their presence in Mosul was swept away very quickly. In Tikrit they did not put up any resistance at all. They just - the militants arrived and the security sector did not resist for more than a few minutes.  You have just returned from Tunisia. And you have also been covering the situation in Libya with the transition of power there. It seems like there is a trend in those countries and others in the region of what could be you know called the strongman. Leaders who - with close ties to the military who promise stability above all else. What do you think of that?  Well I mean there is a cultural reason for this which is something that goes back decades - is that we have been subjected to a lot of propaganda over a period of decades in the Middle East by strongmen by people who have been determined to keep control over our countries. And we have been told over a period of decades that we as people in the Middle East cannot handle real democracy. We need a strongman to bring order to our society. And those individuals who have been peddling this propaganda for decades successfully managed to eat away at all institutions that could function independently. So as soon as you take them away -  so if you take out Mubarak Saddam Hussein Gaddafi so on so forth - all you are left with is a dysfunctional state - a state that is not capable of bringing people together of providing security to the people or providing services. And people are left with no political parties to represent them. And people just rely on themselves to defend themselves. They just fall back on things like ethnicity religion. That is all they have left those primordial instincts. So in that type of context all this chaos that we see should not really come as a major surprise to anyone. In this type of context it is more or less predictable.  Zaid you are based in Cairo. And Egypt has just sworn in a new president the former commander of the army Abdel Fatah al-Sisi. The only nonmilitary leaders since Nasser Mohammed Morrissey did not last very long of course. After that brief spring is Egypt just going back to the strongman model?  I mean there is no question he is a strongman or that is what he is trying to be. But it is a different type of strongman model to what it is that we had before. By the end Mubarak had established his own political party which was in control over the parliament and lots of institutions of state. He had developed the police as a rival security force to the military. All that is gone now. The political party has been banned the National Democratic Party does not exist anymore. The police now is firmly under the thumb of the military. So Sisi now is a man of the military from the military. So it is a different type of model. It is a strongman model there is no question. But it is much - one that is much more firmly anchored within the military institution specifically.  What have the Western powers - thinking of the United States and the EU - what have they done to encourage or discourage the rise of these strongman figures?  What the EU and what Western countries have done to support it is by not calling a spade by its name. It is something that is been very clear for a long time that these individuals position themselves to become indispensable. And the reason why they are indispensable is because they are all that is left. After they eat away from the state and after they eat away at institutions there really is nothing left between them and chaos. It is just them.  Zaid Al-Ali is an expert on constitutional law in the Middle East. His new book is called The Struggle For Iraq's Future. Zaid thank you.  Thank you very much. 