 After days stalled over the Bahamas Hurricane Dorian has begun a slow crawl up the Eastern Seaboard. Rain from its outermost bands have begun lashing low-lying coastal cities such as Charleston S.C. This lumbering monster of a storm is hitting the U.S. after grinding its way across the Grand Bahamas and the Abaco Islands leaving behind a trail of destruction. NPR's Jason Beaubien is in Nassau the capital of the Bahamas. He is actually at the Nassau airport. Hey there Jason.  Hello.  Hi. What is the scene at the airport? Are flights getting in and out?  Flights are getting in and out of here. And this has really become sort of the relief hub. You have got helicopters from U.S. Coast Guard actually from many different agencies coming in out of here. You have got supply planes coming in and delivering supplies. So this has really become like the main hub for the relief effort for the people that have been effected here by Dorian.  Right. And in terms of the places they are trying to get some of those very hard hit places like the Abaco Islands that I mentioned what are they finding when they get there?  They are finding incredible devastation. I mean these places got hit with gusts of 220 miles per hour at Marsh Harbour and then Dorian just parked over Grand Bahama for almost two days. I mean the scenes of destruction in some places are just almost total. They are saying that some communities some poor neighborhoods have been just completely destroyed. You know we are hearing from people that there are boats thrown all over the place. And really at this point they are just trying to figure out how to get in there and operate because the airports are underwater and even like the ports. They thought OK we will send stuff in by boat but most of the ports are destroyed. So the level of destruction is really pretty amazing.  Right. It is all well and good to send a boat but if the boat cannot dock and actually get the supplies loaded off onto land it is not doing much good. Tell me just is there a particular story of somebody you have been able to interview that is going to stick with you?  I mean a lot of them stick with me. You know I just talked to a guy who just got evacuated out of Marsh Harbour on a U.S. Coast Guard helicopter. His name's Javon Cambridge . He is 33. He came out with five other people  son. He says that people in Marsh Harbour are really getting desperate.  Eventually I feel like there is going to be some real chaos of people trying to survive. They are already raiding the stores so yeah...  What about water? Where are people...  There is no water. They are collecting rainwater. And they are flushing their toilets with water from off the road.  And he says that people cannot survive for that much longer there unless supplies actually get in.  We will stay with that question of supplies. We heard him mention water that there is no water. I will mention that your line is fading in and out which tells me that phone communications are still not entirely up and reliable even in Nassau the capital certainly not in other places. What else is just the greatest challenge in terms of supplies in terms of what people need right now?  You know so even here at the airport they are flying people out and just immediately loading them onto ambulances. So medical care is a huge issue. I mean obviously there were people there that were in you know assisted living or that were people who are in hospital. And those people still need attention. And so they are flying those people out. People need a roof to sleep under. If you would look at some of these images you know entire swaths of Marsh Harbour have been destroyed. And the prime minister said yesterday I think 60 of buildings in Marsh Harbour have been damaged or destroyed.  Jason thank you.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Jason Beaubien reporting on the scenes of destruction and devastation. He was reporting there from Nassau in the Bahamas. 