 After 20 years American combat troops have all but left Afghanistan. Much of that time was spent training Afghan security forces to protect the country from extremists. But now as the fighters take city after city the Taliban is poised to fill the void. Retired General David Petraeus is a former commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. He joins us now. Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Good to be back Audie. Thank you.  What is your reaction to kind of the collapse of the Afghan army in the face of the Taliban in so many of these provinces?  Well it is disastrous. It is tragic. But sadly I tend to think that it was somewhat predictable. And I noted months ago that when we pulled out our 3500 troops that led the coalition 8500 to go home - and perhaps most importantly just at the time that we were withdrawing the air support on which the Afghans always relied we also withdrew about 18000 contractors who were there to maintain the sophisticated U.S.-provided helicopters and planes that provide the resupply additional forces air medevac and close air support all of which are critical especially when your forces come under attack simultaneously in multiple locations in a huge country that is very mountainous and has very limited ground lines of communication decent roads .  So I want to come back to something because you have said in the past that Afghan forces have been quote fighting and dying in very large numbers but that the problem is that they are not sure if someone is coming to the rescue. So I mean...  That is exactly it. You have got it exactly right.  ...Were you saying that there was no way for the U.S. - was - you were in charge - right? - of supporting the training and building up of this force? Did you know that it was not capable of surviving a U.S. withdrawal?  Well we were not contemplating a withdrawal when I was doing this. We had 150000 coalition forces when I was privileged to command U.S. and all other forces in Afghanistan.  What were you contemplating? Did you think there would be an indefinite sustained presence?  No not at all. In fact we - I made recommendations to the president near the end of my time as commander and before going to be the CIA director how to withdraw. The key was that we always initially made decisions based on conditions on the ground and ultimately that obviously was discarded as a big idea that guided what it was that was done. Again this was predictable. If soldiers - as you just quoted me saying that soldiers know nobody's coming to the rescue they will fight for a couple of days and once that realization sets in they are going to surrender flee desert whatever. And I also said months ago that I feared that there could be a psychological collapse as these soldiers in more than one location realize that this modest Afghan air force which is now degrading in operational readiness because all the folks that maintained it were no longer there that they would recognize this situation.  But are you saying all of this is - this has all happened after you have left? Like what responsibility do you bear for how this is playing out now? Was this ever a mission that could have been successful?  Well I think you have to understand that you could never win in Afghanistan. In fact I told Congress we would not be able to do in Afghanistan what we did in Iraq. The situations were totally different. The most important element being that the Taliban Haqqani network and the other associated extremists and insurgents have their headquarters their major bases outside of Afghanistan and beyond our reach in Pakistan where our Pakistani partners refuse to eliminate them from their soil. So you could never truly win. You just had to accept that. And then what you have to...  So is Afghanistan on the verge of becoming a safe haven for terrorists?  Yes certainly it is. It is on the verge of becoming a humanitarian catastrophe an enormous setback for us in national security terms something that we thought was going to help us to focus on the Indo-Pacific. And obviously here now we have pulled out 3500. We are already deploying 8000 - not all into Afghanistan to be sure some will stay in the Gulf states - just to ensure that we can get our embassy and U.S. citizens out. But then what do we do? Do we allow Afghanistan just to completely collapse and again become a total disaster and a significant national security setback? Again all of this...  You are raising this as a question. How do you think about it I mean having been in the position?  Well I think that you - well look first of all keep in mind I commanded a decade ago. A lot has happened since then. But we are here and now and when we decided to withdraw this final 3500 I said I believe we would come - I feared we would come to regret this. And I think we already are. And numerable...  Do you see a scenario where the U.S. has more combat presence or has more presence similar to what is happened in Iraq?  Look Iraq is actually not in a bad place right now. Of course we probably should not have withdrawn there and then we had to go back in. I think we should acknowledge the severity of this particular situation acknowledge that we withdrew overly hastily and essentially set up the Afghans for failure recognizing that we had built a force that we enabled and if we no longer enabled them with combat controllers close air support emergency resupply they were not going to be able to hold off a simultaneous offensive by the Taliban in all the different locations they have attacked. And then as I said the psychological impact at some point would lead to quite predictable collapse of those forces. If you recognize that and acknowledge it - and that is very very hard to do. I recognize. But then you would issue an ultimatum to the Taliban and say stop where you are or we are going to deploy the might of the United States against you. We should have...  Do you see any indication...  ...An airlift out of Kabul for all these translators that we are leaving behind. There is 18000 battlefield interpreters who still have not been able to get through this very bureaucratic process.  We heard from the White House saying today that they would be focused on doing that. And I think - in the time left I want to understand this. You are - it sounds like you are saying that this was always militarily impossible to win. Now that the Taliban have momentum on the battlefield...  But you could manage. There is a huge difference.  ...And arguably no reason to negotiate what is the lever to pull? What is the next move for the U.S. to your mind?  Well the lever - first of all again what I said was it is not just that we could not win it was that - but having acknowledged that you could manage the situation and that is what we should have done. Certainly the situation prior to the withdrawal even with the deterioration that was happening was vastly preferable to what we see now. Again this is an unfolding disaster in all proportions. Our leverage right now is to say to the Taliban OK we sort of let you get this far because we did not do much about it to support our Afghan partners of 20 years. We are now going to deploy the might of the United States to stop you where you are. We are going to do the withdrawals. And keep in mind by the way there is 18000 battlefield interpreters who served two years or more on the ground with our forces who qualify for a special immigrant visa.  It sounds like what you are advocating for is a U-turn on this decision and to bring back a major troop presence in Afghanistan.  I certainly would do that in the short term and I would certainly consider it for the mid and long term. Again we are otherwise just consigning a country of 40 million people to a medieval theocratic ultra-conservative Islamist emirate. That cannot be in our interest. Al-Qaida the Islamic State all will find sanctuary there. The atrocities are already terrible. This was a mistake and we should acknowledge it. And therefore - and then we should take actions based on that assessment.  That is retired General David Petraeus former commander of U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you.  