 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  As NPR's Mike Shuster reports the U.S. and South Korea have been slow to respond to the North Korean attack in part because of pressure from China.  But when word leaked out that the U.S. was prepared to send the aircraft carrier George Washington into the Yellow Sea west of the Korean peninsula - and by the way and not too far from China - the issue got more complicated says Dan Sneider a Korea specialist at the Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University.  It was almost a propaganda campaign in China. There was - multiple articles in Chinese media. They made it quite public and they laid it out in some detail what their objections were. So it was a little bit unusual the way the Chinese intervened on this.  It might have better for the U.S. to have acted quickly rather than taken so much time says Evans Revere an expert on Korea formerly with the State Department and now with the Albright Stonebridge consulting group in Washington.  It is become so politically charged an issue when it comes to the Chinese I do not know that it would have been as charged an issue if the exercise had taken place back in April and May.  Major General John Macdonald the Pentagon's assistant chief of staff for operations insists there are benefits for conducting maneuvers east of Korea.  By doing it where we are doing it we are getting the most training value out of the East Sea. It has strike training that we need to have on some of the ranges that are on the East Coast. It has a capability that we are going to exercise very thoroughly on that side.  In the effort to block the maneuvers nearer the Chinese coast one military leader in Beijing was quoted as warning that the Yellow Sea has been a preferred path a gateway for invaders of China in past centuries - a statement that puzzled Evans Revere.  I think it was very unfortunate for statements like that to be made. But the fact is and the fact remains that the exercise is clearly directed at North Korea - not to China.  Meanwhile North Korea has been uncharacteristically quiet in recent weeks and let China do most of the objecting points out Dan Sneider.  I think the North Koreans must be ecstatic. I mean to have the Chinese come essentially to their defense and to turn what was the issue of North Korean aggressiveness into an issue of the provocative behavior of the United States and its ally South Korea - that is great for North Korea. That is a propaganda bonus.  Mike Shuster NPR News. 