 The drivers of London's iconic black taxicabs are worried they will be driven out of business. The same concern is rattling cabbies across Europe. And today drivers in several capital cities took to the streets in protest. The threat is one that is familiar to some American cabbies - car services like Uber that let you book a ride with your cell phone. NPR's Ari Shapiro reports.  One of the hardest tests a Londoner will ever take is called simply the knowledge. To pass you need a roadmap of London in your head. Nobody gets to drive a black taxi without the knowledge.  I mean to me personally it took me two years. I mean other drivers it takes three or four years depends how hard you work at it.  Cab driver Eddie Tresida is disturbed that after all his work an Uber driver with GPS can sweep in and undercut his business.  If you want to be a taxi driver then do the same as what I have done. It is hard for two years you know you go without things and you have to sacrifice things in your life. But if you want to be a taxi driver this is the best taxi service in the world then that is what you have to do.  Uber now operates in 20 European cities. It is doubling in size every six months according to Pierre-Dimitri Gore-Coty. He is Uber's general manager for Western and Northern Europe.  We have opened Frankfurt last week. We have opened Lille in France which is our third city this week. We have opened Barcelona a couple of weeks ago and there is many more cities to go.  He argues that his company is simply responding to consumer demand. Unlike with many taxis Uber passengers can pay by credit card order a ride by cell phone and rate their drivers.  And so finally seeing some sort of competition coming to the market is something that is new. And even on the protest today what I am seeing is taxis are trying to bring cities to a standstill while on the opposite Uber is focused to kind of help as many people as possible move around cities.   The protests began in the early afternoon in major cities all across Europe. In France they called it operation escargot. Taxi drivers inched along at a snail's pace refusing to take passengers. In Germany 64-year-old Barbara Novak joined other cabbies at Berlin's central station for their slow-drive protest across the city.   These apps do not offer proper decent quality transportation she says. Climb it is one of those and you might as well say mug me. In Madrid cabbies complained that they paid a fortune for a taxi license only to be undercut by Uber drivers. Maria Eugenia Hernaz is 37 years old.  After three years I bought my own license -137000 euros. It is more than my house. So I need work and I have to work 16 hours per day to do it.  Many cabdrivers argue that Uber should be forced to follow the same licensing and fare rules as taxis. Uber believes those rules should not apply because the company says Uber is more like a car hire service. Ben Edelman of Harvard Business School says new innovations replace old companies all the time but he says Uber is taking some important shortcuts.  If there is a medallion to be purchased they are not purchasing it. If there is commercial driver's insurance to be purchased again nope they are not doing that either. Getting a commercial driver's license - you got it no.  In London the High Court has agreed to rule on the matter. Ari Shapiro NPR News London.  This is NPR News. 