 Awalem Khafeya or Hidden Worlds was one of the most popular shows in the Middle East this year.   .  .  It is a drama which drew viewers in the evening during Ramadan. It is mass entertainment with soap opera-like plots. But the Mideast has its equivalent of indie filmmakers as well. NPR's Justin Richmond met them at the University of Southern California where they have come to learn.  Hisham Fageeh from Saudi Arabia became famous on YouTube five years ago for creating the caricature of a conservative Saudi man. His most popular video was a parody of Bob Marley's No Woman No Cry called No Woman No Drive.    Remember when you used to sit in the family car but back seat.  It was inspired by protests that eventually led to the government allowing women to drive just this year. Fageeh jokes that his YouTube success put him at the top of his game in Saudi Arabia.  It became like OK well now I am an expert. So I - there are two things - I cannot experiment and I know everything .  Of course he knows it is not true. So he is at USC in Los Angeles for something called the Middle Eastern TV Initiative. It is a State Department-sponsored program bringing together writers from the Emirates Saudi Arabia Egypt and Lebanon. They are learning how TV is produced in Hollywood. Today a group of them are in a classroom workshopping a potential time travel sci-fi show called Repent. Saudi writer Maram Taibah's got some suggestions.  It could start with him on a chair and there is a spotlight.  Yes.  Everything is dark.  That is exactly it but that is...  And then it - and then the spotlight turns off and you - and he starts talking. And you can see some text being recorded in the back.  Yeah yeah. That is cool. I like that.  A writer's room like this is common in Hollywood but it is a new experience for Mohammed Adeeb of Egypt. He is the writer who created Repent.  I really hated the show. But you saw by the end I was like really focused on it because they found a way to like fix it I guess.  Network executives show producers and writers are all stopping by. Today it was the showrunner for the HBO show Insecure Prentice Penny. First he wants to know how it works in the Middle East.  So how do you get found?  Hisham Fageeh tells Penny how he became a YouTube star but that it is tough to be ambitious because not many people know how to make a quality production.  So if you are like driven and you are trying to do something that is like premium standard you have - there is like maybe - what? - 20 people in the whole region that like could do something like that.  But Prentice Penny says he can use those small numbers to his advantage.  When you are a big crew it is like oh man we - and to move from this location that is - this is going to take three hours. But if it is just like - if we are running and gunning I could shoot more faster because I am smaller.  That is production. When it comes to content it is a little tougher. Here's a premise for Insecure Penny suggests to the group.  Like there was a episode last year where the Lawrence character finds himself in a threesome.  That is clearly not getting on TV in Saudi Arabia where the country just opened its first movie theater after a three-decade ban. But these Middle Eastern indie writers and producers are hoping their projects get picked up by places other than state-run TV streaming services like Netflix Amazon Prime or the Middle Eastern Icflix. Justin Richmond NPR News. 