 What a difference a couple of months can make. In April the Trump administration imposed sanctions on people close to Russian President Vladimir Putin to penalize them for Russia's interference in the U.S. elections. Now President Trump is getting ready for a summit with Putin later this month. And this week eight members of Congress are in Moscow. NPR's Lucian Kim caught up with them at the U.S. Embassy's Fourth of July party.  Spaso House is a U.S. ambassador's residence in Moscow an island of Americana just a mile from the Kremlin. At the annual Independence Day celebration the Marine guard presented colors.  Present colors.  And embassy staff sang along to the national anthem.   Can you see by the dawn's early light...  Standing in the front row was Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama the head of the first congressional delegation to Russia since the annexation of Crimea four years ago.  We did not come here to say what you have been doing is great and we are going to look the other way. We came here to talk candidly and honestly. The Russians can earn a better relationship with the U.S. if they want to.  The trip by the seven senators and one House member - all Republicans - was planned before the announcement of the summit between Presidents Trump and Putin in the Finnish capital Helsinki later this month. But the visit itself is one of the first signs of a thaw after tightening economic sanctions on Russia tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions and a freeze in day-to-day contacts between the two governments. Russia's military intervention in Ukraine put relations on a downward curve and U.S. accusation that the Kremlin tried to influence the 2016 election sent them into a tailspin despite Trump's sympathy for Putin. The senators say they brought up election interference in every meeting they have held with Russian officials.  We made the point that if Russia persists in trying to influence our elections it is going to be very difficult if not impossible for us to establish a better relationship.  That is Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana. He says other issues that came up were Russia's military involvement in Ukraine and in Syria as well as arms control. His colleague from Kansas Senator Jerry Moran says it is better for the whole world to have two nuclear powers at least speaking to each other.  Having a conversation does not diminish the toughness of the differences and our stance in regard to Russia and their behavior. But how can you communicate and deliver that toughness if you do not demonstrate a willingness to have a conversation about those things?  Considering how acrimonious the political conversation is back home I asked Senator Shelby why he did not include any Democrats on this trip. He answered that not all delegations are bipartisan. What is happening now is a first step in the right direction with Russia.  Can we bring about a new day a new tone? Could we find areas of cooperation? It will be set I believe by our two presidents.  Shelby said he met Trump last week and will report back to him when he returns to Washington. Lucian Kim NPR News Moscow. 