 The conflict is remote but the numbers are eye-popping. A week of ethnic violence in Northeastern India has left more than 40 people dead and around 200000 people have fled their homes. Indian security forces sent to the area in the state of Assam near India's border with Bangladesh have had little success in ending the fighting. The conflict between the indigenous Bodo community and Muslim settlers is only the latest outbreak of violence in a long troubled region. For an update on the riots we are joined now by reporter Elliot Hannon in Mumbai. Elliot good afternoon.  Good afternoon Robert.  Now accounts from the area make this sound like a sudden explosion of violence with people being attacked and homes and villages burned to the ground. How did all this start?  Well you know it is a little hard to tell exactly who did what to start it but it all began over the weekend this last weekend. Bodo youths were killed by Muslim settlers - or what they thought were Muslim settlers in the region - and they went back and retaliated and killed several members of the Muslim community. And that really exploded into what you are seeing now. Bodies have been found with machete wounds on roadsides and riverbanks. There is been widespread violence in the area where schools and vehicles have been burned. Homes have been burned overnight even though the security forces are there and trying to stop it and it is really - you know it is caught everyone by surprise. I think it is escalated very quickly into what is really been the worst bit of violence between these two communities in over a decade there.  But when we hear that 200000 people have left their homes where are they?  You know that is a good question. The government has set up relief camps in neighboring districts. Some of the violence has actually spread into neighboring areas where there have been reports of bands of groups with spears and guns that have been roaming the streets. So these people have left their homes - 200000 of them - to try to get to safety. The government has I think struggled to keep up just with the numbers. So far I think there are some 30 or 40 relief camps that have been set up. They struggle to get supplies water and food to make sure these people are safe and then can hopefully return home soon.  How would you describe the government's response to this violence up in the northeast?  The government has sent 6000 security forces to try to subdue you know the riots. They have done an OK job of late. I think it is taken them a while to fully gain the confidence of people. Some of the refugees are still afraid to come back. The security forces have tried to restore confidence by marching through the streets in a show of power and order that it is safe for them to come back. They have imposed a curfew which they have struggled to maintain throughout. There have been reports of houses being lit on fire overnight and so the government is now sending more troops to try to stabilize it but I think they have struggled to do so actually.  Elliot Hannon reporter in Mumbai thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you Robert.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  