 Ten thousand Marines are now assembled along the Helmand River valley in southern Afghanistan. They are gearing up for a major operation to take back the area from Taliban control. And joining us now is NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. Tom you are just recently back from this area from Camp Leatherneck that is the Marine base in Helmand Province. What can you tell us about what is going on there?  Well Melissa this is really the stronghold of the Taliban in Helmand Province. It is a string of small cities villages that stretch along the Helmand River valley. And it is mostly an agricultural area and that is part of the problem. It is also a source of the lifeblood for the Taliban the poppy crop there that they turn into heroin and that gives them hundreds of millions of dollars to mount their operations. So it is a crucial area and it is one that largely is not under Afghan government control. And right now you have the largest concentration of U.S. troops ever in Afghanistan in this area 10000 Marines and they have been there a little over a month. They have been training now and at this point they are getting ready for combat operations.  This part of Afghanistan Tom we should make clear the Helmand River valley different from the area that we do here more about the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan.  Yeah right. This is in southern Afghanistan hundreds of miles from the Pakistan border not mountainous at all desert and some river valleys along this area.  This buildup of Marines that you are talking about Tom getting ready as you said for combat operations how does this fit in with the Obama administration's strategy for the war in Afghanistan?  Well it is part of the new strategy. And it is not just numbers it is also the way they fight. When they had too few troops here they could mount operations against the Taliban and then just pull back. What they can do now with these additional forces is what is called clear hold and build. We heard those words in Iraq. And they are going to do that here. So they will be able to go into an area clear it of Taliban and then they plan on holding this. So when the Marines go into action they will take the ground and then they will set up small combat outposts live among the population. The harder part is going to come later in the coming weeks and months when they have to rebuild part of this area come up with better governance and create competent Afghan forces that are not corrupt. That will take years.  And any number of complications too in the short term Tom let us talk about some of the possible pitfalls here. How for example would the Marines be trying to avoid civilian casualties?  Well that is a serious concern. Civilian casualties in Afghanistan had risen a great deal particularly over the past year mostly due to Marines and soldiers calling in air strikes. When I was there there was a serious incident involving civilian casualties anywhere from 35 to 140 civilians killed when air strikes were called in. And the commander of the Marines Brigadier General Larry Nicholson he is made that point very clear to his Marines listen we do not want you call in air strikes. Sometimes you may have to but what we would rather have you do is surround a house or a building that has Taliban in it and just wait them out rather than as he says drop the house and potentially kill innocents.  And if U.S. military action is coming soon as you describe it what would Afghan troop involvement be?  Well they do not have enough Afghan troops and that is been the problem from the get-go. Part of the additional U.S. forces that are going there will be training the Afghan police and army. Right now for the operations that we expect they will have about 600 to 800 Afghan troops and again 10000 Marines up to 800 Afghan soldiers. And the concern here is when you go into some of these villages and cities they do not want to have a Marine face there an American face they want to have an Afghan face but the problem is right now they just do not have the numbers.  That is NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. He is just back from spending several weeks with the Marines in Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan. Tom thanks very much.  You are welcome. 