 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  NPR's Sylvia Poggioli is in Oslo and she reports on the day's events.  Reporters and locals thronged outside the Oslo courthouse. After a 35-minute hearing Judge Kim Heger addressed the media and through a translator outlined some statements Breivik made to authorities.   According to what the court understands the accused believes that he needed to carry out these acts in order to save Norway and Western Europe from among other things cultural Marxism and Muslim takeover.  Judge Heger said the aim of Breivik's violent attacks was to inflict as much harm as possible on Norway's ruling Labour Party which the suspect accuses of betraying the nation. Quoting Breivik the judge said the purpose of the operation was not to kill as many people as possible.   But to give a strong signal that cannot be misunderstand that as long a Labour Party keeps driving its ideological line and keeps deconstructing Norwegian culture and mass importing Muslims then they must assume responsibility for this treason. And any person with a conscience cannot allow its country to be colonized by Muslims.  One man who was there was Iranian-born Ali Esbati a long-time resident of Norway. A human rights activist Esbati had been invited to the youth camp to talk about the rise of right wing politics in Europe. He said all of sudden there was panic everyone running when he saw a young woman lying on the ground shot in the mouth arm and perhaps her neck.  And that was one of the most disturbing things I experienced because she kept repeating that if I die now just remember you are all fantastic. And this was a girl of 18 or 19 years old and she was repeating that I can see in your eyes that you are afraid so I know I will die.  Esbati says he does not know what happened to her. The shots got closer as he ran to the edge of the lake.  Just at that moment when I was standing close to the water then I saw the guy. He showed up just 15 meters from me like up on a rock. And he had a large rifle and he shouted something  It is the police or its okay. So he tried to you know soothe the people and make them come to him. But he started shooting immediately yes.  At the cathedral Lutheran pastor Jan Christian Nelson assessed the national mood and tried to look forward.  I think many are afraid now. But I think that also this makes us more conscious about the importance of talking against extreme opinions and be more aware about how things we say can be used to terrible actions.   Sylvia Poggioli NPR News Oslo. 