 Who attacked a major oil facility in Saudi Arabia over the weekend? Well the U.S. has pointed to Iran. Officials have released satellite images showing over a dozen impacts from missiles or drones and the damage caused. We are going to hear more about what that means to the oil industry in a moment. But first let us pick apart what is known about the attack itself. We are joined by NPR's Geoff Brumfiel in the studio. Welcome.  Thank you.  Let us start with what was hit. What exactly is this facility? What do we know about what it does?  This facility is known as Abqaiq and it really is the linchpin of the Saudi oil production sort of process. It does a lot of things. It is a massive sprawling site but one of the really big things is it separates the oil from explosive gases - flammable gases that come up out of the ground with it. It is been targeted before. In 2006 suicide bombers tried to strike the site and they failed.  Now Houthi rebels in Yemen have claimed responsibility for the attack. Given what is known about this rebel group could they have done this?  Right. This is a rebel group in Yemen that is been at war with the Saudi coalition for years. And we have reported that they have used technology in the past to attack sites in Saudi Arabia - specifically they have used some pretty primitive drones with a propeller at the back and an explosive at the front and a GPS to guide it. They have been able to hit airports and some other sites inside Saudi Arabia. But there is reason to believe the Houthis may not have been behind this latest attack. There is a couple of things to keep in mind. First is just the distance. Abqaiq - it is a long way from Yemen. And it seems unlikely that a lot of the Houthi weapons we know about could not go that far. Second is just the sophistication of the attack. At least 17 missiles and drones appear to have been used and it looks like they were targeting very specific things like tanks to hold flammable gas and these separation towers. They are the most valuable part of this very large facility. All this implies a level of sophistication we have not seen before from the Houthis.  So what does that mean? Where else could this technology have come from?  Well there is a couple of options. One is that there could have been some sort of launch from Iraq. There are Iranian proxy groups working in Iraq. It should be noted that Iraqi officials categorically deny this and the U.S. has not you know sort of contradicted them. Another possibility is boats out in the Persian Gulf. But the U.S. has a lot of sensors over the Gulf right now. It seems unlikely that such a large attack could have come from there which leaves Iran itself. And at this point we should say that Iran says any implication it is involved at all is maximum lies.  Meantime if you look back at Iran's past would this be a departure from other actions that they have taken?  I mean this is way bigger than the sorts of things that they have done in the past. I spoke to Ariane Tabatabai at the RAND Corporation and here's what she had to say.  If it is traced back to Iran and if the attack was indeed launched from Iranian territory then I think this is a big deal.  Tabatabai says you know usually Iran does much smaller attacks. It works through proxies. But in this case given the scale even if it were a proxy she thinks Iran would have had to have been involved. The highest levels of the Iranian government would have had to have sign off.  What I am hearing from you Geoff is that there is a lot of evidence that is pointing back to Iran and that means either in the form of proxies or the nation itself. And people around the world are looking at this as provocative. So the experts you spoke to - are they sure that Iran is involved?  That is a really good question. You know I mean there is no smoking gun. We all remember the Gulf War and the runup to that. We just do not have sort of solid evidence but it is hard to see how Iran could not have played some sort of role in this attack.  That is NPR's Geoff Brumfiel. Geoff thanks so much.  Thank you. 