 More now on that defection of a Syrian general. Not just any general but Brigadier General Manaf Tlass. He is the son of a former Syrian defense minister Mustafa Tlass. It is a Sunni Muslim family and one that is close to the ruling Assad family. How important is this? Well we are going to ask Professor Joshua Landis who is a Syria expert who directs the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma. He is joining us from Norman. Welcome back to the program.  Good to be with you Robert.  What does it say here that Brigadier General Manaf Tlass has defected?  It is very important. The Tlass family is a keystone of the Sunni Alawite alliance that is been the bedrock of this regime for 40 years. The fact that they have bailed out says that this regime is falling apart and the essential alliances are falling apart. Increasingly this struggle is becoming one of sectarian communities the Alawites against the Sunnis. In the beginning this was - it seemed like - angry young men from the countryside. The Sunnis were low class. They had rural districts. They had nothing to lose. For a long time everybody has been saying where is the Sunni elite? How come they are not defecting? Well here is you know Mr. Sunni elite defecting.  Now there is a declaration of defection that is posted on your website. You say it is impossible to verify but it looks reasonable. And in it Tlass says I call for all my comrades in the armed forces whatever their rank who are dragged into this fight against their fellow Syrians and against their own ideas to stop supporting this regime. Would you expect others to follow him?  I do. I think that you know this sends a signal that Bashar al-Assad does not have the confidence of his top generals. The place is falling apart. Everybody's going to begin looking for the exit. The problem is that Manaf Tlass is a man of great wealth. His family has got power. He can take a golden parachute and land in Paris. He is fine. Most generals in the Syrian army do not have much money. They do not have bodyguards. They do not have a way out. They cannot get their families out and Manaf is able to get his wife out. His brother and father got out before him. His sister is out. His son we believe was at AUB the American University in Beirut. He has been able to really manage this exit very gracefully.  Manaf Tlass also wrote in that declaration of defection I was - I am quoting from the translation - progressively dismissed from my place of duty in the armed forces. That suggests that his misgivings about what the regime was doing were known to his superiors and it implies that there is at least some kind of debate that is been going on among senior officers does not it?  It does. And friends who have recently been with him in Damascus had dinner with him say he that he was very bitter. He had been given the task of trying to bring Harasta and Duma two neighborhoods of Damascus in the suburbs that had led this revolutionary process to heal. And he had gone out to the opposition. He talked with them. He got them to back off but he also negotiated this and agreed that the regime would back off. The regime center said we are not going to do it this way. They came down like a ton of bricks breaking heads and we have seen the violence that is ensued. And in a sense the people like Tlass who were looking for a softer landing for the regime got pushed aside. And he was sidelined. That is the word and that is certainly the word he is putting out and bitter about it.  Professor Landis would Manaf Tlass strike Syrian opposition forces as either a possible leader of their cause or a transitional leader or is he too deeply associated with the old regime to be a credible leader of a new one?  You know the opposition I am sure are all celebrating. This is an important crack in the regime but there is going to be tons of bitterness against him. This family has been an architect of this regime. They are not going to embrace him. There are others. Vice President Abdul Halim Khaddam who defected in 2005 and joined the Muslim Brotherhood. That fell apart. And there is Rifaat al-Assad the uncle of the present president of Syria who is also in Paris but none of them have been embraced by the opposition. In fact they have been forbidden to come to opposition meetings so I think the Tlass family although people will be very happy to see the regime crumbling they are going to have a very hard time ingratiating themselves with the opposition.  Professor Landis thanks for talking with us once again.  Well it is my pleasure. Thank you.  Joshua Landis who directs the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma. 