 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. This evening Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was defiant. I have a message for those who attack us he said. They shall not destroy our democracy and our commitment to a better world. We are a proud nation and no one can bomb us into silence. The prime minister's message came after two bloody attacks in Norway today. In the center of Oslo a bomb damaged the government building that houses the prime minister's office. At least seven people died in the blast and several others were injured. Meanwhile in an incident that Norwegian police say was connected to the bombing a gunman dressed as a policeman opened fire at an island summer camp. The camp was run by the Norwegian Labour Party the party of the prime minister. At least 10 individuals are confirmed dead there. Hallvard Sandberg is a reporter with the Norwegian Broadcasting Company. He is been reporting all day on this story. And Mr. Sandberg first the idea that these two attacks were connected what do the police mean when they say that? Mr.  They say that obviously when the two violent attacks against political targets happened almost simultaneously in Norway they in a way they seem connected. And also these gunman this person that was shooting people in this youth camp he has also been observed in connection with the bomb in Oslo. But that is the only clue we have that these things are connected that the police say they are connected.  That man the man who is believed to have been the gunman on the island at the summer camp he is in custody. What is known about him? Mr.  What the police has told about the gunman is that he is a 32-year-old blond Norwegian citizen a guy that have been born in Norway and lived all his life in Norway from a nice neighborhood in the western part of the capital. And he is at this time being questioned by the police and he is open and talking about the things that he has done.  Do the police in Norway seem to think that this one man was responsible alone both for the bombing and for the shootings at the summer camp? Mr.  They still keep it open that he has that kind of support group or there were other people involved in this. They keep it open. But it seems more and more likely that this was the act of one strange individual.  With no motive evident to anyone so far you are saying? Mr.  Well there is always a motive for what you do and they are -almost everyone is talking about ultra right groups like Neo-Nazi groups. And the attack to the Labour Party the Socialist is a - maybe that is the target for them.  I just want - I want to ask you about - one part of all this today which was first there was the explosion in Oslo. And then as I understand it the teenagers at the summer camp on the island suddenly saw this man dressed as a police officer who told them he wanted to talk with them about the explosion. Is that what you have heard? Mr.  Yes that is what we heard. That is what the witnesses have said. They also said that about one hour after the explosion he showed up and said that he had the information about this attack in Oslo. They gathered around him. He started to shoot. And then he had tried to get people to come back afterwards. And then he has supposed to have gone around on the island and hunting for people. And we do not know yet how many people are killed. The police is saying now at the press conference that they expect the number of casualties to increase.  Well Mr. Sandberg thank you very much for talking with us today. Mr.  Okay.  That is Hallvard Sandberg reporter for the Norwegian Broadcasting Company speaking to us from Oslo. 