 As NPR's Peter Kenyon reports from Istanbul Israel is trying to find its place in the new order that came as a result of the Arab Spring. And relations with Turkey and Egypt once key allies are now severely strained.  With Israel reeling from the expulsion of its ambassador to Turkey and the emergency evacuation of its diplomatic staff in the face of a mob assault on its embassy in Cairo the Turkish leader is moving quickly to take advantage of surging anti-Israel popular sentiment. In one interview last week Erdogan called Israel's attack on a Gaza aid ship last year a cause for war and in another he was scornful of Israel's behavior on the world stage.   Up until now Israel has played the role of a spoiled child in the face of all of the decisions taken against it by the United Nations. And no doubt they thought this behavior could continue.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's subdued response to the Egyptian crisis was seen by some as a sign that Israel recognized that hard-line rhetoric would not be helpful at this moment. By contrast says Hurriyet Daily News columnist Barcin Yinanc Erdogan seems intent on underscoring Israel's unpopularity at the start of his north Africa tour.  The fact that there will be thousands of Arabs in the streets will boost the confidence of the Turkish prime minister. It will also serve as a message to Israel that it is being further isolated.  Bulent Kenes is editor in chief of Today's Zaman Turkey's largest English language daily. He says it took the Muslim world a long time to launch the kind of political awakening that spread across Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But he says as slow as these countries including Turkey were to change Israel has been even slower to recognize that change.  Today Israel is giving the impression that it is resisting against the flow of the history.  Kenes says regarding Turkey but especially when it comes to Egypt Israel would do well to adjust its thinking and its tactics. But he is not sure that is possible under the current Israeli government.  There is no way other than accepting the rising expectations of the Egyptian people. I hope Israeli people could manage to establish a new government otherwise this tension will not reduce.  Meanwhile says Turkish columnist Barcin Yinanc Turkey will continue to cement ties with the emerging regimes in North Africa in the process spreading its example of a governing party inspired by Islam that tolerates other religious beliefs and a secular population.  Although in Turkey sometimes we do not like to use this reference as Turkey as a model we are in the world one of the few democracies with a majority Muslim population. And at times culture matters.  Peter Kenyon NPR News Istanbul. 