 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. There has been a development in China's most serious political scandal in decades. The wife of a disgraced politician has been charged with the murder of a British businessman. It is all part of the story of the downfall of the populist leader Bo Xilai and his family. And as NPR's Louisa Lim reports the charge comes at a sensitive time for the Chinese leadership.  Bogu Kailai and Zhang Xiaojun have been charged with intentional homicide...  Murder most horrid - that is the charge announced on Chinese state TV against the wife of a disgraced politician caught up in a lurid scandal. Along with an aide she is been indicted for poisoning a British businessman Neil Heywood with whom she had business links. Today's announcement gives them motive. It says she was worried about threats to her son's safety from Heywood. The timing is no coincidence according to Cheng Li from the Brookings Institution.  This announcement occurred one day before the opening ceremony of Olympics. Now this certainly can reduce the coverage on the international front particularly Neil Heywood who was a British man. So the London Olympics certainly will distract international attention.  Other nations are involved in China's scandal too. There is a French witness Patrick Devillers a former business associate of Gu's. Then there was the time spent in the U.S. consulate by Bo Xilai's former police chief bearing evidence possibly of the murder. No date has yet been given for the trial. The verdict is hardly in doubt. As today's report put it the evidence is irrefutable and substantial. Kerry Brown a China analyst at Chatham House think tank says it hardly matters.  The relationship between public opinion and what the elite do is pretty loose and in a way you know the party can still write its own script about these things.  Some see other signs in today's announcement. Journalist Han Pingzao who is based in Chongqing notes on telling omission. There is no mention at all of the disgraced politician Bo Xilai who had been Communist Party secretary of Chongqing.   From the fact that his name was not mentioned you can conclude he had nothing to do with this murder. I expect this will be dealt with internally by the party. I do not think he will face criminal charges.  Others are less convinced saying it is too early to tell.    Bo Xilai was last seen in public in March at the national legislature angrily accusing people of smearing his reputation. The scandal has been destabilizing for China's leadership coming just ahead of a once-in-a-decade power transition this fall. But Kerry Brown says publically at least they are presenting a unified front.  There is not been any very visible disunity. They may be absolutely at each other's throats but - because of this Bo's fall. But you know publically it is all been pretty you know united. So in that sense it is taken a big big stress test.  This could be case of China's leaders pulling together at a time of internal crisis rather than a true alignment of views. But facing an uncomfortably public murder trial and with Bo's fate still to be announced more stress tests lie ahead for China's leaders. Louisa Lim NPR News Beijing. 