 Europe is reacting to yesterday's historic referendum in Greece. Greeks overwhelmingly voted down the latest terms for a bailout by their European creditors but many Greeks who rejected the offer are eager to see a new deal they like better.  That will be a tall order if the no vote drives the two sides even farther apart. In a moment we will hear from a member of the European leadership on that.  But first to Athens - that is where Greece's combative finance minister resigned early this morning as a concession to EU negotiators. And it is where Greeks are attempting to go about their business as NPR's Chris Arnold reports.  A loud no - or ohi in Greek - echoed around Europe last night and Athenians celebrated around their city. But today people were trying to get back to a regular Monday morning - only it is not a regular Monday. The doors to the banks are still shut here and many locals are still too nervous to go out and buy much of anything including meats.  We are at the meat market. It is very loud every day.  And that guy has a very large knife that he is chopping meat up with.  Yeah.  My interpreter Alexandra Dialyna and I are walking past sides of lamb hanging on hooks. It is loud here but the merchants calling out to sell their lamb and beef and pork far outnumber the shoppers. Back behind one of the meat counters business owner Tsironis Cleanthis is having a snack of fresh cherries. He owns his family business here and he voted yes.  .  A lot of people last night were celebrating but he does not understand why because again today the market is very slow and people do not come here as they used to.  Cleanthis says basically the referendum did not accomplish anything. It just scared people angered European leaders and forced the banks to close before panicked people in Greece pulled out all of their money. Now he says he is got his family's life savings - half a million euros - locked inside of a Greek bank with a lot of questions hanging in the air.  .  He has children who are doing their studies so he is worried.  Oh to be able to pay for school.  Yes.  But many savers were a bit reassured this morning when Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said the no vote is not a mandate to break with Europe's single currency the euro. And of course unlike Cleanthis most people voted no and they are proud of that.  .  He says that from today Greece has written a new course in history.  At a fish market up the street Spirou Christos is selling gleaming pink squid and octopus that are laid out on a bed of ice. He says he has about 30000 euros in the bank. But he says even when the bank reopens he is not pulling out his money.  .  No never - he would never do that.  .  He would never put his money outside of Greece because our country needs those type of money. And if everyone did that then Greece would collapse.  At the meat and fish market some merchants can at least do some business in cash but others are not so lucky.  .  We cannot do our job and the market has frozen.  Maria Aggelepoulos runs a wholesale sewing and fabric supply store. She imports big boxes of German-made sewing needles for resale for example. And all of her business she says is done in checks - not cash. And she says right now she cannot deposit any of those checks in her bank.  .  No banks are closed for everything.  Meanwhile even with people in Greece limited to just pulling out 60 euros a day from the ATMs the Greek banks are thought to be almost out of money. In fact some are out of 20-euro bills and people are only getting a single 50-euro bill. Others are just completely empty for the moment. So with the country's banks on the verge of collapse Greece is clearly desperate for more emergency assistance from Europe. Chris Arnold NPR News Athens. 