 All right how to explain the two very different approaches the U.S. is taking towards two rising nuclear powers? There is the tough talk towards Iran which does not yet have a nuclear weapon. Then there is North Korea which does have nuclear weapons. Yesterday when President Trump stepped across the border onto North Korean soil he called it quote a great honor and called his relationship with North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un a great friendship. Richard Haass is president of the Council on Foreign Relations. He joins me now. Hey there.  Good to be with you.  When you look at Iran and North Korea do you see a throughline here an overarching U.S. strategy for dealing with these two countries that from the U.S. point of view would - the U.S. would prefer they did not have nuclear weapons?  I actually do see some consistencies. The rhetoric towards Iran now is extraordinarily hot and two years ago so too was the rhetoric towards North Korea. So one possibility is the president likes to talk tough to then tee up something diplomatic. So I would not rule that out. There may also though be some differences. He obviously was impressed along the way that a war with North Korea would be something horrific. This may be misplaced but I do not believe he necessarily has the same concern about Iran. So he may be willing to press it a little bit harder.  Right. I mean there is the obvious factor that I mentioned that if you go to war with North Korea you are going to war against a nuclear-armed state the same not being true with Iran.  There is that. With North Korea the president up to now has articulated what I think is the totally unrealistic goal of denuclearization. The question is whether he is prepared to settle for less. And that brings us again to the Iran situation. Is this administration prepared to enter into negotiations that would come up with some kind of a limited agreement perhaps extending the terms of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal? And in both cases the nature of the deal would be we will reduce some of the sanctions in place if you give us some although not necessarily all of what we want in the nuclear domain.  You mentioned the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran which of course was negotiated by the Obama administration.  .  And I have wondered is that part of what is at play here - that President Trump is not unhappy about pulling out of a deal brokered by the Obama administration maybe happy to dismantle the foreign policy achievements of his predecessor?  Well I am shocked that you should suggest that but it is obviously quite possible. There is a little bit of a anything but Obama or we cannot offer continuity. Indeed there is a certain irony here that whatever the limitations of the Iran nuclear deal it did keep Iran for the immediate future at zero nuclear weapons and basically very little of what you would need to build one. North Korea is just the opposite. They have dozens of nuclear weapons. So there is a certain oddity that the administration would seem more comfortable with a significant North Korean nuclear capability than it would with an Iran that had no capability.  So let us just game this out in terms of how all this might be playing through the minds of the leaders of North Korea and Iran. If you are sitting in Tehran and you were watching this weekend's meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong Un what message would you take away? We just heard there in Geoff Brumfiel's piece one analyst saying hey it looks like Kim Jong Un's getting the red-carpet treatment. He is getting love letters. Maybe it pays to be a nuclear weapon state.  I expect there are some in Tehran who are reacting exactly the way you suggest. The problem is Iran does not have the equivalent of a China in its corner in the same way that North Korea does.  It does not have a powerful ally looking out for its interests.  Exactly. And it does not also threaten quite the same way though one could argue otherwise the kind of threat that North Korea poses not just to South Korea and Japan but to the 28500 American troops that are in South Korea. So it is not clear that Iran has quite the threat which gives you an element of pushback that North Korea has.  All right what about if you are in North Korea? What lesson would you take from President Trump's rhetoric against Iran and pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal?  Well it obviously gives you some pause. It is not inconceivable that North Korea would want to make sure that any deal was approved by Congress. This administration has embraced unpredictability when it comes to its foes. But from the perspective of its foes that is not necessarily a good thing. So they would want to be sure that what the administration committed to the Congress was behind because again if this president were not to be reelected they would want the confidence that whatever was agreed to would last well into 2021.  Confidence that the U.S. would keep its word with whatever was negotiated going forward.  Exactly right.  Richard Haass - he is president of the Council on Foreign Relations and author of  American Foreign Policy And The Crisis Of The Old Order. Richard Haass thank you.  Thank you. 