 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. In Iraq this week some two million Shiite pilgrims walked from all over the country to the shrine of Imam Moussa Kadhim in Baghdad. Other such pilgrimages in Iraq usually take place in the Shiite strongholds of the south. This one became a test of the security services in Baghdad. NPR's Kelly McEvers reports from the Iraqi capital.  This is one of those parts of Baghdad where high concrete blast walls separate everything from everything else. The walls were built to keep Shiites and Sunnis apart during the civil war in 2006 and 2007.   So we are following the trail of pilgrims into a neighborhood called Adhamiya. There is secret police there are army there are army helicopters flying over there is regular police. This is one of the neighborhoods that was worst off during the sectarian fighting. Worst off because it was a haven for Sunni insurgents. The problem now is that the road through here is the most direct route for Shiite pilgrims from Sadr City to get to the Kadhim shrine. In the past the neighborhood was closed to Shiite pilgrims. Then two years ago a group called the Sons of Iraq joined forces with the American military to combat Sunni insurgents. Since then things have calmed down. Reporter Gasan Agnan says even when the neighborhood reopened to pilgrims it was still considered dangerous for Shiites to walk through a Sunni area. Mr.  They had this feeling that it was not secure enough that maybe someone is going to blow up himself - a suicide. Or maybe a sniper will be here or there. But right now no. See they are more relaxed sleeping on the ground getting more water.  Water from cups from bottles bathtubs. And also fried potatoes yogurt and sugared dates. One of these food stalls is set up in front of a house owned by a Sunni man who is provided a hose and access to his courtyard. Mr.    You could call this a kind of solidarity between Sunnis and Shiites says Abbas Rajafulk Qinani a volunteer from Sadr City who is manning the tent. But he says it is also a way for the Shiites to offer protection to the Sunni man in case the pilgrims get out of hand. Mr.   He is feeling totally safe as long as it is us here and as long as he is opening the front gates for us. So he is feeling totally safe and he is living inside away from us.  After stopping at the tent men women babies in strollers and even elderly people on crutches shuffle toward the two golden domes of the Kadhim shrine. Shiites believe making the trip means their prayers will be answered. On this day more than 1200 years ago Imam Moussa Kadhim is said to have been poisoned by the Sunni caliph. Songs tell how his body was left on a bridge near here that spanned the Tigris River.    During the same pilgrimage back in 2005 nearly a thousand people were killed in a stampede on a newer version of the bridge after rumors spread that a suicide bomber was in the crowd. Pilgrim Riyadh Yusef Jassam says he will happily walk that bridge today. If he gets hurt he says he will receive even more blessings in heaven. Mr.   If something happens as long as for the sake of religion I will be happy. I will be happy because I am doing something for God.  Looking around we see young pilgrims wrapped in white shrouds a message that they are ready to die. We decide it is time to turn back. Later after sundown a suicide bomber killed two dozen pilgrims and wounded scores more. Then other bombs went off around the city. In all 54 Shiite pilgrims died this week and more than 300 were injured. The first most deadly attack happened on the bridge. Kelly McEvers NPR News Baghdad. 