 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  I am Audie Cornish in Washington.  And I am Melissa Block reporting from Brazil all this week. Our focus in this part of the program is the environment specifically deforestation and its impact on a beautiful endangered monkey. We are going to visit Brazil's Atlantic Forest. It is the only place on the planet where the golden lion tamarin lives a tiny red-gold monkey with a leonine mane framing its face.   We have come out in search of the rare tamarin. Deforestation has reduced its habitat to 2 percent of what it once was.  They are very close by us.  I am with Luis Paulo Ferraz. He is head of the Golden Lion Tamarin Association at the Poco das Antas Reserve about 90 miles north of Rio. We are walking through a private farm. The owner has set a patch of forest land aside for conservation. And all of a sudden a flash of orange. Ooh there is one right there.  Yes.  Oh there are four of them up there. So who do we have here?  Oh we have more than four.  More than four.  Look there.  Oh eight. Eight. Oh and they are tiny.  Eight animals in this family.  So we are surrounded by these tiny golden lion tamarins - one two three four five six. I think there are a couple more. They are a beautiful golden copper color with long silky fur and these tiny little faces and long tails hanging down from the branches. This one family of golden lion tamarins is very used to having human visitors. The father wears a radio collar around his neck so biologists can track the group. The monkeys cluster on low curved branches over our heads calling eagerly for the bananas they see that Andreia Martins has brought with her today.   She tells me the mom tamarin is pregnant with twins. I can tell she says I touched her belly.  Look at the belly - big one.   The golden lion tamarin has come back from the brink barely. By the 1970s the total population in the wild had plummeted to just 200. Through captive breeding programs in zoos the tamarin population grew until biologists were able to release tamarins into the wild.   At first the zoo tamarins did not know how to survive. Some were eaten by predators. Some starved. But others managed to reproduce and the later generations have thrived. Now there are 1700 of them living in these patches of forest along the Atlantic Coast. But they need more forest so the tamarin population can grow and to ensure genetic diversity.  In this area here the forest is really in a very difficult situation.  Just imagine what the Atlantic Forest used to be when the Portuguese landed in Brazil in 1500. A massive ecosystem along the coast half a million square miles reaching 300 miles inland in places. Bit by bit it was chopped down to build cities and for timber mining sugarcane.  We have very small forest left and the forest that we have is absolutely fragmented. That is why we have to create the corridors. That is why we have to restore the Atlantic Forest in this region.  You will remember this small bit of Atlantic Forest near Rio is the only place in the world where the golden lion tamarin lives.  They only live here in this lowland forest.  It is their one habitat hot and humid. And these small isolated patches of forest are under assault. Seventy percent of Brazil's human population lives in what was once the Atlantic Forest. Cities are ballooning. Huge oil reserves have been discovered just north of here. And the highway that cuts through here it is being doubled.   Well we are here at the road called BR 101.  This is the only highway from Rio up the coast. We watch road crews working on the expansion - two lanes will become four. Already Luis Paulo says tamarins get killed trying to cross this highway trying to get to another fragment of forest habitat. So when the road is twice as wide big trouble for this endangered monkey.  In this case the right thing to do is to create an artificial connection between both sides of the road.  So the idea here would be to create some sort of tamarin bridge going over a four-lane highway.  Exactly.   Picture a tamarin bridge connecting treetop to treetop stretching some 200 feet across this highway. It would need trees on it for cover so the tiny monkeys are not exposed to bird predators. It cannot be just a rope bridge.  Such a light animal that with the wind and the movement of big trucks that circulate here it is not going to be safe.   A tamarin bridge like the one Luis Paulo is imagining has never been tried before.  The tamarins need to cross over the road and need to have something that makes them feel protected by the trees. Let us move otherwise we are going to be in trouble here.    A few miles away we catch up with workers planting small saplings in a field. Forestry engineer Carlos Alvarenga is in charge of reforestation of the golden lion tamarin reserve. He tells me these trees eventually will be home to a small group of tamarins.   Four five tamarins.  So all this work here today plus much more for four or five tamarins.  Si. Si.  When you think of huge forces working against you here right - big oil big roads huge cities getting bigger all the time and you have got these little saplings that you are putting into the ground maybe a foot and a half high does it ever feel like it is mismatched?   It takes a big effort but you cannot just give up now. I am certain that this work will succeed.  Back at the patch of forest Luis Paulo Ferraz gazes up at the family of golden lion tamarins their glossy orange fur glowing in the sun. He points out that the tamarin's image has become a national symbol. It graces the 20 real banknote chosen by popular vote. And he has another dream.  You know that we have the idea of having the golden lion tamarin as the mascot for the next Olympic Games. The Olympic Games are going to happen in Rio. This is an animal that only exists in Rio not anywhere else in Brazil or in the world. It is golden like the golden medal. It is a history of success involving people from different countries. It is charismatic beautiful so let us see what happens.  Who could turn down that little guy over there?   If that is not a mascot I do not know what is.   Me too.   That is Luis Paulo Ferraz head of the Golden Lion Tamarin Association at Poco das Antas Biological Reserve north of Rio. And Luis Paulo provides us with our Brazilian phrase of the day. We have been highlighting bits of lingo this week words that illuminate popular culture here. And we noticed that Luis Paulo often tosses out a phrase that we have heard all over this week.  Show de bola.  Show de bola. Show that is the word from English S-H-O-W. Show de bola B-O-L-A or ball. So literally show of the ball. We will let Luis Paulo explain.  Show de bola when you have a football match and one team played very well and did their fantastic game. It was a show de bola. It was a kind of ballet or something special. So it became an expression. Ah it was show de bola it was excellent. Our day today it is a beautiful day sunny. We saw the tamarins in the morning. We had a very good lunch. The day today well we can say it was show de bola being with you nice people this is the expression.  Show de bola.  That is our co-host Melissa Block reporting from Brazil. And you can check out a golden lion tamarin and catch up on the rest of her travels  ConsideringBrazil.tumblr.com.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 