 Australia seemed to be one of the big success stories in managing the coronavirus. But there is been an ongoing spike of positive cases in Melbourne and that has led to some serious lockdown restrictions. Today Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that travel in and out of Australia will remain restricted. Elizabeth Kulas is a reporter in Melbourne. She joins us now. Hi Elizabeth.  Thank you for having me Stacey.  So tell us more about why there was this spike in Melbourne compared to other parts of Australia?  Yeah this current spike in Melbourne really can be traced back if not completely at least in large part to the use of a hotel quarantine system that we have had in place since late March for returning travelers - so that is anyone returning to the country spending a mandatory stay of two weeks in a hotel and then there is testing and other conditions before they are released. Sydney and Melbourne - of course main transport hubs - have handled the bulk of those stays. And Victoria the state where Melbourne is located has handled that quarantine setup quite differently to other states. In Melbourne they relied very heavily on the use of private security firms who then subcontracted some of those duties out to other security guards. In other states and territories in the country police and the Defence Force were used more heavily. So it is now understood that the likely outbreak we are currently experiencing was a result of breaches in that hotel quarantine system that same system that was really intended to keep the city safe. And reports are circulating about inadequate use of PPE and inadequate supplies of PPE a lack of training for security staff - things like carpooling happening on the way to work and a lack of social distancing guidelines being met. So we know that that is very likely if not the result of - the source of every case we are experiencing right now the vast majority of them. And we have got a royal commission into the failures of that system currently happening. It is been pushed out as a result of these very increased lockdown conditions we have been under since Monday and we now expect that it will return its findings in early November to understand exactly what is happened.  So Elizabeth walk us through the most recent numbers. And where exactly do they seem to be increasing?  Yeah so most of the current case numbers are coming from - well there is a number of clusters and outbreaks happening. But many of the environments that have been hot spots around the world - so aged care homes for example schools high schools in particular have been the result of some of those outbreaks or the center of some of those outbreaks meat distribution and abattoir centers warehousing distribution centers and high-density living arrangements like public housing complexes as well. And the focus has really been - the latest focus of this lockdown has really been on work environments so where - which work and employment environments is the virus spreading through and that is really informed the lockdown that we have had in place since Monday.  Do we have a sense of like hundreds of cases thousands of cases? What are we looking at?  Yeah look - on average yeah case numbers at the moment are somewhere around 500 a day. We have peaked this week with our highest single-day rise of around 725 cases. But the hope is now of course that we will see a sustained drop in that.  Well I mean that number of cases is definitely more than there were but it seems kind of small compared to what we have been experiencing in the U.S. I guess that is exactly what you are trying to avoid though.  Absolutely. Look - the situation does need to be put in context. I saw some calculations on daily per capita infection rates this week that would put the state of Victoria where Melbourne is around 34th out of the 50 U.S. states. But in the context of the Australian situation we are increasingly isolated at the moment. We cannot travel outside of the metropolitan area let alone into our neighboring states. So you know it really does depend on the context that you put it in. But yeah I guess the idea is really to aim for suppression as much as possible which I know is everybody's goal.  Elizabeth Kulas is a reporter in Melbourne. Thank you so much.  Thank you Stacey. 