 The group that took over the Iraqi city of Mosul last month which calls itself the Islamic State had some help. The Sunni radicals were supported by remnants of Saddam Hussein's old Baathist Party regime and the former military. The groups were united by their hatred of the Shiite dominated Iraqi government but the alliance is fragile. NPR's Leila Fadel reports that some of the Baathists have gone missing.  We reach Abu Wissam by phone in the city of Mosul - the apparent command center of the Islamic State here in Iraq. He asks us to use his nickname to protect himself before he recounts his father's kidnapping this month the month of Ramadan when Muslims fast from sunup to sundown.  .  He says they came on July 3 just as we were about to break our fast. There were seven of them and before I knew it they were in our kitchen. Where is your father they asked me. He is here Abu Wissam responded. Who are you? Why are you carrying guns inside our home? They responded we are the Islamic State.  .  Abu Wissam's father an elderly man and a former general in Saddam's army went with the men. We just have a few questions they said do not worry. But Abu Wissam has not heard from his father since. He thinks they are trying to neutralize influential former officers before the men become a threat to the so-called Islamic State. Baathist and the Islamic State are using each other analyst say for one goal - to take Baghdad and oust the Shia-led government from power. But their ideologies are polar opposite. Baathists are nationalists who believe in a strong man state. They were marginalized following the U.S.-led invasion and formed the original insurgency in Iraq to fight the occupation. But the Islamic State is trying to redraw the Middle East and enforce their brutal interpretation of Islamic law. Abu Wissam is not the only one that is worried.  .  Abu Ahmed meets us in the Kurdish city of Erbil. He fled Mosul last week and his relatives also taken by the Islamic State. He talks about the situation in Mosul.  .  He says the Islamic State is in complete control. Last week a new police force appeared in the streets driving the Ford vehicles once used by the Iraqi police. But the white cars are rebranded with two red stripes and a circular black emblem with white letters declaring Islamic State Islamic police. The men were black long shirts over baggy pants in the style of South Asia. They break writer pipes that people once enjoyed at cafes. They send women home who they deemed are dressed inappropriately. They whip men who break their fast in the street during daylight. And an Islamic court has been formed as well. Meanwhile there are little to no services. He leans over and asks for a cigarette from my colleague and jokes I cannot smoking in Mosul anymore. It is against the law. His relative was also a general in Saddam's army. He says he was taken in the same way and on the same day as Abu Wissam's father.  .  Abu Ahmed says his relative is still alive - not like hundreds of others who have been killed. Shiite Iraqis are automatically slain and journalists have been killed too. I ask why this city does not arise up against the fighters.  .  Because he says they have a more important goal. If they divide and fight each other the Iraqi army will come with a vengeance to kill indiscriminately. So the people of Mosul back the Islamic State despite all the drawbacks because they have a higher target the government led by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and the entire political process.  .  He says the world needs to stop supporting Maliki and then back the Baathists against the much more brutal Islamic State. It is a choice the world might not like but there is an old Arabic proverb - if you face death or a fever you are smart to choose the fever. Leila Fadel NPR News Erbil. 