 It is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. We are going to head to the campaign trail and the Olympics in a moment but first to another developing story we are following out of Egypt today. That country's newly elected president Mohammed Morsi has ousted several top military officials including the powerful defense minister Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi and the army's chief of staff Sami Anan. Morsi has also annulled a constitutional declaration issued by the military that curbed the power of the president. Several military officials have been suspicious of Morsi's intentions. The new president was once a leading figure in the Muslim Brotherhood. NPR's Leila Fadel joins us from Cairo for more. Leila this is potentially explosive. First is there any word on whether the generals or Tantawi have actually accepted their forced resignations?  Well the decision was effective immediately. The retirement was forced upon them and they were honored with medals and they have already been replaced. And the new defense minister and chief of staff were sworn in tonight. So whether or not they have accepted is really beside the point. And also there are reports that actually this was done in coordination with at least part of the military council.  Now when Morsi was elected earlier this year there was a sense that his powers as president would be very limited. How does the canceling of the military's constitutional declaration change those powers?  Well this is actually really quite a historic moment. For the first time you have a civilian leader overturning a military decision. And this allows for Morsi to basically take all the powers of the state in his hands - legislative and executive - and cuts SCAF or the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces out of decision making going forward.  Has there been any reaction outside military circles to the decisions so far Leila?  So far this has actually been quite welcomed. A lot of other political factions and observers have been waiting for Morsi to actually confront the military on this power grab they made right before he was elected as president. This constitutional addendum that Morsi annulled today basically gave SCAF power over all governmental decisions and now he is cut them out. So this is seen as a civilian government asserting his authority over a military that has really tried to keep control despite an election here.  It is a pretty risky move though right? I mean is there any possibility that parts of the military could - I do not know - could rebel against this?  I think it is definitely a risky move on the part of Morsi not only because parts of the military council are likely unhappy about this but also now Morsi is a completely empowered president at a very challenging time in Egypt. So now all the blame and responsibility of the state is on his shoulders. But the military council is not a uniform body and a new defense minister is a member of that same council so it is clear that Morsi made the decision with some of these powerful generals at the same time.  But there is no question it strengthens his hand Morsi's hand.  Yes it definitely does. At this point there is a huge shift in the military-civilian balance in this government. Suddenly this is a civilian-led government for the first time. And the first almost two months of Morsi's presidency he had no power. All the decisions were in the military council's hand. Now all the decisions are in Morsi's hand.  That is NPR Leila Fadel in Cairo. Leila thanks so much.  Thank you for having me. 