 And to talk more about the U.S. offensive in Afghanistan we are joined by the Obama administration's national security advisor retired Marine General James Jones. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much Melissa.  General Jones how would you describe the mission that got underway yesterday? Gen.  This is an operation designed to bring confidence to the people of the region bring a certain level of security. And hopefully that will be followed by economic development and better governance and rule of law and cooperation with the governor of the region.  All of the things you are talking about General Jones would require solid commitment on the Afghan side from both the military and the government. And there has been as you know a lot of skepticism about the Afghan's ability to hold up essentially their end of the deal. How much do you share in that concern? Gen.  Well I do share in that concern. And I also know that the Afghan army and the security forces are not - we do not have the numbers that we hope to have say a year from now but it is also an international responsibility. I think we have 47 countries with us in the region. We have the U.N. we have NATO the EU. And this seems to be that we should be able to put things together in such a way that when we establish security we could very quickly roll in with some economic development and make sure that the people of the region whether it is at the local regional or national government level are led by competent people who are not corrupt and who have their interests at heart.  And when you say we do not have the numbers on the Afghan side how far off are you from where you would want to be? Gen.  Well the size of the Afghan army is about 80000 now and we are going at the rate of about 2000 a month. Our goal was about 136000. They cannot be everywhere at once. And so I think what we need to do is to make sure that they are in those places where they need to be. We simply have to have the people of Afghanistan see their Afghan authorities taking control of their own destiny.  I would like to ask you about that because our producer Graham Smith has reported that the people in this valley where he is right now trust the Afghan police less than they trust the Taliban. How do you overcome that deep suspicion now borne of many years experience of local Afghan government officials? Gen.  Exactly. And that is part of the problem. And that is why we believe there is a - three legs to the stool. The security piece is what we traditionally do very well. But security without economic development and more importantly without the local face of the Afghan police and Afghan military to convince the people that they are not only there but they are going to stay there is really what we need to concentrate on.  General Jones I would like to ask you about troop levels in Afghanistan. You told The Washington Post that your message to commanders there on your recent visit is that troop levels will hold steady and that they need to focus on economic development and governance. And I am wondering how you square that with what seems to be a different message coming from the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen. He told The Washington Post that the commanding general in Afghanistan is advised that he should tell the administration here's what I need. There are no intended limits no preconditions. In his words ask for what you need. How do those two things get reconciled? Gen.  Correct. And I have had a conversation with my good friend Admiral Mullen this morning on that and there really is not any daylight. My message was one to convey that we have a process and we have a strategy. The strategy was formally adopted barely 90 days ago. We are in the middle of ramping up our forces to a total of 68000 which is 21000 more. This was what was asked for. And the president agreed to authorize this. And my message was simply to say that you know before we go back and ask for - fill additional forces - that we should make sure that we see how the strategy is being implemented absent any overwhelming reason that you would have to rush forces into Afghanistan. It seems to me that - and to more importantly to the president that we should get a measure of how we are doing strategically to make sure the entire gamut of the strategy is working. And it certainly was not intended on my part to say that at no time could we ever come back with good reason to make another case. In due time when we see how the strategy is working if we need to adjust it we - you know they certainly can do what they feel they need to do.  General Jones thank you very much for talking with us. Gen.  You are certainly welcome.  That is retired Marine Corp General James Jones. He is the White House national security advisor. 