 A year ago today the deadliest earthquake in decades struck Mexico. It toppled dozens of buildings in the capital and surrounding states. Hundreds of people were killed in collapses thousands were left homeless. Investigators say corruption and negligence contributed to the destruction. As James Fredrick reports from Mexico City victims are still suffering.  .  Before and after the earthquake one thing has remained the same for 60-year-old Guadalupe Padilla Mendoza - her pack of rescue dogs. Last year's quake flattened the building next to Guadalupe's and forced her to leave her damaged apartment. A year later she lives with her 10 dogs in a collection of tents and tarps in the park next to the building she called home.  .  It is not easy living here she says. We are exposed to the elements. It is raining a lot nowadays and my place floods. A year ago nine residents of the Tlalpan housing complex lost their lives when one unit collapsed. All of the 1500 people from this former public housing project lost their homes. The government says it has allocated the money to rebuild but repairs began just a month ago. Living on the street is especially bitter for Guadalupe who spent her entire career as a public servant and now feels abandoned.  .  The government has not given me answers she says even though I am here in the streets literally fighting off rats.  .  So why were these buildings devastated when others seemed untouched? Laura Sanchez Ley is an investigative journalist at the NGO Mexicans Against Corruption and Impunity and was part of a team that investigated 28 collapsed buildings in Mexico City. The report's quick explanation for the destruction...  .  Corruption negligence and impunity she says. Here at the Tlalpan housing complex the buildings fell into disrepair after the government began selling apartments off in the 1980s. In the case of 1C the unit that collapsed...  .  Sanchez says they could only find evidence of a 197000 pesos - just over 10000 - in maintenance to the building over 30 years. Maintenance that had previously been the government's responsibility had fallen to the wayside. At other buildings Sanchez says they found troubling trends.  .  Mexico's construction regulations are supposedly the best in the world she says but we saw that when construction actually happens the regulations are ignored by authorities and developers. Concerned citizens were also ignored.  .  She says in the majority of cases we found that residents had discovered and reported something wrong in their building but authorities refused to act. To add to that no one has been held legally responsible so far for the death and destruction. And the billions of dollars destined for victims and rebuilding has trickled out slowly says Manuel Guadarrama a public finance researcher at the think tank IMCO.  There is a significant delay in getting access to these resources and there are a lot of communities that are still waiting for the help of the government.  Guadalupe is one of them and says she will not leave her tent until she feels she is been made whole.  .  She says I own that apartment. It is the only thing I own. It is the only thing I could leave to my grandchildren. I will defend it whatever the cost. For NPR News I am James Fredrick in Mexico City. 