 Another story now - a United Nations tribunal has given its verdict on a 15-year investigation into who assassinated Lebanon's former prime minister Rafic al-Hariri. As NPR's Ruth Sherlock reports the ruling still leaves a lot of questions.   It was 2005 - chaos cars on fire a giant hole in the road at the Beirut waterfront. This video posted online captures the moments after the explosion that killed Lebanon's former prime minister Rafic al-Hariri and 21 others. The assassination was a turning point in Lebanon's history.   .  Massive popular protests followed. They were in opposition to the presence of Syrian troops in the country who then left.   .  .  .  .  Hariri had opposed Syria's control over Lebanon. Many believe Syria and its ally the Iranian-backed militia Hezbollah were behind his killing. Today more than 15 years on a United Nations tribunal at The Hague in the Netherlands ruled on four defendants tried in absentia.   The trial chamber therefore finds Salim Jamil Ayyash guilty as a co-perpetrator of count one.  The court said the senior member of Hezbollah led the operation to kill Hariri. But it also acquitted three others and said it had no evidence that Hezbollah's leadership or Syria were responsible. So how will this verdict be interpreted in Lebanon where Hezbollah still plays a major military and political role?  In a way this verdict allows everyone to interpret it the way he or she wants.  This is Emile Hokayem a LebaneseMiddle East analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies.  There is enough that Hezbollah can use to demonstrate its innocence. There is enough that critics of Hezbollah can use to allege that Hezbollah was the perpetrator of the assassination. So it is a verdict but it is not a conclusive one.  There have been fears that the trial could reignite sectarian violence in Lebanon. In fact those fears have slowed down the cleanup of the massive explosion at Beirut port two weeks ago. JOHN ASHA Today we did not have enough volunteers to come because everyone was scared.  John Ashaar is one of many Lebanese volunteers helping victims of the explosion that killed 180 people and left thousands homeless. Ultimately he thinks the trial will have little impact. ASHA Nowadays people do not care even if it was a prime minister. I do not care. I lost my friends. I lost my parents' friends.  With their city devastated and their economy in ruins Asha'ar says Lebanese have bigger problems now. Ruth Sherlock NPR News.  