 What are the problems with Italy and what are the Italians doing about it? We are going to ask Roben Farzad a senior writer for Bloomberg Business Week. Welcome back to the program.  Hi Robert. How are you?  And first how would you sum up Italy's economic problems?  But when times are bad i.e. this great global recession of ours suddenly you have a dynamic where the haves and the have-nots are exposed for what they are. And the smaller countries the more peripheral countries turns out that they really borrowed beyond their means.  Italy though is not a small country. It is one of the larger economies in Europe.  Right. But it is also the perennial sick man of Europe. It is a slow growing economy. It is not monolithic. The south tends to be poor. The north is wealthier and more industrious and has the majority of the finance and the capital and whatnot. The problem is when times are good and risk is perceived as being overrated you have the international debt capital markets being very easy with loaning money to countries. And slow growing countries like Italy and Japan if you look at their last 20 years they tend to over-borrow in order to make ends meet. Believe it or not Italy is the third most leveraged country in the planet.  Somehow that became inescapably clear to people who deal in bonds this week. Something happened this week it seems to make people say get rid of Italy's bonds.  And in the same respect we have the dynamic of the PIGS in Europe Portugal Italy Ireland Greece and Spain. And so Greece is clearly out there. Ireland is you know had its issues a bailout and so did Portugal. And now the next frontier is Spain. That would have been unthinkable. And the worst case scenario is this then jumps over to Italy which is the third largest economy in the continent.  Well what are the Italians doing about this and what do their creditors hope they are doing about it?  I mean there is a certain element of inevitability that you know if this all persists if we have another stopgap situation that the euro as it was conceived only a few years ago is not long for this world.  Okay. Thank you Roben.  Thank you.  That is Roben Farzad senior writer for Bloomberg Business Week who spoke to us from New York. 