 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish.  Today Tonight June 4. Oh and big yellow duck. Now if that sounds absurd keep in mind that today June 4 is the anniversary of Tiananmen Square when the Chinese army crushed democracy demonstrations in 1989. One of the most indelible images of that event shows one activist facing off against a line of huge tanks. And here's where that big yellow duck comes in along with our own Frank Langfitt who joins us now from Shanghai. And Frank to start how does the duck connect to all of this?  Here's the story about the duck. The duck is actually something created by a Dutch artist. It is over five stories tall. It is an inflatable duck and it is been in the Hong Kong harbor for at least I do not know maybe six weeks. And people love the duck in Hong Kong and it is got a lot of play here on the mainland. And so what somebody did today is they Photoshopped that famous picture of the man standing down the tank but in this case it is four gigantic rubber ducks in a line. And what they were - obviously what they were trying to do is kind of make fun of the government and maybe kind of draw the government into censorship.  And of course Chinese authorities are blocking a lot of things today on social media. Talk about what they are doing why they are doing it.  Well the reason they are doing is they are not an elected government. And the last time they were really challenged hundreds of people died 24 years ago in Beijing. And this is something that the government still does not feel that it can really talk openly about. It basically calls it a counterrevolutionary riot if I remember correctly. And so the great concern is that if people delve more into it it will erode the power of the government.  But when you talk about this you know anecdote about the duck it seems like a sort of cat-and-mouse game. I mean what are some of the other creative efforts that you have seen that people are using today to try and get around the censors?  Well they have done all kinds of creative things. And I think they are trying to make a point that the government from their perspective is overreacting. I am looking right now at a screenshot of a Lego man standing in front of four green Lego tanks. There is another one where - a Photoshopped photo where there is a cow standing in front of four tractors that are aimed at the cow. So there are a lot of different things that the people have used. Six-four in Chinese they refer to this date as June 4 64. And so people do a lot of plays with those numbers as well to try to get that message out there.  So does this blocking really work? I mean if you are living in China and you get on the Internet today I mean what is it like?  I think it is hard to find a lot of stuff. Most people when they go looking for it it does not last all that long. To give you an example that rubber duck picture China Media Project that focuses on the Internet here - they are out at the University of Hong Kong - they actually reposted that photograph on Weibo China's equivalent of Twitter and it disappeared in 60 seconds. So that is how fast censors are reacting to things here. The other thing is it is important to remember that a lot of people here have some familiarity with what happened 24 years ago but a lot of people are not that clear on it. For instance I will just give you an example. Back in 1997 when I first came to Beijing I met a number of young women - they were in their 20's - and they were chatting with some American men. And the American men said you know we really respected what the Chinese did back in 1989 and that man standing up against those tanks.  What man? What tanks? They had not actually ever seen that image. More people now because the Internet is so big here have seen it. But by and large people are not that familiar with what actually happened.  Frank thank you so much for explaining it.  You are very welcome Audie.  That is NPR's Shanghai correspondent Frank Langfitt talking about the anniversary of Tiananmen Square and efforts by the Chinese government to censor online references to it. 