 The ongoing economic crisis in Spain has sparked a push for frugality especially when it comes to food waste. And one village in northern Spain's Basque region is leading the fight against leftovers. Here's Lauren Frayer with this encore report.   At a restaurant just outside the Spanish city of Bilbao head cook Itziar Eguileor gestures toward a dumpster out back.  .  This all used to go into the garbage she says pointing to huge pot of leftover artichokes.  .  But now these artichokes we pack them in Tupperware load them into our old Land Rover and drive them over to the Solidarity Fridge she says. Deliveries like these arrive several times a day at Spain's first communal refrigerator. It sits on a city sidewalk with a tidy little fence around it. Anyone can deposit food or help themselves. It is the brainchild of Alvaro Saiz who used to run a food bank here for the poor. I contacted him in Mongolia where he is onto his next project - building a hospital for handicapped children.   The idea for a Solidarity Fridge started with the economic crisis these images of people searching dumpsters for food the indignity of it. That is what got me thinking about how much food we waste.  So last April Saiz pitched his idea to the mayor of this town Galdakao - population about 30000. Hola soy Lauren.  Hola. Si.  Encantada. Mayor Ibon Uribe.   When he came to city hall with this idea I thought it was both crazy and brilliant. How could I say no? We approved a small budget right away and granted this fridge a special legal status so that the city cannot be sued if someone gets sick.  There are rules - no raw meat fish or eggs. Homemade food must be labeled and thrown out after four days. But Javier Goikoetxea one of the volunteers who cleans out the fridge says nothing lasts that long.   Restaurants drop off their leftover tapas at night and they are gone by the next morning. We even have grannies who cook specially for this fridge. And after weekend barbecues you will find it stocked with ribs and sausage.  It is a big help to people like Issam Massaoudi an out of work Moroccan immigrant I found poking his head into the fridge.  .  Sincerely it is so nice he says. When money is tight to be able to come here and open this fridge and find really good food - bread tomatoes vegetables meat - it is amazing he says. The idea is catching on. Another Solidarity Fridge has opened in a town on Spain's Mediterranean coast. And schools are starting to do field trips here to teach kids about cutting food waste and sharing. For NPR News I am Lauren Frayer in Galdakao Spain. 