 For the 11th weekend in a row protesters filled the streets of Hong Kong. They marched through pouring rain and in defiance of police orders to continue to demand democratic reforms. In a moment we are going to hear from the former lead American diplomat in Hong Kong about the U.S. response. But first we are going to take a look at the ripples the protests have sent around the world.  Over the weekend in cities from London to Sydney protesters came out in solidarity with the Hong Kong activists. They faced off against counter demonstrations by patriotic mainland Chinese. These dueling protests highlight a clash of values and perceptions between mainly mainlanders and most of the West. NPR's Frank Langfitt reports from London.   .  On Saturday afternoon London's Trafalgar Square felt a little like Tiananmen Square. Hundreds of mainlanders waved red Chinese flags and sang the national anthem. The protesters mostly young said they came to support the Hong Kong police and deplore recent violence by the demonstrators including the beating of a mainland journalist last week at Hong Kong's airport. Jessie  a mainlander works in finance here in London.  There is no way they should beat a guy no matter who is it - right? - no matter what political view he has. That is unacceptable. That is not democracy. That is not even human rights. So I feel like what they are fighting for they are actually ruining it.  Protesters in Hong Kong quickly apologized and staged a massive peaceful protest on Sunday. Mainlanders here said they also oppose the protesters in Hong Kong because they think they want independence from China. Jessie who declined to give her full name for fear of repercussions from Hong Kong protesters is against independence and pointed to a protester here in London waving a Hong Kong British colonial flag and Hong Kong demonstrators who shouted at her.  They are like go back to China - like we are Hong Kong we are not China. That is what they basically told me to my face. To be honest - I mean Hong Kong has been colonized by the U.K. - right? - for a hundred years. I understand that they - their mentality is different than what we think from maybe - from a mainland perspective.  Standing on the other side of the police line in London were people like Eric Chan  who grew up in Hong Kong and works here as an actuary. I asked him... Are you for Hong Kong independence?  No I do not think this is what we are for. What we want is what they have - what China's government has promised to us 22 years ago which is universal free suffrage free election for everyone.  Chan said painting demonstrators as separatists is a red herring adding that mainland protesters here were having it both ways using Western freedoms to promote the agenda of an authoritarian regime the Chinese Communist Party.  You can see the irony here. They enjoy their freedom of speech or freedom of gathering here in London. But how come they do not do anything like that back in Beijing back in Tiananmen Square?  Chan said he thought many mainland protesters were heavily influenced by what they saw on Chinese state media which has shown the violence of the Hong Kong protesters but not the more excessive police violence that preceded and provoked it. Frank Langfitt NPR News London. 