 Turkey has come under criticism for not doing more to stop the flow of migrants but Turkish officials note that their country has taken in more Syrian refugees than any place else - by a lot. NPR's Peter Kenyon joins us from Istanbul. And Peter one place to start is to ask what is Turkey doing to control the migrant traffic and what more could it be doing?  Well the most visible effort is by the Coast Guard. The Turkish Coast Guard is more visible on the Aegean. They have caught or rescued more than 33000 migrants they say. There is also an increased police presence. They are looking out for people who might be waiting to get into these small boats. But the numbers are frankly against them. While lots of the roughly 2 million refugees in Turkey are in camps there are many many more living in communities around the country. So it is really hard to keep track and control their movement. And this huge increase in people going for the small boats it kind of reflects what we have seen in other areas like the Channel Tunnel entrance in France. If enough migrants move at the same time this theory goes some are bound to get through. Now critics are saying Turkey could be doing a lot more to control the flow. They would say Ankara  really does not mind seeing several thousand refugees leave and become somebody else's problem. But the fact is locking up refugees is very problematic in terms of international law basic humanitarian principles which this is supposed to be about. And Turkey has a pretty good response to the question of why the border patrol is not doing more. Most of them are already deployed down on the 600-mile border with Syria.  You mention critics. What about Turkish citizens? How do they feel about the government and how it is trying to control the situation?  They are not happy with what they are seeing. The tourism season is suffering. The businesses are down. There are some bright signs. One official the labor minister said these refugees - do not worry they are not going to be getting work permits except for working within the camps and things like that. Although I should note that it has not translated into a surge in anti-migrant politics so far which we have seen in European countries and that may be one reason why we are not seeing Europe step up and ask to take in more refugees.  Yeah where is the international community? I mean what kind of help is Turkey getting?  Well some assistance is coming in - tens of millions of dollars by one account. But Turkish officials say that it is not nearly enough. The president Recep Tayyip Erdogan says European countries in particular need to step up and this has really cost Turkey several billion dollars so far and will only get more expensive it looks like. Having started out trying to handle all this by itself Turkey is now reaching out for help but they are finding it inadequate to say the least.  This is obviously a huge economic and political issue for Europe. Is there a security issue as well?  Well this is something that has not gotten a lot of attention so far. Could jihadists from ISIS or another terrorist group be mixing in with these migrants heading to Greece and then hopefully on to France Germany Scandinavia elsewhere? There is not a lot of evidence that this is happening so far that I have seen anyway but analysts who talk to me say it is definitely worrying European officials. It is basically the same problem as down on the Syrian border. Turkey's taken a lot of hits for allowing extremist fighters from ISIS and other groups to cross that border rather freely. That is a charge it denies. But if they cannot keep track of who is coming into Turkey or crossing that border how can they track who is leaving either on these boats to Greece or by some other route?  That' NPR's Peter Kenyon. He spoke to us from Istanbul. Peter thank you.  Thanks Audie. 