 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel in Washington.  And reporting from Brazil this week I am Melissa Block. Before we came here I kept hearing about the new Brazilian middle class about the tens of millions of Brazilians who have been listed out of poverty over the last decade.  strong overall economic growth fueled by Brazil's exports a rise in the minimum wage a more educated workforce and big government spending programs including direct payments to extremely poor families. This new lowest rung of the middle class is what we would call the working poor.  between just 500 and 2000. But it is this group that is driving consumer spending in Brazil these tens of millions of people who can now cobble together enough money to buy their first car TV or cellphone or to pay for their children to go to a private school. In the northeastern city of Recife I stopped in at the Walt Disney School. It has a crenellated roof that makes it look vaguely like a castle paintings of Mickey and Minnie Mouse over the boys' and girls' bathrooms. The school is not sponsored by Disney. The founder is just crazy about Disney characters. And it' paint peeling in the courtyard no computers in the classrooms. But it is a step up for the new middle class.    This is where I meet 16-year-old student Susana Raysa de Carvalho.    She says I told my parents I wanted to come to this school because I felt the public school was holding me back. The teachers were bad. Sometimes they would not even show up.    School is the first step Susana says because before you can have anything you have to have a good education. Back home after school Susana gets a kiss from her father. Four of them live in a tiny apartment in a crumbling  dad Roberto mom Enilda and the daughters Susana and her 22-year-old sister Sandra who is trained as a nurse. There is a little kitchen a small area to eat with a velvet painting of the Last Supper above the table. No couch or comfortable chairs. One bedroom for the parents one for the two girls to share both just big enough for the beds with a little room to spare. Roberto apologizes. It is small but it is cozy.    Enilda gives me a tour and points proudly to some recent purchases.    She explains that last year her husband got a promotion  kitchen cabinets a microwave smartphones for the girls. There is a flat-screen television over here. When did you get the flat screen?     You bought the television in 2012 also. A lot of happiness in 2012. That was a very good year for your family I think.    I sit down to talk with Roberto and Enilda de Carvalho about their lives and how different they are from their parents' lives. It is a typical story for this part of Brazil. Both sets of parents grew up in the countryside. The parents had to quit school early to start working. At ages 10 12 15 they went to work in a fabric factory as a mechanic a seamstress a farmer.    Roberto's father grew corn beans manioc vegetables enough to feed the family he says most of the time. They had no running water no electricity. And when I asked was life back then very hard Roberto pauses and breaks down in tears.    I am sorry. It takes him several minutes to compose himself.    It was very hard he says. The financial hardship was very great.    Was your family hungry?    More or less Roberto says. The main lesson he got from his parents in hopes that he would have a better life?    Study study study. So he moved to the big city Recife got a series of better paying jobs met and married Enilda and works now maintaining a fleet of trucks. He supports the family on about 900 a month. Their monthly rent is about 130. Susana's private school tuition costs about the same. Now technically this family has joined Brazil's middle class. They earn enough to be in that lowest rung. It is called class C. But here' Roberto does not think they are middle class.  No.  They do not have enough money to buy a house or a car. What are your hopes for your daughters for Susana and for Sandra about their life and how it might be different from yours?    As parents Enilda says we always want a better future. If they work hard they can have a better future than what we had. Before we leave I asked what is the one thing that would make their life better or easier. And they do not even have to think about it.    So you want to buy a home instead of renting the apartment that you have here. That would be essential .    You want to buy a house also certainly for your family. What would it take for you to be able to buy a house?     Money money.   You need cash. You need money.  Cash.  They would need about 40000 he figures to be able to buy a house. Well good luck in finding and buying your house.  OK.    The older daughter Sandra  I think that is our task now. That is a dream of mine she says and I am definitely going to reach it.    You are saying Sandra says it all the time. I want to work hard and earn enough money to be able to buy you and Dad a house.    She says it so many times Enilda adds I think it is going to stick. Well good luck. Thank you so much for talking with us today. .  OK. Thanks. Thank you very much.  And Sandra thank you.  Thank you.  And Susana thank you.  Thank you.  That is Susana Sandra Enilda and Roberto de Carvalho part of Brazil's new middle class talking with me in Recife. I am Melissa Block.   Melissa is reporting all this week from Brazil along with producers Andrea Hsu and Greg Dixon. You can follow their adventures at consideringbrazil.tumblr.com. 