 We start the show today overseas. In just a moment we will go to Moscow. Russian President Vladimir Putin is expelling hundreds of American diplomats. And we will go to South Africa where the decades-old death of anti-apartheid activist is being re-examined. But first to Venezuela where President Nicolas Maduro has asked citizens to choose an assembly of delegates to rewrite the country's constitution. That assembly would likely give Maduro more control of the government and is viewed by many observers as a power grab. Today's vote was boycotted by opposition parties and it is happening while Venezuela is in political and economic turmoil. Violent protests over food and medicine shortages have erupted in the streets in recent months. There have been clashes over today's vote as well. Here with the latest is Reuters reporter Girish Gupta. He is on the ground in Caracas. Girish it is good to have you back with us.  Thank you so much.  What do we expect from this vote?  Who knows? It is really difficult to say because the opposition - the country's opposition - won the proper Congress a couple of years ago. So the government of Nicolas Maduro came up and decided to have this constituent assembly they are calling it. Now the opposition has completely boycotted it. And in itself it is a very odd odd idea. I mean there is more than - there is thousands of people standing for it. No one really knows who they are. The candidates are not really sure what is going on. So it does not really mean much in a way. But more than anything it is just a show of force from the government. But what we are seeing is that the government does not have much force does not have the same support that they had when Hugo Chavez was still around for example. And the opposition is really coming to the fore now. And that is because this country is in absolute crisis. You have got everyone earning 10 20 a month shortages of everything and millions of people struggling with food.  Why did Maduro keep on pressing this vote if Venezuelans did not want it?  It is not only just Venezuelans who do not want it. International condemnation's been huge. Donald Trump said a couple of weeks ago that if this does go ahead - which it is - then you would impose economic sanctions on Venezuela. Why is Maduro going forward with it? He is got to show some power and frankly he is got none. He is backed into a corner. All of these forces are aligning against him - the economy the opposition's finally uniting. They actually had a vote a couple of weeks ago and where they - where 7 million people turned up. Completely unofficial - essentially a glorified petition where 7 million turned out to say hey we do not want this constituent assembly. So it was a huge show of force from the opposition. Maduro wants to do the same.  Girish we have been reading today that turnout there is low. What have you been seeing?  Absolutely. It is incredibly low across - not just in Caracas but across the country. And I think the numbers could be quite embarrassing for Maduro. It could be the nail in the coffin. And a lot of people here - and actually across the world - are saying this is the nail in the coffin for democracy in Venezuela if this does go ahead and this assembly does sit later this week.  Girish just quickly there were concerns that the voting might be marred by violence. Have you seen any of that today?  Absolutely. This - remember Venezuela is one of the most violent countries in the world. Sixty people are killed there every day. That is according to government statistics. More than a hundred have been killed since this massive wave of unrest started four months ago. So we have become very used to violence in this country. So just going around the city today all the streets are pretty much closed. There is trash burning on most of them kids in balaclavas with slingshots and God knows what else. That is become quite normal. We have - and this is something that is surprised even me today and actually very close to where I am based here in Caracas we saw a bomb go off. It was targeted towards police officers. And it was not huge. It did not kill anybody. But it is not something - we do not see that sort of insurgent-type equipment being used. So that is interesting. And that might be an escalation we are seeing from the opposition or some parts of it.  Reuters reporter Girish Gupta in Caracas. Thank you so much Girish.  Thank you. 