 From NPR News this ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block.  Do not question do not elaborate.  David Bandurski has been monitoring coverage of the train accident in the Chinese media. He is a researcher at the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project.  And David are these directives working? Has the media obeyed the order to not do hard-hitting coverage of this story?  And by the time Monday rolled around to Tuesday we were seeing very hard hitting coverage from media in China. Then we had another round of bans at the end of the week basically one week through this tragedy. On July 29th the Central Propaganda Department had had enough and they said - stop it.  So those tougher questions that were being asked originally had to do with not just what caused the crash itself but also what happened after. Was the investigation into this basically physically buried as they buried the wreckage of this train?  Why did this happen? The initial statement from the Railway Ministry was that it was a lightning strike. And then another response they had was to fire three local level railway ministers. So people were - in Chinese media again are saying well if it was a lightning strike why are you firing party leaders? Why is that the response?  And when you say that the push was to get trains running again there is an image that really crystallizes that an image of another high-speed rail train passing over a viaduct under which is the wreckage of this destroyed train.  That is right. And that image did become quite emblematic I think of the problems here. So we saw that image in a really important story from the official government news agency Chinois News Agency on Monday. And that was a story that actually was quite instrumental in encouraging a lot of Chinese media to push harder in their coverage.  Well what about now? Have you seen a real retrenchment in the media in terms of how this train crash is being covered?  Well we have seen a little bit of coverage since the second round of propaganda orders came last Friday. But we really have not seen the kind of coverage that we saw last week. So we saw them ramping up on that Friday the 29th. But that night because of these propaganda directives newspapers had to back paddle really fast. And a lot of them had to drop their coverage.  What does it say to you that the crackdown on the media about this story about this high-speed rail crash what does that say about the sensitivity of this issue and the primacy of high-speed rail for Chinese authorities?  Well it does say quite a bit. The development of high-speed rail has been a major prestige project for a number of years. The Chinese government has poured millions and billions of dollars into this. And interestingly as we saw the coverage this week one of the concerns people had was that it was too fast that the growth was - that it happened too fast and there was not enough oversight and concern about safety.  David Bandurski is a researcher at the University of Hong Kong's China Media Project. David thanks very much.  Thanks. 