 For more on the resettlement of Syrian refugees in the U.S. I spoke via Skype with David Miliband. He is the president of the International Rescue Committee. He told me that the arrival of 10000 Syrians in the U.S. is a cause for celebration but it is still just a fraction of the millions of Syrian refugees around the world.  Countries like Turkey have taken over 2 million refugees. A country like Lebanon or Jordan - Jordan the second-closest U.S. ally in the Middle East has over 650000 refugees. The U.S. so far has taken only in the single-digit thousands and so has been left far behind countries like Germany and Sweden who have stepped up very strongly. It is very striking that in Germany Chancellor Merkel made a major commitment last year to open her doors to Syrians who were fleeing. It was obviously the source of some controversy but the controversy is whether or not Germany should take 600000 or 700000 or 300000.  So American officials would say that while the U.S. might not take in nearly as many Syrian refugees as other countries the U.S. does far more than other countries to support Syrians near the border of Syria in the camps where they need aid and they need help. Do you think that providing support near the border is an adequate substitute for actually taking people in?  It is certainly true that the humanitarian crisis needs to be tackled at source in the Middle East as well as at symptom. And the U.S. government has historically been a major donor to international humanitarian relief. However European countries have now overtaken the U.S. as the largest humanitarian donors in the world. We have also got to tackle the symptom and refugee resettlement for people who are fleeing persecution is not just the right thing to do. It is a practical thing to do as the 10000 figure shows because the last thing the ISIS and other enemies of the U.S. want is for the U.S. to be a proper symbol of a multi-faith multicultural community.  American political leaders - some of them have raised real concerns about the vetting process. A typical Syrian refugee goes through a two-year vetting process before arriving in the United States. Do you think it is possible to dramatically increase the number of Syrian refugees the U.S. takes in without in some way compromising that process?  I think it is possible because you do not have to just take my word for it. Homeland Security secretaries who wake up every morning thinking about the security and safety of the U.S. have put their names to a pledge that this is a secure system that can weed people out.  If the U.S. were to double the number of Syrian refugees it took in or stop admitting Syrian refugees altogether would it even make that much of a difference beyond symbolism given the scale of the problem we are talking about?  Well I think that is a great point and I want to address that head-on because there is both a substantive and a symbolic value to the refugee resettlement effort. The substantive basis is that the United Nations says that up to 10 percent of the world's 25 million refugees are the most vulnerable cases who need to be resettled in rich countries to be able to restart their lives. We meet them ourselves as the International Rescue Committee when they wash up in dinghies on the shores of Greece where I was last month and they are still coming to Greece. Those most vulnerable cases - it is certainly far more than a symbolic issue for them. However the symbolic value should not be undermined or dismissed. For a country like Jordan that has historically looked to the U.S. for support - they are dealing with 650000 refugees registered. That is 10 percent of their population and they want to know that the U.S. has their back by standing with them for the idea that people of different religions different confessional groups can come together and live together.  David Miliband CEO of the International Rescue Committee thank you for joining us once again.  Thank you very much. 