 Now a look at the routines of ordinary life for Palestinians in an extraordinary place - the al-Aqsa Mosque complex. Jews revere it as the site of an ancient temple destroyed 2000 years ago. For Muslims it is where Muhammad ascended to heaven from a spot marked by the centuries-old Dome of the Rock. Day to day it is where Palestinians go for relaxation daily worship and to take a stand. But any rise in tensions there can fuel conflict between Palestinians and Israel. NPR's Fatma Tanis starts her report at the entrance.   To get to al-Aqsa first I have to pass through an Israeli police checkpoint and answer some questions in Arabic.  .  . After searching my bag inspecting my U.S. passport a little test the officer asks me if I am Muslim. Non-Muslims can only enter during a few hours each day.  .  . Not quite satisfied he asks me to recite the first several lines of the Quran by memory listening to every word. . Once I am allowed through my eye is immediately drawn to the Dome of the Rock at the center of the site with its iconic golden dome. But that is just one part of the sprawling campus of lawns and trees gazebos and fountains. There are even libraries and an art museum. It is not prayer time and it feels strikingly serene. People are sitting and relaxing. Kids are kicking around a ball. It is a scene you would see at any park anywhere in the world.   I spot two young women sitting under an olive tree facing the Dome of the Rock snacking on sunflower seeds. They are best friends Lama Nasser and Raghad Taha. They like to come here because they enjoy the vibe.  .  I feel relaxed and at peace when I am at al-Aqsa says Nasser. Taha chimes in next.   Since childhood we would come here to play and grew up with a connection to this place.  And they feel fortunate this is their local mosque. Here's Nasser again.   It is different here. There is a greater sense of spirituality and sacredness. It is like no other mosque.  To understand more about who comes here and why I visit Yusuf al-Natsheh at his office here.  .  . He is the director of tourism and architecture for the religious foundation that runs the complex.  For a lady this is a site where she can really perform a sort of retreat and picnics. For an old man this is a place where he can really seek refuge and speak with God. For a kid maybe it is the playground for him.  He says it is also one of few remaining spaces in Jerusalem for Palestinians to hang out as Israeli police crackdown on gatherings in their neighborhoods. Plus there is the architectural appeal.  Al-Aqsa has two main feature - beauty and simplicity.  He is talking about the contrast between the two key buildings - the ornate Dome of the Rock built around 1300 years ago with its shining gold dome and colorful tiles and the simpler but bigger al-Aqsa Mosque itself with the small gray dome.  And that for me is perfectness.  But it is more than a park or architecture. It is revered around the world as religious ground. Muslims believe their prophet Muhammad prayed where the mosque is now and then ascended to heaven on a night journey from the rock under the golden dome.  Al-Aqsa Mosque is at the center of everything and...  Another person I meet here is Mustafa Abu Sway. He is a professor of Islamic studies at Jerusalem's al-Quds University.  People who know the larger picture they know that it is not about Palestinians. It is not about the Arabs. It is about the Muslim world. This space belongs to the 2 billion Muslims that exist today and this is still their mosque.  Muslims worldwide were offended this spring by images of Israeli police charging into the mosque and firing tear gas and rubber bullets. They were chasing protesters who were throwing stones.   And remember when I said non-Muslims can come here at certain hours. Tourists visit and so do ultra-nationalist Jews who come in flanked by Israeli police because while this is the Noble Sanctuary to Muslims it is the Temple Mount to Jews who also have deep connections to the site. It is where the temple stood 2000 years ago. The Western Wall is a remnant of that time supporting part of the plateau. And Jews pray at its base. But the Israeli rabbinate tells Jews to avoid the hilltop because it is too holy. And Israel prohibits Jewish prayer here to keep the peace. Israeli views about the site divide along the country's secular-religious lines according to Israeli writer Pinhas Inbari who uses Tel Aviv and Jerusalem as shorthand for the split.  As far as Tel Aviv is concerned they do not care at all. They even do not care about Jerusalem not al-Aqsa. Abroad the Jerusalemites OK they think that yes al-Aqsa is ours. It belongs to our heritage not Islam et cetera et cetera.  He says those actually pressing for a change are small radical groups but those groups have political backing and talk about building a new temple where the Dome of the Rock is. Palestinians see them praying on the compound more openly now in bigger numbers and worry they will take over. That is another reason Palestinians make it a point to be there.  .  On Fridays Muslims stream into al-Aqsa by the thousands. It is their holiest day of the week and there is a festive feel in the air. Families are all dressed up like Bilal al Hur and his two little daughters who came here from the West Bank city of Hebron. They are all wearing cowboy hats the girls in pink and their father in brown. As the Quran is read over the loudspeakers he tells me they come here every week to pray.   Al-Aqsa is a dream and you will find there is a soul connection between any Palestinian child and this mosque.  But there is an added intensity because Friday is when al-Aqsa becomes not just a green space or religious ground but also a place where Palestinians are taking a stand. A reminder comes from the imam through the loudspeakers as he prays.   By your will this is our mosque. And by your will we will stay here.  What follows is a sermon on more routine matters - family relations.  .  But just coming here is an assertion of Palestinian rights for many an act of resistance to the Israeli occupation of East Jerusalem the West Bank and Gaza. And it is a defense of the mosque itself. Yusuf al-Natsheh says it is an especially strong sentiment among young people.  This is the last resort. This is the last retreat. This is the last castle for us. Whenever I approached the youngs  really they said this is our life. This is our blood. This is our al-Aqsa.  .  As the Friday prayer wraps many girls and boys are among the crowds exiting the mosque. One of them is a 15-year-old boy and we are not using his name because he is a minor. He says he used to come here with his uncle as a toddler and now he comes by himself every two days.  .  I consider al-Aqsa my home he says. He is afraid that one day it will be taken away and says he is willing to protect it with his life if he has to. Fatma Tanis NPR News Jerusalem.  