 Italy's birthrate is among the lowest in Europe so the government launched a social media campaign encouraging people to have more children. After just one day it has gone viral though not in the way that Italy had hoped. Christopher Livesay reports from Rome.  Valentina Ognissanti works full time for a travel company in Rome. She is 36 single and does not have any kids yet.  Yeah I do want kids but I am yeah maybe trying to build a career that will help me to have a family.  So she got a rude awakening when she opened Facebook and saw a meme that the health ministry is passing around. There is a picture of a woman holding up an hourglass and touching her belly. A caption in Italian reads...  . Beauty does not have an age. Fertility has. This is pretty offensive especially because of her smug expression she is got on her face.  It is part of a government campaign to encourage parenthood in Italy. The health minister Beatrice Lorenzin is launching the country's first-ever quote Fertility Day later this month. There are 12 promotional images and they do not just target women. One shows a shriveled banana peel. The text reads - male fertility is much more vulnerable than you think. Countless imitation memes have followed. One features an old man saying when I was your age I had three kids and I lost one testicle in the war - hashtag fertilityday. Patrizio Nissirio is an author and journalist at the Italian news agency ANSA. He says the campaign is not just a misstep. It also brings back haunting memories of fascist dictator Benito Mussolini who made childrearing a question of national duty.  And this can be said fertility is a common good. Again it kind of echoes that idea that you know it is not your own business whether you have children or not but it is like the nation's need which is kind of stupid frankly.  But the government does have reason to worry. Last year fewer babies were born in Italy than any time in history. Meanwhile its population is both shrinking and living longer. That puts a heavy burden on the country's pension system. But critics argue the government should instead concentrate on improving the conditions for couples to have children like offering the kind of generous maternity benefits seen in France and Germany. Even Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi seems to agree.   .  He told Italian radio station RTL that young people have a hard time family planning when they often cannot find steady work. He added quote none of my friends ever decided to have children after seeing an advertisement. For NPR News I am Christopher Livesay in Rome. 