 We still do not know which country or which company will be the first to develop a vaccine for the coronavirus. We do know that such a vaccine will be extremely valuable. And today U.S. British and Canadian intelligence agencies all said that Russian hackers are trying to steal information from Western health care organizations working on a vaccine. For more on this potential threat we are joined now by NPR national security correspondent Greg Myre. Hey Greg.  Hi Ailsa.  Hi. So what do we know about these attempted Russian hacks?  Well we heard from the National Security Agency along with their British and Canadian counterparts. They issued this coordinated statement - or statements plural. Now they say they are seeing these persistent attempts by Russian hackers to break into a range of organizations working on a potential vaccine. So it is a bit unusual for them all to put out a statement. They clearly wanted to amplify their message by putting out this information simultaneously and noting the joint efforts that are underway to detect and mitigate the threat. Western intelligence agencies say they are seeing these spear-phishing emails and attempts to insert malware. And as they examine these digital fingerprints they believe these hackers are part of a Russian group that is formally known as APT29 or informally known as Cozy Bear.  Cozy Bear - right. OK Cozy Bear may sound familiar to some of our listeners. Remind us why we have heard of them before.  Well they are linked to Russian intelligence and they have been blamed for hacking into Democratic Party emails in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. They are part of one of several Russian intelligence agencies and they are believed to be part of the Russian equivalent of the CIA. Now in the U.S. the National Security Agency rarely comments on anything. But Anne Neuberger who is NSA cybersecurity director issued a statement saying that quote APT29 has a long history of targeting governmental diplomatic think tank health care and energy organizations. Russia pretty shortly afterward denied the accusation saying it had nothing to do with this according to a spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin.  OK. So do we know who was targeted by these hacks I mean and if any valuable information was stolen?  No we do not at this point. The intelligence agencies did not name any organization that is been targeted. The statements did not say whether any of these alleged Russian efforts were successful or if they caused any real harm. And of course we should remember there is no vaccine yet so there is no magic formula to steal right now.  Right.  But that said it is not too hard to figure out who the likely targets are. The U.S. government has provided money to some companies to work on a vaccine. The companies themselves have provided updates on their research and some preliminary results. And it appears that targets do go beyond just pharmaceutical companies. It can all be - also be university research labs or government health agencies.  I mean there is clearly a fierce global competition to develop a vaccine. What might be the motives behind a hacking attempt like this you think?  Well really several. First of all this is what Russian intelligence agencies do. But this vaccine would be - will be extremely valuable financially. It will be great prestige for the country that develops it first. And some are predicting that we are seeing really the first stages of vaccine nationalism. We started hearing about this a couple months ago in early May when the U.S. and others started sounding the alarm about China. Perhaps most importantly at all - of all the country that develops a vaccine can begin vaccinating its own people first. They...  Right.  ...Will not have to wait in a long line for what could be a very long process.  That is NPR's Greg Myre. Thank you Greg.  My pleasure. 