 All right let us head overseas now and talk about all the saber-rattling lately over who controls the Mediterranean Sea. Turkey has staked new claims for drilling rights upsetting countries around that corner of the sea from Egypt and Israel to Cyprus and Greece. It is led to threats and to international pleas for calm. NPR's Peter Kenyon reports from Istanbul.  Greece and Turkey have been neighbors and rivals for a long time. But in early June when Greek Defense Minister Nikos Panagiotopoulos spoke to Greece's Star Television about his latest problem with Turkey he warned that this time Athens was prepared to do quote whatever it takes to defend its interests even if it meant going to war.   .  Turkey's behavior lately is quite aggressive he said adding that besides exhausting diplomatic channels Greece urgently needed to quote increase the deterrent powers of the armed forces. A poll conducted for a Greek TV station found a majority of Greeks would support military action against Turkey if its maritime borders were violated. When Turkey's defense minister Hulusi Akar was asked about his Greek counterpart's comment he quickly said it must have been a slip of the tongue.   .  Akar told a Turkish TV interviewer that he was sure the Greek defense minister must have misspoken because he could state quote with mathematical certainty that the Greeks would not want to stage a war with Turkey. These rising tensions are not about the usual sticking point between them the divided island of Cyprus which Turkey invaded in 1974. This dispute is over potentially lucrative natural gas deposits off the Cypriot coast and Ankara has not been shy about making its intentions clear. Earlier this year Turkish warships blocked an Italian drilling ship attempting to explore under a license from Cyprus. Then Turkey sent two of its own drilling ships to the area along with support from the Turkish Navy. Both the U.S. and EU expressed deep concern about the Turkish moves. But after a phone conversation with President Trump Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan heaped scorn on Greece's threats.   .  Erdogan compared Greece to a donkey in a lion's skin and told Athens to quote come to your senses know your place or face a harsh response from Turkey. At the heart of this dispute are two very different pictures of the eastern Mediterranean. One involves a maritime border agreement and a pipeline deal involving Greece Cyprus and Israel. That appears to put these gas resources within the Cypriot exclusive economic zone. The other involves a much more recent deal between Libya and Turkey which has been backing the Tripoli government in Libya's ongoing civil war. Ankara says that deal gives Turkey undersea exploration rights. So which interpretation is right?  I mean they are both dubious. This is almost kind of like schoolyard antics in international law.  Mid-East and North Africa analyst Tarek Megerisi at the European Council on Foreign Relations says both claims are stretching the law.  So both sides are kind of really pushing the envelope of what is reasonable and logical to try to make a legal claim that will just support them for long enough to create facts on the water.  What is needed Megerisi says is for an international power to step in and oversee a reconciliation effort that both sides can live with. But since the United States seems less and less interested in doing that these days he says it remains to be seen who if anyone might be willing and able to take on that role. Peter Kenyon NPR News Istanbul.  