 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am David Greene. Israeli and Palestinian leaders hold another round of peace talks tomorrow this time in the Egyptian resort town Sharm el-Sheikh. The parties have agreed to conclude a deal within a year. However the two sides have negotiated for decades with little to show for it. And for Israelis and Palestinians watching negotiations from afar it is deja vu all over again. NPR's Deborah Amos sampled opinions from Tel Aviv to the West Bank.  Do not ask in Tel Aviv about the peace process residents will tell you. It is a different world where indifference is profound. And Israelis say this is due to the Tel Aviv bubble. Life is good in this secular seaside city grown rich on high-tech startups and venture capital firms. Fifty-year-old Uriel Cohen says he does not even believe in a peace settlement anymore.  Absolutely not.  Why?  I think it is not going to be good solution for Israel.  And on a chance meeting with Mayor Ron Huldai even he dismisses the idea of a settlement with the Palestinians within a year. He is besieged by citizens on the way to his office who want to negotiate taxes and traffic tickets not peace talks. Do you think Tel Aviv is paying attention?  What do you mean Tel Aviv?  But people talk about the Tel Aviv bubble.  You have those who believe you have those who do not believe.  And you believe?  I say I hope.  What do Israelis believe? Across the country Israelis say that education crime and national security are more pressing problems. A poll in August called the Peace Index showed only 25 percent believe talks can lead to a permanent peace. You become and more skeptical to the point of indifference wrote one newspaper columnist.   But drive further east and indifference is replaced by anxiety. This is Mevo-Horon an Israeli settlement near Jerusalem. Construction here illegal under international law has been banned by the Israeli government for the past 10 months.  But you know on the map we are over the Green Line so we are not allowed to build. And I guess when the time comes this will be a place to negotiate on.  That is Rotem Klein a resident along with 300 Israeli families. Palestinians say the Green Line is their border line. In a peace accord Mevo-Horon might have to pack up and go. If the building ban is lifted at the end of the month the Palestinian president insists he will walk out of the talks. The issue will dominate the meeting in Egypt. Klein is convinced that ending Israeli occupation of the West Bank would be a disaster.  Right now it does not seem realistic to even think about it. People are not ready for it. We do not really think that there is really a partner to speak to and we are pretty much pessimistic. You can say that.  Israel's prime minister says the Palestinian leader is his partner. A new media campaign was launched to convince Israelis.  .  Dr. Saeb Erekat a Palestinian negotiator is one of a dozen voices who have appeared on Israeli media about peace talks that have gone on for years.   Shalom to you in Israel. I know we have disappointed you. I know we have been unable to deliver peace for the last 19 years. It can be done and will be done. I am your partner. Are you mine?  But how to convince Palestinians when the only Israelis they see are soldiers. This is the Qalandia checkpoint the gates for the Israeli security checks on the way to Ramallah a town under Palestinian control in the West Bank. There is an economic revival in Ramallah with building cranes on every empty lot. Palestinians talk of the Ramallah bubble where they can almost forget the Israeli occupation. Carpenters here put up the walls of a coffee shop Saman a second outlet in Ramallah. Owner Huda Al Jaq a young Palestinian entrepreneur invested here after a former round of peace talks promised a breakthrough.  We made the decision to move back during the good days. We were hoping you know things were going to make a breakthrough. So we came. We invested and...  You lost your shirt.  Yes we lost everything.  She knows what can happen when peace talks fail but she is willing to build again. The Palestinian Authority is building  state institutions a security force the infrastructure of a state. Is this time the right time for an agreement?  Every time they talk and we do not get to anywhere expectations go down. There is more desperation I think. So a breakthrough is obviously something we all want. But we do not plan on it. I hope for it. I do not plan on it.  Another round of talks begins tomorrow but Palestinians and Israelis are far from convinced their leaders are finally ready to make a deal. Deborah Amos NPR News Jerusalem. 