 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. With all of the action unfolding in the stadiums right now in Brazil it may be easy to forget where the action was a year ago. At that time it was in the streets. Massive protests broke out. A million people took part. Well the anniversary was marked today by another demonstration. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro was at the event and reports on what is changed in Brazil in the last year and what has not.  I am on Avenida Paulista in Sao Paulo and a year ago this road - it is the sort of Wall Street of this city - was packed with people. At its height over a million Brazilians joined the demonstrations that swept the country. They initially started over a hike in a bus fare and then when pictures of harsh police repression were broadcast it brought many more people out onto the streets. Today in front of me there are only a few hundred protesters much smaller demonstrations than before. The people here are dedicated protesters - the hard-core if you will. So where did all the support go?  Everybody was really excited about - was the first time in years that this kind of moment happened. It was a new generation in the streets I think with new thoughts and stuff. Everybody singing everybody screaming - it was really good.  Luisa de Morais Sarmento is an 18-year-old student we met at a cafe off Avenida Paulista where a year ago she and all of her friends came out they thought to change the country. Now it is a year later and she is not joining the demonstrations anymore.  I stopped participating because everything started to be so violent and people stopped to go to the streets too.  The protests that began in June 2013 started to lose steam in Brazil fairly quickly. They were met with increasing police repression also a group known as the Black Bloc who are anarchists began to get violently involved. So she says many others like her were turned off by the whole thing. But that does not mean the legacy of those protests has been lost say analysts.  .  Denise Paiero is a professor at McKenzie University who has studied the protests. She says Brazilians have taken back the streets and that is significant. They had given up their place in public spaces for decades. But now Brazilians think they can take to the street. It is there and it is a place where I can make demands she says. They have become more politically active more aware of politics she says.  Yes I am Rafael Alcadipanil associate professor on organizations. When the demonstrations erupt in the country people start to realize again that we a lot of problems to face.  And that put the political class on notice he says. And in the short term he says the protests prompted a change in specific laws regarding corruption for example. And there was a boost in spending for education and health. But by and large not that much has shifted in the big picture.  Brazil now at this particular moment in time its faced with people who want change but they do not see anybody who will deliver the change in terms of politics.  What we see now he says are many smaller demonstrations. The groups have fragmented. The demands are more narrowly focused and because of that we have seen them actually achieve results especially in advance of the World Cup. Bus drivers got raises. Homeless groups got housing promises. But there are still many issues that need to be addressed he says for example how the security forces are dealing with this new wave of civil unrest.  People started to demonstrate and to talk against the military police because the way they act is unacceptable for a democracy.  His verdict - the protests were a first step whose long-term effect remains to be seen. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Sao Paulo. 