 The death toll in Nice France is growing. The deputy mayor says at least 77 people were killed tonight. At least 50 more were injured when a truck plowed into a crowd celebrating Bastille Day on the boardwalk. Secretary of State John Kerry has just released a statement calling this an attack against innocent people on a day that celebrates liberty equality and fraternity. Earlier this evening President Obama put out a statement saying he has directed his team to coordinate with French officials and offer assistance. We are going to hear now from an eyewitness who was there as this all unfolded. Eric Drattell is an American who lives in London. He was on vacation in Nice with his wife. I asked him where exactly he was when this all began.  So we were watching the fireworks. We were at a restaurant on the beach which is about three meters down below the Promenade des Anglais. 30. We were paying our bill and all of a sudden heard pop pop pop pop and people screaming. And my wife though she is deaf recognized the sound as gunfire and grabbed me. And we started running for the serving kitchen area where there are toilets and whatnot for the restaurant. And as we were running toward this area people started diving off the promenade onto the beach about three meters - 12 or so feet 13 feet below. One actually dove and wound up high slamming into my wife. She is slightly injured but OK. We went into a toilet stall with about I would say 10 to 12 other people and were there for some time.  And you had no idea what was unfolding outside of that bathroom.  No nothing nothing at all. I was on Twitter trying to find out what was going on and got very little information. The police were not telling anybody anything. We were - then we were allowed out into a common area still undercover and then told to go back into cover. And then after about two hours we were all - we were all evacuated as a group to a hotel about 150 meters down the beach where police were interviewing eyewitnesses and people who were injured were being treated. 30 in the morning about 40 minutes ago we were allowed to leave the hotel that we were at to walk back to our hotel which is on the Promenade des Anglais. We had to take a circuitous route back came out through a Hyatt which is maybe 100 meters the other way on the promenade. And that is apparently where the truck was stopped.  And as you were walking back and forth over the course of the evening what did you see in the streets?  So initially when we were walking from the beach to the first hotel we saw one body. I saw a stroller that had been crushed saw street signs and other debris. But when we were walking back from the Hyatt to our hotel there were bodies - bodies and blood everywhere. It was just - I am in complete shock. There is just - it was unbelievable carnage.  I am so sorry for what you have had to go through tonight. Did you - did you see the truck itself?  No I did not it. I do not know where it was. The police were not allowing us to linger.  Now for people who are not familiar with Nice for people who are not familiar with Bastille Day celebrations can you just describe what the scene was before all of this happened?  Sure. It is just like July 4 in the U.S. where there were fireworks. There was - there were a couple of boats on the - on the Mediterranean where they were shooting the fireworks up from. It was - it was absolutely beautiful. There were a lot of people on the promenade which is - it is two lanes running east and two lanes running west. It had been closed down since about 2 or 3 oclock this afternoon. There were bandstands out. There were a lot of people. Although I understand from somebody here that the crowds are actually down about a third from prior years. It was attributed to concerns about terrorism. But it was just like like I said just like July 4. There was a pretty festive mood.  Did you sense much security before the event began? After all France is a country that has dealt with terrorism before and while they have not yet said that this is terrorism there were real concerns.  So we had been in Paris - this is the end of our two-week holiday. We started in Paris for several days and there was a very visible police presence and military presence anywhere you went. And in Nice it was virtually invisible. We did not see many if any police. The only time we saw anybody was on Sunday night. We went to watch the Euro finals at the Nice Fan Zone and there were a few police around there. In fact we decided - the crowd was huge. We decided not to stay and instead wanted to watch from a bar because we were concerned about the crowds and the - it just seemed like an inviting target. So - but we felt pretty relaxed about tonight...  Yeah.  ...And were not concerned at all.  You said that your hotel is on the promenade. What is the scene there now a few hours after this event?  So there are police - I assume they are police gendarmes - very heavily armed. There is crime scene tape. But there are also people walking along the promenade back to their hotels or whatever. And there - some of the police have masks on. It is the first time I have ever seen that.  And have you received any guidance from local authorities?  None.  Well Eric Drattell I appreciate your talking with us and I am sorry for what you have been through tonight. Eric Drattell thanks very much.  Thank you. 