 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  In China waiting in line is akin to a competitive sport but with much higher stakes. Earlier this month people waited four days and three nights to register for low-income housing while admission to a certain Beijing kindergarten requires a weeklong round-the-clock queue. In this postcard from China NPR's Louisa Lim spends time with a pro.     He employs four full-time queuers and a host of freelancers. Getting a proxy to stand in line for you costs about 3 an hour. He says he is been doing this for two years.   I am just selling my time for money. You do not need any skills except the ability to suffer. For some jobs you need to look good. If you want to buy things for rich people you cannot look like a farmer or they will think you are a scalper.  The longest waits of the year are for train tickets home for the annual spring festival. Bank lines are also epic. Half a day's wait is not unusual. Thinking of the bread lines in the former Soviet Union I ask Li if he thinks authoritarian governments like to make their subjects line up.   Not at all. It is about population density. There is no connection with politics. If there are only two people in a village you cannot make a line. But resources are limited here.  It is been a 40-minute motorbike ride across town and we are now at the Longhua Hospital. And the first thing that we have to do is to register. And Mr. Li says we are in luck today the line is particularly short. There is one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 people waiting in front of us.    So he says yesterday the registration line was stretching all the way out of the door.  When my son cut his chin recently we stood dripping blood in a total of eight different lines to get it stitched up. But Li says new appointment systems have made hospital lines shorter. As the world's most impatient queuer I asked him to divulge the secrets to happy waiting.   The secret is go early. Take an umbrella in case it rains and a book. Load books and games on your mobile phone. Make friends with your neighbors so you can get away to buy food.  Louisa Lim NPR News. 