 Well the city of Helsinki has hosted these kinds of summits before so Finns were ready for the traffic and the media circus. Sorry guys. They were also ready with messages for both President Trump and President Putin. I hit the streets of Helsinki to find out what Finns were saying.  Welcome to Finland President Trump. I am reading from a sign that is plastered across the front windows of Finlayson Department Store. They sell bedding and towels - that type thing. They have got a big sign blocking the front windows. The sign says  welcome to Finland President Trump. We are slightly worried. The goal of politics is to make the world as good as possible for everyone. Please make good decisions. So polite but worried. That is one window into how Finns view this historic day that is unfolded in their capital. Down the block we wandered into one of the many bars in Helsinki that is selling out of a limited-edition summit beer. Can we have a beer at the bar? Perfect. We like this one the Let us Settle This Like Adults dry-hopped lager. A picture of Putin and Trump Making Lager Great Again. You ready? Bottoms up.   On the label the two presidents are facing each other fist-to-fist playing Rock Paper Scissors. The suggestion being it is as good a way as any to settle diplomatic differences. The bartender here at Roster Jori Mikkonen told us he is half-Finnish half-Russian. Are you getting a lot of business from the summit?  Yeah. Actually like yesterday one person just bought like 'ecause he wanted the bottle. He did not even drink beer.  Not everyone here is so mellow about the visit of these two particular presidents. As final preparations were being made yesterday for the high-stakes diplomacy inside the Presidential Palace we came upon this scene.   Helsinki are you with me?  We are about to wade our way into this rally that is gathering on the steps of Senate Square. This is right in the middle of Helsinki. We were told this is an anti-Trump also an anti-Putin rally. So let us go see who we can meet. There were about a thousand people gathered. Protesters dressed as characters from The Handmaid's Tale. Signs written in English Finnish and Russian. Finns of all ages. One of them Pinga Luumi - she is 18 from Helsinki in her first year at university hair and makeup that is edging towards goth.  I definitely do not like Trump. And like well I hate him with a passion. But I am mostly here to resist Putin and Russia.  Pinga's sign reads Putin is a tyrant. Her big message is about Crimea - that President Trump absolutely must not recognize Russia's annexation of Crimea.  Why I am afraid of that is that if he does it it gives Russia the sign that they get to do anything they want in Europe. They could even occupy Finland since we are not like a part of NATO. I am really afraid 'ecause you know he will give a sign that the U.S. does not care.  A reporter did ask Putin about Crimea at the press conference today. Putin said that Trump believes the annexation of Crimea in 2014 was an illegal action. But the topic quickly changed to whether or not Russia had compromising material on Trump. Meanwhile Pinga has a message for people her age who are not paying attention to today's summit not paying attention to everything going on in the world today.  Wake up. Wake up. These are not things that are not your business because it is everyone's business what happens in the world. So please pay attention.  Pinga Luumi one of the many people watching closely as the presidents of the United States and of Russia sat down today to talk.  And with Mary Louise Kelly in Helsinki I am Ari Shapiro in Washington. You are listening to NPR News. 