 We start this hour with a glimpse of life in Mosul. The Iraqi city has been under the control of the self-proclaimed Islamic State for more than two months. Residents who did not flee along with the Iraqi Army back in June say conditions are miserable. As NPR's Peter Kenyon reports the city's direction was cast by an attack on its prison when the militants first arrived.  News of life inside Mosul has only trickled out since Islamic State fighters seized it in June. Just this week the U.N. reported details of a massacre that signaled a painful new reality for residents of this city of some 2 million people. Human rights chief Navi Pillay said Islamist fighters seized over 1000 inmates from Badoush prison in June sorted out the Sunnis and gunned down up to 670 people. NPR reached several Mosul residents by phone including a 46-year-old shop owner reached through intermediaries who gives his name as Mohammed Ali. He says he has no doubt that ISIS - another name for the Islamist group - committed the massacre.   I have a friend who works in Badoush jail. He told me I saw many bodies in the valley near the prison. It was full of bodies. I asked him who it was. He said ISIS killed so many people.  As for the Sunni prisoners from Badoush Ali says the fighters had other plans for them.   Some of our relatives they are Sunnis. They were in Badoush jail. They are aligned with al-Qaida. Most of them were set free when ISIS took over and now they are working with the ISIS people.  The Mosul residents NPR spoke with were reluctant to give their full names for fear of retribution against their families. A 29-year-old civil servant who gives his name as Sermat says the makeup of the occupying force has changed noticeably since June with those patrolling the streets now recognizable as local Arabs.   In the beginning when they came there were many foreigners from Syria and elsewhere. Then local people from the city either sympathizes or just those who needed money joined in. And now it seems most of the fighters are local.  Seif a 34-year-old civil engineer lives in the Temmuz neighborhood a Sunni stronghold where Islamic State fighters first appeared in Mosul. He says the number of fighters in Mosul is fewer than people outside the city think. But there are still some foreigners among them including an American he met in an Internet cafe.   He said he was from America and he was trying to call his family. He said he was Muslim but his parents were not. He had lost part of one leg below the knee and he had a gun over his shoulder.  Seif did not get the American's name or hometown and his account cannot be verified. U.S. officials say more than 140 Americans are believed to have joined the conflict in Syria and Iraq. When asked if people in Mosul support the Islamists or want them to leave these residents say the only ones supporting the occupation are a few extremists and poor Sunnis who were disfranchised under Iraq's Shiite-led government. Sermat the government worker says people are getting fed up with the deteriorating living conditions.   There are no services. The electricity is on for only a couple of hours every two to three days. The garbage collectors are not working. They get no salary and they have no gas for the trucks. There is not even very much food no refrigeration many stores are closed.  These Mosul residents say they want their jobs back. They want to live in a legal state again where rights are protected and the government provides services. But they have no idea when that will once again be possible. So far Iraqi officials are not giving an indication of any imminent operation to retake Mosul city. Peter Kenyon NPR News Erbil. 