 With the fight now focused on Tripoli NPR's Rachel Martin reports on the unique challenges posed by urban warfare.  If Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi is found killed or captured the rebels will finally be able to declare victory. Until then the situation is totally unpredictable.  Tripoli may or may not hold for several days. It may be free or liberated in a day. It could have cadres that hold on for some time.  Anthony Cordesman is with the Center for Strategic and International Studies. He says if that happens if Gadhafi's forces dig in it becomes an all together different kind of military operation.  You have to fight them out building by building and it is very messy and it can lead to very high casualties and a lot of physical damage.  U.S. and NATO forces have been targeting Gadhafi's command and control structures in Tripoli since the campaign began five months ago. Now that the rebel forces have entered the capital and taken over key parts of the city the challenge is rooting out the elements of Gadhafi's forces still committed to the fight.  the U.S. fight in Sadr City Iraq in 2008. Johnson says in that standoff U.S. forces built a wall around Sadr City cutting off militants from food and supplies.  And by doing that it is created a condition where these people came out and fought U.S. soldiers rather than U.S. soldiers having to go in to fight them.  Johnson says the same lessons of urban warfare can apply to the situation in Libya. But because there are no NATO troops on the ground it will be up to the Libyan rebels to force Gadhafi's fighters out into the open.  strangle them into a protracted battle. But at this point the rebels are focused instead on the dramatic if not necessarily decisive actions like storming Gadhafi's compound.  The difficulty I think is going to be between this desire to overwhelm and sweep through wherever Gadhafi forces are or some patience that creates a condition where in a classic siege-like way that they have to do something forcing them to make some kind of action they become visible and they become particularly visible to overhead NATO assets.  Here's retired Air Force Lieutenant General Mike Dunn.  Because you have gotta distinguish friend from foe. Both sides do not always wear uniforms or carry flags or operate a certain type of equipment that would allow you to identify one from the other. It is always better to have someone on the ground pointing out there is a guy 100 meters from me on the top of that hill hit him.  Rachel Martin NPR News Washington. 