 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am David Greene.  And I am Melissa Block. This week Mexico celebrates its bicentennial. On the night of September 16th 1810 Father Miguel Hidalgo gave a cry for independence. Mexico marks this as the beginning of the insurrection that ultimately ended Spanish colonial rule. But the bicentennial celebrations come at a tough time for Mexico amid rampant drug violence and persistent social problems. So business leaders and media companies have launched a new program called the Mexico Initiative. Their goal is to lift the nation's spirits and highlight Mexicans who are doing good. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports from Mexico City.  Recent opinion polls confirm that the majority of Mexicans feel that their country is worse now than it was when President Felipe Calderon took over in 2006. And people are worried mostly about the spiraling drug violence. The rate of killings and the scale of the massacres appear to grow worse by the day. 2010 is on track to be the deadliest year yet in a drug war that is already claimed almost 30000 lives. With so much energy focused on the burgeoning insecurity there is been little talk about combating poverty improving education or tackling Mexico's numerous other problems.  I think that Mexico is like a sad country.  Tania Esparza is director of the Mexico Initiative or Iniciativa Mexico as it is called in Spanish. Esparza says Mexicans are frustrated and discouraged right now.  We want to recover the idea that Mexico is a great country and that it is our country. Okay? That is why I think it is good to do something like Iniciativa Mexico in this time.  So the Mexico Initiative has put out a call for nominations of everyday Mexican heroes  a local priest who works with street kids an advocate for battered women a student who wants to build a skateboard park. To Esparza's shock they received 47000 nominations. Fortunately the project is backed by the largest media companies in the country as well as private business groups and nonprofit organizations.     It is been accompanied by an advertising campaign featuring Javier Aguirre who coached the national soccer team during the World Cup and the Mexican actress Salma Hayek. In her spot Hayek says that for Mexico to change Mexicans have to start by changing themselves.    Paraphrasing the Irish-American John F. Kennedy Hayek says ask not what Mexico can do for you but what you can do for Mexico. There was some criticism here of these ads by Hayek given that she lives in California with her billionaire French husband. At the Mexico Initiative Esparza and dozens of other people are sifting through the tens of thousands of projects that have been nominated. The top 25 will be featured in spots on national television. But Esparza says this is not a competition. This is not about one person winning.  Iniciativa Mexico is about the problems of Mexico but also about our solutions to get this country a better place. Okay? Because this is our home and we want the people to know that and to take care of it.  The projects and people deemed to be doing the most to improve Mexico will be announced in November. Jason Beaubien NPR News Mexico City. 