 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am David Greene.  And I am Melissa Block. After more than 400 days in Iranian custody American Sarah Shourd is free. She landed in Oman tonight and was met by her mother and uncle. She told journalists there she was in her words fine. Sarah Shourd was one of three Americans jailed and accused of spying after they allegedly crossed over the border from Iraq into Iran while on a hike. Thomas Erdbrink is following this story from Tehran. He is a correspondent with The Washington Post. And Thomas tell us about what led up to the release today of Sarah Shourd. There was some sense that maybe that would not happen quite so soon. Mr.  Well basically President Ahmadinejad had announced that she would be released on Saturday. When suddenly the judiciary came out and said look this woman is not going to be released because her case has not yet been finished. And after about a day the judiciary kind of turned and said that yes she can be freed but only after 500000 in bail will be paid. Now this has apparently happened and now Ms. Shourd has flown to Oman and is free.  Now Sarah Shourd made a statement before she left. She was interviewed at the airport apparently by Iran's Press TV. What did she say? Mr.  Well she basically thanked President Ahmadinejad for his help in this case and this is an indication that President Ahmadinejad is not very -intended to make sure that this case looks positive for him.  You know after Iran had demanded 500000 in bail Sarah Shourd's family said look we cannot pay that. Now she is out. Was the bail in fact paid and do we know who paid it and to whom? Mr.  Well it is unclear who has paid but what is clear is that the state of Oman the Sultanate of Oman has actually intervened in this matter. I have been told by diplomats here that they were approached by the U.S. government asking them to intervene in this case. And since the bail payment was also done at the Iranian state bank's branch in Oman I think that either the Omani government has at least advanced the money or guaranteed the money or facilitated the money.  Sarah Shourd apparently had health issues. Do we know anything about her physical condition? Mr.  Well I spoke with her lawyer several times today and yesterday and he has met Ms. Shourd today and he said well she looked fine. She felt fine. I assume that in the coming days we will know if she is actually doing well or not.  So Sarah Shourd is now free but of course there are two other hikers including Sarah Shourd's fiance Shane Bauer and their friend Josh Fattal who are still in prison.  As we prepare to welcome Sarah home we will not rest until Shane and Josh are home too. What do we know about what happens next with the other two hikers? Mr.  Well Iran's prosecutor while releasing Ms. Shourd has very clearly said that he intends to keep Mr. Bauer and Mr. Fattal for another two months. And he also said that look these people no matter what are going on trial now. If this will happen is completely unclear. It could be that another deal will be made and these guys will also be freed.  Would there be a counter scenario to that that Iran would respond by treating the other two more harshly having freed Sarah Shourd that the other two may have a tougher road ahead of them? Mr.  No I do not think so. I think it is very clear now that this case has served its purpose for Iranians. And for over a year now they have been trying to prove that these three hikers have been spying so it is becoming increasingly harder for the judiciary and also the Iranian government to keep these two men here in custody. I assume that they will also be released possibly within the coming weeks or in the coming months but they will definitely not remain here.  Thomas Erdbrink thanks very much for talking with us. Mr.  Okay. Thank you.  Thomas Erdbrink is a correspondent with The Washington Post. He spoke with me from Tehran. 