 There is one issue in the Middle East where Iran the U.S. Turkey and others agree. They do not want Iraq's Kurds to hold an independence referendum on Monday. They worry about what it would do to Iraq and how Kurds in other countries would see it. NPR's Jane Arraf reports from Iraq's Kurdish north.  .  This is a pro-independence rally in Erbil the capital of what is officially known as the Kurdistan region of Iraq. People here wanted to be just Kurdistan their own state separate from a country many have come to hate.  .  In the sea of Kurdish flags There is a lone Israeli one. That is because Israel is the only regional player that supports Kurdish independence. Turkey and Iran have warned the Kurds not to hold the vote. So have the U.S. and the U.K. Mohammad Yasser is 20. He says it does not matter what the consequences are. The Kurds have waited long enough.   This is a historic time for us. We have always been under the control of others. We want to be an independent country.  The Kurdish region's neighbors - Iran Turkey and Syria - oppose the vote because they fear it would encourage their own Kurdish populations to break away as well. An example at the rally is Rogesh Adnan Yasin. She is waving a Kurdish flag and she is beaming. She is not even from Iraq. She is from the Kurdish region of Syria.   It is true we cannot vote but we are with the referendum with all our hearts. If they become a country here they will support us and we will be next.  There are helicopters flying overhead above this dancing cheering crowd. They have dropped something from the sky. And as they drift down you can see they are rose petals. There is no disputing that Iraqi Kurds have suffered. Under Saddam Hussein's regime they were gassed executed and their villages destroyed. Many more were killed and driven out when they rose up against Saddam after his 1990 invasion of Kuwait. The U.S. and its allies created a no-fly zone where Iraqi war planes could not attack them. Over the years the Kurds created a region that was the most stable and prosperous in Iraq. But Kurds still do not feel safe.   It was Arabs who killed us in the Saddam regime. It was Arabs who brought ISIS here to kill the Kurds.  That is Burwa Aziza. He has a shop near the Erbil citadel. These days he sells a lot of Kurdish flags and scarves with Kurdish leaders' faces. But normally he sells clothing. He says he hates Arabs so much he charges them double. But not every Kurd believes this referendum is the way to independence particularly where support for Kurdish President Masoud Barzani and his party is not as strong like in the region's second-biggest city Sulaymaniyah.  .  At the American University of Iraq in Sulaymaniyah groups of students sit around cafeteria tables between classes. One plays a Persian song on his guitar. Here opinion is divided.  This is for the politicians' benefit. I am going to vote for no.  That is Govar Kawa who says independence will not solve his region's problems. The Kurdistan region is going through an economic crisis. Before this week the Kurdish Parliament had not met for two years. While every Kurd will tell you they dream of an independent Kurdistan they do not all agree on the path to get there. Jane Arraf NPR News in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. 