 The value of India's currency hit an all-time low this past week. At one point a single dollar could buy more than 72 rupees. And India's not alone. Currency troubles have also hit other so-called emerging markets countries like Argentina Indonesia and Turkey. As NPR's Colin Dwyer reports these difficulties have grown from some similar routes.  If you have checked the news lately there is a decent chance you have heard a pretty scary word. Actually it is possible you have heard it a lot. Listen to some clips from CNBC and Bloomberg News.   It feels like contagion. Is it a contagion?  Well it is starting to become a little bit more like contagion. Look.  Are we in a state of contagion at the moment?  I mean we most certainly are in a state of contagion.  Contagion.  Contagion fears.  Broad-based contagion.  Now to be clear these experts are not talking about an epidemic at least not the physical kind. They are talking about the economic health of emerging markets around the world. And the diagnosis does not look great. The value of the currencies in Turkey India and Indonesia have all hit historic lows in recent weeks and Argentina's peso has lost nearly half its value since the year started. In other words...  Emerging market currencies are taking a beating across the board.  That is Eswar Prasad a global economist and professor at Cornell University. He says there is a variety of issues confronting these countries. Turkey's president for instance has tied up politics with monetary policy. And what is worse the U.S. has doubled tariffs on Turkish steel and aluminum. In Argentina meanwhile investors are spooked by skyrocketing inflation. But one major source of their currency troubles comes not from these countries at all. It rests in the U.S.  The fact that interest rates have been rising in the U.S. causes investors around the world to rethink the proposition of taking risks by investing in emerging markets in order to get higher yield.  The U.S. central bank has raised interest rates twice already this year. Those higher interest rates help boost the value of the U.S. dollar and make it more pricey for countries to pay back their loans. That is really bad news for countries like Argentina and Turkey which have borrowed a whole lot of American dollars.  So you get a double whammy higher interest rates and a higher dollar making it harder to pay back. And that is what scares investors.  That is Joseph Gagnon a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. He has worked in the Federal Reserve the Treasury Department. And he knows the value of a central bank getting to set its own monetary policies.  But when Argentina borrows in dollars they have no control over those interest rates. And they are not set by the Argentine central bank for the Argentine economy. They are set by the U.S. central bank for the U.S. economy. So it may not be appropriate for Argentina.  But even if a country did not do much of its borrowing in dollars it can still get stained with the same brush. Ask India or South Africa. They have stumbled into some of the same economic troubles as their emerging market peers despite avoiding many of the missteps in borrowing. Eswar Prasad again.  The sense of concern about the rest of the world is beginning to spread.  Spread - in other words like a contagion. But unlike some contagions Gagnon does not expect this to spread too far to other countries.  So many emerging markets are in better shape than they were 20 years ago. It is got to make a difference. I have to believe it. But you know maybe I will be wrong. But I do not think so.  As far as the prognosis goes it could be worse. Colin Dwyer NPR News New York.  