 Tomorrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is expected to win reelection. Outside of Syria that election has been widely condemned. The country is torn apart by civil war and they are not voting in rebel held areas. But Assad will likely claim a mandate to rule as he sees fit. NPR's Deborah Amos went to the city of Gaziantep to get a regional view of the vote. It is in Turkey near the Syrian border.  This Turkish border city becomes more Syrian by the day. New waves of refugees have arrived since January. In the market Syrian craftsmen hammer out pots and plates as they did back home in Aleppo.  .  We left to save our children says Ali Abu Hassan. The bombs came every day he cries. For Hassan Assad's expected win is a sign his stay in Turkey is now indefinite. Turkish officials have floated a proposal for an eight year residency permit for Syrians replacing the old one year card. Last year Turkey was convinced Assad would go soon. No one here is saying that now. All of Syria's neighbors are adjusting to the long-term stay of refugees. The election has galvanized international attention says Josh Landis a long time Syrian analyst. But it is more a message than a vote to friends and foes alike.  This has nothing to do with democracy this is about power and showing your enemy that you can make everybody under your control lineup and kiss your hand.  The vote comes as Assad has weathered the revolutionary storm. With the help of strong allies Russia Iran and Hezbollah - the Lebanese militant group. In recent weeks the city of Homs that represented the heart of the revolution was retaken by Assad's army. The election there is a propaganda coup for a regime offering security and stability. But can the regime deliver? Analyst Brian Katulis says that is not likely. After a recent research trip to the region he says Syria by all measures is a failed state.  It is a very broken country. And it is probably the most disastrous situation the whole world is facing right now in terms of the human costs. So it is not a great prize.   Here at an opposition radio station activists are working on songs and reports to broadcast into Syria on election day. There are more than a dozen opposition media outlets supported by the Turks and funded by Western donors including the U.S. The message is do not vote out of fear. But war is more the focus here. Regime allies still support a military win as the regime gains more territory than it loses. But Noah Bonsey an analyst with the International Crisis Group says that does not mean a victory. The battlefield remains a stalemate he says.  The regime is not prepared and perhaps is not even capable of making the concessions necessary that would enable it to cash in politically on its military progress.  The election has closed the door on a diplomatic solution. The U.N. negotiator Lakhdar Brahimi resigned after the vote was announced. Large parts of the country are in ruins the economic loss is catastrophic. Pro-Assad rallies do not change the facts on the ground says Bonsey.  After all the media fuss has died down we will have a war that looks pretty much exactly the same as it did on June 2 the day before the election.  A war that has spilled across every border with Syria with the end of this conflict pushed further down the road. Deborah Amos NPR News Gaziantep.  This is NPR News. 