 To Spain now where today the country's central government pardoned nine politicians and activists who had been jailed after seeking independence for the region of Catalonia. They were leaders of the 2017 referendum on Catalan independence which Spain said was illegal. All were convicted of sedition and sentenced to prison for up to 13 years. Reporter Alan Ruiz Terol is covering the story for the English-language Catalan News and joins us now from Barcelona. Welcome.  Hi Ailsa.  Hi. So these pardons I mean they were announced by the prime minister's office in Madrid. Do we know why the government is taking this step right now?  Yeah. Today's pardons are widely considered to be one of the most consequential decisions that Pedro Sanchez will ever face as prime minister. And there is something he is said a few times which I think really captures the message he is trying to send. It is that pardons will allow nine people to leave prison but they will benefit millions more especially the pro-independence supporters who believe their leaders should not be in prison for basically delivering on their political promises. Sanchez has talked a lot about reconciliation coexistence basically recovering a relationship that has been damaged after years of political disagreements.  And who exactly are the people who got pardons today?  So these nine people were basically some of the most important leaders of the independence movement back in 2017 when Catalonia held the unauthorized referendum. Most of them were politicians former members of the regional government the former speaker of the Catalan parliament. And there is also two activists who were jailed for leading protests against Spain's attempts to stop the vote. And some of these people continued to be extremely influential in Catalonia for instance the former vice president Oriol Junqueras. And he recently expressed support for the pardons and even suggested that Catalonia should not attempt to hold a new unilateral referendum like it did in 2017. And this was seen by some as a key concession to the Spanish government.  Well Catalonia I mean it has had a very long history of seeking independence from Spain. Can you just talk with us about what has driven this movement?  Yeah sure. Catalonia has its own language its own history and a distinct pride. There is even many people in Catalonia who do not feel Spanish at all. And while there is always been people supporting Catalan independence the movement really became mainstream a decade ago more or less when the financial crisis and austerity were hitting Spain extremely hard and people were fed up with politicians. There was a tipping point. There was a ruling by Spain's top court against Catalonia's so-called new statute of autonomy a kind of regional constitution that had been backed by many Catalans. And for instance constitutional court justices rejected the notion that Catalonia is a nation and many Catalans did not like this. So people started to attend massive pro-independence demonstrations. And the region's politicians did not want to miss out so they promised to deliver independence.  Right. Well where does this latest announcement of pardons leave the independence movement now in Catalonia?  Yeah. Some of these independence leaders will continue to play a key role for sure. But they cannot be as involved as they would like because the pardons are partial. This means that they can leave prison but they are banned from holding public office. And they have been warned as well that should they be charged with new crimes they will be sent back to prison. But there are other politicians leading the movement now. And separatist parties actually continue to grow stronger having recently surpassed 50 of the votes in an election for the first time.  Wow.  And their two main goals right now are a general amnesty and a self-determination referendum.  OK.  And while the Spanish government is willing to talk it seems unlikely that they will make more concessions than these pardons because many people in Spain...  Yes.  ...See them as too much already....  OK.  ...Especially the right-wing parties.  That is reporter Alan Ruiz Terol in Barcelona. Thank you.  