 Tens of thousands of Pakistani troops are responding to the worst floods in that country's history. At least 1500 people have already died and the flood crest is still working its way south along the Indus River. The United Nations is calling for more international aid. Today the U.S. added more than 16 million to its pledge raising the total above 71 million. Millions of people have been affected by the pounding monsoon rains and floods - and many have yet to see help. Azizullah Khan reports for the BBC's Urdu Service. He spoke with me today from Pakistan's Northwest Frontier Province. Mr.  I saw many villages -have been washed out. I have seen many people - are residing on the motorway in between the roads and they have set their tents in that road.  You are saying that the people who have managed to escape the floodwaters are setting up camp or seeking shelter on the roads themselves? Mr.  Yeah because other areas are totally washed out. I can give you the example of only one city. This is Dera Ismail Khan the most southern city from Peshawar. More than 500 villages have been damaged and 123 villages were totally washed out. I have seen a village where only one mosque was left and other houses were destroyed and people got refuge on top of that mosque and they were looking for some aids. So people should come and get them away from this area.  Mr. Khan are you seeing any signs of an organized relief operation bringing food or clean drinking water or shelter to all these people who have been flooded? Mr.  Although there are efforts but so far I have talked to many affected and they were saying that they are not receiving anything so far. I have seen many people who have got refuge under big vehicles. They are sitting under these vehicles. Many small children were lying on the roads. They were sleeping on the roads - and they have noting. The affected are looking for food for potable water is one of the major problem in many areas. We have seen many people who do not have clothing and they were looking for the shoes -because you cannot walk on these roads without shoes. So this is the situation so far.  As this crisis is unfolding in Pakistan President Zardari was traveling in Europe it included a stop at his family's chateau in France. And he is come under a lot of criticism for not being home during the floods. He says that it might have been important symbolically for him to be at home. But he said hungry people cannot eat symbols and he was able to raise money in this trip overseas for flood relief. What are you hearing from people about the government's response and in particular the president? Mr.  Yeah. The people are blaming the government because they need food and basic amenities. But there is certain political circles - they are saying that the president should be present. But they do not need Zardari to come and sit with them in the villages. They need those things that could be survived in - during such critical situation.  There is this fear too that with this vacuum created by the government's response being so inadequate that militant Islamic charities are filling that gap providing relief where the government is not. Mr.  Actually the areas I have visited so far I have never seen those militant organizations supporting these people to cover that vacuum. I have seen the international organization - I have seen the vehicles of the Save the Children Program similarly other - like ICRC and...  The Red Cross. Mr.  The Red Cross yes. The Red Cross I am talking about. Similarly local organizations they are working in most parts of the Pakistan. But these supports are very very minimal. People need very huge amount of food and other things. If I can compare they are giving 5 to 10 percent aid or relief activities whereas 80 to 90 percent area still needs support and the food from the government side from the organization or from the individuals.  I have been talking with Azizullah Khan. He is a reporter for the BBC Urdu Service in Pakistan's Northwest Frontier Province. Mr. Khan thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you very much. 