 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Laura Sullivan. The giant Dadaab refugee camp settlement in northern Kenya is home to almost half a million Somalis with more crossing the border every day to escape violence and famine. In all 12 million people need food aid because of the drought in the Horn of Africa. High-profile international visitors have paraded through the dusty camps in recent weeks. The latest is Mia Farrow the actress who is also a United Nations goodwill ambassador. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton caught up with her just as she arrived.   Wheels down Mia Farrow has arrived in Dadaab. So nice to meet you.  Hi.  My name is Ofeibea from NPR. Pleased to meet you madam.  Hello. Happy to meet you.  OK.  Thank you. Oh it is a pleasure.  There were a couple of droplets of rain just as your plane was circling and landing.  And then no more huh?  But what good auspices?  I hope so. I hope so. We certainly hope for rain. A soft enduring gentle rain for the next what four months? That would be lovely.  Dadaab refugee settlement is about 50 miles from Kenya's arid and dusty border with Somalia across which tens of thousands of Somalis have made their way in recent weeks escaping conflict drought and now famine. Armed with a black notebook and a camera Mia Farrow gets down to business.  a meeting with children.  Eye ear.  Eye ear.  Nose and mouth.  Nose and mouth.  Head shoulder knees and toes.  Head shoulder knees and toes.  Eye ear nose and mouth.  Eye ear nose and mouth.  Eye ear...  How many of the children are - have arrived in the last three four months?  Oh it is quite a big number. We admitted about 1500. Yeah...  School's out in Dadaab but the recent influx of children arriving from Somalia is acclimatizing to refugee life in Kenya and preparing for school ahead of the new term beginning next month.  Hello.  Hello.  Hello.  How are you?  I am fine!  Excellent. Does anyone want to talk about - explain to me how they came here? Anybody?  From the school it is off to Ifo Reception Center at one of the camps. Here the new Somali refugees are given wristbands and a three-week supply of food. More questions from Mia Farrow and answers from Meherreen Afzal of the UN Refugee Agency at Ifo.  And if you see a child that is looking very thin for instance a little one there by the tree?  Yeah. There is a medical screening unit that is set up. The idea is to capture all those that are severely malnourished and to send them immediately to the GIZ Hospital which is right behind.   This ward at Ifo Hospital is full of severely malnourished children. They are skin and bones. Farrow who is accompanied by her own daughter Quincy expresses her sorrow to one mother Sadumo Salad who has lived through war the Islamist insurgency and drought in Somalia.  The lady was saying that if there could be rain she would go home. She says she can deal with the violence if only there would be rain. And so she came with her children and she is praying for rain like everyone here.  So what else have the Somali refugees been telling Mia Farrow?  People seem dazed because of the long walk and the reasons that they were forced to leave because their cattle died because their crops failed because no rain was coming because missiles were falling and gunfire was so much a part of just being terrified through the days and nights. And one woman said to me what will happen to us now? As if I could say. And I said - I asked if she would go home again to Somalia. This woman here said yes if the rains would come. Another woman said I am terrified of the bombs. They want rain and then they want peace. Those are very very basic requests.  Farrow says she will ask the world not to forget the people suffering drought and famine in the Horn of Africa. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Dadaab northern Kenya. 