 In the Gaza Strip it is a time of war and also a Muslim holiday Eid al-Fitr. Rocket fire continues from both Israel and Hamas and the death toll continues to rise. But in the midst of all this yesterday NPR's Emily Harris followed one Gazan as he marked a holiday during wartime.  Every Eid Rafik el-Masri goes visiting relatives a fitting ritual for a family leader. This year he just went to different places than usual. First stop - al-Shifa Gaza's main hospital to greet a young man - his nephew - wounded by shrapnel. Two floors up Masri drops in on another nephew in his 20s.  .  The young man's legs are burned both wrapped in bandages. Seven thousand members of the Masri family lives in Beit Hanoun in Gaza's northeast right near Israel's border where fighting has been constant and fierce. Rafik el-Masri nods to the young man's mother sitting next to the bed. R.   Both were injured because of shelling at his house. The mother too had injuries in her stomach. But because there are not enough beds and her situation is better than him they put her on a chair next to his side.  Masri is a political science professor. In his Prada glasses and a bright striped shirt he fills the role of a family statesman checking on the clan during this crisis of war. From the car he spots cousins on the sidewalk and sticks his head out the window. R.  .  His next stop - several U.N. school buildings where hundreds if not thousands of Masris are staying.   There are more hugs and handshakes...  .  ...And in one classroom a relative who has just lost her son.  .  She calls him a resistance fighter and said he stayed in the house and died in the shelling. She has nine other children but with no money they cannot do anything special for Eid. In another classroom a young father Rasan el-Masri  says this year he chose to not mark the holiday. He did let his son pick out a toy. The 4-year-old chose a plastic gun.   It is much quieter than the big guns he is been hearing. Although Rafik el-Masri left his home two weeks ago he has not slept in a school. Instead he borrowed a friend's spare apartment in Gaza City.   There are 53 people staying in this three-bedroom apartment including the mothers say eight babies at least.   The matriarch of the bunch 84-year-old Amna el-Masri  wakes up from a nap on the floor. She remembers big Eid celebrations.  .  We used to make cakes and sweets and get dressed up in new clothes she said. Sometimes we would slaughter a cow or a sheep and give meat away. This Eid she lets fly a dark insult in Arabic. There is no slaughter no sweets. They will eat hummus and sandwiches from a local shop. Twenty-eight-year-old Tamer el-Masri remembers Eid traditions like his grandmother had.  My old days - my Eid - it was a beautiful thing. We go to the mosque and pray. And after that we go to uncles aunts and my cousins and see them. This day was - it is a nice day for every Muslim in the world. But I am sorry for my kids. They do not - they do not have the sweet of this Eid - this holiday.  With some family killed others injured and almost all displaced Tamer el-Masri says he is never felt as angry or hopeless before. Still he says there is one special thing about Eid in Gaza T.  The good part - we will be together - being together.  - Crowded together. For how long? They are not sure. Emily Harris NPR News Gaza. 