 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. There were clashes in the streets of Tehran today.  they were chanting in support of defeated presidential candidate Mir-Hossein Mousavi and they were marking the tenth anniversary of student protests against the regime. Ramin Mostaghim is a special correspondent in Tehran for the Los Angeles Times and he joins us now. Mr. Mostaghim what happened today? Mr.  Today around 4 p.m. local time around 1000 people mostly young and mostly in black shirts in the sneakers carrying one bottle of mineral water as they faced the anti-riot police they started chanting death to dictator. They just chanted slogans against Ahmadinejad in some cases and Allahu Akbar whenever they could.  Allahu Akbar God is great they chanted. Mr.  Yeah.  And what did the anti-riot police do? Mr.  So far they tried to be more intimidating than being brutal. So they beat their shields in the beginning. They tried to storm in group on motorcycles. But mostly they were trying to have more bark than bite.  But you did report you could hear the sound of a woman who was crying who evidently was being beaten at one point. Mr.  In some cases a couple women were almost detained but the demonstrators other onlookers tried to boo. That is a technique to boo the anti-riot police whenever they try to detain anyone. And in some cases in Vali Asr Square the north of Tehran University the group of demonstrators were facing the tear gas canisters and batons and also some sort of harsh beat up. Some witnesses state that four or five cars were smashed by the anti-riot police because they were chanting something against the government.  These protesters today took to the streets defying a ban I gather. They did not apply for a permit. They are violating a ban on demonstrations. The government as I understand it is determined to crack down on any kind of demonstration. Is that right? Mr.  Yes that is true.  the governor of province of Tehran said that anyone who takes the streets because demonstration are banned and no permission for demonstration has been issued. So there will be a stampede and smashed under the feet of the Iranian great nation.  Has there been any word from Mir-Hossein Mousavi today? Mr.  No no. I mean he has not been in the public since a couple of weeks ago. He had met some of the academic professors and he had talked with some of these like-minded people. But he had not issued anything specifically how to take through the streets today.  Does the government intend to release any more information about the disputed presidential election? Mr.  No. For them it is clear and the results are clear cut and there is nothing to talk about it.  Mr. Mostaghim just one other question. Apart from the protests does life in Tehran go on as normal? Is there anything different about life in the Iranian capital these days? Mr.  I think it is different because people seem more determined and they are getting some new agenda. And from now on they get - they seem that they are getting some new organizations and they are organizing themselves into something small but very defiant.  A real as we would say a grassroots political organization. Mr.  Yes it can be felt that the grassroots political organization is going on and just - they are looking for some other protests to take to the streets.  Mr. Mostaghim thank you very much for talking with us today. Mr.  Pleasure.  That is Ramin Mostaghim special correspondent in Tehran for the Los Angeles Times. 