 Today Mexicans are choosing a new president and this is all taking place at a time of extreme violence. Dozens of campaign workers and political candidates have been murdered in recent months along with thousands of others. NPR's Carrie Kahn is our correspondent in Mexico and she is with us now. Carrie thanks so much for being here.  Oh thanks so much for having me.  First of all I understand that there is a front-runner. Can you tell us about him?  Sure. His name is Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. This is his third time running for president. He is running under a new party that he started. It is called Morena. It is brand-new and it is really just all about him. You know his stump speech really has not changed much over the years. But this year it is really striking a strong chord with millions of Mexicans that are just fed up with corruption and the violence in the country. That is what Lopez Obrador says the main problem in Mexico is - it is corruption that leads to all the crime the violence the poverty inequality and the sluggish economic growth the country has experienced for so many years. And he says he is going to cut the perks and corruption from the top and give that money and savings to the bottom - raising salaries pensions for the elderly scholarships for the young. And he says he will be the most hardworking government official ever 00 in the morning and working 16 hours a day with an austere government that will not raise taxes or the national debt. So he is got a big agenda there and a lot of promises.  Could you talk a bit more though about the bloodshed leading up to today's election? I mean why do you think that is? And is that a factor in this election at all?  Well one of the reasons that the country has been so polarized over this election and it is got - it is such a big election. That is the thing. It is like not only are - there is an election for president but the entire congress - every seat in the congress is up. There is nine governors running races and there is hundreds of mayoral races. They say it is one of the biggest elections ever in Mexico's history. So there is a lot at stake here. As you said there is been a lot of violence too. More than 130 candidates and politicians have been murdered since last September when the pre-campaigns started for this election. Those are mostly in small towns. Those are where the power structure is really about either organized crime gangs or just powerful families and business interests that are really feeling threatened by this moment of change that is sort of coming over the country and people's fed up with the establishment. We will have to see if it is discouraging voter participation especially in small towns. Where I have been - I have been to three states now. I was in the - Mexico City for a while this morning and then I moved to the state of Mexico and now I am here in the central state of Hidalgo. And we have just seen a constant stream of voters - very tranquil areas where I have been.  Since you mentioned that you have been traveling around what are voters telling you? What are you hearing from them?  You hear a lot that people want change. The number-one issue everybody talks about is violence. They are just really tired of all the violence in the country. The murder rate last year was the highest since record-keeping has been taken. Over 30000 people were murdered last year. And this year is set to break even more records. And that is what people are most talking about. They want a change. It is interesting because I picked some places to go where the ruling party still is strong. And the other party which is known as the PAN Party - it is a conservative party - is strong especially where I am right now. And people say that they are voting to make sure that - they think Lopez Obrador is going to win the presidency but they want to make sure that there is opposition in the congress. And that is why they are coming out to vote - to make sure there is checks and balances on his power.  And before we let you go what about relations with President Trump and the U.S.? Is that playing a role?  Well actually it has not. All three of the major candidates here speak the same about President Trump. They say they are going to demand that he respects Mexico. They are going to stand up to him. Lopez Obrador says he is going to make sure that President Trump respects him and that he will not allow Mexico to become anybody's pinata.  That is NPR's Carrie Kahn in Mexico. Carrie thank you.  You are welcome. 