 In New York San Francisco and other cities across the U.S. yesterday thousands of people marched in celebration of LGBT Pride. In Istanbul Turkey people who tried to march encountered rubber bullets tear gas and arrests. For the third year in a row marchers gathered despite a government ban. This is all happening as the Turkish president tightens his control on the government and shuts out civil society groups. Laura Ozlen is one of the organizers and joins us now from Istanbul. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Hello.  What reasons did the government give for banning Turkish Pride march?  Well the first reason was nationalist and Islamist group stress and the other one was public security and public comfort. These were the reasons.  So the government said that they were trying to protect gay people from nationalistic and other groups. Do you believe that was the real reason?  Yes and no because it is a threat. It is real. But since they have not done much about these threats for three years now - they do not take them into custody. They do not do anything about these threats in the real life. So it seems absurd to actually ban the people who would do the march instead of stopping the other group.  So what happened when people tried to gather?  They dispersed. I mean police attacked they dispersed. And 41 people were in custody in total. So we kept an eye on them and so on. So we tried to keep it safe basically.  Do you know people who were arrested?  Some of them yes.  And what did they describe happening?  I mean it was violent. And somehow they can recognize LGBTI-plus people now they say. I mean they selected people while they were trying to get into the streets. We do not know how. But like you are wearing colorful stuff you cannot get in. I mean it was like a gaydar. And they kept them in the bus they took them to the courthouse and they were out. I mean it was pretty simple.  Pride marches have been happening in Turkey for more than a decade. Why do you think that just in the last few years the government has cracked down?  Well they are using Ramadan as an excuse because it is a religious thing and because they think it is indecent to walk around naked.  Were people naked?  No but it is like - you know how it works. It is costumes some nudity. So it is possible. I mean we cannot stop people from being naked in Pride marches. But I mean politically speaking we do not see any point. We do not think it is legitimate as an excuse.  Turkey's president Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been clamping down on government and on civil society groups. Do you think LGBT people are being singled out in particular? Or do you see other groups being treated in similar ways?  Yeah. It is not only LGBTI-plus groups of course. It is a total thing that they are doing. I mean total oppression that no one is being able to do anything outside in the streets. It is a general thing they are doing. It is not particular for our case.  Generally what is life like for gay people in Turkey today? Are there clubs? Can people express affection in public? Does it feel safe?  Well it depends where and how. But in the center I would say it is pretty calm pretty open. And in other spheres outside of the center it can get trickier.  There is supposed to be a trans march next weekend. What do you expect will happen?  I expect chaos . So I mean we will struggle again. I mean that is how it was last year. So I expect a little amount of chaos at this. But we will figure it out.  So people will take to the street even knowing that there may be chaos?  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean because this is the only couple of weeks that people can actually express themselves and be who they are. It is like two weeks of solidarity two weeks of freedom for Istanbul's community. So people want to do it no matter what. Even if we did not call for people people would have come because it is pretty important for them.  Laura Ozlen an LGBT organizer in Istanbul speaking with us via Skype. Thank you very much.  Thank you for speaking.  