 Suketu Mehta writes about that phenomenon for the August 1st issue of The New Yorker magazine. He tells the story of an African woman in New York City who is seeking asylum a woman he calls Caroline.  So it was a kind of veiled schizophrenia. She lived under this multiplicity of names and aliases which enabled her to survive in New York.  As you say she claimed that she had been raped in her native country and she had not been. Was there any truth to her story generally and did she have a well-founded fear of persecution if she were to return to her native land?  Like many of these stories there was some truth and some untruth to her story. So she most definitely did have a well-founded fear of persecution. Her parents were supporters of the opposition in her country and their house had been broken into by soldiers. She had been beaten by soldiers her family had been beaten but she had not been raped. And she was told that in order to present a compelling narrative to the asylum officers it would be better if she faked that she had been raped - because so many women in Africa who apply for asylum have been raped.  Now when you say she was told these things there actually is a supportive community - in this case in New York City - that is helping people who are applying for asylum to game the system effectively.  Right. And every community - every immigrant community - have these asylum story shapers who are variously known as notarios or case builders. And some of these people are paid and others just want to help other people in the community. They are not really trained but they think they know what the system expects from an asylum petitioner.  You were actually present - do I have this right? - when Caroline went before an immigration officer a man you write with a reputation for being tough for turning down a lot of asylum seekers. Would you describe the interrogation of Caroline as a tough one?  So in the same way she had read the symptoms of someone who might be raped and persecuted and gave them back upon command.  I have to confess that now being myself two generations from the boat that sailed into the country I identify at least as much with the hearing officer or the immigration officer as I do with the applicant for asylum.  Were you raped? Yes. Did you go to the hospital? Is there some document? Yeah there is but it is not here. There are papers somewhere back in my home country. How can he conceivably verify the story that he is being told?  The average immigration judge for example has 1200 cases in his or her docket. Immigration judges have far fewer legal clerks to do more investigation of these documents than other federal judges.  One impression though one comes away with from reading your article is that whatever else one might say of Caroline and her community it is not a group of naives who are merely adrift in the big city here in the United States. It is a smart shrewd way of getting legal status in the country.  No they are not naive and they are not deadbeats. They work extremely hard. They might be victims but they are also survivors. And in the end I found myself really admiring Caroline's enterprise. It is the American story after all of immigrants coming here facing great hardship of whatever kind - economic duress political persecution - and somehow willy-nilly making their life in this new land.  In the end she was granted asylum. Her case prevailed.  That is right. In the end the officer found her narrative compelling enough and granted her asylum and she is a model American citizen by most measures. She has a job a car and a husband. She goes to church every Sunday. She pays her taxes and she is never taken a dime from the government.  Well Suketu Mehta thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you for having me on the show.  Mr. Mehta's article in The New Yorker is called The Asylum Seeker. 