 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Edward Snowden the man who says he leaked National Security Agency secrets is on the move - at least he is checked out of his Hong Kong hotel according to staff there. He flew to Hong Kong last month and this weekend revealed that he was behind the recent leaks. Snowden said he chose Hong Kong because of its tradition of free speech. But Hong Kong may not provide the protection that he is seeking as NPR's Frank Langfitt reports.  In the last couple of months Washington has criticized Beijing for allegedly using its military to mine business secrets from American companies. Now a man who has exposed some of America's spying secrets is seeking refuge in the Chinese territory of Hong Kong. Opportunity for some Chinese payback? Most political observers here do not think so. DR.  I do not think they want to ruin the relationship that they have just spent so much time and energy trying to improve.  David Zweig follows Chinese politics as a professor at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. Chinese President Xi Jinping just wrapped up an informal two-day summit with President Obama in California. The meeting was designed to promote a more trusting and respectful relationship between the world's two top powers. Zweig says dragging Snowden a 29-year-old former CIA technical assistant into the mix does not make sense given the larger stakes.  Not to knock him for what he is done. I think what he is done in many ways is quite valiant but he is not a key issue in U.S.-China relations. We are talking about you know two states that are trying to figure out how to get along over the next 10 years and not go to a global war because China is rising and challenging the U.S.  Snowden has not been charged with a crime. Hong Kong has an extradition treaty with the U.S. So the American government could request his return if he is indicted. The territory is semiautonomous but ultimately answerable to Beijing. Zweig does not think China's leaders would try to intervene to keep Snowden.  If the relationship was bad or if people wanted to make it into a political issue they probably could. But I do not think - I cannot imagine that the foreign ministry will be advising anything but to let this guy go if the courts decide that he is extraditable.  Snowden checked out of Hong Kong's Mira Hotel today according to staff there. It is a stylish venue where rooms go for more than 500 a night according to the website. It was not clear where Snowden went from there. With no warrant for his arrest he is free to leave Hong Kong. But if he wants to stay legal scholars say a recent wrinkle in the territory's asylum law might buy him time.  Right now for Hong Kong there is a bit of a legal limbo.  Simon Young is a law professor at the University of Hong Kong. In March Hong Kong's top court found its asylum law defective. Judges said the territory could no longer outsource its asylum screening to the United Nations. Now the law must be rewritten. Until that happens Young says asylum applicants can stay in Hong Kong.  Until it is implemented anyone making a claim for asylum simply cannot be returned to their place where they claim persecution.  Young says it could be months before the law is redrafted. He has no way of knowing if the asylum law figured in Snowden's choice of Hong Kong. But Young says it would not have been hard to learn about it on the Internet.  You just have to be able to search those two words Hong Kong asylum and I am sure you - with a little bit of digging you would find it.  Snowden told the newspaper The Guardian that he was interested in seeking asylum in Iceland which has been particularly supportive of Internet freedom. The country's ambassador to China said an application could only be made in Iceland not from overseas. Reporters spent the day in Hong Kong looking for Snowden in hopes of figuring out his next move. Frank Langfitt NPR News Shanghai. 