 After Sunday's protests President Trump weighed in with his most forceful words so far about the situation in Hong Kong. Last night after agreeing to a fresh round of trade talks with China Trump issued this warning to Beijing.   I think I would be very hard to deal if they do violence. I mean if it is another Tiananmen Square it is - I think it is a very hard thing to do if there is violence.  But how much influence can the U.S. exert on what is happening in Hong Kong currently? To help us answer that question we are joined now by Kurt Tong who until July was the consul general to Hong Kong and Macao. Basically he was the official envoy of the U.S. to Hong Kong. Welcome.  Thank you. Thanks for having me.  So how much leverage does the U.S. really have right now in shaping China's response to Hong Kong?  Well the U.S. is a very major partner for Hong Kong's economy. We have some 1400 U.S. businesses that have a major presence there. And so it is - we are important to Hong Kong. Hong Kong is also important to the United States and our ability to do business in the region and also have good relationships with lots of different aspects of China.  Right but as we just heard Trump is now linking the ongoing trade talks with China with the situation in Hong Kong. Does that strike you as a good strategy for dealing with what is happening in Hong Kong?  Sure. Well I think it is important for the United States to be you know consistent and quite principled in our approach to Hong Kong in really continuing to make the case that it is very important for Hong Kong to enjoy the high degree of autonomy that it was promised under the original arrangement at the handover under the one country two systems framework. And so you know we should be very consistent and continue to push for that autonomy and also for respect for the Hong Kong people's freedom of expression. So I think that it is good that the president is paying attention to the issue and stating that it is important to the United States.  You mentioned that is important to - for the U.S. to voice respect for the autonomy of people in Hong Kong their freedom of expression. But is there a risk that connecting what is happening in Hong Kong with the ongoing trade talks is there a risk that it sounds kind of transactional?  Well I certainly do not think that that is the right message to be sending. And I am guessing that that is not what is intended. I think that you know politically there is an impact of the situation in Hong Kong on how the United States is viewing its ability to cooperate with China writ large. But I do not think that there is a - that it is proper to have a specific linkage or quid pro quo with respect to Hong Kong because certainly we would not want to be trading Hong Kong away for a trade deal.  You mentioned that you think it is important for the U.S. to stay on a consistent message with Hong Kong but President Trump has sent mixed signals. Earlier this month he said that what is happening in Hong Kong is quote between Hong Kong and between China. He called the protests riots back then. Do you think the president's inconsistency on the messaging on Hong Kong has worked to weaken whatever influence the U.S. hopes to exert?  Well there is a fine line to walk on these things? So certainly the United States should never support violent protests. And I think that that needs to be made clear at the same time as supporting the general principles of freedom of assembly and freedom of expression.  Kurt Tong is the former U.S. consul general to Hong Kong and Macao. Thank you very much for joining us.  Thank you. It was a real pleasure.  