 Last summer the Ukrainian military pushed into Debaltseve a city in Eastern Ukraine being held by separatist forces loyal to Russia. In January those separatists pushed back.   And they won. Pro-Russian rebels took back the city but many say they had help. There were these soldiers. You can see them online in pictures and on YouTube - soldiers who looked different from their faces to their unmarked uniforms who reportedly backed up the militia with guns and tanks. Some locals still living in Debaltseve say these soldiers are part of the Russian army even though the Kremlin denies it. So VICE News correspondent Simon Ostrovsky decided to track the soldiers through their postings on social media. His new documentary is called Selfie Soldiers.  I wanted to find any way to be able to confirm you know well what pretty much everybody already believes which is that the Russian government has been directly involved in the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. And it just happened to be that it was the Russian soldiers themselves that provided that proof inadvertently by posting photographs of themselves online in Ukraine. It could not have been simpler but you know there it is.  So tell us about how you came across the selfies of the Russian soldier Bato Dambaev - what you learned about him.  So we were working together with the Atlantic Council and Eliot Higgins who is a citizen journalist who is been geo-locating which is to say finding the location of photographs for a long time until we found one who would posted a photograph of himself in an area that looked like it was the battlefield and was different from all of the other photographs that he would posted of himself. So once we saw that there was a photograph there that looked a lot like it could have been taken in Ukraine we started focusing on the soldier and he was called Bato Dambaev. We traced his entire journey from Siberia 4000 miles away to Eastern Ukraine.  One photo in particular where it is down to like the individual branches on a tree that just match up perfectly - it is kind of hard to deny. You managed to actually reach Bato on the phone. What did he have to say?  He denied everything. I think he would actually been prepared as all soldiers are that they are supposed take off their insignia before they go into Ukraine. I know that he reported me having contacted him immediately after I spoke with him on the phone. And this is not in the film but the security services came and paid me a visit at my hotel. And I was essentially hounded by them out of Russia thereafter. It is a very sensitive issue. Everybody from Putin on down denies that it is happening. So until Russians understand - until the Russian government admits that it is taking part in the conflict I do not think there is going to be any kind of a resolution. And I hope that this film brings us a little bit closer at least to that sort of an admission that it is going on.  Simon I have to ask you - I mean you talked about this kind of unnerving experience you had on this recent trip. On a previous trip you were actually kidnapped by pro-Russian separatists. You are back in Moscow now. How safe do you feel doing this reporting?  Well I am not doing any reporting at the moment so I do not feel like I am ruffling anybody's feathers right now. I am just here visiting friends and family. One other thing - I think that the way that the Russians are trying to prevent this kind of reporting is I have been applying for journalist accreditation which I have been able to get before for the last year - over a year. And it was a few days after I was basically pushed out of Russia that I finally got an email saying that I would be denied journalist paperwork. An explanation has never been given to me. And I think this is an extra method that the government is using to prevent reporting on its activities in Ukraine.  Simon Ostrovsky is a correspondent for VICE News. Simon thanks very much.  Thank you. 