 The United Nations has launched a 12 million project in the Gaza Strip. Its aim is to clean up the rubble of buildings destroyed back in December and January by Israeli bombardment. The U.N. says it will be another year before all the rubble is cleared and there is no indication of when actual reconstruction will start. NPR's Peter Kenyon reports from Gaza on the project and the obstacles it faces.  Since Gazans emerged from their hiding places as Israeli forces withdrew in January they have been waiting for the day when the outpouring of international sympathy and financial pledges will turn into something more concrete. They are still waiting. But the bulldozers have at last started to clear away the mountains of concrete glass and steel that were once homes offices and mosques.   On the edge of an industrial area near the village of Izbet Abed Rabbo northwest of Gaza City bulldozers and a front-end loader begin the arduous process of shifting tons of rubble towards waiting trucks. In the background a high-rise apartment building lies in a heap on the ground with just the two reinforced sides of an elevator shaft jutting awkwardly up into the sky like a naked man startled by a fallen shower curtain. Jens Toyberg-Frandzen is the U.N. development project's special representative for the Palestinian territories. He says the challenges are huge. Mr.  We are talking about 600000 tons of rubble that has to be removed. So it is a massive-scaled program. There is the risk of unexploded ordnances amongst some of the houses here. We have to make sure that people who are engaged in this have the adequate training. So there is a lot of activities that was necessary.  By international aid standards this project has moved along at a brisk pace. The U.N. spent the immediate aftermath of the war trying to see that some 21 million in emergency aid was distributed to homeless Gazans without being seen to benefit Hamas which is considered a terrorist group by many donor countries. World leaders pledged billions of dollars in reconstruction aid but that did not come until March. Three months later the rubble-clearing is underway. But while aid groups may be pleased with their efforts Gazans contemplating a long hot summer staring at the pulverized remains of their property are understandably unimpressed.     Not far from the rubble-clearing effort a line of men wait semi-patiently while workers from a Turkish aid agency struggle to accommodate the demand for their food and aid packages. Eyad Mohammed eyes the piles of rubble surrounding him and shrugs. Mr.   Yes of course they did not do it and they will not do anything now because of the siege. All those houses cannot be rebuilt because of the siege.  Mohammed and many other people here believe the Israeli policy of keeping building materials out of Gaza is not only cruel but largely pointless. After all they say Hamas has the power to get at least some cement on the black market smuggled in from Egypt so it is the innocent who suffer the most. But Mohammed also blames Hamas and the rival Fatah movement for fighting each other when they should be looking after the people. He works for a Fatah-run ministry and is still getting paid - for now. Mr.   Yes I am still receiving it but in any month in any moment I am afraid they will cut it. And as you know the political situation is totally affecting the economical situation here. Situation is very depressing. Nothing is stable. You do not feel confidence in this country. You do not feel safe in it.  Peter Kenyon NPR News in the Gaza Strip. 