 Delegations from Yemen's warring factions are traveling to Geneva for peace talks to begin Monday. Regional powers including Saudi Arabia are also there but so far expectations are low. The U.N. envoy says his first aim is just to get all the sides to talk in the same room. Safa Al Ahmad has reported extensively from Yemen. Hi Safa.  Thank you for having me.  So can you tell us what is the latest you are hearing from your friends and from your sources on the ground about what daily life is like for civilians in Yemen?  Everybody's saying that life has become really really difficult right now. I mean Yemen was already one of the poorest Arab countries. But now because of the Saudi-led airstrikes on Yemen nothing is coming in. Water electricity food medicine - all these things are really really - become hard to come by. And even when they are available they are extremely expensive.  This conflict is frequently referred to as a proxy war. Saudi Arabia justifies its bombing its military campaign in Yemen in part by claiming that the Houthi rebels are supported by Iran. You were embedded - spent some time with the Houthi. What evidence did you see of Iranian involvement?  Well the Houthis definitely deny the Iranian link. Very little proper journalism has been done to prove that link in that way. I am not denying that there is a relationship between the Houthis and the Iranians but to what level is that relationship? And is that really a reason for another country to come bomb the hell out of - out of Yemen? I would take a lot of what is being said right now with a grain of salt.  This is a very complicated conflict. I mean there is even a third side in it and you have reported from that. You have reported from the al-Qaida-held territory. You grew up in Saudi Arabia. You are as familiar with all the sides in this conflict probably as anybody. I am wondering how hopeful you are that these peace talks in Geneva will get anywhere.  I am not hopeful at all. I am actually quite skeptical. There've been so many peace talks and so many negotiations since 2012. This is where we are now. We have the Houthis who are now taking over the capital. We have the secessionists who used to be peaceful - are now militias on the streets fighting the Houthis. So what used to be something that could have been managed with negotiations has become something extremely bloody on the ground. And the air strikes - the Saudi airstrikes have just come in to complicate an already really bloody and complicated conflict in Yemen.  So where do you see this conflict going in the coming months? I mean is any side - does any side seem to be winning?  No but I mean this is the danger of the situation right? The Houthis know that they cannot actually win and can take control of all of Yemen but the Southerners for example will not stop fighting against the Houthis. I think we have passed that point where the south will continue to want to stay in the unity with North Yemen and that was long coming. And the civil war with the Houthis now has definitely I think confirmed to many Southerners who maybe thought a federal state or some other machination of a federation in Yemen was possible. Now there is no way I think. This is has yet to be fully told and I think that is left a lot of bad blood between North and South Yemen.  So I just want to be clear. Do you - do you think that Yemen is going to emerge from this intact as a country?  No.  Safa Al Ahmad has reported extensively from Yemen. She is currently working on a new documentary. Safa thanks very much.  Thank you. 