 Last night in Montreal Pauline Marois the leader of the separatist Parti Quebecois was celebrating a victory at an election night rally. She had led the PQ to a plurality of seats in the provincial parliament of Quebec enough to form a minority government for the French-speaking Canadian province.    And as she spoke of her conviction that the future of Quebec is to become a sovereign country two aides hustled her off stage to the alarm of the crowd. A gunman had entered the hall and opened fire. One man was killed another injured. And after the suspect who was later identified in news reports as Richard Henry Bain was taken into custody he shouted in French Les anglais se reveillent the English are waking up. Well joining us to talk about this and the election result that last night's shooting has overshadowed is Sophie Cousineau who covered this election for the Globe and Mail newspaper. And first Sophie is anything more known about the gunman or the shooting last night?  No. The only thing that we know is he was hospitalized as he was interrogated by the police. This man is from north of Montreal and he is a businessman who owns a fishing and hunting camp. He seemed to be politically motivated if you take what he said literally but when you saw the images was rambling. So he seemed to be maybe suffering from a mental illness.  Well let us talk about the election result. The Parti Quebecois came in first in the election but did not win a majority. How strong are they and how strong is separatist sentiment there in Quebec?  Well they are strong in the sense that they won but it is a very weak mandate. As you may know in a parliamentary system if you have the majority of the seats no one can touch you. But if you just have a plurality then it forces you to compromise on many of your issues. So in that sense it is quite doubtful that they will go ahead with their plans for a nation because right now the sentiment in Quebec is really not to the effect of another a third referendum on sovereignty. There is quite a lot of fatigue over this debate.  Yes there have been two referenda in the past in Quebec. And in each case the idea of an independent Quebec was defeated. It still polls well below a majority of people there?  Yes it does. It is actually at a low point. If you - the latest crowd poll which was done last week they said when Quebecers are asked the question if they would vote yes only 28 percent would say so and two-thirds of Quebecers do not even want the question to be asked.  Well if the PQ if the Parti Quebecois they have seen the same polls that you are talking about and they see that there is not real support there for a referendum on independence what sorts of nationalist programs might they push short of a referendum?  Well they have been very vocal about language law. And that has disturbed the English community in Montreal. They proposed that for instance if you are an immigrant in Quebec you would have to pass a French proficiency test to run for public office. They would also force students who are about 17 and 18 years old who go to a is a program in Quebec which is between high school and university to go to a French school unless their parents had been schooled in English previously. And also they have been very vocal about having the Quebec pension fund invest more money in Quebec and these are the types of very nationalistic policies that the government is hoping to put in place.  I would imagine that at coming political events in the province of Quebec there will be more security then there was at this one.  Yes. Yes. And you have to realize in Canada it is quite different than in the U.S. These are not airport tight security events. There is no metal detectors and basically anyone could walk in. And this guy basically parked his car behind the alley where the theater was and walked about 50 feet with a robe a gun that looks like an AK-47 and a hood and was not stopped until he had shot two people. So I think there is going to be a before and an after in this case and we might see more I guess U.S.-style security.  Well thanks for talking with us about it.  My pleasure.  That is Sophie Cousineau who is the chief Quebec correspondent for the national Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail.   This is NPR. 