 History keeps being made in Zimbabwe as the country prepares for an election on Monday. It will be the first elections since independence without Robert Mugabe on the ballot. There are also smaller historical milestones like an opposition rally in Mugabe's home region. NPR's Eyder Peralta reports.   In the past this would have been unthinkable.  .  .  This was sacred ground for Robert Mugabe and now there is a rally for the party that opposed him for most of his 37-year rule. But it is still tense here. Security surrounds the event. Nelson Sibanda an opposition supporter at the rally tells me it is not that Mugabe was popular here. It is that people were afraid to challenge him.  Well he was always oppressing people.  He looks around and sees people looking at us talking. And he suddenly decides maybe he should not be doing this.  I have to know yourself before I introduce myself to you.  Sure yeah yeah absolutely. With my mic cut off he tells me that in this region of Zimbabwe if you were ever suspected of supporting the opposition Mugabe's men would burn your house down. Some villagers were given a choice - short sleeve or long sleeve - amputation at the wrist or at the shoulder. Christopher Gawara a local opposition politician seemed downright giddy. He says something like this had not happened in almost four decades here.  This day is an historical day. In 37 years there is no opposition party that has put its foot here in .  Out of the corner of my eye I see Nelson Sibanda approaching us again working up the courage to speak out. Military guys he says are still trying to intimidate supporters of the MDC the opposition alliance.  A month ago they threatened me just because I was wearing a red beret for MDC Alliance.  I ask him if he ever thought he would see a rally like this here.  No. It is just like we are dreaming.  From the rally I drive to the center of the Zvimba District to a storefront with posters of President Emmerson Mnangagwa who took over Mugabe's party and is running for a new term. Conilia Mpofu is doing a friend's hair. I ask her how she is feeling.  I am feeling fear.  She fears that if Nelson Chamisa the opposition leader loses he will unleash violence. What if he wins?  .  A caravan of opposition supporters zooms past as she pauses.  .  She says they have only known Mugabe here. She is afraid that the world she has known for so long is about to be shattered. Eyder Peralta NPR News Zvimba Zimbabwe. 