 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. There was a joyful repatriation in Iraq this week of a 4400-year-old statue of a Sumerian king. It is considered one of the most precious artifacts that was looted from Baghdad's National Museum in the chaos after the U.S. invasion. Now after seven years of exile and some shady black market deals King Entemena of Lagash is back home. Reporter Farah Stockman of the Boston Globe watched as the statue was packed up for shipment from the Iraqi embassy here in Washington. Farah welcome to the program. Ms.  Thanks for having me.  Describe the statue of King Entemena. What does he look like? Ms.  Well he is rather short and he is about 3 feet tall dark. He is wearing a skirt. He has inscriptions on his arms and on his back and he has no head.  He is headless? Ms.  He is headless yes.  And what happened to the head? Ms.  Archeologists think that it was actually lopped off 4000 years ago when his city was conquered and they think it might be a symbol of the emancipation of the city of Ur which was where the statue was actually discovered.  What about the real King Entemena? What do we know about his significance to Iraqi ancient civilization? Ms.  I think he is known as a powerful king. This was the cradle of civilization was one of the earliest known civilizations of ancient Mesopotamia and I think the kings after him were much weaker than he was.  We mentioned that this statue hundreds of pounds worth of King Entemena was stolen from the National Museum in 2003. What happened? And how did he end up where he did here in Washington? Ms.  Well the curators of this museum are used to hiding things. Every time Saddam Hussein went to war they would pack up a lot of their ancient objects and put them in the basement but King Entemena was heavy and they could not move him. And so they left him there when the U.S. arrived and thieves broke in and they actually literally just rolled him down the stairs. And every single stair in this main staircase of the museum was broken.  It could not have been too good for the statue either. Ms.  Right. I think there might be a few chips...  Ms.  ...from that time.  So he is taken from the museum and then where did he go? Ms.  Well he disappeared for several years and the FBI have a most wanted list - Interpol was looking for it and it is a bit shady. U.S. officials have not publicly said exactly how they got it back as it gets pretty clear that they did pay a reward for it. But sort of shady art dealer in New York ended up getting shown a picture of the statue by someone who wanted to sell it someone who had it in Syria and the FBI ended up organizing to get it back.  At some point the United States transfers the statue to the Iraqi embassy here in Washington. Ms.  Yes. So after they recovered it they ended having a ceremony here in Washington D.C. where U.S. officials handed it over to Prime Minister Maliki and this is kind of a symbolic moment - the old ancient ruler in Iraq with the new ruler in Iraq - and they handed him over. But Baghdad was too dangerous to bring him back so they actually kept him here for years. And the Iraqi ambassador had this king in his office and I happened to be interviewing him about the withdrawal of U.S. soldiers and this is something he told me. He pointed to the empty case and said by the way we are taking our ancient king back. And this is very exciting. It was very moving to hear him talk about the statue and what it meant to him personally to have it come back and how it was this metaphor for Iraq basically how you know how destruction is so much quicker than construction. He said it took four days for them to loot all these things and it is taken seven years for us to get even a third of them back. And he said we will be working on this for 20 years and we may never get them all back.  Well here's one complication. The same Iraqi ambassador to Washington has pointed out that there were hundreds of artifacts that were sent back to Iraq from the United States that have disappeared... Ms.  Yeah.  ...taken into the custody of the Iraqi government and no one knows where they are. Ms.  Yes. He was rather diplomatic was not he? And the way he described it he said that there was this shipment last year of things that he would worked tirelessly to collect and that he delivered it to the prime minister's office. And now there is a big question as to what happened to them nobody knows.  Farah Stockman thanks for coming in. Ms.  Thank you.  Farah Stockman of the Boston Globe talking about the repatriation to Iraq of the 4400-year-old statue of King Entemena. 