 Planning a vacation? Cannot decide where to go? Well here's an idea.    I am pleased to report that the situation in Chernobyl is stable.  My name's Martin Duben. I am the managing director of Chernobyl Welcome.  The Chernobyl Welcome tourism company takes visitors to the site of the 1986 nuclear accident in what was then the Soviet Ukraine. Martin Duben's been on the job for three years. He says business has been booming lately thanks to the HBO miniseries about the accident.  Business was good even before the TV series. And then now because of the TV series we start to get even more people.  A one-day tour costs about 140. But if one day is not enough Chernobyl for you you can pay extra to spend the night there.  We actually sleep inside the Chernobyl exclusion zone which is of course the biggest adrenaline thing that many people want to do no matter the cost.  But is it a good idea?    There was nothing sane about Chernobyl.  OK. That is from the TV show. But even at the real Chernobyl things can get interesting.  What people are then mostly surprised by is that they are locked in the hotel because you cannot move freely inside the Chernobyl exclusion zone.  There are lots of restrictions. Food and water are brought in from Kiev. Visitors cannot sit on the ground or smoke outside. And then there is the curiosity of nearby residents who do not quite get Chernobyl tourism.  Most of Ukrainians do not understand why. But they are very well aware of the fact that there is tens of thousands of people visiting Chernobyl. So they do not make any big thing of it. They do not think it is something to be proud of to be famous for in the world.  That said there is a compelling reason for Ukrainians to support the tourism companies licensed to operate in the exclusion zone pay a fee to the government.  The costs for maintaining the zone and for taking care of the power plant are astronomically high. So they are trying to earn money. And one of the ways how to earn money is to basically allow tourism.  At the height of tourist season April and May thousands of people visit Chernobyl. Martin Duben says with crowds like that it is hard to take a picture without someone in your shot. He recommends visiting in late autumn or winter. 