 The band Mashrou' Leila has built up a huge following in the last decade especially in their home country Lebanon.  MASHROU'  .  The frontman and lead singer is gay and some of the songs are political. In the past that has caused problems in Jordan and Egypt. Now organizers of a music festival in Lebanon have canceled a Mashrou' Leila show saying the festival is trying to prevent bloodshed after threats from Christian leaders in the country. Lebanon is considered relatively liberal. So NPR's Ruth Sherlock is with us now from Beirut to talk about what is going on. Hi Ruth.  Hello.  First you have spent time with these guys. You did a profile of them for NPR a couple of years ago. What are they like?  Well they met as architecture students at the Lebanese university. And you really feel that when you meet them you know? The lead singer Hamed Sinno was wearing glasses and a simple black shirt so he seemed quite earnest. And he spoke to me a lot about how their songs are in part about celebrating diversity - everything from LGBTQ rights to gender equality - at the same time rejecting stereotypes like of Muslim women as being not so empowered.   Just come to one of our gigs and you see all these women who are veiled who are just like celebrating other people's diversity who are clearly not without agency.  So this was around the time that their song Roman had come out. And in that video you see this veiled woman that is breakdancing. I went to see them in Lebanon in 2017 and the crowds just loved hearing the song.  MASHROU'  .  There was a real mix of ages in the audience and people said that they saw Mashrou' Leila as being a kind of refreshing take in a region that spends so much of its time focused on war.  So these guys perform in Lebanon. They have a huge following in Lebanon. Why has their concert been canceled? Who is opposing them?  Well they were meant to play in the Christian town of Byblos and the Christian Maronite archbishop of that town has said that they violate religious values. Then Catholic organizations weighed in too as well as some Christian members of parliament. They are in particular objecting to two songs. One called Asnam or Idols and Djin which is a Middle Eastern term for ghosts or spirits. Here's some of the music.  MASHROU'  .  So the Christian groups are objecting to the line I will drown my liver in gin in the name of the father and the son. But it is not really clear why they are calling for this now because these songs are from 2015. And Mashrou' Leila has played lots in this country since then.  Oh so the song is playing on djin as in a ghost like a spirit or also gin as in booze like a spirit. I mean why are...  Exactly.  ...People now raising these objections when the band has played in Lebanon for years?  I asked that question to Ayman Mhanna. He is the executive director of the Samir Kassir Foundation which works to promote freedom of expression. He says this is part of a pattern of growing repression in Lebanon.  We have had many cases of online activists being summoned detained journalists being sentenced to prison to a long series of movies books and bands as well as cultural events related to LGBT rights for example that were banned or cancelled in the last few months.  So Lebanon canceled its pride event last year. And Mhanna says that the state is not doing enough to push back against these many different religious groups both Christian and Muslim. And so it is not protecting the freedoms of expressions that he says are written into the country's constitution.  What is the response been from the band?  They have called the attacks a defamatory campaign. And they say that the words in the songs that the Christian leaders cited have been cherry-picked and taken out of context. They say they do not intend in any way to disrespect people's religions.  That is NPR's Ruth Sherlock in Beirut. Thanks Ruth.  Thank you.  