 The theft of millions of records from the federal Office of Personnel Management including Social Security numbers is thought to be a case of espionage. Fingers have been pointed at China though the Chinese government called that irresponsible.  Other big cyber thefts are financially motivated - credit and bank information stolen as with breaches at Target and Home Depot. Overseas hackers are often blamed for those too we hear about Eastern Europe Russia Ukraine. Well here's a country we hear about less often - Brazil. Whether stealing card numbers themselves or just buying them online Brazilians are world leaders in Internet fraud. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro reports from Rio.  A few months ago Maureen Pao who works at NPR noticed an odd charge on her credit card.  It was a company - foreign language - looked like it could be Spanish maybe Portuguese. I did a little Google search and in fact it did turn out to be a company based in Brazil.  The charge was pretty insignificant - about 11 - but when she looked back over previous bills she saw it had been recurring.  It was really quite clever because it was such a small charge that it did not really raise any red flags.  She told her card company and they canceled her card. It was a minor hassle. She says she was surprised that the scheme originated in Brazil.  I think about beaches and I think about soccer and I definitely do not think about cybercrime.  Cybercrime though has been big in Brazil for a while now especially since Brazilians were early adopters of online banking. Most of the schemes have targeted other Brazilians but now they hit further afield in places like the U.S. While Pao's charge was not big imagine that over tens of thousands of cards over many months. It adds up to a lot of cash.  As far as global fraud is concerned Brazil is almost exclusively at the top.  That is Juan Andres Guerrero a senior security researcher for Kaspersky Labs. The list of scams coming out of Brazil would take too long to detail. Thousands of fraudulent charges coming out of Brazil hit three U.S. financial institutions just to name one recent event.  They are fantastically creative. In our team Brazil actually takes an inordinate amount of time because of the amount of malware the amount of schemes they are constantly creating these phishing campaigns. They are incredibly elaborate.  Elaborate and successful - one of the newest ones targeted a unique payment system in Brazil called the boleto says Guerrero.  Whenever someone needs to make a payment in Brazil they can print a piece of paper that has a barcode.  The boleto system was invented here to try and circumvent online bank fraud.  What happened was criminals caught up to that idea and they decided to design malware specifically to rewrite those barcodes. So they will go so far as to create entirely new avenues and it is profitable for them.  How profitable? Just that scheme alone netted criminals as much as 3.75 billion.   .  We contacted Jose Euson in the state of Acre by Skype. He received what he thought was a legitimate boleto to pay a business creditor some 7500.  .  When he called to confirm the payment they said they had not gotten it. But I have a receipt he told them. That is when he discovered the money had been stolen. He adds unfortunately the bank said they would not reimburse me and now I have had to get a lawyer he says. According to one report at least 75 percent of Brazilian Internet users claim to have been victims of one form of cybercrime or another. The report from the Igarape Institute says the few cyber criminals who have been caught tend to fit a profile - well-educated upper-middle-class males from 25 to 35 years old. It is an attractive business to be in because it pays well and you rarely get caught says Brazilian cybersecurity specialist Lincoln Werneck.  .  He says Brazil only passed its first cybercrime law at the end of 2012 and it was done in a rush only after a soap opera star had private pictures hacked from her account.  .  The laws are completely ineffective and inefficient Werneck says. For example most cybercrimes involve only light penalties house arrest or the paying of a fine not a big deterrent considering the sums involved.  .  He also says federal and state cybercrime divisions are understaffed and underfunded. And he says despite the fact that Brazilians are obsessed with social media and Internet use they are not educated in how to protect themselves online so they frequently fall for scams. Werneck says there is still no law that protects personal information in Brazil. It can be sold or given to the legitimate or illegitimate businesses with no repercussions. He says he hopes a new law will be on the books in the next a few years but he shrugs with the Congress here you never know. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Rio de Janeiro. 