 On Day 2 of President Trump's visit...   ...Thousands of protesters flooded the streets here in central London carrying signs reading jail Trump not kids why did you comb-over here and feed him to the corgis. Those are just the ones with language we can use on public radio. Still as we have been reporting here in Britain all this week loads of people from members of Parliament to random people we struck up conversations with at the pub told us they love America they love Americans and they hope the tensions in the U.S.-U.K. relationship are temporary. These next few minutes we are going to let you listen in on the conversations we have been having here in Britain - three moments three vantage points on the so-called special relationship.   Stop one a display of military pageantry the kind of event President Trump would have eaten up.  Oh wow.  Top of everything else going on in the U.K. this week happens to be the hundredth anniversary of the Royal Air Force celebrated with - what else? - a flyover above Buckingham Palace. The queen walked out onto her balcony to watch and yes so did the newlyweds Harry and Meghan. The highlight at least for me....   ...Twenty-two Typhoon fighter jets flying in perfect formation in the shape of the number 100. What are the chances that in a crowd of thousands we would wind up next to the family of the lead pilot the guy flying the jet that marked the tip of the number one? That is Christopher Hoyle's kids you can hear. They are wearing T-shirts that say that is my daddy and his Typhoon. Hoyle's wife was there too and his dad Des Hoyle who told us his son's been to the U.S. for military exercises at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada.  I know our forces work closely together which is always good is not it you know?  Still?  Oh we are all fans. Just want to sort Donald out God bless him.  Nearby Dennis Hill stood watching wearing a cap emblazoned with an ancient RAF badge. He flew in the 1950s. His dad flew in World War II.  Yes I think we are special because most - a lot of Americans went from here to America in the old days. We speak the same language. And I think we have the same democratic view of life do not we? And we value that association. And long may it live.  One other vet to introduce you to - Richard Spink. He served in the RAF in the '60s and '70s. And he told us he remembers doing NATO exercises with U.S. forces at a time when many Americans were forcibly conscripted - the Vietnam War.  The U.S. presidents have had problems with British prime ministers and British prime ministers have had problems with U.S. presidents. But the relationship just goes on. No one person can sweep away 200 years' worth of alliances. You know we have fought side by side in countless wars all over the world. And that is not going to go away just because you have got - I am being diplomatic here - you have got an idiot in the White House. I mean that is all I can really describe .  Richard Spink one of many vets in Britain this week reflecting on the state of the military alliance.   Next stop - we have come to Islington. This is North London. And there is a little corner of Kentucky right there. This is a pub called The Lexington. OK. So yes we did have a reason to stop by a whiskey bar in the middle of the workday. It is a window into one of the major themes of President Trump's visit to the U.K. - trade. Hello I am here for Stacey.  Manager will be out in a second.  On June 1 American tariffs went into effect here on exports of steel and aluminum. In response the EU announced tariffs of its own on classic American products including bourbon. And describe for people who cannot see this what we are looking at here.  We are looking at about 150 bottles of whiskey.  All American.  Yeah pretty much actually. I think we have got one bottle from Canada.   OK.  .  Stacey Thomas - she owns the Lexington. She told us the big brands - Jack Daniels Jim Beam and so on - those places will likely eat some of the cost of the tariffs so their prices will not rise the full 25 percent. But for the smaller craft distilleries Thomas says they will have to hike prices.  It will hurt us in the sense that a lot of customers that maybe would have tried bourbon will probably just go for a vodka or a gin or a rum. Maybe we will become a rum bar you know?  You know why not?  But Thomas says she is not quite there yet.  Hopefully - what I am hoping - this is my great big hope - is that Trump will come to his senses stop the tariffs EU will of course do the same straight away and there'ill only be a momentary blip of price increases.  You sound optimistic which we have heard from other people we have been talking to here in Britain that maybe this is all just a phase and it will pass.  Well I mean it is - you know Trump has history for going through phases - does not he? - changing his mind. Yeah. I just do not take anything he says seriously anymore. You know fire and fury against North Korea look how that turned out - you know best buds. I think he is all mouth.  I think he is all mouth - Stacey Thomas proprietress of The Lexington. Now President Trump might take issue with the charge that he is all mouth. And Stacey Thomas might actually have liked what he had to say today which is that he is all about trade with the U.K. and does not want any restrictions on it. That would be good news for Gareth Stace our last voice on relations between Britain and America. Stace is the head of UK Steel which represents the steel industry here. He argues the current trade fight is bad for his members and bad for workers in the U.S. too.  I was talking to a steel company only last week that was telling me that he has been supplying steel to one of his customers in the U.S. for 30 years. They have a very good relationship. That customer in the U.S. still wants to buy the product that he is buying from the U.K. steel company. And they have got to work out what they are going to do because is that going to damage that relationship? Are those orders going to be canceled? Is that customer in the U.S. going to be now priced out of the market? Because let us remember that suddenly his raw material that he gets from the U.K. is now 25 percent more expensive than it was before that date.  I asked Stace does this trade fight change the way he thinks about the U.S. or doing business with the U.S.?  You know I am 50 years old and I have always seen the U.S. as a really strong ally of the U.K. I think I was surprised on the first of June that it actually happened because I could not believe that this is what President Trump does to his friends and his allies. And it just made me think I would not want to be his enemy.  Gareth Stace head of UK Steel one of many people we have been talking with here in Britain about trade whiskey and fighting side by side about the state of the special relationship.   And as President Trump concludes his trip to Great Britain we will too. From here it is on to Helsinki. That is where I will be on Monday to bring you complete coverage of Trump's meeting in Finland with Russian President Vladimir Putin. 