 Good evening Nellie Dean's.  Hello is that Maggie Stewart?  This is Maggie Stewart. Hi.  Hi Maggie. This is Melissa Block with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED - NPR in the United States. How are you?  Good good good good. Getting a bit excited over the vote here.  Very excited over the vote here. And of course we have called you. You are the - we should explain - the co-owner of a pub Nellie Dean's. You are in Inverness in the Scottish Highlands. And of course we have called you because today Scots have been voting on whether to become an independent country. What is the mood in the pub right now?  Solemn at the moment.  Solemn?  Just at the minute. We are just waiting for the vote coming in. Then we will know if we are to party or commiserate.  Oh you are going to know whether you have a party or whether to commiserate.  Yeah. .  Well Ms. Stewart were you a yes vote? Were you among those who say yes Scotland should be independent?  I was a very big yes.  A very big yes - why is that?  Yes. It is what we need. We are a very resourceful country. We have the things we need. What we do not need is bombs sitting in the middle of the country. We are a country of heritage. We are not a country of war.  When you say we do not need bombs in the middle of our country you are talking about British nuclear weapons based in Scotland?  Basically yes. Yes.  Can you tell Maggie Stewart are most of the folks in the bar tonight - are they supporters of Scottish independence?  Some of them are and some of them are not. Would you like to speak to any?  I would love to.  No bother. I will put you on to Peter. Hold on.  Hello.  Hi is that Peter?  How're you doing?  Good. Peter what is your last name?  P-O-W-E-R.  Peter Power.  Yes.  And tell me if you can how you have voted today. Are you a pro-independent Scot?  Yeah well I have just been and voted. And I am a definite no vote. If it is not broken why should we split it up?  If it is not broken do not fix it.  A lot of folks in Scotland are - been watching too much Braveheart films.  . Watching too much Braveheart the Mel Gibson movie.  Yeah and they are voting with their heart and not their head. It is a big decision. And they have got to vote with their heads not their hearts.  Well thank you for talking with us. Do you mind passing the phone back to Maggie Stewart?  Yeah no problem.  Hello?  Ms. Stewart?  Hi. How're you?  I am good. So again you were a yes voter on Scottish independence. When you get up in the morning if you find that this has gone your way what will you do?  Get over the shock I think.  Get over the shock of becoming independent?  That will be a big one yeah. Imagine being part of something for all these years and then you are just not a part of it anymore. It will be quite scary 'ecause it is been a big safety blanket for us.  A big safety blanket being in the U.K.  Yes.  I gather Ms. Stewart that you have a kind of a ritual that you have prepared if the vote for independence does pass. What is that ritual?  We will be going to Culloden Battlefield where our ancestors fought for Scotland's independence hundreds of years ago. You take a double whiskey and you put - a good whiskey not  your rubbish.  . A good whiskey.  You take a good whiskey and pour a dram onto the ground onto the bones of ancestors. And we will take a dram and salute to the future.  So you would be pouring a dram of good whiskey onto the ground at this battlefield onto the bones of your ancestors and drinking some yourself?  Drinking the other half yes. And salute the future and how we carry on.  What kind of whiskey do you think you will bring?  I will take a battle of Old Inverness.  Old Inverness?  Yes.  The local whiskey?  That is the local whiskey yes.  Well Maggie Stewart thanks to you and all the folks there at your pub Nellie Dean's in Inverness Scotland for talking with us today. All the best.  You are so welcome. You take care darling. All the best to you all.  Bye bye.  Bye.  And whether Maggie Stewart needs that good whiskey should be clear tomorrow when the results are in. 