 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. For the first time in modern history Shiite fighters are crossing borders to wage jihad much as Sunnis traveled to Afghanistan to fight the Soviets and to Iraq to fight Americans. These days the draw is Syria. The cause is not a foreign invader but a rival sect. And some say it is about fulfilling a thousand-year-old prophecy as NPR's Kelly McEvers reports.  Abu Ther is a short guy but a big guy. He keeps his beard cropped close the Shiite way. His smile is almost a smirk. He is ready to show off. Abu Ther is from Iraq. We are sitting with him in Baghdad. The videos on his phone are from Syria. In this one Abu Ther and about a dozen other guys are ripping the plastic off some brand new guns and rocket-propelled grenades weapons he says they later used against Syrian rebels. That is him? And he is loading a mortar tube right?      All right yep. He is loading it into the tube now leans over.   For the past eight or nine months Abu Ther says the unit he commands has been going to fight against rebels in Syria.   To Abu Ther these rebels are a threat to his very existence. Abu Ther is a Shiite. The rebels are by and large Sunni.   In this video Shiite fighters dance and sing and eventually fall to the ground in prayer. They claim they have just regained control of an airport in Syria. Their accents are Lebanese and Iraqi.   Syria's war did not start as a sectarian one. It started as an uprising of the people against their government. But the majority of those people are Sunni. The government is Alawite which has roots in Shiite Islam.    Abu Ther says he is not fighting in Syria to support the Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.    He is fighting to stop what he sees as an onslaught of Sunnis led by jihadi militants. Abu Ther says there are hundreds of Iraqi Shiites now fighting in Syria. They are joined by thousands of Lebanese Shiites from the militant group Hezbollah. Abu Ther says the fighters are trained by Hezbollah leaders and the operation is overseen by Iran. But perhaps the most striking thing Abu Ther tells us is that this war has been pre-ordained by one of the most revered figures in Shiite Islam the Imam Mahdi who lived in the 9th century. Abu Ther says the imam predicted he would reappear on Earth after an army from Syria led by a man named Soufyani attacked the Shiite shrines of Iraq.   We stick to those teachings and according to the teachings that we have to fight this Soufyani army. And this is what we are doing. But instead of fighting them inside Iraq we want - we are fighting them inside their own territories.  It is not just fighters like Abu Ther who believe this. Professional middle-class Shiites think this way too. Vali Nasr heads the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies and has written widely about Shiites in the Middle East. He says the Imam Mahdi's prophecies been employed before during Iran's Islamic Revolution of 1979 in the Iraq War when Shiites fought U.S. forces. Nasr says it is no surprise the story has come up again. The people on the ground might believe it but the leaders at the top know differently.  This is very much a strategic thinking. It is not religious thinking. This is a game of power. This is really a game of power about who controls Iraq Lebanon and Syria. And for Iran this is a regional power play.  Nasr says by simply deciding to mobilize Iraqi and Lebanese Shiite fighters inside Syria Iran stands to gain. It does not even matter whether they win or lose.  Iran has already proven something very important which is that it is the only country in the region with the capability to carry out a large-scale military operation in another country not on its border. That is something that gives them an aura of power.  That their main rivals the U.S. and the Sunni-led countries in the region currently cannot match he says.   It is a projection of power we are starting to see all over the region from Facebook to ringtones to flags in poor Shiite neighborhoods. All of them talk of the coming regional war between the righteous and the evil between one sect and another. Kelly McEvers NPR News. 