 I am Mary Louise Kelly in London where people are asking some of the same questions that have been dominating Washington of late. What might Russia be doing to mess with their politics? Just as in Washington investigations are underway into whether Russia collaborated with the Trump campaign. Here in London they are asking whether Moscow tried to push Brexit and the man leading that investigation here at Parliament is named Damian Collins. He is an MP. His committee is leading that probe and we have come here to talk to him. Collins' office is down a long wood-paneled hall other MPs and their aides scurrying past. We settled into two enormously overstuffed armchairs and I dove right in. Is there evidence of Russian interference in British politics? I know there is a lot of smoke. Is there fire?  Well there is some fire yes. We know that Russian agencies were involved in using Twitter to try and spread messages during the Brexit referendum. We know there was intent to do that on Facebook during the referendum as well although the amount of money spent directly in the same way that it was spent in the American presidential election campaign seems to be a lot smaller.  I should mention your committees run the hearings here for Facebook Cambridge Analytica some of the things we have also been holding hearings on in the U.S.  That is right. Now we have also been looking at Russian involvement in other elections in Europe as well and we have also looked at the way in which their official news agencies which are really you know controlled by the state - the way they seek to dominate debates as well. So they were very active during the Brexit referendum in pushing out messages there and they were also very active around the Salisbury poisoning.  The Novichok poisoning...  The Novichok poisoning as well. So...  ...Of the former Russian spy Sergei Skripal.  Yeah that is right. And if you went to Facebook news feed and search for news stories about the poisoning in Salisbury you would find that maybe in the top 10 searches the BBC might be in the top two but the rest will probably be stories all coming from Russian sources. And what they are seeking to do is create enough doubt or to pose questions that are difficult to answer so you disbelieve what the BBC and other news outlets are saying.  In very recent days you have also been trying to pinpoint what connections there may have been between British individuals and Russia. And you have focused of late on a guy named Arron Banks who - I will explain for an American audience - British financier biggest political donor in British history.  That is right.  And that money all went toward the Brexit campaign toward trying to get the U.K. out of the EU. Your committee's been asking is Arron Banks' money - is some of that Russian money? What have you found?  Well what we have found is that Arron Banks was known to have connections with Russia on a personal basis. His wife is Russian and that he visited Russia was not a secret.  He is talked publicly about bougie lunches with the Russian...  Bougie lunches with the Russian...  ...Ambassador here in London.  Exactly but...   What is that?  That is prayers. And then there will be another bell in about two minutes.  Did you say prayers?  Yeah the bells go to let members know prayers have started and that - and then the next bell will go to let people know that the session has started. Then we will be clear so - but there will be -  we might as well wait for the second set of bells.  So we will stand by for another bell.   Right. So no secret that Arron Banks has personal ties to Russia but we also know that he met the Russian ambassador on other occasions as well in meetings that were not disclosed. And obviously what for us is of interest is if Arron Banks profited out of his relationship with the Russian embassy in London. That is clearly of interest for someone who is the biggest...  As he was pouring millions into...  Yeah.  ...The Brexit campaign.  Exactly the biggest individual donor on the Brexit campaign. And that makes him - although he is not an elected politician that makes him a person of considerable political interest.  In the U.S. as you know there is a huge interest in figuring out what may have happened in our 2016 election because we have got another one coming up in November. What lends it urgency here?  Well I think there is urgency for all of us because I feel that we are all playing catch-up on this issue as well. But I think for all democracies there is an urgency to actually uncover what is been going on and to say why is it that our electoral law has not - is not robust enough to stop this happening? Why is there a lack of transparency over who is running political ads on sites like Facebook and where they are doing it from as well to make it easier to spot you know bad actors or people running ads from foreign countries? And I think what this has exposed is we were blind to the fact this was going on and that out we need to tighten our rules and regulations to stop it happening.  Damian Collins thank you.  Thank you.  Damian Collins member of Parliament - we have been speaking with him here at Parliament. His committee is the Digital Culture Media and Sport Select Committee. That is the one leading the charge in investigating Russian interference in British politics. 