 Task Force 2 is ready for anything. Based in Los Angeles County they are one of only two official U.S. teams trained to respond immediately to disasters around the world. Vince Beiser wrote about Task Force 2 for California Sunday Magazine.  It is a team made up of mostly firefighters - ordinary sort of workaday firefighters the guys who show up at traffic accidents and put out grass fires and get cats out of trees - yes they really do that...  .  ...Plus a handful of civilian engineers and civilian doctors. And what happens is when the biggest disasters hit - when there is something on the level of a Hurricane Katrina or an Asian tsunami or a Nepal earthquake - these guys get called up. And within hours they are out at the disaster scene wading through the streets or picking through the rubble and rescuing survivors.  And how did Task Force 2 get to be so good at recovering people from collapsed buildings from those kinds of situations?  So if you think about this county firefighters here have to deal with basically every kind of disaster you can think of.  Right.  Los Angeles County's 4000 square miles. We have earthquakes. We have mudslides. We have wildfires. You name it. If it can go wrong it goes wrong in Los Angeles County and it goes wrong all the time. So these - if you are a Los Angeles County firefighter you have got to be prepared for just about anything...  ...Including a massive earthquake on the other side of the planet. Days after the earthquake in Nepal California's Task Force 2 was on the ground helping to rescue people. Vince Beiser went with them. He remembers one rescue in particular of a woman trapped in a collapsed building.  So this was kind of amazing because there was the main earthquake on April 25 which is what they went out to do. And then there was a big aftershock - a huge aftershock almost as big as the first earthquake on May the 12th. And by that time almost all the other search and rescue teams - international search and rescue teams had gone home. Los Angeles was still there so the Task Force guys literally poke their heads into the rubble and start calling. And they hear there is somebody - they hear somebody calling back. So they get to work crawling on their stomachs with saws cutting through the stuff they find in their way right? There is still aftershocks happening all the time. And all of that rubble - there is tons and tons of rubble over the top of them - could come down at any minute. And eventually one guy who is in the tunnel pulls out a chunk of rubble and sees the top of a woman's head. So eventually you know step-by-step literally brick-by-brick they pulled that stuff away managed to roll the thing off of her and dragged her out and just laid her down on the rubble to start treating her right there in the open air.  Wow. Now there is an obvious humanitarian reason for doing this but setting that aside for a moment why do this? Why take our own first responders you know where we might need them and send them halfway around the world expending all that time and resources and even risking their lives?  Right. That is a good question and a lot of people do ask that. You know as you said there is the humanitarian aspect of it. There is a real sort of enlightened self-interest piece to it too. One is training. I mean this is amazing training for these guys. They train like crazy here all the time but you cannot substitute. All of them will tell you cannot substitute for real-world training. This is real actual disasters. And here in Los Angeles we know sooner or later we are going to get clobbered by a gigantic earthquake - and if not here San Francisco or Seattle. And when that happens these are the guys who are going to be responding to it. The other is it is sort of a way of banking international goodwill. We like to think that you know we are the United States. We can handle anything. But in fact we have had - international search and rescue teams have come here before after Hurricane Katrina and after 9-11. And someday there is going to be a gigantic disaster here where we are going to want help from abroad. And when that day comes it is going to be handy to be able to say hey we helped you back then. It is your turn now.  Vince Beiser reported this week on California's Task Force 2 disaster response team. You can read his article in California Sunday Magazine. Vince thanks very much.  Thanks for having me. It was a pleasure. 