 For the first time in decades people in Zimbabwe are speaking their minds without fear that security services will knock on the door and take them to prison. Robert Mugabe ruled the country for almost 40 years. Last November the military forced him out. And now Zimbabwe has a feeling of openness that most of the population has never experienced before. Our co-host Ari Shapiro is there on a reporting trip ahead of elections next month and he joins us from Harare with a preview of some of the stories we will be hearing from him. Hey there Ari.  Hi Mary Louise.  I have to start Ari by saying I am so glad you and the rest of our team there are safe. You all had a scare this past weekend.  Yes. We were at a presidential rally on Saturday and about half an hour after we left the rally there was an explosion that killed a number of people. But I have to tell you compared to past elections in Zimbabwe the run-up to this one has been really peaceful. And more broadly when you talk about freedom of expression Zimbabwe feels very open right now. It is my first visit here but journalists who have been here before tell me about under Robert Mugabe having to work in secret sneaking into the country on tourist visas interviewing sources in the back of a car. And over the last week we have been walking the streets of Harare with our microphones out asking people questions in public. They are willing to speak to us on the record using their names even criticizing the government.  Wow. That is a huge change even from a year ago. And I know as you say you have been talking to a bunch of people hearing all their stories about how life has changed and keeps changing in Zimbabwe. You have got one of these stories you are going to share with us today.  Yes. It is about a woman named Savanna Madamombe. She is a Zimbabwean who holds a U.S. green card. And the story I want to tell you actually begins in the United States in Manhattan.  All right. Let us hear it.   Mugabe must do what?  Go.  Mugabe must do what?  Go.  Mugabe must do what?  Go.  Savanna's in her late 40s but she does not look it. An enormous halo of curly black hair frames her mischievous smile. She grew up in Harare but the job market here is so bad that she moved to New York almost 20 years ago. And the sound that you are hearing now is video of a protest that she organized. When Robert Mugabe came to visit the United Nations in New York Savanna got people together to march and demonstrate against his brutal oppressive regime. She always streamed her activism live on Facebook.   Get up. Speak before they knock your door before it is your brother.  Her protests meant she could not return to Harare to visit her family. Under Mugabe she could have been arrested and beaten like other activists in Zimbabwe. She did not have much hope of going back anytime soon.  We are already gearing up like thinking the next five years we will still be going at the U.N. demonstrating or doing whatever we can.  And this is Savanna Madamombe at her family's house in Harare just a few days ago. When the military forced Mugabe out in November she came back to see her family and decided to stick around bringing her activism with her.  I know for sure if it was still Robert Mugabe I would never dare to do it.  In Harare she walks through the center of town live-streaming on Facebook pointing out piles of trash and crumbling buildings. And she calls out city councilors by name tags them in her posts. In the six months that she is been doing this she has not been arrested or even questioned by police.  A lot of people thought I was crazy but a whole lot of people thought it was inspiring. The Mugabe era is gone and it is something that cannot be ever allowed to come back.  And is what you are trying to do here - making sure that that change stays permanent?  Yes. We have been allowed to speak. It is up to us now to grab it and say look every day we are being told it is peaceful so let us create the peace.  And she is having a real impact. Like in one video she pointed out a fountain in the middle of Harare that was overflowing with trash.  When I went back because I wanted to see how long it would take for this to be - I found it cleaned out.  A city council member confirms that they cleaned up the fountain because of Savanna's video. On the day that we spent with her she has a bigger plan. She is going to First Street.  That essentially was the highlight of our city Harare.  The grand boulevard the center of town.  Piccadilly Square.  In London yeah.  Yes. Times Square.  In New York yeah.  Exactly. So this is First Street.  In Harare.  In Harare. And when I grew up this where as a teenager I would meet boys.   That was more than 30 years ago. Today First Street is run-down from decades of poverty and neglect. Big concrete planters are full of trash and weeds. Savanna has a plan to clean them up and fill them with flowering plants. We pile into the back of her brother's flatbed truck.  Hi guys. I know I have not done a live video in a little bit.  As we rumble along Harare's pothole-filled streets she starts streaming a video.  What can I say? This is Zimbabwe.  We pull up to the nursery and Savanna tells the workers to load up the truck with flowering plants. She collected donations online to pay for them.  Blooming flowers to me speak of a new life.  They load crates into the back - petunias snapdragons violets marigolds. On the Facebook video she asks her niece Amanda Murombo what she imagines First Street could look like.  I want it to be the biggest street in Harare. I want every street to want to look like First Street in Harare. That is what I want it to be like. Rent on First Street should be super expensive.  By the time we are ready to go more than 450 flowering plants are in the back of the truck. Well should we go to First Street?  Let us go to First Street.  The street is crowded with people but there are bricks missing from the sidewalk. In the planters there are empty bottles of cough syrup with codeine that people use to get high. Savanna and her friends get to work in matching T-shirts that say fix Zimbabwe or die trying on the front and we the people on the back. In most cities this would not be revolutionary in Harare it is unheard of. So bystanders stop to ask what is going on.  No one ever think of doing this which is cool.  Kuda Ndanga is a 25-year-old artist and while he waits to meet a friend he grabs a hoe and starts plunging it into the dirt.  It feels good  to be helping.  While they keep planting the flowers we walk up the street to meet one of the city council members Savanna tags in her Facebook posts.  I am Rusty Markham. I am third or fourth generation Zimbabwean.  Is it pretty unusual in Zimbabwe for somebody to do the kinds of things that Savanna is doing?  Yes very unusual I think. It is activism in its truest form.  Is it something...  And I like it.  Is it something that would have been dangerous with Mugabe still in power?  Put it this way - in 2008 I do not think she could have done what she is done. Yeah.  More than half of the population of Zimbabwe has only ever lived under Mugabe which was a regime that taught people that if they stuck their neck out and made noise they put themselves in danger. So what do you think will be required to teach people that now they can take matters into their own hands and they can do the kinds of things that Savanna is doing?  I think the urban population is pretty much well on that road. The problem is the more conservative rural areas the penetration into there is going to be very slow. But it is happening.  When we get back to First Street the planters are transformed into a rainbow quilt of new life. The trash is gone. And more people have joined in. Samuel Nyawaranda is 44.  You know when everyone is expecting a change even the environment itself needs to be changed.  Even the environment itself needs to be changed. Zimbabwe has huge national problems - cash shortages corruption a broken economy. So what can a few planters of flowers really accomplish? Savanna Madamombe says it is not about the flowers.  Forget the flowers. It is a symbol hoping that this will start a conversation.  A conversation between citizens and their government. A few days later we went back to First Street to check on the planters. The flowers were still flourishing. A man who sells shoes on the street corner told us he is looking after them. He does not want the street to go back to the way it was.  That is our co-host Ari Shapiro in Zimbabwe. Next month we will hear all of his reporting from there as the country prepares for elections on July 30. 