 So far the U.S. has made any military help for Iraq contingent on serious political reform by the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. I asked Lukman Faily about that earlier today. He is Iraq's ambassador to the U.S. He claims changes within the Iraqi government are already underway and he says the threat of the extremist group which he refers to by its other common name ISIL - or the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. That threat he says far outweighs politics.  Please bear in mind that we have a democratic process where representatives of parliament who have checks and balances we have separations of powers. The image of trying to make this a problem with the prime minister alone is a wrong image. It is definitely a wrong message to convey because of the threat - let me repeat that - the threat is imminent to everybody in the region. If ISIL have the wealth of the Iraqi oil or the threat to the global impact on shortage of oil from Iraq that is a significant impact on everybody.  Are you saying Mr. Ambassador that the Iraqi government does not need to reform any further that everything that the Iraqi government has done is enough?  No no. This is nothing to do with the government per say. The political process is a collective. The issue is not whether it is the Prime Minister Maliki or not. The issue is the threat is imminent to all. The reform is already going on politicals. If we think that there is a need for further reform - which definitely nobody is saying we do not. We do need that.  And what kind of reform would that be?  We may even talking about the constitutional change other type of change. But what I am saying is this conditionality is the wrong way of viewing it.  I want to get to the question of the Iraqi army. How do you account for the fact that the Iraqi army dissolved in the face of what appeared to be a very small numerical threat?  This a serious issue which you are reviewing. Majority of the army worked with the United States Army and others. So you are saying where did we go wrong here? We are also looking at the capabilities lack of training. These are all factors. Nobody is denying that it was...  Let me ask you about the...  The threat is an immediate.  You blame a lack of training here. The United States spent billions on training and equipping the Iraqi army...  No no no...  ...Why should we not see this as a repudiation of the Iraqi government and its failure to solidify gains?  The issue we have is that this army is new. We have not had the full capabilities. This is a long-term process United States was our partner is our partner will be our partner. That is why we came to United States and saying we need to activate what we agreed on this regime - we need to embrace that partnership. To do that we need the United States to take full understanding of the emergency on the ground.  And when you hear renewed talk Ambassador Faily of the partition of Iraq effectively into three states - Kurdish Shia and Sunni - how do you respond to that? Do you see that as a reasonable scenario going forward?  That society has been there for thousands of years. It is the cradle of civilizations. So however - let me put it this way - even in the best-case scenario with the current projectory of things going on - even if we are talking about the separations of Sunni Shia Kurds - which does not mean anything to the Iraqis by the way. But let us stay this current discourse - even if you do that you need to have control of how things are developed. At this moment if they are out of control because of the strength which is being provided to the ISIL by whomever that will not help. So what I am saying is a test is in place now to the international community to stand by our democratic government our democratic processes in our common fight against international terrorism. If you had one bin Laden in Afghanistan and Iraq now you have 1000 bin Laden. That is the size which we need to talk about.  Taking those numbers at face value if that is the case in Iraq now how big of a robust U.S. response - military response - do you think the Iraqi people would stomach?  We have said the fight is ours. We are we have we will do this fight. We need support and training. We need support and logistics. We need support and air supremacy. We definitely do not need two combat forces. We definitely do not need boots on the ground from the United States. So that is the level of the support we have requested.  If there is such a desire for support and training why did the Iraqi government stand in the way of a status of forces agreement that would have kept U.S. troops in your country?  My memory serves me right if it does 2008 that administration added on their agenda to pull out of Iraq.  They wanted immunity for U.S. troops in your country.  I was not part to it. What I would say is I think that is a historical question. We have an immediate threat now which we need to have that discussion.  Lukman Faily is the Iraqi Ambassador to the United States. Ambassador Faily thanks for coming in.  Thank you Melissa. 