 To make sense of the international reaction and China's motives for what it is doing with the yuan we turn to NPR's Frank Langfitt in Shanghai. And first Frank why are markets around the world reacting so negatively to this?  Well first Robert it is worth putting this in perspective. You know we are talking about China. It is a very big country the world's second-largest economy. And it did something big that it has not really done before. It let the currency drop a lot. Usually the currency here moves very slowly. It is been inching up since I think 2005. And I watch it pretty closely 'ecause I am changing money all of the time and I think in the four years I have been here maybe it is moved within a percentage point.  And why does the devaluation seem to have so many people so worried?  Well it is kind of about what it could lead to. One fear is possibly a currency war. The question is will other countries devalue to compete with China in order to keep their exports cheap on the global market? That of course could hurt global growth. The other question is what it might say about the Chinese economy. Is it worse than it looks? If there is less Chinese demand for things like oil and minerals that is also going to hurt global growth and it is also going to hurt certain countries that really benefit a great deal from selling those things to China.  Well why is the Chinese government doing this? What is in it for them to have a currency that is a lower value against the dollar?  Well at least a couple of reasons. And a lot of people look at this and might say it is a sensible move for China. It is worth remembering China's economy is no longer white hot the way it was. It is not double digit GDP growth. It is been kind of by Chinese standards muddling along at about 7 percent. And if you look at just this year we have had a real estate slump earlier. You remember those drop in the stock market in the last several months. And just last months we saw that exports were down eight percent. Now if you devalue the currency that lowers the cost of your exports out on the open market. It makes them cheaper and more attractive and that is a way to kind of bolster the economy here. Analysts though think there is a bigger reason frankly to curry favor with the International Monetary Fund which actually praised the devaluation earlier this week.  Let the record show to muddle along at 7 percent annual growth is something that many countries in the world would envy. Why did the International Monetary Fund praise the devaluation Frank?  The reason is China wants its currency to be more broadly accepted globally. They would like more financial influence. And the government said that it allowed the devaluation to let market forces determine the price. This is what the IMF had said it wants to see before it is willing to actually accept at some point down the line using the yuan as a reserved currency like the Japanese yen or the U.S. dollar. The yuan still has a long way to go but people see this as a gesture to the IMF and in - as a way to help China improve its - the status of the yuan.  But which is it here Frank? Is it that the Chinese are embracing the market or when in one instance the market seems to work their way they embrace it and in other instances when it does not they ignore it?  Well Robert analysts would probably say you are on to something here. This is a case where people look at this and say yes they are embracing the market. They are allowing the currency to respond to market forces. On the other hand let us take a look at the stock market over the last few months. That is a totally different case. The government actually encouraged people to buy lots of stocks pumped up the market and then when it began to fall they intervened. They also used the state media to try to stabilize the market. And that is a case where in fact they did not want the market to actually work because they were concerned about what was happening to the stocks and also concerned about what was happening to the economy.  So they are conflicted on that score.  I think that that is a big dilemma that the Chinese government faces.  That is NPR's Frank Langfitt in Shanghai. Frank thanks.  Happy to do it Robert. 