 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa block.  And I am Audie Cornish. It is opening day of the World Cup in Brazil. A day of revelry competition and of protest. We will hear more about the first match in a few minutes. But leading up to it in the streets of Sao Paulo today thousands of protesters clashed with police. Police used tear gas concussion grenades and truncheons against the demonstrators. Two journalists were injured in the melee. Many Brazilians are incensed the government spent 11 billion on the soccer tournament instead of health education and housing. Earlier today I spoke with NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro who witnessed the violence.  Well I am at one of the protests that are taking place here in Sao Paulo and I have to tell you it started really fast it started really violently this morning. Protesters gathering - not very many of them initially but the police were taking no chances. They came down pretty brutally. They moved forward fast they started throwing percussion grenades they started throwing tear gas and two CNN journalists as you mentioned were injured in the melee. I spoke to one of the CNN journalist earlier and she told me that they were right next to the police they were clearly identified as press they were  wearing vests and that the police actually targeted them. And that is something that we are hearing from the protesters here. That they are being deliberately targeted and they feel that this is an example of police brutality.  Now why the heavy crackdown? It would seem like these are precisely the scenes that Brazil did not want right? As they take the world stage with the games?  Well Brazil promised - the government promised that they would not brook any destruction of these games and they said that they were going to act very very seriously and very very aggressively to quell any kind of protest here. And we have seen that being the case. I mean just here where I am now there are helicopter swirling overhead there are mounted policeman there are police in riot gear. There are 157000 security forces securing these games all over the country. They have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the security and of course one of the things that the government certainly did not want is these images to be broadcast all over the world of Brazilians protesting and so I think the plan was to act very aggressively very early to try to disperse the protesters but of course it had a different effect. And in fact what we have seen is the protest growing as the days been going on as it is going on.  And these protests have been going on for nearly a year over the World Cup. Give us some context are there specific demands or what is it that the Brazilians who are protesting are so angered about these games.  We have seen protests we have seen strikes and a lot of these are from desperate groups who are aggrieved about a number of different things. Some are looking for their own slice of the pie. They want raises or they want better education or better healthcare. But generally speaking the people that I am with here today they are just against the World Cup in principle. They say that does not mean they do not love football that does not mean they do not love the Brazil national team. But they feel that so much money has been spent on these games and they are very angry about that. And they want the world to know that and that is why they are taking on the police in the way that they are.  That is NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro in Sao Paulo. Lourdes thank you.  You are welcome. 