 Like anyone with loved ones still in Afghanistan it has been a harrowing week for Lanny Cordola. He is a guitarist from LA He is played with Guns N' Roses and The Beach Boys. We first met him in 2017 when he told us about the most unlikely school he was running - the Miraculous Love Kids music school in Kabul. The nonprofit teaches young children particularly young women in war-torn areas how to play the guitar.    I was standing in a muddy field watching the people there.  Fast-forward to August 2021 and the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Cordola left the country on the last commercial flight and headed to Islamabad Pakistan and immediately began working the phones. He is been trying to get his former students out of Afghanistan.  There are a lot of them but a dozen or so have become the face of the school playing Western music that is been shared on YouTube. And that makes them vulnerable. So Cordola has been trying to get them out first.  So I filled out every P-2 SIV - you know this that or the other.  Cordola says he is been getting offers from all kinds of organizations to help. So far nothing has come through. He says two different rescue missions failed just last night.  When you have a Western security company saying we will be there in 10 minutes get your kids we are ready to go and they do not show up at all and then they stay the night there because they called back and said oh we will do it tomorrow morning - you know this is the stuff that so many Afghans are up to.  The mission did not show up in the morning so the girls wait as August 31 nears. To underscore the danger the girls face an explosion rocked the building that used to be the school's home just yesterday. But despite the chaos Cordola is optimistic that at least those dozen most vulnerable girls will get out before the deadline.  I mean these are the lucky ones. You know what I mean? They have me. They have a freaking maniac that is their advocate. And there have been so many - and most of them have been Americans - that have donated and put out such goodwill. And I am just humbled to the core. So these girls they are going to be OK. But you know I am greedy man I want to get out as many as we can.  As many as he can - and Lanny Cordola is still working the phones trying to make that a reality.  