 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West Arun Rath is away. I am Tess Vigeland. An American journalist has been freed after nearly two years in captivity in Syria. New England native Peter Theo Curtis had been held by Islamic militants since October of 2012. NPR's Nathan Rott reports that his release today is a welcome relief to U.S. officials and others in the media after the beheading last week of another American journalist.  Peter Theo Curtis went missing near the Turkey-Syria border in 2012. His disappearance was not disclosed but U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry confirmed in a statement Sunday that the U.S. had been working for nearly two years to free him. Using quote every diplomatic intelligence and military tool at our disposal. Curtis was being held by the al-Qaida linked group Jabhat al-Nusra or the Nusra Front. For some of that time war photographer and fellow American journalist Matt Schrier was being held with him. Schrier talked about that experience with CBS's 60 Minutes last November.   All I knew was that people were getting tortured. 'ecause my second day there that is when I started hearing people screaming. And you would hear - you would hear wack .  Schrier says that after three weeks he was taken to a cell with another prisoner that his captors said was American.   And I looked and I was just like oh my god he is an American. And you know it was a curveball I did not expect this at all. You know like one of the first things I said was oh my god they are collecting us.  Schrier says he managed to escape through an opening in his cell by standing on the shoulders of his cellmate Curtis. Curtis Schreier says could not get through the opening. In his statement John Kerry said that Curtis's release was a relief particularly after a week marked by quote unspeakable tragedy. Last week American journalist James Foley was beheaded by militants with the Islamic State.    Make me a channel of your peace.  Foley's family and hundreds of mourners gathered in their hometown of Rochester New Hampshire Sunday at a mass to remember the 40-year-old journalist.   But look how Jim has called so many together the witness of his own own dear heart.  The Islamic State is believed to have other Americans in captivity. They are threatening to kill at least one other American journalist if the U.S. does not meet their demands which include stopping airstrikes in Iraq. Nathan Rott NPR News. 