 Mexican painter Frida Kahlo put herself in her pictures. You may have seen the self-portraits and photographs of her. They show a woman with an unwavering gaze theatrical costumes and hairdos and a single bold eyebrow. So we have had a pretty good idea of how the famous artist looked.  But until now we were led to believe she sounded like this.    Hey listen. If you think I am going to sleep with you just because you have taken me under your wing you are wrong.  That is the actor Salma Hayek in the 2002 biographical film Frida. Now comes this - a voice discovered in Mexico's National Sound Library one that the archivists there say might be the only known recording of Kahlo speaking.   .  Archivists believe this was recorded in 1953 or '54 for a radio program that aired soon after Kahlo died. Archivist still are not sure if it is Kahlo. Notes simply say it is a female painter who quote no longer exists.  Well whomever it is reading the words are Kahlo's. It is an essay she wrote in the late 1940s about her husband the muralist Diego Rivera. This part is about Rivera's eyes.    His eyes are bulging dark and intelligent and find it difficult to stop roaming. They almost come out of their sockets with their swollen protruding toad-like eyelids. They allow their gaze to encompass a much wider field of vision as though they were built especially for a painter of large spaces and crowds.  Two things we know for sure - it is not Salma Hayek doing the reading and the real Frida Kahlo had a difficult life. She had polio as a child. At age 18 she was hit by a bus. She looks pained and severe in paintings and photos. And Rivera that husband with the eyes like a toad was a known philanderer. So that light easy voice on the recording stands in contrast.  Stephane Aquin is chief curator at Washington D.C.'s Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. He says he was surprised by the voice.  What we discover is a person of course that is very articulate and very - proper voice an elevated diction and a sense of image and metaphor in the language that speaks of a deeper literary culture.  Researchers have been hunting for other tapes from the radio show to prove Frida Kahlo's voice is on the recording. But the task is daunting. They have around 1300 more to go. 