 For two weeks 12 members of a boys' soccer team and their coach have been trapped in a cave in Thailand. The world has been watching anxiously while officials have been trying to work out the safest way to rescue them. Now time and the elements may be forcing the hands of the rescuers. Reporter Michael Sullivan has been covering this story for us in Chiang Rai Province in Thailand and he is with us now. Michael thanks so much for being here. Take us through the situation those kids are in right now and the conditions in the cave.  So Michel the boys are in the same place where they were found by the British divers on Monday about two miles inside the complex. They have been in the cave for two weeks now. They went missing on June 23 after they entered the cave and were trapped by floodwaters that cut off their escape. They are in reasonably good condition. There are Navy SEALs and a doctor with them in the cave nursing them back to health. Their spirits seem good. They got letters out to their families via one of the divers today and told their parents not to worry that they were OK and were looking forward to coming home and getting some good cooking soon. And the coach apologized to the parents for creating that situation by bringing them into the cave in the first place.  But why is time so important now? And what have officials said about their options?  Over the past 24 hours the tone of the officials has changed. It is gotten more urgent. Both the provisional governor - the provincial governor who is in charge and the head of the SEAL team are both saying that while they have made progress and pumped a lot of water out of the cave that they have this window now because the rain has not started again in earnest though it is expected to close anytime. And they are worried that if that happens - if that window closes - the rain could flood became even more and could flood the forward staging area they have set up inside and could even reach the bit where the boys are as well. So there is this increasing sense of urgency to get the boys out as fast as they can before the weather hits. And they are worried that the oxygen levels in the cave are dropping too which is another factor. And it is been drizzling a bit up here overnight but nothing serious yet.  So of course the question we all have is if a rescue is to be staged how might that work?  By all accounts they are going to try to take the boys out through the cave itself which is quite risky. There are parts of the cave that are very narrow and some lengthy portions that are still submerged - still filled with water - which means the boys are going to have to use masks and oxygen to get out. And the way I understand it is that the boys are going to be taken out by two divers each - one in front and one in back will guide them along the rope lines that have been set up inside the cave and be there to pull or push the boys as needed to make sure they keep moving. But it is a long way more than two miles by some estimates. And while it seems like most of the boys do know how to swim they are not divers. They have been getting some basic training in diving in the past few days. But officials are warning the cave - the strong currents and near blackout conditions inside - make this a very very risky undertaking.  And we have a sense of how long this might all take once this starts?  Well it is about an eight or nine-hour round trip for the divers who have been bringing food and medicine and oxygen to the boys right? So that means - what? - about a four- five-hour trip one way to get the kids out if everything goes smoothly. So oxygen tanks have been placed along the way to help facilitate that process. But if you figure 13 people altogether it could take the better part of a day if not longer. And they probably will not be brought out all together. They will probably stagger them so they do not create bottlenecks. And if - that is if the rain does not muck things up which is why I think they are trying to start soon.  Well we certainly will keep a good thought for everyone involved. That is reporter Michael Sullivan in Chiang Rai Province Thailand. He was joining us via Skype. Michael thank you so much.  You are welcome. 