 The Syrian city of Raqqa has been under the rule of the so-called Islamic State or ISIS for more than a year. The militants there run it with a mix of municipal services and public brutality. That is the picture people from Raqqa painted when they spoke with NPR's Deborah Amos across the Syrian border in Turkey.  Last May ISIS displayed its violent side on the first day of rule in Raqqa a provincial capital in Syria's farm belt. In the central square prisoners - men bound and blindfolded - were publicly executed with shots to the head.   But over the past year the Islamic State has shown a pragmatic side building a modern government in Raqqa according to residents there that provides services controls traffic and collects taxes. What is it like to live in the Islamic State? I asked Syrians who recently crossed into Turkey - one an engineer. He was too afraid to give his name. He called the group by the Arabic name Daash.  All people are afraid now from Daash. It is very difficult to finish Daash in Syria because I see him. I live with him. I see how they think.  How they think he says - they aim to build a capital with an efficient government that controls every aspect of life. They appointed an oil minister an Egyptian engineer. A Tunisian PhD runs the phone company. Some Syrians - bureaucrats in the Assad regime - stayed on and now are paid by the Islamic State. Social rules are severe - no alcohol no smoking. There is gender segregation. A female dentist was recently killed for treating male patients. A woman must cover her face in public says the engineer.  For women the big problem - the woman cannot go outside of the home.  So you have to be completely covered.  Completely completely.  Abu Anis a construction worker also afraid to give his full name came to Turkey for heart surgery.   It is a strange body in our country and we want to force it out he says. But he acknowledges that many in Raqqa have come to terms with the militants exhausted by a chaotic war now too poor to leave. The Islamic State offers stability but at a price says the engineer. Militants focus on children investing in the future with festivals and films highly produced that showcase beheadings and death to recruit a new generation.  I see some children watch this and it is happy.  So they show the children...  Show yes.  ...The heads and the violence and they want the kids actually to learn this.  Yes. I see some children fight with Daash.  Daash the Arabic for ISIS drove Warda Ali out of Raqqa. She was an activist there and she landed on a wanted list for trying to mount campaigns against the beheadings which are often displayed for the public in the town square.   Some of the people went over and they like film it by their mobiles. And other people are starting to bring their kids to let them see that.  She describes with horror a mother and her children nearby.   Three children sitting on the ground near the heads. And she was feeding them like ham and sandwiches and eating there. So suddenly - I do not know. They started to get used to it.  And that is the fear for the engineer. ISIS is molding young people and building a state that is attracting new recruits even educated professionals. He says Syrians are trapped between the violent government of Bashar al-Assad and the brutal rule of these militants.  My country damaged. My people dead - dead by Daash and al-Assad. Why? Why we wait? Obama why we wait?  It will take more than an air campaign to root out ISIS he says. And he doubts the American president has a better solution. Deborah Amos NPR News on Turkey's southern border. 