 It is been a bad day in Pakistan. The Taliban tried to assassinate a high court judge in the city of Karachi. The judge survived but nine others died. Militants also struck near Pakistan's northwest frontier killing the head of a tribal peace committee and a police officer. All this comes four days after a Taliban offshoot killed 10 foreign tourists in the Himalayas. This surge in violence is causing anger and frustration among Pakistanis who are tired of years of war. NPR's Philip Reeves traveled deep into the mountains to meet some people who are dreaming of peace.  Up in the Hindu Kush beneath a big yellow moon thousands of people are standing in a field. They are mostly men. The dark silhouettes of mountains loom up all around. Close by a river races down towards a valley that not-so-long ago was Taliban territory. The crowd clusters around a stage. They are watching a young man doing stand-up.    Many of these men are Pashtuns from lands that border Afghanistan. They have beards baggy white traditional clothes and attentive expressions that dissolve into smiles when the punchlines come.   To an outsider some of these jokes seem long and obscure. Others have a familiar ring.   A wife is arguing with her husband. He is waving around their marriage contract and keeps reading it again and again. The wife says what on the Earth are you looking for in that contract? He replies the expiry date.   We are on the edge of Kalam a small town in Swat. For a while the Taliban roamed freely in much of this part of northwest Pakistan. They even ruled some areas. Then in 2009 Pakistan's army swept in and won back control but only after a conflict in which many atrocities were committed by both sides. This left a residue of hatred and fear. Pakistanis often criticize their military citing corruption and human rights abuses. For this crowd the Taliban is the enemy. They have come to show support for rule by the state.     This summer festival is organized by Pakistan's army and the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Provincial official Amin Khan says it is about winning hearts and minds.  Because people are afraid to come here especially the tourists did not come here so that they could see the place. The beauty of this is very famous all over the world.  Pakistan's army chief gazes down from a big poster hanging between some pine trees. There are army checkpoints along the road and soldiers in combat gear. The field is encircled by razor wire. Even so Noor ul-Haq is worried.  I just told my friend that I do not know whether a bomb blast will occur or not.  Are you are still feeling a little uneasy?  Yeah very uneasy.  Very uneasy. You are quite nervous about being here right now.  Yeah very nervous. Yes.  Ul-Haq is an accountancy student. A few days ago in his home town Mardan a suicide-bomber killed nearly 30 people. The crowds come here to try to forget horrors like that by enjoying pleasures the Taliban abhors.   The music turns into dancing.   There are some women and kids around and some people who have traveled far to be here. Ahsan Baluch came from his home town Dera Bugti in Baluchistan.  You know because of not proper road we took more than 14 hours to get here.  Yet he' Put aside the pressure the psychological the troubles you know and come here to enjoy the beautiful nature. A man can feel very good and relaxed here.  Coming to the mountains has not completely removed his fear.  We feel always unsafe here.  You feel unsafe always but you still come.  We have to face it because we have to change this environment this whole atmosphere - change. One of the main or one of the pivotal things Pakistan needs is change.  Change says Baluch requires peace.   On this night for once this crowd's enjoying a taste of peace. The booms echoing around the mountains are not from guns or missiles fired from drones but from the festival's fireworks. Philip Reeves NPR News. 