 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Every day some 1500 Somali refugees manage to make their way to the huge refugee complex in Dadaab Kenya. They are starving and many have walked for weeks to get there. And they are joining hundreds of thousands of others fleeing famine caused by one of the worst droughts in decades in the Horn of Africa. The crisis is made worse by the fact that militants linked to al-Qaida control territory in Somalia where conditions are most dire. And those militants known as al-Shabab have kept international relief groups out. Dr. Bill Frist the former senator from Tennessee recently visited the refugee camp in Dadaab Kenya. He is a physician and heads the nonprofit global health group Hope Through Healing Hands. And Dr. Frist joins me now. Welcome to the program. Dr.  Good to be with you.  Why do not you describe for us the scale of what you saw at this refugee camp in Kenya?  The camp that we visited Dadaab Camp was built for oh 70 to 80000 people is now overflowing crowded with 430000 people 1500 to 1600 new people arriving every day. Forty to 45000 people who cannot get into the camp outside of the camp confines with very little in the way of shelter and food and of course no vaccination itself. A lot of children involved. In the whole region the Horn of Africa there are about 12 million people at risk of death today. And finally it is hard to know but tens of thousands of people have died. And officially last week it was reported that 29000 children under the age of five have died in the last 90 days.  What was the physical condition of the refugees whom you observed at this camp?  Well you know you have to go back and look at them as individuals. And a family might be typically a woman who has four children who walked for as many as 20 days arriving many times missing one child - a child who died along the way. Her children arrive very thin malnourished. But they are the successful ones because once they make it to the camp - as crowded as it might be - they do get a vaccination. They do get food. They do get what we call oral rehydration which is really just water with some nutrients that brings kids back from the brink of death once they arrive at the camp.  They are now starting to see measles outbreaks in these camps is that right?  Just imagine al-Shabab who is affiliated with al-Qaida - the terrorist group that runs much of Somalia - will not let the kids there be vaccinated. That is an evil from the West and it is portrayed as a way of killing young kids. So they arrive unvaccinated. You are in a crowded condition of 430000 people most of whom have not been vaccinated. So something as simple as measles once it comes into a camp can spread through that camp. And that little spark can become a forest fire. Is it bad? It is bad but the big thing is it is getting worse.  The refugee camp in Kenya is growing so fast with these new refugees coming all the time. Are the relief groups there able to keep up to provide medical treatment and feeding for all of these refugees arriving?  If you look at the deaths say for children under the age of five the number one need is food is the malnutrition. About 42 percent of the deaths are just from the fact that people are starving. The number two cause of death is what is called watery diarrhea. It is a type of diarrhea that results in dehydration of kids like letting the air out of a tire and cardiovascular collapse. They go into shock itself. And then there is a third area of neonatal deaths themselves. On the malnutrition if somebody makes it to the camp there is adequate food within the camp for the 430000 people. But then there are 40 to 50000 people who were outside the camps who do not have access to that food. If you look at the second problem of the watery diarrhea the treatment is very easy. It is cheap. It is really a little bit of sugar water that has some nutrients in it that costs just a few cents. And neonatal you have the moms who are coming and the ones who make it to the camp themselves are able to get adequate prenatal care.  Dr. Frist what is your message to the donor community at a time when all of the talk is about cutting spending - not about giving more not about spending more but cutting?  You know it is an important question cause here your people listening to us right now you know they are worried about their own jobs here in America. We have our own insecurity so the message is as follows. We spend in America less than half a percent of our budget on not just responding to crisis but all developmental aid. So we do not spend nearly as much as people think. Number two there is an acute need that just by spending a tiny bit more can go a long way in directly saving lives today. Antibiotics cost a few cents the oral rehydration less than a penny that saves a child's life. The vaccine that measles vaccine only a dollar. The need is big. It is cheap. It is an expensive. We are not spending as much people want. Our program from the past has meant that five million fewer people are at risk today. And therefore it is a good investment even in these chaotic times.  At the same time Dr. Frist there was a report this week from the Associated Press from the Somali capital Mogadishu which showed that thousands of sacks of food aid were being diverted stolen and sold in markets. So what do you do about that I mean if aid going to the government cannot be controlled?  Well it - you bypass as much as you can. I mean that is true throughout many different countries around the world. The whole idea that governments are not going to be corrupt is naive and we cannot pretend. And we do not want to take either taxpayer money or individual gifts from kids and people around America in 10 increments. We do not want to be spending it where it is going to be wasted. And therefore you want to use those vehicles like UNICEF and Save The Children and Samaritan's Purse and the sort of organizations that are on the ground that have been on the ground for 10 20 or 30 years that have the relationships that are ongoing many of which are in Somalia themselves to bypass the corruption of whether it is a terrorist group or whether it is the government itself where we know it is a lawless land and get directly in.  And you are confident that that aid gets where it is going? I mean the sacks of food that were seen in the markets in Mogadishu had stamps from amps from the WFP. They were not getting where they were intended to go.  You know it is not going to all get there. I am not going to tell you that they are cause obviously they are not going to get there. All I can say is that we got to do the best we can.  Okay Dr. Frist thanks for talking with us today.  Good to be with you.  That is Dr. Bill Frist former senator from Tennessee. He started the global health nonprofit Hope Through Healing Hands. 