 They can see clearly now in Sydney which is saying something. This week eastern Australia weathered an enormous dust storm that blanketed Sydney and turned the sky orange red. The Web is full of photos and videos of it. Apocalyptic images of people and buildings silhouetted against the kind of sky that we could only imagine on Mars. It has raised questions of whether this was just another very big dust up sweeping dust from the arid outback to the coast or is it a measure of climate change. It also raised questions of when it would end. Neale Fraser is the senior forecaster at the Bureau of Meteorology in Sydney. And Mr. Fraser is the storm now over? Mr.  Oh it certainly is. It lasted for about five or six hours in Sydney itself but the dust cloud continued right up the east coast of Australia right up to North Queensland. So it is equivalent to an area from say New York right down to Miami. That distance involved or maybe even more than that so it just carried on and the dust carried on across the Tasman Sea as well.  Describe what it is like when you are in the middle of this dust storm. Mr.  Well it is never occurred in Sydney in my memory. I think in the records which go back 150 years it is the worst we have ever had in Sydney. And when we - everyone woke up and looked out the sun was just coming up and it was just orange. It was just really eerie. The other thing to notice was I did not hear many birds singing. So it was quite an eerie sort of feeling.  And there was wind. I have seen videos. The trees are obviously showing great wind but not rain. Mr.  No certainly not rain. It was from the west. And initially the winds were not terribly strong in the morning. That is what made it seem even more eerie. But during the morning the winds picked up and started to blow. As the sun rose it brightened. So the thickness of the dust was still there but it seemed brighter. The orange glow disappeared. And then eventually by about the middle of the day it all blew out to sea and cleared Sydney.  Eerie is one of the words I have heard. Surreal. Of course when you give a forecast you do not say it will be eerie and surreal this afternoon and   What are the words that you were hearing used to describe this experience? Mr.  Some people thought it was bush fires because that is what we  as well here as you know. A lot of people were confused. It also set off lots of alarms. And I think the fire brigade had to go out to everyone.  You mean because the sensors were reading it as smoke they are reading the colloidal substance Mr.  Yes very fine. It is like talcum powder.  curtain windows or whatever so it is getting into all the air conditioning systems and so forth. So it was causing havoc with the alarms.  So false alarms. Were there a lot of auto accidents? Were people blinded at the wheel and having Mr.  No apparently not. It was thick as fog. So at one stage visibility was round about 500 yards. So it was like an orange reddy fog so it was really really strange.  On the other hand a lot of flights were canceled. Mr.  The airport was badly affected. A lot of flights diverted to Melbourne and Brisbane. And then the dust actually made it up to Brisbane later in the afternoon I think it was so they got it right up through there as well.  Well why why should there be such a huge dust storm. Luck of the draw or is there something changing in the Australian climate? Mr.  There is a very strong cold front coming through the outback and it continued to lift up the dust during the day and that maintained itself right through the night and when we awoke in Sydney of course it was all over the Sydney Basin. And Sydney is a little bit like Los Angeles it is in a basin. So it tends to trap a lot of the pollutants in a layer and the Sydney Basin is surrounded by mountains to the north south and west so it tends to act like a lid anyway so it caught all the dust particles in that area. And then as the wind picked up during the day it started to disperse.  Was everyone coughing yesterday throughout the day in Sydney? Mr.  Yes. People with asthma and I am included in that I stayed indoors until it cleared. I did not want to take a chance.  Well Neale Fraser thank you very much for talking with us about it. Mr.  Thanks Robert.  Neale Fraser who is the senior forecaster at the Bureau of Meteorology in Sydney Australia.   This is NPR National Public Radio. 