 Tomorrow we will find out if the 2022 Winter Olympics will be held in Beijing or in Almaty in Kazakhstan. The number of cities willing to play host has dwindled because the price of holding the games has skyrocketed. Voters in Norway Sweden Ukraine and Poland have balked at the cost of hosting in 2022 leaving just two authoritarian regimes chasing the prestige event. In a moment we will hear from our correspondent in Almaty about the Kazakh bid for the games. But first NPR's Anthony Kuhn reports that if Beijing wins the bid a number of events will not be held in the city.  There is nothing really skiable in Beijing itself so most of the downhill events will actually be held near the city of Xiaohaituo some 120 miles to the northwest. So I am walking down the main street of the village that is supposed to be a transport hub after they construct a high-speed railroad from Beijing. Right now there is not much to look at though. It is just a main street with simple low-slung farmhouses on either side. Most people just sit around by the side of the road during the day when they are not in the fields farming their cabbages. Or tending to the ski slopes shops and Swiss-style chalets that have sprung up here in recent years. The planned high-speed train would cut the three-hour drive from Beijing down to a 45-minute journey. Local government employee Wei Yun  says farmers here can barely control their enthusiasm for the Olympic bid.   Working on the ski resorts has become an important source of income for local villagers even more than farming. That is why everyone is in high spirits awaiting news of our successful bid.  A short cable car ride brings us to the top of one of the many ski slopes that dot this emerging ski mecca for Beijingers. We meet Lee Yu  a sports equipment dealer riding a mountain bike.  .  The environment here is no different from what we see on big mountains in the U.S. and Europe he says. There is no pollution up here. In the village below a resident cranks water out of an old stone well. Chinese officials have dismissed environmental groups' concerns that the area is too dry and making snow for the ski slopes will strain the area's limited water resources. Beijing has pledged that the games will meet Olympic human rights standards despite international criticism of an ongoing crackdown on human rights lawyers and NGOs. Jeff Ruffolo has advised Beijing on both the current Olympics bid and the 2008 summer games. He notes that the 51 billion price tag of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi Russia scared away other bidders including Poland Ukraine Norway and Sweden.  And the IOC pretty much begged the Chinese please do not go away we need your bid to make this viable. So now you are left with a Winter Olympic concept that nobody wants.  Nobody he adds except authoritarian governments that will spend vast amounts of money to burnish their reputations. Ruffolo's advice to Beijing is not to tout all the gleaming infrastructure it can create.  Not well we are going to build this we are going to build that. Well we know the Chinese can build everything 'ecause everybody in the world buys something from China. We know they can build the Tower of Babel to heaven. That is not what it is about.  It is about the Olympic spirit Ruffolo says and about the legacy the games will leave to China's future generations. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Beijing. 