 And now some of your letters. Our story this week on companies cutting wages profiled a professional pilot who recently saw his pay drop from 67 to 42 an hour. Many of you were not sympathetic. Bill McKeon of Tampa Florida writes What an elitist point of view to run a hard luck story about a pilot who only earns 42 an hour. He continues Millions of people in this country are out of work and millions more are living on minimum wage. Who was supposed to feel sorry for this man? Donald Trump?  On Sunday racecar driver Jimmie Johnson won his record fourth consecutive NASCAR championship. Racing is not a regular topic on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. And my interview with Johnson shocked several listeners. One of them was Jeff Mornarich of Roseburg Oregon who writes this I am a right-wing conservative and I listen to NPR all the time. I cannot convince my conservative friends that NPR is an unbiased straight shooting news source. But maybe that has all changed. My friends will not believe that NPR actually interviewed NASCAR driver Jimmie Johnson. Mornarich does not stop there. He continues Your interview was the first I have heard in my life where the driver did not drop a sponsor name one single time. I am not sure how NPR pulled that one off but I am guessing you have a pretty good pit crew.   And many of you were saddened by this week's news of Don Voegeli's passing. He was a pianist and the composer of our ALL THINGS CONSIDERED theme song. Michael Kramer of Atlanta Georgia writes I am 40 years old now and my first memories of NPR and ATC are from when I was 12 or so. And my mother would play NPR while making dinner. To this day the sound of the ATC theme song brings back memories of the smell of onions sauteing in olive oil. And vice versa the smell of dinner at home reminds me of that tune. I am thankful to him and to you all for a lifetime of good memories and memory connections.  Well please keep those letters and memories coming. Go to NPR.org and click on Contact Us. 