 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. We can now sum up one of the worst years ever in auto sales. Numbers are out today for December and they show sales ended on a generally positive note. At Ford sales rose more than 30 percent from December. A year ago sales at Toyota were up almost 23 percent. But General Motors and Chrysler still face big challenges. Frank Langfitt covers the auto industry for NPR and he is here with us in the studio. Frank what do today's numbers tell us about the state of the overall car business?  Well Michele what we are seeing is more stability in the industry. You know sales are slowly rebounding from these historic lows. Last year were among the worst sales in more than a quarter century. Of course some companies now are doing better than others. In Detroit really Ford has been the stand out. The company did not take a government bailout did not go bankrupt like GM and Chrysler and has been gaining share of the market kind of on the strength of some quality you know products like the sedan - the Fusion is doing pretty well. So a lot of analysts see Ford kind of turning the chaos of last year into a bit of an opportunity.  Now you mention GM and Chrysler two companies that did take the government buyout. How were their sales in December?  Both were down. GM was down about six percent Chrysler down four percent. And you know for GM it was a really turbulent year. I mean not only did the company go bankrupt but took about 50 billion in taxpayer money. Two CEOs were fired in just eight months. But there are some promising products on the way for the company. Next week at the auto show in Detroit where I am going to be headed GM is going to push the Chevy Cruze. It is a small car going to compete with the Honda Civic and the Toyota Corolla and could get in the neighborhood of about 40 miles to the gallon. GM has to do well with this car. And finally towards the end of this year GM is going to roll out its long-awaited electric car the Volt.  Now before the recession the auto show was a big flashy affair not so flashy this year.  You are right. Traditionally this is like the prom in Detroit huge social event. This year it is going to be much more sober. I will be there for the press preview on Monday but they have cut that back to just a day-and-a-half. The GM exhibit is going to be a lot smaller. You are not going to see Hummers or Saturns Pontiacs or Saabs and that is because the company's selling or shutting down those divisions.  Frank I want to ask you about Chrysler. A couple of years ago the company brought in a herd of steers to promote the new Dodge Ram truck big doings there. Any steers this year?  None at all. In fact they are not going to be doing hardly anything. Chrysler has almost no new product coming out right now. And so not only are you not going to see any steers there is not even going to be a press conference. And that is pretty amazing in one of the industry's really key events of the year. Chrysler's now waiting on new small cars based on technology from Fiat the Italian carmaker. Chrysler says it is going to start building the Fiat 500 which has been a hit in Europe at the end of this year.  Thank you Frank.  Happy to do it Michele.  That was NPR's Frank Langfitt. 