 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am David Greene. The U.S. Senate today voted to help small businesses. It approved a 30 billion loan fund along with a package of tax breaks. While that legislation passed easily small business owners are also at the center of another fiscal debate whether or not to let the Bush era tax cuts expire. President Obama would like to end those cuts for individuals making more than 200000 a year and couples making more than 250000. But as NPR's Chris Arnold reports many business owners say that could keep them from hiring.  Last week we did a story where we interviewed a factory owner named Fred Pierce. He employs about 75 people at his metal parts factory in New Hampshire. When we talked to him he was worried about the Bush tax cuts expiring. Mr.  It is basically - it is gonna raise our tax rate by 13 percent So in a worldwide economy where we are competing with China and Mexico we are going to be less competitive next year than we were this year.  After hearing that a listener emailed NPR and said wait a minute I thought the Obama administration said that the expiration of the Bush tax cuts would basically be no big deal for small business. David Roitman is the listener. Mr.  How real is it that small business owners in general that their taxes would go up since Id heard from several sources that the tax policy would impact only two percent of small businesses?  It turns out that yes the expiration of the tax cuts would only affect about two percent of small businesses. But most small businesses are very small - a hot dog vendor a house cleaner. They do not make anywhere near the 250000 income threshold. But when you look at small businesses that actually hire sizable numbers of workers - 30 50 or 100 people - many more of those businesses would see a tax increase.   At another factory outside Boston Carl Pasciuto runs his family business called Custom Machine with his brother Michael. Their factory employs about 90 people and they make aerospace gear medical devices. Mr.  Anything from fly fishing reels all the way through what goes up into space.  Like many small businesses the company files its taxes in a way that its profits are treated as the owner's personal income and taxed at personal rates. So say the company shows a million dollars in business profit next year if the Bush tax cuts are repealed the business will get hit with a tax increase just as if it was a person - say a stock broker on Wall Street who makes a million dollars. But... Mr. JOHN  Machine Yeah there is a big difference between a guy on Wall Street making a million dollars and a company like this making a million dollars but the money basically is still staying in the business.  That is John Donnelly the company's chief financial officer. He explains for one thing the vast majority of the business' profit does not go into the owner's pockets. That is because they constantly need to buy new technology and equipment to stay ahead of competitors in China and around the world. Mr.  Behind you is a brand new machine tool that cost us around 300000. Over about 30 feet away we have got another even bigger machine tool that cost us about another 400000. So you know there is your profits. There is where the money goes - into the business.  The point is that the brothers keep for themselves far less than the 250000 limit. But since their business' paper profit gets lumped in with their income the business would still see a tax hike. The National Association of Manufacturers says that 73 percent of its member companies also file taxes the same way. And so many would also likely see a tax increase. Micheal Pasciuto... Mr.  It may be the difference between adding onto your workforce next year or making it smaller.  Still some economists are skeptical that the repeal of the Bush the tax cuts would really hurt small businesses that much. Bill Gale is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Mr.  There is going to be a negative impact but most of the estimates suggest that that would be outweighed by the positive impact of using the money differently.  The U.S. Treasury Department estimates that the government would bring in 700 billion over 10 years by ending just the tax cuts for top earners. Gale argues that if you want to help the economy and small businesses there are much more targeted ways that you could spend some of that money. Just today the Senate approved a 30 billion loan fund for small businesses and President Obama is pushing for small business tax cuts. But as far as the Bush tax cuts for so many wealthy people in general Gale says the Congressional Budget Office studied 11 different approaches to stimulating the economy. Mr.  The extension of the Bush tax cuts ranked 11 out of 11. It is just not a very effective targeted way to boost the economy.  And of course there is the ballooning federal debt that needs to get paid down. But several other mainstream economists told NPR that they think it is still too risky to abruptly end the tax cuts with the economy so fragile. Some say to end them but have them phase out over a three-year period. Chris Arnold NPR News Boston. 