 After Harvey and Irma the hurricane season was not over. Hurricane Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico as a massive Category 4 storm. Months later the power supply is still spotty and thousands of homes still rely on generators. Daniella Cheslow has the story of how the rumble of a generator inspired one merengue singer to write a holiday hit.   Generators are the new soundtrack of Puerto Rico's holiday season. They power homes hospitals stores.  And the sound  - this is the inspiration for writing this song .  Singer Joseph Fonseca thought he was prepared for hurricane season. He owned a propane generator and rolled it out when Hurricane Irma hit in early September and knocked out his electricity.  When starting the propane generator - not working.  What sound did it make?   - big sound .  Not a good sound?  No no. Not a good sound no.  No there was no repairman who could fix the machine because a second hurricane Maria was already on its way. So Fonseca bought a new machine. Did it work?  Yes push button for him .  After Maria completely wiped out the island's electric grid he depended on that generator and listened to the loud noise and he wrote a song about it.   . The chorus is .  It means - I will ask the three kings to bring me a new generator and when I turn it on it should not make this noise.  .  In Puerto Rico January 6 is Three Kings Day a religious festival celebrating the story of the three wise men with parades and presents. I watched Fonseca perform last week at a Christmas party in San Juan the capital. He takes the stage while men in crisp shirts and women in elegant evening gowns sit at round tables. The first song La Planta Nueva - The New Generator.  .  Fonseca has a generator dance where he pretends to pull a cord to start the machine. Couples hold hands and dance to the choppy beat. Outside Melvin Munic drinks a mojito.  This is our life right now in Puerto Rico.  He lives south of San Juan and he still does not have power.  I hope we have electricity before New Year.  Many people will not get power back anytime soon. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates it will take until late February at the earliest to restore most of the grid longer for remote towns. Fonseca says he hopes Puerto Ricans suffering through the slow recovery might hear his song and have some holiday joy. For NPR News I am Daniella Cheslow in San Juan.   . 