 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. A massive new immigration bill was the subject of a daylong hearing today by the Senate Judiciary Committee. More than 20 witnesses testified before the panel either to applaud the bipartisan legislation or to question it. But overshadowing the event was the bombing of Boston's marathon one week ago with two suspects who immigrated to the U.S. as refugees a decade ago. Joining me from the Capitol to talk about today's hearing is NPR congressional correspondent David Welna. David this was the second day of hearings on the immigration bill that the Gang of Eight as it is called rolled out last week. On Friday and today the Boston bombings very much on the minds of everyone including the senators holding the hearings. How did that play out today?  Well Robert this is something that is been building up ever since Friday's hearing when Chuck Grassley who is the top Republican on the Judiciary panel - and something of a skeptic about this immigration bill - first raised questions about how the case of these two brothers might shed light on weaknesses in the immigration system. Democrats reacted to that over the weekend saying opponents of the bill were trying to torpedo it by using the outrage over the Boston bombings. And today these rising tensions sort of exploded between Grassley and New York Democrat Charles Schumer after Schumer stated at the hearing that the American people overwhelmingly favor immigration reform and that they will not be satisfied with calls to for delays and impediments to the bill.  I say that particularly to those who are pointing to what happened the terrible tragedy in Boston as a - I would say excuse for not doing a bill or delaying it many months or years.  I never said that.  I did not say you did.  I never said that.  I did not say you did sir.   I did not say anything about the bill.  I did not say - I do not mean you Mr. Grassley.  Mr. Chairman I do not appreciate the senator demeaning the witnesses that have come here.   That last voice was Alabama Republican Jeff Sessions who joined Grassley in responding to Schumer. Things calmed down though and everyone at the hearing in fact later observed a minute of silence in honor of those killed and injured a week ago in Boston.  Well beyond that very uncivil behavior was there any serious discussion of how the Boston bombings relate to the new immigration bill?  There was and it was primarily instigated by a couple of witnesses who are quite critical of this bill's promise of a path to citizenship for some 11 million unauthorized immigrants. One of them was Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies. And he asked how was it the Tsarnaev brothers got asylum in the U.S. since their parents wanted asylum from Russia and yet both of them have moved back there? And he and Kansas Attorney General Kris Kobach both questioned how reliable background checks for the 11 million illicit immigrants wanting citizenship might be since the older Tsarnaev brother - the one who is dead - had two background checks done and an interview with the FBI on concerns about possible terrorist ties and yet he was still allowed to travel to Russia and back. South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham who is a co-author of the immigration bill replied that if Boston teaches us anything it is that the nation needs to be more aware of who is living in its midst.  David just briefly it is a massive bill - 850 pages long - what parts were addressed today in the hearing?  Well today most of the discussion was about changes in legal immigration which would shift the priorities for granting visas more towards filling the needs of the labor market for both high- and low-skilled workers. These are very complicated issues and I expect we will be hearing a lot more about them in the coming weeks as this bill gets amended in the committee before the full Senate takes it up most likely in June.  Thank you David.  You are welcome Robert.  That is NPR's David Welna on Capitol Hill. 