 Authorities in Oregon say the fatal police shooting of Robert LaVoy Finicum was justified. Finicum was one of the people who occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge earlier this year. And the Justice Department also says it is launched an internal investigation into possible misconduct by FBI agents at the scene. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports.  LaVoy Finicum's death has been called a cold-blooded murder by many sympathizers. On social media and at rallies around the West they have tried to make Finicum a martyr for their anti-federal government causes. Well today in Oregon prosecutors for a second time released video footage from the dramatic scene at the police roadblock in the snowy mountains on January 26. This recording comes from one of the militants in Finicum's pickup Shawna Cox as state troopers drew their weapons.   You back down or you kill me now. Go ahead. Put the bullet through me.  Authorities from two Oregon counties leading the investigation say a total of eight shots were fired at Finnicum six from state police but not hundreds as his supporters claim on social media. The authorities say Finicum had a loaded 9 millimeter handgun inside his jacket and used his truck driving at 70 miles per hour at one point toward the roadblock as a deadly weapon. The FBI's special agent in charge Greg Bretzing called the use of force justified.   Mr. Finicum chose to break the law. Mr. Finicum chose to put other people's lives in danger and as the investigation shows he chose to provoke a confrontation with law enforcement.  The investigation also revealed an FBI agent fired two shots at Finicum as he got out of his truck. That is new information and has prompted the agency's independent inspector general to investigate possible misconduct. This could fuel even more suspicion from Finicum's family and his self-styled militia supporters.   I do not want the FBI lies. I do not want their version of the truth because they do not know what truth is.   At a rally this past weekend in Salt Lake City LaVoy Finicum's wife Jeanette demanded an independent investigation and activists said they wanted to see body cam footage and Finicum's pickup. Kirk Siegler NPR News. 