 At Fenway Park in Boston it was supposed to be a banner season the ballpark's 100th anniversary. But the Red Sox are stuck in the basement of their division. They have lost 11 of their last 12 home games. And that is jeopardizing a Major League record the sellout record. Ever since 2003 the Sox have sold out Fenway Park for every game 727 consecutive games. From member station WBUR in Boston Curt Nickisch reports.   You do not normally see scalpers outside Fenway like this guy.  Great box seats great price below face.  Ken Samuelian is a banker. He is a season ticket holder and never used to have any problem unloading extras. But here he is before last night's game still wearing his suit from work. But no takers.  I do not know what they did with this team this year. But boy they really laid an egg. Great box seats great price.  He is not the only one here shaking his head at how demand to see games is falling. Chip Case is a Red Sox fan and a renowned economist. He is never seen ticket resale prices here drop this low. DR.  Even last year during the fade when they were not very popular you found them selling for one-and-a-half or two times face value. And now they are - I have 130 tickets. And come here to buy those same tickets you will probably get them for 20 maybe 10.  Some tickets sold for less than four bucks yesterday - that is less than half the cost of a beer at the ballpark. Not exactly comforting to Brian Matt. The CEO of a local company spent 57000 this season for a set of premium tickets.  Now I cannot even give some of them away. I have a whole staff of 35 people here. And I say anybody want tickets? No not really.  Matt is glad he split the ticket package with a couple of friends before the season started.  It is hard to fall in love with this team.  This season's lackluster performance is endangering the record streak of sold out games.  This streak is a fragile thing and it will end at some point.  Sam Kennedy is a top Red Sox executive. He has it easier than his counterparts at other ballparks because Fenway has fewer seats - around 37000. Kennedy expects the streak to continue for months at least partly thanks to fans who bought tickets before the season while they were still optimistic and tourists who want to see a game during Fenway Park's century season.  For people to suggest that we would just give away tickets to get to a certain sellout metric or level is silly. We do not do that. We will not do that.  While many Sox fans take pride in the streak there are at least some who would not mind seeing it come to an end.  Maybe this is the year that we will go to at least a game and maybe a couple of games.  Leslie Macpherson Artinian has not taken her family to a game for the past six years. At an average Fenway ticket price of more than 50 it is just been too expensive. She remembers going to games with her parents. She is been a fan ever since 1967 when she was seven years old and the Red Sox went to the World Series.  It is the background noise of my life. And I wish you know I wish we could go to more games just so it could be that way for my boys too.  This season her wish is coming true. For NPR News I am Curt Nickisch in Boston. 