 The president's top national security team delivered a pointed message today. Russia is continuing to attack America's democracy. A little more than two weeks ago President Trump stood next to Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki and he refused to confront him about election interference. It was another example of the disconnect between what the president says - or tweets - and what top White House officials and cabinet secretaries do. NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson reports.  The sheer number of top officials in the briefing room today was meant to be a show of force. And their message was something the president himself has never delivered.   Our democracy itself is in the crosshairs.  Today's high-powered briefing by Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and others was about the government's approach to a problem the president often still calls a hoax. And it was not the only time this week that the gulf between the president and his top officials was on full display. Just yesterday the president woke up early and in a tweet told his attorney general what he wanted. Quote Jeff Sessions should stop the Mueller investigation. And he told him when he wanted it done - quote right now. But then his top lawyers and his press secretary jumped into action. No no they said. The president was not issuing any commands at all.   It is not an order. It is the president's opinion.  The president's opinion expressed repeatedly is that the Mueller investigation is a rigged witch hunt - something else that top administration officials including the president's FBI Director Christopher Wray also disagree with.   I do not consider Director Mueller to be on a witch hunt.  Former Clinton White House official Elaine Kamarck says Donald Trump increasingly operates as a party of one untethered from his own administration.  This president simply seems to wake up in the morning and say things with nothing behind them - no preparation no coherency. And it is causing a lot of confusion in his White House because they are always scrambling after him.  Sometimes that scramble ties Cabinet secretaries in knots. Last week the president told reporters he would be willing to meet with the leaders of Iran.   I would certainly be willing to meet.  Do you have preconditions for that meeting?  No preconditions none. If they want to meet I will meet.  But hours later on CNBC Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had a long list of preconditions.   If the Iranians demonstrate a commitment to make fundamental changes in how they treat their own people reduce their malign behavior agree that it is worthwhile to enter in a nuclear agreement that actually prevents proliferation then the president has said he is prepared to sit down and have a conversation with him.  Then there was the time national security adviser John Bolton was asked on ABC about the president's suggestion that he might recognize Russia's forced annexation of Crimea.   Look. That is not the policy of the United States.  The difference between what the president says and the policy of the United States is yet another question that tripped up the secretary of state who seemed to suggest to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that presidential pronouncements were not always U.S. policy. But then Pompeo asked for a do-over.   I misspoke. It is the case. The president calls the ball. His statements are in fact policy.  Is that clear? Not really. Elaine Kamarck says what is clear is that the president is pretty disconnected from the government he runs and the political party that he heads.  Just the other day he said he was going to shut down the government because they have not appropriated money for the wall. And it took hours - if not minutes - for Mitch McConnell to say no we are not shutting down the government.  There was the time Trump said he would forgive Puerto Rico's debt and his budget director said no that was not happening. And the time at NATO headquarters when Trump refused to say the U.S. was committed to NATO's mutual defense pact - his defense secretary and vice president rushed out to say in effect the president's words - or in this case the absence of them - was not U.S. policy toward NATO.   Make no mistake. Our commitment is unwavering.  Elaine Kamarck says that on some level this means what the president of the United States says does not matter.  What is important to remember is we have never been a government of men. We are a government of laws. So the laws of the land the treaties that we have signed too that is what is operative for the United States government - not what any president may say one morning.  So right now the U.S. government is operating on two levels. There is the president and what he says. And then there is the administration and what it does. Trump and his supporters have often complained about the deep state - supposedly a shadowy cabal of opposition bureaucrats deep inside the government. But maybe the biggest impediment to the president is not the deep state at all. It is the shallow state that exists right below Donald Trump at the Cabinet level. That is what we saw today - an administration willing to send a strong message to Russia even when the president is not. Mara Liasson NPR News Washington. 