 David Letterman takes to the stage with a wave and a smile. Jay Leno comes out and shakes hands with the audience. Eric Andre does this.    You can kind of get a sense of it without me really describing it. He basically is a maniac. He goes into an uncontrollable rage destroying everything around him as the band plays on. This actually is a comedy program a different kind of comedy program. It is sort of like Luis Bunuel directing Jackass. The Eric Andre Show lasts just 15 minutes and it appears in the middle of the night on the Cartoon Network. Still it is generated a rabid fan base. Host Eric Andre is here with me in the studio. Welcome Eric.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  Thank you for not trashing the studio.  Oh no problem.  I do not think it is quite as breakaway though as yours.   Yeah I would not. I would get hurt.  Have you ever hurt yourself doing that?  Yeah. I hurt myself during a Vivica Fox interview. I hurt my back really bad.  You go flying through the wall destroy your desk in multiple ways.  Yeah. I jumped on my desk and landed right on my tuckus during the Vivica Fox interview and I just like wrenched my back and just sent a shockwave up my spine.  Wow.  Yeah. My back still feels kind of asymmetrical.  You suffer for your art.  Yeah. You know I am an idiot.  Well beyond the insane opening - or I mean not that the show gets saner as you go along but could you try to explain the show for people who have not seen it?  It is like a - kind of like a mock talk show or an anti-talk show talk show where I just destroy the talk show from the beginning to the end deconstructing like the fact that most talk show hosts have to just be like overly polite and pump up the guest and be like you are so great Victoria's Secret model that does not know anything.  We are best friends. And I just think it is way funnier for a host to just be like completely uninformed and spaced out and apathetic.  I want to give people a sense of the show for - here's going to be a typical celebrity interview Eric Andre style. This is with Mel B....  Oh great.  ...former Spice Girl. And well it is a pretty simple sort of question.   I bet she has not been asked that question before.   I think I threw her off a little bit.  Be honest. How much of the celebrity guests that you have on - are they in on the joke? Do they know what they are getting into?  To varying degrees some people are totally in the dark. Some people do not even know the name of the show or who I am before they do it. Like we had Demi Lovato on the show for the New Year's special. And I called her up I just wanted to like call her up and be like hey thanks so much for doing the show before she came on. And she goes I just want to let you know I have seen your Billion Dollar Movie 100 times. And I was like Oh no. That is Eric Wareheim. That is Tim and Eric Eric. And then she goes oh. And I was like I am Eric Andre. And she is like uhh? And then I was just like see you tomorrow. So I just kept my fingers crossed that she would not cancel. But yeah Lou Ferrigno had no idea what was going - we have this great promo...  Lou Ferrigno got kind of uncomfortable.  He was - he came the closest to walking out of any guests we ever had.   Still a big guy.  He is huge. He is a monster. We wrangled him back in. But he was upset. We had this skinny Asian guy we painted him green and he came out as the Hulk while I was interviewing Lou Ferrigno. I was like Lou hold on a second. My next guest is the Incredible Hulk. And this little Asian guy came out and sat next to him and just kept hitting on Lou the entire interview.   What I like was Lou was not quite homophobic. He was more like do not get the green on me.  Yeah. He was more worried about - he was more concerned with the paint getting on him.   But he looked at me he was like did you bring me on this show specifically to mock me? And I was like so what have you been up to? How was Celebrity Apprentice?  Well that is kind of the thing though. Did you?  No. I mean...  I mean it is a fine line sometimes with this humor right?  It is a fine line. But I think - yeah it is a fine line. I think it is like comedy should never be like mean - nothing I am doing is meant to be like mean-spirited because that is not fun and - or funny. And like anybody can be mean. It is more about just being absurd and just like wildly inappropriate for the sake of comedy itself. I do not know.  Your - you got renewed for a third season just now.  Yeah.  This is connecting with people this...  It is crazy.  ...insane thing that you are doing.  I know. It is awesome man. I am so happy and - it is all working out because I was so broke for like 10 years trying to make a living doing comedy. I was eating beans by candlelight for a decade. It is nuts that people are listening to the demons in my brain. But I am happy. It is awesome. I cannot believe it.  That is Eric Andre. He is the host of The Eric Andre Show on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. The finale of Season 2 will air this Thursday night. Eric Andre thank you.  Thank you.  Real fun talking with you.  That was fun. 