 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  I am Melissa Block. And we begin this hour with the death of a dictator.   Shaky video broadcast on Al-Jazeera shows men in the Libyan city of Sirte jostling around the body of Moammar Gadhafi. He is lying shirtless and bloodied on the ground.  Gadhafi ruled Libya for 42 years a regime of extreme brutality. Today his opponents said that chapter has been closed.    We announce to the world - we announce to the world the - that Moammar Gadhafi has been killed.  That announcement came from Libya's Transitional National Council. Celebration erupted in Tripoli and here in Washington D.C. President Obama said this is a momentous day in the history of Libya. President  The dark shadow of tyranny has been lifted and with this enormous promise the Libyan people now have a great responsibility to build an inclusive and tolerant and democratic Libya that stands as the ultimate rebuke to Gadhafi's dictatorship.  The circumstances of the Libyan leader's death remain unclear. We know there was heavy fighting in Sirte Gadhafi's hometown and stronghold. Video has circulated of him captured alive but injured and leaders of the new Libyan government say he was shot and killed in a gun battle between his captors and his supporters.  Gadhafi's body was taken from Sirte to the city of Misrata and that is where we have reached freelance reporter Marine Olivesi. Marine I gather you saw the body of Moammar Gadhafi.  The bodies of both Moammar Gadhafi and his son Mutassim Gadhafi have been brought to an individual house about 15 minutes drive from the center of Misrata. It is really unclear how he ended up there. It is been very difficult to look at him exactly. There were several rumors about his location but we saw him in the main hallway of that private house. His body is lying on a mattress. There are people around trying to take pictures with him. It is clear that he was injured to the chest. He received several gunshots to the chest. He is lying there just with pants on and again people crowding around trying to get a picture of themselves with the dead body of Moammar Gadhafi.  And the people who are crowding around Marine these are people who live in Misrata? These are fighters?  These are all people from Misrata. A lot of them have been fighting. People in Misrata it has a specific meaning to them that the body was brought here because as one of the Misrati here told me they have been waiting for that moment for so long and the town has suffered so much through the Libyan revolution. I mean one person beside me could not wait to get a picture with Moammar Gadhafi so that he can show his mom because he lost two brothers in the siege of Misrata and that would mean a lot to his mother to see for herself the dead body of Moammar Gadhafi. So there is a sense of closure it felt like it for a lot of people here for who the death of Moammar Gadhafi marks the end of those eight months and the end of the Libyan revolution.  I have been talking with freelance reporter Marine Olivesi. She is in the Libyan city of Misrata where the body of Moammar Gadhafi was taken today. Marine thank you very much.  You are welcome. 