 The biggest surprise from last night's primaries came in Michigan. Bernie Sanders defeated Hillary Clinton even though Clinton had led in the polls leading up to the vote. Sen. Sanders joins us now from Florida one of the big prizes in next week's elections. Welcome to the show and congratulations on your win last night.  Well thank you very much. It is a pleasure to be with you.  Since your victory you sent out a handful of fundraising e-mails and I am curious how much you have raised off of last night's Michigan win.  I honestly do not know but I will tell you this. We have received over 5 million individual campaign contributions since we began this campaign averaging about 27.  I wondered if you were going to say 27. I have heard that number before.   Now let us talk about how you won Michigan largely in thanks to white voters which has also been true in other states where you have done well. And I wonder about your effort to close the gap with Secretary Clinton among African-American voters particularly in light of your remarks on Sunday night - when you are white you do not know what it is like to be living in a ghetto which many black leaders criticized.  Number one let us relax a little bit here. We began at 3 percent in the polls. Since then we have now won nine states most of them by very very large margins. Last night we won Michigan by a point and a half. We started off in very low numbers in the African-American community. Those numbers have been going up. And in fact last night in Michigan as I understand it through exit polls we won about 32 percent of the African-American vote and maybe one-half of young African-Americans. In Colorado and in Nevada we believe we won the Latino vote. So we have come a long long way in a reasonably short period of time. Let me say something about your remarks. There is no candidate who has talked more about poverty in this country than I have. The fact is we have the highest rate of childhood property of any major country on Earth which is a national disgrace. Thirty-five percent of African-American kids are living in poverty. Fifty-one percent of African-American high school graduates between 17 and 20 are unemployed or underemployed. So when you are talking about poverty I would suggest to you that I am the candidate who talks and knows more about that issue I believe than any other candidate out there and has a legislative agenda that will address those problems - raising the minimum wage to 15 an hour creating...  Then why do you think you have had so much difficulty winning over black voters so far in the primaries?  I do not think it is a question of winning over black voters. I think it is a question of Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton having very strong support in African-American community and I congratulate them for that. But I do believe and I think what the evidence suggests is that the more and more people know my record on criminal justice on economics in the African-American community in the Latino community we are doing better and better and better.  Senator I would like to ask about jobs and trade. Your message on trade really struck a nerve in Michigan. When you talk about your proposals to put Americans back to work you talk a lot about rebuilding roads and bridges. Beyond infrastructure improvements what is your plan to create American jobs?  Well for a start when you have in Flint Mich. a water system which is poisoning children and to a lesser degree we have collapsing water systems in many communities in this country yes we need to invest heavily in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. We have a plan for a trillion-dollar investment that would create up to 13 million decent-paying jobs. Second of all you are quite right in saying that we did well in Michigan yesterday because of our trade position. NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China have cost us millions of decent-paying jobs. As president I intend to change those policies and demand that corporate America start investing in this country not just in Mexico China and other low-wage countries. In terms of other economic policies to create jobs we will be supporting medium-sized businesses and small businesses providing tax incentives to them.  Let us look at the map going forward. Even though your surprise win in Michigan was the big headline of the night Secretary Clinton actually came out of last night's contest with a wider delegate lead than before after her strong win in Mississippi. She is now more than 200 pledged delegates ahead of you not including the superdelegates. So at some point in order to secure this nomination you have to start winning more bigger states by wider margins than you have been able to do so far. When do you expect we will begin to see that happen?  Well as I am sure you know the caucus and primary map up until this point has really favored the secretary because a lot of her victories including her big victory in Mississippi yesterday are in the deep South. So let me be very frank - we have not done well in the deep South and it is not surprising. The south is a pretty conservative area. I am not a conservative. But we have already won nine caucuses and primaries in New England. We have won them in the Midwest. We have won it in the Southwest. And it turns out that the caucuses and primaries that are now coming up in the future I think are looking pretty good for us. So you are looking at large states like New York state where we think we have a pretty good chance to win. You are look at the West Coast where I think we have an excellent chance to win in California Oregon Washington state Hawaii smaller states like Montana and Idaho. So I think that the coming primaries and caucuses actually favor us. So the deep South was very good for Secretary Clinton but I should also point out to you that a lot of those states in the deep South unfortunately - I wish I could tell you otherwise - are probably not going to be won in the general election by Secretary Clinton or myself. But when we win as we did in Colorado and in Minnesota and in Michigan these are - and New Hampshire - these are battleground states which Democrats have to win. We have already won them.  We actually did the math looking ahead. And if you have an extraordinarily good night on Tuesday winning Florida Illinois Missouri and Ohio every state but North Carolina and you go on to win Wisconsin Oregon and California by large margins you would still need 51 percent of all the delegates from all the remaining contests not factoring in superdelegates. That seems like an extremely steep hill to climb.  Well  let me tell you something. When I started 60 or 70 points behind Secretary Clinton how was that? Was that a pretty steep hill to climb? Yesterday some observers said that we pulled off one of the biggest political upsets in the history of American politics so stay tuned. I think we are going to go further and we have a good chance to pull off the biggest political upset in the modern history of America. We can win this thing. We have got a path towards victory. I think we have the momentum. We are looking forward to a victory.  That is Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders the winner of last night's Michigan primary. 