 President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden go head to head tonight in the first of three debates. Elsewhere in the program we hear from Democratic Sen. Chris Coons who is a close adviser to the Biden campaign. Now we want to talk to Steve Cortes. He is a senior adviser to the Trump campaign. Steve welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you so much for having me. And - funny - I literally just passed by Sen. Coons so...  Oh really?  We were - yeah at the debate site - kind of funny.  Funny coincidence - yes so the president will have one of the biggest audiences of the campaign an audience that will extend beyond the core supporters. He is been out in front of folks at rallies and other campaign events. What is the message he wants to convey to the American people?  The biggest message is on the economy. The president will very rightly boast about the economy both that he built previously before the pandemic and the one that is reasserting right now. It is the No. 1 issue by all relevant polling. It is the No. 1 issue on voters' minds. It is also the issue on which he has the biggest lead over Joe Biden in polling. But most importantly I just think it is the most compelling issue for effectively rehiring him as our national CEO for another four years. The economy he built in the first three years of administration combined with what is going on right now - we cannot just talk about...  Yeah.  ...The past but...  Right right.  ...Present tense the data lately is just incredible. Last week...  Yeah.  ...For example - two quick points. We got out a new home sales number. It was the biggest number in 14 years. Today we got out consumer confidence - absolutely surged smashed Wall Street expectations. So the numbers out there verify that this economy's...  Well Steve...  ...Roaring back. I think that is what he will talk about.  But Steve the reality is that we are in a pandemic. I want to ask you more questions about that specifically. But first I want to ask you about the New York Times reporting on the president's income tax returns over the last couple of decades reporting that shows that many years he did not pay any federal income taxes. And then in both 2016 and 2017 he only paid about 750. Back in 2016 during the debate with Hillary Clinton he actually said not paying taxes proved he was smart. Is that going to be his answer this evening?  Well look. Legal avoidance of taxes is yes absolutely smart. And every American does it or should if they do not.  But Steve...  Tax evasion...  In a year - let me say in a year when millions are out of work because of the pandemic in a year when Americans are going to food banks in record numbers because they do not have enough to eat what does the president have to say to people who are angry that he is avoiding paying income taxes for so many years?  OK well a few things - you know first of all there is a lot of anxiety out there and that is understandable. And although the economy's roaring back we know we still have work to do to get to the heights of the Trump boom that we were enjoying just in the early parts of this year. But the point is we are getting there. But that anxiety that economic angst out there is not the fault of President Trump and I think the American people resoundingly know that. It is not the fault of Joe Biden either. It is the fault of the Chinese Communist Party. So that is...  Oh.  ...One thing. We have to place the blame where it belongs. They deceived the world. And through their deception and their malfeasance they infected the world and they crashed the global economy.  Well Steve let us talk though about America's response once we were aware...  Yeah.  ...That the coronavirus was a real threat. So the president has admitted that he deliberately downplayed the coronavirus. Despite the fact that public health experts say masks are one of the most effective tools in containing the virus - that is just one example - he continued to cast doubt on them. Also the scientific head of the U.S. vaccine effort says a universally available vaccine is not likely available till the middle of 2021. So what is the president's plan to prevent tens of thousands of more deaths if he is reelected?  Well you know look. Looking back toward the early days of the virus - it is important to note this - the president took this very seriously far before a lot of our leaders did. For example when he put the restrictions on China travel at the end of January he was called xenophobic by Joe Biden. So that is - Biden is somebody who was not taking it seriously when the president was.  I am sorry to keep interrupting you but it was not until mid-March that the president acknowledged the gravity of the situation.  Look. If you want to talk timeline here this is important. Let us talk Dr. Fauci somebody who the critics of the president love to lionize right? Dr. Fauci on February 29 went on The Today Show - as late as the 29 - went on The Today Show told a national audience that they should not change anything. No part of their lives none of their customs should change. Days later - literally days later - he was advocating within the administration for a complete shutdown of the country that then happened two weeks after that February 29 radio. And the reason I bring that up by the way is not just to criticize Fauci but to point out that even the leading epidemiologists in the world had extremely different views...  It was very...  ...Within days.  Yes it was very chaotic...  Yes.  ...In that moment during that time.  It was the fog of war.  But...  And neither the president nor Fauci had complete clarity at that time.  That is Steve Cortes a senior adviser to the Trump campaign. Thank you so much for your time. 