 Keeping track of the unemployment numbers may feel like counting raindrops in a hurricane but each person is a new story of job loss in an increasingly bleak economy. Courtney O'Keefe is 45 and lives in Chapel Hill N.C. COURTNEY O' I have worked as a barista for the last 11 years of my life. When I was let go it was all very sudden with no warning and no severance pay just that is it. No matter what number I pressed for whatever kind of help it was disconnected. I was hung up on pretty much.  More than 33 million people have signed up for new benefits since the crisis began. And we wanted to see how that was playing out on the ground so we are joined now by NPR's Wade Goodwyn in Dallas NPR's Greg Allen in Miami and Jeff Tiberii of WUNC in Raleigh N.C. Hey to all three of you  Hello.  Hello.  Hey there.  So let us start with Texas. Wade I understand that more than 2 million workers in your state have applied for unemployment insurance. Is that correct?  That is right. Like everywhere else in America things are rough here. Last year the U.S. became the No. 1 oil producer in the world largely on the back of Texas shale oil fields. And now there are questions about to what extent these drilling operations would ever come back online. It threatens to undo what had been a robust Texas manufacturing sector. I mean we are talking hundreds of thousands of jobs lost altogether. And mostly these were good-paying jobs.  And who is eligible for unemployment in Texas?  Of course you know everyone who loses his or her job is eligible. If you are a worker over 65 you are considered at risk and you can apply. Here's a big one. If you cannot get child care you are eligible for unemployment. And that is a lot of Texas workers at the moment. Child care services are generally not happening. If you are medically quarantined you can get unemployment. But you cannot just say I am quarantining myself because it is dangerous out there. If your employer says come back you have to come back unless as I said before you are over 65 or medically at risk. You know there is a restaurant here in Dallas that I think is going to provide an interesting test case about this. It is an expensive restaurant and it told its staff they are not going to be allowed to wear masks. And they can like it or lump it. I mean they will be fired. So if you are a hostess a waitress a bartender you will be interacting with patrons day after day. You know a waiter's got to lean over and breathe on and be breathed on by every customer they serve.  Yeah. Absolutely.  You know and if they refuse to expose themselves and they are fired are they going to be eligible for unemployment? That is a good question.  OK. So that is Texas. Let us turn to Florida now. Greg what is the situation like there?  Well like Texas and really everywhere in the country there is massive unemployment here. One extra problem we have here is that the system for unemployment compensation nearly two months into the shutdown now is best described as still dysfunctional. Less than half of the more than a million people who have submitted claims have gotten any checks at all yet. But that is even an improvement. During the first month of the shutdown through middle of April out of more than a million claims just 40000 people received money. The computer-based system that handles unemployment claims had major issues ever since it was launched seven years ago. And while the economy was good and unemployment was low the governor Ron DeSantis and before that Governor Rick Scott ignored repeated audits that identified problems with the system and that said that these - there is changes that needed to be fixed here.  Well how does the unemployment system in North Carolina compare to that? Let us bring in Jeff Tiberii now. How is North Carolina managing this crisis?  It is a similar narrative in that there has been just a wave an unprecedented wave. And the system itself is totally overwhelmed. There have now been close to 1.1 million unemployment applications here. And for context that is the equivalent of several years' worth of claims in less than two months. So the state has actually added more than a thousand workers to handle all of the calls. And I have talked to a number of people who have been laid off and furloughed. And among what I hear time and time again is just a frustration with wait times an inability to get some of their questions answered and you know again a frustration in not knowing how long it might take for them to receive money.  Greg I just want to go back to you. What are officials in Florida doing to fix the unemployment system there?  Well there is recognition now that something needs to be done clearly if people are not getting their money. Governor DeSantis has replaced the person who was leading the unemployment system and consultants have been brought in to start doing software fixes. They have added 100 new computer servers to the system to try to process some of these claims. But it is still so bad that the state is now allowing people go back to the old days of unemployment compensation and submit paper applications. And so people have been doing that sending them in through the mail. And the state is scrambling to add call centers and reassigning state employees from other departments to help process all those applications. But it is all turned into a major problem for Governor DeSantis who is grilled about it at every press briefing. You know why are not people getting their unemployment compensation checks? He is responded by pointing fingers at his predecessor as governor fellow Republican Rick Scott. DeSantis says he is become convinced as this has gone on that the system was actually designed to fail. He is now asked the state's inspector general to conduct an investigation into how Florida spent nearly 78 million on a system that from the beginning never worked.  Just to stay on this thread of problematic unemployment systems Jeff Tiberii how did North Carolina even end up with so many problems with its state unemployment system?  So I think to understand the picture of where we are at now it is worth briefly mentioning what has happened in recent years. And North Carolina actually saw its unemployment trust fund go bankrupt following the Great Recession. Then in 2013 Republicans rolled back maximum benefits - 26 weeks down to 12 weeks max benefit and a 535 max benefit down to 350 per week. Now these are some of the lowest benefits in the country. However the state has also built up a significant unemployment reserve. And at the start of a pandemic that reserve was almost 4 billion. So this is providing what - lawmakers are optimistic - is a level of flexibility and a cushion. And they hope that they are going to be able to extend these benefits as right now about two-thirds of what has been disbursed has been federal money and not yet from the state coffers.  Well what about Texas Wade? I mean we are hearing all these reports from all over the country. Workers are trying to apply for unemployment. They cannot get through to call centers. Are you seeing something similar in Texas?  Yeah it is an issue here too. Unemployment insurance as you can imagine it is a complex process. You cannot just plug any old Joe into a state call center and expect them to know how to do it. I talked to Richard Levy who is the president of the Texas AFL-CIO. And he told me he is hearing stories from workers who have been trying for weeks and now they have just given up in frustration.  You have a right to it. It is there for you. You have to keep trying. If you cannot get through contact your legislator. let them know you are having a problem. But look. Unemployment is an insurance program. People have been paying premiums to make sure that unemployment insurance would be there when we needed it.  You know on top of the state unemployment payment there is 600 more per person as federal stimulus. If you are eligible you should go get it.  All right. That is NPR's Wade Goodwyn in Dallas NPR's Greg Allen in Miami and Jeff Tiberii of member station WUNC in Raleigh N.C. Thank you to all three of you.  You are welcome.  You are welcome.  It is my pleasure. 