 Joining us now is NPR's Tom Gjelten. Tom what more is the British government saying about Moussa Koussa?  The Foreign Office says that Koussa announced that he is resigning his post as foreign minister and then that he went into discussions with the British government. British officials are not saying a whole lot more than that only that he is quote no longer willing to represent the Gadhafi regime internationally.  And does that amount then Tom to a defection? Has he in fact gone over to the rebels' side?  That would be the next step. They are not saying that. There is some speculation that that will come that he would actually ask for asylum and support even the transitional government. But that has not happened yet.  Now Moussa Koussa for a long time has been a major player in the Gadhafi regime.  But the truth is that over the last 20 years there are very few people who have been more important to Gadhafi than Moussa Koussa. He was his intelligence chief both during the period when the Libyan regime was involved in terrorist acts and subsequently when the Libyans when Gadhafi moved closer to the West and there was - he was in charge of cooperation collaboration on counterterrorism issues with other governments including the United States. So a very important figure.  And Tom any sense of what this will mean for Gadhafi and what the British and U.S. governments will be trying to learn from Koussa? Is he in fact subject to prosecution now?  My guess is that he is not going to be prosecuted for that at least for anything that is happened recently. Now as far as what this means you know the U.S. and British and other foreign governments are going to be very anxious to find out how wide is the disaffection within the Libyan regime how much instability there is. And he should have a lot of information about what is going on.  And Tom had there been inklings of this brewing within the diplomatic community?  And then when word came that he was going to London the Libyan government put out a statement that he was on a diplomatic mission. But now we know that there is no - there was rumors that he was going to be negotiating a way out for Gadhafi - but now we know he has in fact left the government.  Okay Tom thanks so much.  You bet Melissa.  That is NPR's Tom Gjelten on the news that Libyan foreign minister Moussa Koussa has quit and flown to the U.K. 