 We are going to finish up today's program talking about politics as the 2016 presidential campaign draws to a close. Do not worry though there is a sweet ending you will find out in a minute. But first over the weekend Republican Donald Trump and his campaign invoked historic metaphors in stops at Civil War battlefields over the weekend. That could be a useful lens as NPR's Sarah McCammon reports.  As Donald Trump laid out his closing pitch to voters in the key state of Pennsylvania what better setting than an actual battleground?   It is my privilege to be here in Gettysburg hallowed ground where so many lives were given.  Trump reiterated the major themes of his campaign like cracking down on illegal immigration. He also promised to sue women who have come forward to accuse him of unwanted sexual contact. But first he drew a parallel to the state of the nation during the Civil War.   President Lincoln served in a time of division like we have never seen before. It is my hope that we can look at his example to heal the divisions we are living through right now.  Afterward Trump visited the site of Pickett's Charge a failed Confederate assault on the Union on the last day of the Battle at Gettysburg. Ahead of Trump's next stop at the conservative Christian Regent University in Virginia Beach another Civil War battle came to mind.   A-hundred-and-sixty-two years ago in a place called the Wilderness right here in Virginia...  State Senator Frank Wagner told the large open-air crowd about a battle where the Confederate general refused to give up.   The entire center or the rebel line was collapsing. Lee saw it. He ran to the sound of the gunfire.  We were in a war Wagner said. And it is time to take the country back by getting out the vote for Trump.  That is an amazing metaphor is not it?  That is John Fea a history professor at Messiah College in Grantham Pa. He was attending a conference for Christian historians on the Regent campus. Fea noted that Pickett's Charge a last-ditch effort at the end of a losing battle could be seen as an unfortunate symbolic choice.  It was a big-time slaughter but that was their only chance of getting out of Gettysburg alive with a victory. And that is pretty much what Trump's trying to do right now right?  Whatever the outcome of the battle that will end on Election Day Fea says he wonders about the direction of the civil war within the Republican Party that will rage on. Sarah McCammon NPR News Virginia Beach. 