 National Guard troops are finally in place along the U.S.-Mexico border after President Obama ordered them there in July. Twelve-hundred troops have been sent to the four border states California Arizona New Mexico and Texas. Of those nearly half in Arizona the busiest state for illegal border crossings. NPR's Ted Robbins was among the first to see the operation up close.  It is a breezy afternoon on a hill west of Nogales Arizona. Four soldiers in combat gear are standing watch. One is scanning the terrain with binoculars. They make up an E.I.T. - an Entry Identification Team. None of the soldiers agreed to talk with us or to let us use their names. Border Patrol agent David Jimarez says this is a popular place to cross and if the soldiers were not here there would be a Border Patrol truck clearly visible on this hilltop. Mr.  Now that the National Guardsmen are here now we can free up that additional agent and he can go work areas more remote more rural where  still cannot reach.  So we are about oh maybe a quarter mile from the border fence if that?  If that. Yeah we are very close to the border here.  You want them to be seen out here and for them to see...  Well they are in a high-visibility posture so definitely yes they will be seen and that is part of the effect that we want to go ahead and create that deterrence effect.  Four years ago the National Guard was at this same spot in fact it was soldiers who built the fence.Back then 6000 troops came to the border until the Border Patrol could hire more agents.There are more than 3000 agents in Arizona now. Still some critics want an even greater presence.They say 560 soldiers on Arizona's border are not enough.But Victor Manjarrez chief of the Tucson Border Patrol Sector says the extra eyes and ears are paying off. Mr.  We have seen that already in the very short time they have been deployed. And the critics point to the number.At no time will I ever turn away any resource. If that number were to go up we would gladly accept that. If that number were to go down we would make those adjustments.  Manjarrez says the soldiers already have played a role in 400 arrests.When soldiers spot illegal crossers they radio the Border Patrol which tries to apprehend them.National Guard troops do not make arrests themselves  another criticism from border hawks.The Guard says the troops are not trained as law enforcement officers but Colonel Jill Nelson of the Arizona National Guard says they are prepared for danger. Colonel  Every soldier and airman assigned to an EIT site has a weapon and we authorize under the strict guidelines with the state with the rules for the use of force that were established for this mission.  Those rules of engagement? Col.  You know I do not want to get into details for the rules for the use of force but they are authorized to use their weapons for self-defense.  The Border Patrol will not say exactly where the troops have been placed though there are not any on the vast Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation - one of the most porous areas for smuggling. The troops have been put on or near the Krentz Ranch in southeastern Arizona. That is where rancher Rob Krentz was murdered in March of this year presumably by a drug smuggler. The uproar following that spurred the Arizona legislature to pass an anti-immigration law now being challenged in court.It also prompted President Obama to send the troops which is why the Reverend Robin Hoover a longtime immigration-rights activist calls the mission more political than strategic. Reverend  This is a fabulous political ploy to be putting 500 Guardsmen into a depressed economy in southern Arizona renting hotel rooms and buying gasoline and showing  just in front of the election  that the Democratic Party gets it and that they want to do some border enforcement.  The National Guard troops are scheduled to stay on the border for one year. That means they will be in place through what is usually the busiest season for crossing in the spring. Ted Robbins NPR News Tuscon. 