 The military took over Myanmar's government three months ago and people are still protesting in the streets. Over the weekend security forces killed at least 10 people in major protests. More than 700 civilians have been killed since the February 1 coup. And as Michael Sullivan reports neither side is showing any sign of compromise.  The antimilitary demonstrations are entering their fourth month. And the protesters like this 30-year-old in Myanmar's biggest city Yangon remain defiant.  Our position is very clear. We will not accept this military institution anymore. And we will never ever surrender until the real democracy is restored and people power is back.  She wants to remain anonymous for her safety and her defiance is tinged with despair as the country reels from one crisis to another.  We thought COVID-19 was brutal but now we have lost everything we had. And we all are threatened by the soldier who are barbarians. And we feel like now we have lost our future and everything has stopped. And we are in the dark.  Another young protester who also requested anonymity says the past decade of progress cannot be wasted a decade when the military loosened its grip on power allowing free elections and access to the outside world.  This 10 years is not a full-fledged democracy but we can enjoy just a little slice just a little taste of democracy. I think you know people are very determined that you know they will not go back to the dark age that we have 10 years ago.  Neither protester has any faith in neighboring countries or their regional grouping e to their aid. Nor do they really believe any more that the West will help either. And yet they do not stop. And their persistence sounds painfully familiar to some.  Oh yeah. Yeah. A lot of similarities.  Khin Ohmar is a Burmese human rights activist now in exile who took part in the 1988 democratic uprising against military rule.  But there were no social media and no media in the country no foreign media in the country. But it was a nationwide protest nationwide democracy uprising just like now.  But there is also a lot of differences too.  Compared to our time in 1988 this movement now is much more vibrant much more stronger more resilient collectively in the way that different generations from 1988 and before until now are now coming together and combining.  In 1988 the military killed an estimated 3000 students and other protesters before quelling that uprising. She is worried the death toll this time will be much higher with a similar result.  I am very very worried. And I am not the only one because right now the day and night manhunt and arrest is everywhere - in the cities in the villages right? So how long the people can continue to resist or keep defying I am not so sure to be very honest.  But in some of those villages when the military comes the people are now ready.   .  When the military came for protesters in this man's district in western Chin State recently residents picked up their traditional handmade rifles and fought back. Local media said more than a dozen soldiers were killed. The man says his people once hoped for help from the West but quickly decided they needed to stand on their own feet. And there are reports of more people in other towns and villages in other parts of the country doing the same. For NPR News I am Michael Sullivan in Chiang Rai Thailand. 