 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. And there is reaction today and more details trickling out about a potential deal on health care. A small group of Senate Democrats reached that deal yesterday. They are trying to free the overhaul bill from a state of legislative limbo. And five moderates and five liberals may have found a compromise on a government sponsored health insurance option the compromise that could win the magic 60 votes. NPR's Julie Rovner has the latest.  No one's quite sure exactly what is in the package that is now getting its cost estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. But President Obama took a minute from a community health center event this afternoon to praise the potential compromise anyway. President  The Senate made critical progress last night with a creative new framework that I believe will help pave the way for final passage and a historic achievement on behalf of the American people. I support this effort.  Whether or not the plan includes a public option will apparently come down to a semantic distinction. There will likely be a role for the federal Office of Personnel Management. It now oversees the hundreds of private plans that cover nine million federal workers and their families including members of Congress. Exactly what the OPM would oversee under the new plan remains unclear. More clear however is that the package includes a proposal to let older uninsured people buy into Medicare coverage early. That pleases senators like West Virginia Democrat Jay Rockefeller who is been pushing for such a change for years. Senator  I would love to get that. That is 55 to 64 years old. That is a lot of people and it is really good.  Good is not the word Republicans are using to describe the idea particularly after they have spent most of the past week castigating Democrats for cutting Medicare spending in the bill. Here's Tennessee's Lamar Alexander. Senator  How in the world can we take a trillion dollars out of Medicare and give 34 or 35 million more Americans a chance to opt in it at a time when the trustees of Medicare have said it is going broke in five years?  Now Alexander's numbers do not quite add up. No one's talking about adding that many more people to the program. But the sentiment that adding more people to Medicare at a time when it is clearly having financial problems is one that is shared not just by Republicans but by health care provider groups. And unlike Republicans some of those provider groups have been major backers of the health overhaul effort. Take the American Hospital Association. Mr.  No one wants to see expanded coverage more than America's hospitals.  That is AHA executive Vice President Rick Pollack. Mr.  However we are extremely concerned about this kind of an approach because it moves people away from the private sector into government programs that are chronically underfunded.  Pollack says the average hospital already gets about 40 percent of its revenues from Medicare. Mr.  And Medicare pays less than the cost of delivering services. And as more patients are reimbursed at levels that are below the cost of providing the service it obviously makes it difficult to maintain essential public services that patients and communities depend upon.  Hospitals typically make up that shortfall by passing the cost to privately insured patients who pay more. That is made the idea of letting younger patients join Medicare a nonstarter with the insurance industry too. Robert Zirkelbach is a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans. Mr.  Families and employers are paying higher premiums to offset under-reimbursements from the Medicare program today. Expanding the number of people that participate in the Medicare program will exacerbate this underfunding and increase cost for people with private coverage.  There is another element of the emerging compromise that is drawn fire from the insurance industry. Insurers may be required to spend 90 percent of each premium dollar on direct health care services and only 10 percent on administrative costs. But Zirkelbach says that could curtail some of the very programs the government wants to expand. Mr.  Quote Administrative costs include programs such as disease management care coordination prevention and wellness. All of these things have broad support.  Senate Democrats are meeting tonight to go over the deal. They need all 60 members of their caucus to move the bill to a final vote. And it is not clear whether brand new ideas like a Medicare buy-in will get them the votes they need. Julie Rovner NPR News Washington. 