 The German composer Nils Frahm is one of the stars in a new wave of what has been described as neoclassical defying genres to blend electronic and classical music and take traditional instruments like grand pianos out of concert halls and into clubs and indie theaters. Frahm is the subject of a new concert film called Tripping With Nils Frahm. Bilal Qureshi reports it has just debuted online along with a soundtrack album.   On a Berlin stage a small figure in a T-shirt and flat cap bounces between pianos and towering analog synthesizers. He is flipping switches turning knobs and massaging keyboards as audiences sway in rapture. Music critic Wyndham Wallace was in that room.  When I picture Nils he is like a Dickensian hipster. There is something sort of strangely Dickensian with that hat. And he you know wears these trousers. They only seem to go down to about his ankles. But he is leaping around the stage working up a sweat and then suddenly stopping to perform some beautiful intricate intimate piece of music. And then the next thing you know he is turning knobs and turning the track into some kind of dub-techno piece.   Nils Frahm trained as a classical pianist but he says he always saw the instrument as a machine to be tweaked expanded and defied.  The piano can do certain things very well and other things it cannot do very well. And after a while when you play piano for a long time you want it to be more than maybe is. So this is where the fight starts.  So Frahm started incorporating synthesizers many of which he designed himself. He took them on the road with his pianos to trigger an analog experience.   I see all these keyboards. Maybe it is 11 keyboards. But I do not want to hear technology in the music. And so I think I am struggling or fighting with the technology and sometimes against it and sometimes with it to make my message come through.  Part of his message is also visual.  My father's a photographer and films are a big inspiration I think. And so personally I focus on making music which creates maybe images which are different for everyone.   Critic Wyndham Wallace says Frahm's music speaks to everyone.  The fascinating thing about him is that he is somebody that I can take a friend who would if she could spend every weekend dancing to techno music and she loves it. And I can take my 75-year-old mother as I have done to see Nils perform and she loves it as well.   A fellow traveler in the sound world is Icelandic composer Olafur Arnalds. He is close friends with Frahm and they are often mentioned as parallel stars of the pop neoclassical movement.  We have the same kind of approach to using classical instruments in ways that are not traditional.  Arnalds says their approach is working and drawing younger audiences searching for some kind of peace from the digital noise that surrounds them.  And I think this music has now somehow - perhaps not on purpose but has become almost an answer to some of that when people are seeking for something a little bit deeper they are seeking for something calmer in a world that is full of chaos and a world that kind of demands our attention all the time with you know our devices and the Internet and all that. This is a place where people can escape to.   The title of the new concert film Tripping With Nils Frahm has several meanings says its subject.  I think music can be the most beautiful drug experience of your life. It is almost like an addiction. I am addicted to music for my whole life. And also like the words tripping came because I am on this trip for the last 10 11 years where I am traveling the world to make my show. And so all of this became so intense that I thought like yeah it is a trip.  The pandemic of course has shut down live music and most trips. But Nils Frahm says the new film is an invitation to return to those sweaty Berlin nights an even more potent trip in these solitary times. For NPR News I am Bilal Qureshi.  