 There are plenty of films about veterans returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan but very few are actually made by veterans. That is what motivated the producers of an online digital documentary series called In Their Boots. It features the work of five filmmakers all veterans. Reporter Gloria Hillard met up with two of them in Los Angeles as they put the finishing touches on their stories.  In a darkened edit room a film rolls on two monitors.  Unidentified Man  And I was a sergeant. We were all 25 when we went to Iraq music.  Watching over the editor's shoulder is the film's producer and director former Marine Sergeant Clint Van Winkle. Everything about him says Marine - the buzz cut the intense concentration. For weeks now the voices of his war buddies and the images of combat have replayed in front of him. Mr.  That was one of the bloodiest battles of the Iraq War.  Mr.  Taken an emotional toll on me doing this project. Just you know thinking about you know putting myself back into the war again.  The title of his documentary is called The Guilt. With Van Winkle behind the camera he and two of his friends revisited their most harrowing memories of combat and coming home. In this scene a friend recalls the funeral of a fallen Marine.  Unidentified Man  The only thing they were able to recover was a dog tag. I had to give that to his wife. But when I went to hand it to her his mom also put out her hand. Mr.  We have had so many other people trying to tell our stories. As a veteran I think it is our job to try to help people understand you know?  That is what inspired Richard Ray Perez the executive producer of the project to allow veterans to tell their own stories unfiltered. Mr.  And at the same time allow veterans who are interested in filmmaking to have that opportunity to become filmmakers.  Former Army Sergeant Tristan Dyer had thought of becoming a filmmaker in high school but then came graduation and a change of plans. He and a number of other friends including his best friend enlisted. Mr.  And that summer was like the summer of goodbyes kind of for the neighborhood you know? Each week it seemed like another kid was leaving.  And then there was a summer of coming home. His best friend got out just before he did. They spoke on the phone a few times. Mr.  I do not know what transpired or what I did not even know about was going on and he overdosed.  Others he says died in drunk driving accidents. Not surprisingly his documentary Enduring Erebus deals with substance abuse among veterans. Four veterans three men and a woman provide the narrative to his film.  Unidentified Woman Within three months of being home I started self-medicating. I was having nightmares and...  On the screen in stop-motion animation is a figure made of twisted wire dragging itself out of bed and across a small room. Mr.  The common theme among the people in my film is that they cannot sleep very well.  You never see their faces but the stories they openly share with the filmmaker the memories of war behind their insomnia and addiction are brutally honest and sometimes hard to hear. Unidentified Man  Our team went out to secure the area. And there was a mother in the field and she was picking up the pieces of three of her children.  Dyer says he is not plagued by the same demons as the veterans in his film but he feels a responsibility to them. Mr.  There are other stories I would like to tell for sure. And they are dealing with the military experience.  As with the other veteran filmmakers Dyer's experience of war has informed his creative expression and his desire to get it right. Mr.  I hope they are proud of what I have done you know?  The documentary series Operation In Their Boots will premiere online in November. For NPR News I am Gloria Hillard.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 