 The brown marmorated stink bug is a real pest. It can be found now in 41 states the District of Columbia and also Canada. The bugs destroy crops and frustrate humans because they too like to shelter indoors when it is cold outside. Scientists at Virginia Tech say they have come up with a trap that can be made for just a couple of dollars. From member station WVTF Robbie Harris has the story.  No matter how good a housekeeper you are it is not easy to keep stink bugs from ruining your image.  I had house guests and when they arrived at like 8-ish in the evening I said okay as of 00 when I last swept the room there were no stink bugs in there but I am not guaranteeing that there are not any now or that you will not find some during the night.  That is Pat Hipkins of Newport Virginia. She took part in a two-year study comparing three different kinds of stinkbug traps - one store bought with a lantern on a pyramid base another homemade with instructions from YouTube using a plastic soda bottle with a light inside and a third was a turkey pan with a table lamp. The three traps were rotated to control for differences due to location and citizen scientists like Hipkins counted the bugs in each trap.  Well we caught a lot of stink bugs and the one trap was way more effective than the others.  The best trap turned out to be the turkey pan with the desk lamp. Virginia Tech entomology PhD student John Aigner ran the study.  This is a 100 percent recycled aluminum pan. And then this desk lamp was purchased at Wal-Mart. We pour about a half-gallon of water in it and then shine the desk lamp towards the water mix in a little Dawn dish detergent and then shake it up with your hand and leave it sit.  To the brown marmorated stink bug the soft glow of a light bulb illuminating the water looks the way an ad for a winter vacation getaway to looks us a sunny place to flock to and possibly find a mating partner. But like a vacation package that does not deliver as promised the light is just a lure and the soapy water a trick.  Once they touch that substrate they cannot get out. You know they can orient themselves to some of these other traps but they can get on the outside of the trap and then they can leave.  The turkey pan desk lamp combination proved 14 times more effective than the other models tested. There is no safety hazard for humans. Aigner says that is surprising to people who call the university to ask what they can do about stink bugs in the house.  The first thing that people ask is what can I spray? Well that is not necessarily what you want to do in your house. Do you want to live with a pesticide in your house? Even in agriculture that is not the first thing we reach for.  And it is in agriculture where stinkbugs are taking a huge bite. They were first seen in Pennsylvania in 2001 stowaways from Asia. By 2008 and '09 they were causing millions of dollars in crop damage. Tracy Leskey is with the Tree Fruit Research Lab in West Virginia. She is studying how different wavelengths of light affect stinkbugs' behavior. She thinks one reason the winning trap turned out to be the most effective might be because it uses a broad-spectrum light bulb not an LED.  Because LED lights are unidirectional and so it makes it a little bit more difficult for the bug to perceive that light compared with the light bulb that is just basically illuminating you know the death trap of the water beneath.  But do not try to use the light traps in autumn when the stinkbugs get the cue to head indoors. The bugs are attracted to light in the spring only when the lengthening days signal the time for mating. And entomologists know the brown marmorated stink bug prefers to do that with the lights on. For NPR News I am Robbie Harris. 