 The race for a COVID vaccine is about to enter a new phase. This week the story was the FDA process to grant emergency approval. Next the challenge will be to distribute millions of doses around the country. Health care workers will be crucial to that task and they are already stretched thin. Joining us from Milwaukee Wis. is Dr. Jeff Bahr. He oversees medical operations at Aurora Health Care. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thanks Ari - pleasure to be here.  So how long do you think it will take to go from greenlight from the FDA to shots actually going into people's arms?  Honestly right now Ari we are very optimistic. We are talking about a matter of days but it could be weeks. But really we are maintaining positivity right now.  I know it is getting distributed to the states and then it is up to the states to distribute it to cities hospitals et cetera. Have you been given a timeline by state leadership? Do you know what to expect?  Not just yet. So we have our antenna up and again we are ready to go as soon as we get that crucial greenlight.  The top priority group of people to get vaccinated first is going to be bigger than the first batch of doses so how are you prioritizing within that top-priority group of health care workers?  Well we know that we are going to have to have our frontline clinical caregivers for the long haul so we have prioritized them. So those people at the pointy end of the spear in our critical care units in our acute care settings are first in line.  And does that mean people working with COVID patients who are themselves elderly or people who have underlying conditions? Or are you optimistic that in the first dose you will be able to get all of the frontline health care workers who are interacting with COVID-19 patients?  We are fairly confident that anyone who wants the vaccine who is categorized as one of those frontline clinical care team members will be able to get the vaccine. If those people happen to overlap categories - because we do have physicians nurses technicians and therapists who themselves have risk factors and who are braving this pandemic - they will be eligible for that vaccine as well.  So what impact do you think it is going to have when that first round of shots goes through the health care workers in a hospital? Are they going to be able to exhale a little bit? Will they be able to wear a little less PPE? Is it just going to be a less stressful environment? Tell us what difference you think it will make.  Well honestly I think it will make a difference in the outcomes the end results - how many hospitalizations how many new cases how many deaths. But it will not make an impact on what we do because we know that the vaccine will prevent disease. It may not prevent spread of the disease. So we can breathe a little easier but we cannot let our guard down.  So you are saying a vaccinated person will not have to worry about getting sick themselves but they still have to be aware not to pass the disease onto someone who has not been vaccinated.  Absolutely correct Ari.  So many hospitals around the country are already struggling with staff shortages and administering the vaccine takes a lot of people. Do you have enough trained professionals to do this?  We are engaging and recruiting every element of our clinical care teams that we can and that includes everyone from our existing staff to maybe recently retired nurses doctors. Our student learners and trainees who are more than capable of administering a vaccine - they will be engaged as well.  You know we are talking to you about this hopeful wave of vaccinations but we could just as easily be talking with you about this really bleak wave of hospitalizations and deaths. And with both happening at the same time how are you feeling right now?  Well it is bittersweet because we know that we are smarter. We are wiser than we were back in March. We have come a long way in a very short period of time. And so it is easy to take a broader view and say look how far we have come in such a short time. But that said I do not think the memories of those that have come and unfortunately perished in the midst of this pandemic - those are indelible memories for clinical caregivers nurses doctors and so many others. So like I said it is bittersweet. It would have been better had we learned even more even sooner so we could have intervened at much more crucial moments.  That is Dr. Jeff Bahr in Milwaukee. He oversees medical operations at Aurora Health Care. Thank you for talking with us.  Thanks so much Ari. 