 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. The Olympics are a mammoth industry. Next month's Winter Games in Vancouver will cost more than 1.5 billion 5500 athletes from more than 80 countries will compete. We are going to hear now about a time when the Olympics were much simpler and much smaller. Our co-host Melissa Block is visiting an earlier Olympic host city.  Well a small town really Lake Placid New York nestled in the Adirondack Mountains. Just a few thousand people live here and it cherishes its bragging rights. Tiny Lake Placid considers itself the winter sports capital of the world home to not one but two Olympics.   Governor FRANKLIN D.  I welcome you the representatives of many of our sister nations to this the opening of the third Winter Olympic Games.  In 1932 then-New York Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt opened the Lake Placid games. Lake Placid hosted the games again in 1980 the year the U.S. Olympic hockey team beat the Soviet Union in the Miracle on Ice.  Mr.  . They thought it was impossible. The United States has upset the Soviet Union. I cannot believe it. This is a miracle. I cannot believe it.  That is longtime Lake Placidian Sandy Caligiore calling the 1980 game for the local radio station WNBZ. I meet up with him in the shadow of that hockey arena. We lace up some skates and glide onto the 400-meter Olympic speed skating oval. It is outdoors uncovered where more history was made in 1980. Mr.  We are right here literally in the footsteps of where Eric Heiden won his five gold medals in 1980 you know?  It feels very small-town America. We are right on Main Street. Mr.  Yeah. This is it. And you know back in those days Melissa this was really the last of the really small intimate Olympic Winter Games.  And Sandy right here to our right is Lake Placid High School built right next to the ice. Mr.  Right.  Kids here would be in class looking out at this oval thinking maybe I could be Eric Heiden. Mr.  Well and this is one of the great things about Lake Placid that you let your mind wander if you are a kid. And you know there is every reason to think that you can achieve greatness because you have access to a venue such as this.  I am not feeling quite like Eric Heiden tonight.   I do not know about you Sandy. Mr.  No no no. They will never mistake us.  But not bad for a public radio host. Mr.  Right.   Last Friday night it seemed all of Lake Placid turned out to watch a World Cup aerials competition an Olympic qualifying event. The cold night air glittered with silver crystals like magic dust as skiers flew and twisted and slipped under a quarter moon. Unidentified Man Here we go. With exactly . He is from Canada.   Amanda Rondo of nearby Au Sable Forks had bundled up her four-year-old daughter Katie to come watch. Katie has been skiing since she was 19 months old. And her mom says in a town like Lake Placid which churns out Winter Olympians like crazy an Olympic future for Katie seem possible. Ms.  Oh yeah. It is definitely I would think would be in reach. I mean just state-of-the-art facilities and so much knowledge and passion behind it that we have up here.  The Lake Placid area has sent at least one athlete to every Winter Olympics since they began in 1924. And it is no wonder when you look around everywhere you go here you are surrounded by active Olympic training venues. You think you want to try ski jump? Go on over to the terrifying 26-story-tall jump on the outskirts of the village. Tempted by bobsled or luge? Their competition tracks are here too. This year the Lake Placid area will send 10 athletes to Vancouver some have been competing against each other for decades. Ms.  This is a picture that was taken when the boys were approximately nine 10 years old. And you can see on the podium first place is Lowell Bailey. Second place is Bill Demong. Third place is Timmy Burke.  And they are all going to Vancouver. Ms.  They are all going to Vancouver.  That is Helen Demong. Her son Bill is a world champion in Nordic combined. That is cross-country skiing and ski jumping. Bill's buddies Tim Burke and Lowell Bailey are strong Olympic contenders in biathlon which combines cross-country and rifle shooting. Helen Demong says winter sports are just in these kids' blood. Ms.  I was eight months pregnant with Bill at the 1980 Olympics. And I remember patting my belly thinking this is my Olympic baby.  Ms.  It worked.  And Elizabeth Bailey remembers her husband skiing the back country with baby Lowell on his back. Ms.  I remember Lowell could barely say much except faster faster Pop. I am sure Jack you probably had Tim on your back. Mr.  Sure. Ms.  And so these kids grew up like before they could ski skiing. Mr.  There is not a lot of the typical distractions that you might have if you are in a more populated area.  This is Jack Burke Tim's dad. Mr.  They could not go to a mall if they wanted to.  Yeah the U.S. has never won a medal in either biathlon or Nordic combined. So Helen Demong says hopes are riding high on these local athletes. Ms.  Because we have been the underdog for so long if they medal it will bring it to the attention of Americans. That is what speaks to Americans results.  And these Olympic parents say their kids would love to see another wave of young athletes fall in love with these sports and come up behind them. I am Melissa Block in Lake Placid New York. 