 Traces of pharmaceuticals show up in bays lakes and streams especially downstream from sewage treatment plants. But nobody's sure what effect those drugs are having on wildlife. Now a study in Science magazine finds that anti-anxiety drugs can affect fish behavior even at low levels. NPR's Richard Harris reports.  This story starts with some fish that live in a creek just downstream from a sewage treatment plant in southern Sweden. Scientists sampled the fish in that area and discovered that they had accumulated low levels of anti-anxiety drugs called benzodiazepines which had passed through human bodies and survived the treatment plant.  We start to think about how to measure if this actually has any effect on the behavior of these fish.  Jonatan Kliminder recruited a couple of his colleagues at Umea University in Sweden to tackle this question in the lab. They put some perch in a fish tank to see how they behaved under normal circumstances. Then they added some of the drug into the tank at the same concentrations it was found near the sewage plant to see if it would change how the fish behaved.  What we found was very surprising I would say.  They assumed that the drug dose would be so low that the fish would not be affected - not so.  Individuals exposed to dilute concentration of this drug became more antisocial. They become more active and they actually were more effective in eating.  At this point Kliminder can only speculate whether the drug is actually affecting the population of perch in the wild. But hypothetically it could.  This drug actually removes some of the fear the sense of fear from these fishes. So instead of being afraid they focus on feeding.  In the wild that could leave a small fish more vulnerable if it strays from the relative safety of a school.  The most likely outcome there would be that the bigger fish will eat it.  The key question is whether the drug is affecting the growth survival and reproduction of fish in the wild and by so doing perturbing the ecosystem. Dan Schlenck is at the University of California at Riverside. He says it will not be easy to figure that out.  It is one thing to expose animals in a tank where they are sort of captive and cannot move away from the exposure to where you are in a large stream or water body that they can actually move around and get away from that.  The water is likely to be considerably cleaner upstream and downstream from the sewage plant where the Swedish perch were captured. And it is also the case that benzodiazepines have been used for decades in Sweden so they have no doubt been in this aquatic ecosystem for many years.  These fish may have adapted to that.  Scientists now realize that low levels of pharmaceuticals have spread through the environment. Schlenk has found concentrations of a valium-like drug in a fish that lives on the sea floor off the California coast for instance. And other lab studies have shown that human drugs can affect the behavior of striped bass and other species. Bryan Brooks at Baylor University says as yet these drug traces do not pose an obvious threat to people who might drink the water from streams or eat the fish that live in them.  The presence of pharmaceuticals in surface waters or even the residues that accumulate in say edible fish and shellfish are much lower than you what you might need to gain a therapeutic dose for example.  But he cautions that is not necessarily the case in the developing world.  Some of the observations in India for example downstream of manufacturing facilities are among the highest concentrations of pharmaceuticals reported in the environment. And so the developing world really deserves some additional attention.  And as the Swedish study make clear we do not have the whole story yet regarding the impact of pharmaceuticals in lakes rivers and streams. But scientists are ratcheting up their attention to these questions. Richard Harris NPR News. 