 And we turn now to prescription drugs. And let us consider a couple of dates November 30 2011 May 17 2012. They might seem random but they might also make a big difference to you if you happen to suffer from heart disease or high cholesterol. That is because on those days the patents for two massively popular drugs used to treat those ailments will expire. In fact six of the 10 top-selling prescription drugs in the U.S. will go off-patent in the next two years. And that means companies can begin offering lower-cost generic drugs. For more we turn to Scott Hensley. He writes and edits the Shots blog at npr.org. Welcome to the studio.  Thanks.  Scott let us start with that first date November 30 2011. That is when Lipitor goes off-patent a name that is probably familiar to many of our listeners. Tens of millions of people take this drug for cholesterol. What can they expect?  That is right. It is a landmark in the pharmaceutical industry and for consumers because on that date the bestselling prescription drug in the world will go generic and that means that people will be able to buy it more cheaply. It will not happen overnight. It will drop a little bit because there is one other company that has the rights to sell a version of Lipitor along with Pfizer for about six months. But then at the end of that six-month period the bonanza really begins. Then scads of companies will pile in each trying to outdo the other on how cheaply they can sell the generic version of Lipitor.  So a lot of companies offering these generic versions. How much savings are we potentially talking about?  Ninety percent or more. So there is two ways that people can save. For people who have insurance they typically have a co-pay that they have to pony up when they fill the prescription. So once something goes generic they get the lowest co-pay five or 10 bucks. So on some plans Lipitor might be 30 or 40 co-pay right now. The other way that people might save is that for those who do not have insurance they can go to one of the big-box stores like Wal-Mart for instance that sells generics cheaply and eventually you might see Lipitor for 4 for a month's supply.  Now we mentioned that there are other drugs that are moving off-patent. Give us a list of those drugs.  Right well the other date that you mentioned in the intro is for Plavix which is the second-most-popular drug in the world at least when measured by sales. That medicine is a blood thinner and it is taken often by people at risk of developing blood clots or people who have had stents implanted in their heart. That one when it goes generic will also be big cost savings for many people.  Others?  There is a diabetes drug called Actos which may not be quite as well-known as those two but it is become more prominent in recent years. And in 2012 that is one that should come off-patent and be available in generic versions too.  Why is this - why do we see this case where a cluster of drugs are all going off-patent right around the same period of time?  We are seeing an echo of the pharmaceutical industry's golden age of innovation and product development during the '90s. So blockbuster drugs that became household names everything from Prozac from depression to Lipitor for cholesterol really had their heyday in the '90s. A patent for a prescription drug usually lasts around 10 or 12 years. And so now what we are seeing is many of the medicines that were launched at that time and became such household names are now losing that protection and so generic companies can come in and make them.  You know I would love to bring you back to talk about this question more deeply at some point but when we talk about generic drugs are they basically the same replacement for the patented version of the drug? Is there any difference?  Yes they have to show that they are the equivalent of the brand-name drug and satisfy the Food and Drug Administration that they are interchangeable.  That is Scott Hensley. He writes and edits the Shots blog for npr.org. Scott thanks so much.  My pleasure. 