 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The new fall season is shaping up on network TV and who better to guide us through it than a guy who watches TV for a living our critic Eric Deggans. Hi there Eric.  Hey how is it going?  So to start give me a sense of what is going on with the networks. Is there a theme or a trend emerging this season in fall TV?  I think there is a sense that every network has assessed its weak points and they have come up with a bunch of new shows to try and address it. So NBC has a bunch of comedies that critics like but they do not get wide viewership like Community and even 30 Rock is starting to fade. So they have come up with broader comedies to try and get a wider audience. CBS has this formula for cop shows and procedurals that seems to be very rigid and so they are trying to stretch that a little bit. And ABC has a ton of female viewers with shows like Gray's Anatomy and Revenge. And they seem to be trying at least one show that might draw some guys to the fold.  So let us get into it. Drama and comedy. Drama's first. Are there any good ones out there that we should have on our radar?  Well one of my favorites is the ABC show I was talking about a minute ago Last Resort. It is this show that is set on a submarine and this submarine gets these orders to fire nuclear weapons on Pakistan. And Andre Braugher is the captain he is not sure these orders make sense so he does not obey them and that causes the U.S. government to try to sink them.   Ah good to hear that voice again. Andre Braugher I remember him on Homicide a long time ago.  Exactly. And you know it is got a submarine it is got Navy SEALs it is got guys shooting machine guns. I mean it is got everything that a guy might want in an action-packed hour-long drama but it is on a network that traditionally is really strong with women.  And then there is the drama Nashville?  Nashville. Another favorite of mine because it stars one of my favorite actresses on television Connie Britton from Friday Night Lights. And in this one she plays an aging country singer who is suddenly being challenged by Hayden Panettiere who you might remember from Heroes. She plays like a Taylor Swift kind of mean girl upstart who is looking to make her mark in country music. And between the two of them sparks really fly.   All right. Hey now. Let us move on to comedies.  Got to love that. You got to love that.  It is true. All right. Comedies. What are the networks coming up with?  Well Fox probably has one of the most anticipated new comedies it is called The Mindy Project and it features Mindy Kaling who is a former writer and co-star from The Office who has centered a show on her own character this aspiring gynecologist who is enamored with romantic comedies and almost kind of lives her life as if she is in the middle of one.    So there you go. I mean it is a comedy that comments on romantic comedies it comments on the medical profession. I mean she is taking aim at everybody and it is really contemporary it feels really fresh.  Eric Deggans is TV and media critic for the Tampa Bay Times. Eric thank you.  Thank you. 