 Amy Bloom burst onto the literary scene with her acclaimed short story collection Come To Me. That was more than 20 years ago. She is written several other books since then and her latest is becoming a summer hit. The new novel is called Lucky Us. It takes readers across America during the 1940s. Our reviewer Alan Cheuse finds the two sisters at the center of the book endearing and comical. They have the same father but different mothers and meet for the first time at the start of the book.  Iris is the older teenager. She is focused on the idea of becoming an actress. Eva the narrator of most of the book is the younger one. She reads biographies of Clara Barton and Florence Nightingale and remarks that even in the books written for little girls you could tell these women were so tough. They would take a bullet out of you with a fork and not blink. Eva is a toughie in training. Iris has a conman's or an actor's ability to counterfeit personalities. It does not take all that long for her to find herself a couple of rungs up on the Hollywood success ladder only to fall in love with another actress who at one point escorts her to a lesbian orgy with starlet upon starlet lighting up the sky and the couches. Soon after a Hollywood photographer catches these women skinny-dipping together. Iris' lover betrays her to the bluenose gossip columnist Hedda Hopper. And in amoral trade-off gets herself pardoned for her frisky business and Iris blackballed from the movies for sexual misconduct. So then it is goodbye Hollywood as the sisters travel East with Iris's Hollywood hairdresser in tow to Brooklyn and Long Island. They regroup around their father who learns how to become a butler. Iris steals away a man's wife. The sisters steal away a young boy from a local Jewish orphanage and raise him as their own. The details remain as goofy as they sound - goofy but memorable and even convincing and sometimes tinged with darkness when the story shifts as it does now and then to the war in Europe. Eva tells the story of the decade of her education and her flowering into womanhood with an enduring fusion of toughness and tenderness all its own. Eva - she would take a bullet out of you with a fork and not blink - Lucky Us.  And the book is called Lucky Us. It was written by Amy Bloom and reviewed by Alan Cheuse. He teaches writing at George Mason University. 