 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News I am Michele Norris.  NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates joins us from our California bureau in Culver City. And Karen let us go back over the history here. Prop 8 passed back in 2008 with a 52 percent margin. Now Judge Walker has overturned that. What did he say in his ruling?  Well Melissa I am going to give it to you in his own words which comes from part of his ruling. He says that Prop 8 quote fails to advance any rational basis in singling out gay men and lesbians for the denial of a marriage license. He went on to say it creates an irrational classification on the basis of sexual orientation. And he also said the proposition enshrines in the California constitution the notion that the opposite-sex couples are superior to same-sex couples. And because of that he says Prop 8 is unconstitutional.  Now this decision today came after a lawsuit filed by two gay couples and by the city of San Francisco where same-sex marriages were being performed. What kind of reaction has there been since the ruling today?  Well here's some tape Melissa from two people who were celebrating today's ruling - Chad Griffin who was a plaintiff in the lawsuit against Prop 8 and Ted Olson the former U.S. solicitor general in the Bush administration who was part of the legal team that was challenging Prop 8.  Today's decision affirms that under the Constitution a government of the people by the people and for the people cannot discriminate against the people.  We have other battles ahead of us but with this decision carefully analyzing evidence we are well on our way toward an ultimate victory and that nothing could be better for the American people the people of California and in particular the people of San Francisco.  We did have reaction from Brian Raum an attorney for the Alliance Defense Fund which was a partner in defending Prop 8. What he basically said after the ruling was in America we should respect and uphold the right of a free people to make policy choices through the democratic process. And obviously they felt that the process was compromised today.  Karen what are the implications of this ruling in California today?  A federal judge decided it for one thing so that means that it will certainly be appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court now. It may even go on to the Supreme Court although many legal observers are saying that the Supreme Court will in all likelihood decline to hear it and bounce it back to the states because they think the states ought to work it out. And also because frankly it is a pretty sticky issue.  So in the meantime is it now legal for gay couples in California to get married?  But the judge will probably want to do a little more research. We will hear what happens after that. I mean the supposition is eventually marriages same-sex unions will be able to continue but if you wanted to get married tonight you will not be able to.  And tell us just a bit more about the judge in this case Vaughn Walker.  He is a really interesting guy Melissa. He was appointed by the first President Bush - George H. W. Bush. He is generally considered to be very thoughtful very thorough. And he is gay. He is gay and out. And it does not seem to be an issue for anybody including the supporters of Proposition 8 because when it was announced that Judge Walker was the judge who'd been assigned this case they did not ask that he be recused from it. They did not think that he would have a conflict in overseeing it. And that is pretty interesting.  Okay Karen thanks very much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates reporting on today's federal court ruling that overturns Prop 8 which had banned same-sex marriage in California. 