 Mara so will the president lay out several new initiatives?  The Republican story of course is much simpler - cut cut cut and rip up the credit cards - but this is what the president is going to try to lay out tomorrow night.  Well what role might say deficit spending play in this new re-election narrative?  Now of course Republicans see every one of the president's investments as more unnecessary spending or ineffective stimulus but that is going to be the big fight over the two next years. And the State of the Union is the president's chance to go first and define the terms of that debate.  Mara what about the tone in the room? Andrea Seabrook was just telling us about all the Republicans and Democrats that might be sitting together tomorrow night. Does that help the president?  And you saw - that happened already during the lame-duck during the memorial service in Tucson. His numbers have been going up as he has been able to return to the kind of politician that he was when he first burst on the scene. So I think it will help him but the speech is only one hour and soon as it is over we will be back to the battle lines and the big fight over spending.  Well as he lays out what you are calling his re-election narrative I am curious about the re-election campaign that we have recently learned that the president is setting up his campaign headquarters far from Washington in Chicago. Tell us why he decided to do that.  Well this is the first time that any president has ever set up his re-election campaign so far from Washington. George W. Bush put it in Arlington right over the river. But the president's aides want to get out of the bubble. They think there is some value to being outside of the Beltway and they have set up a system where they think they can coordinate very seamlessly with David Plouffe who is the old architect of the first campaign. He is now going to be inside. David Axelrod is going back to Chicago. There are many Democratic operatives that I have talked to who are skeptical about whether this kind of bifurcated system can work with most of the top - many of the top advisers very far away.  Mara always good to talk to you.  Good to talk to you too. 