 Now we hear from a Michigan congressman who is been fighting for the release of one of the American prisoners held in Iran - his constituent Amir Hekmati. That fight which he is been waging through much of his time in Congress has now come to an end. Congressman Dan Kildee a Michigan Democrat serving his second term has done everything from pass out pamphlets on the House floor to meet with the Iranian foreign minister in an effort to secure the release of Hekmati a former Marine who has the longest-held of the group just released. He was taken prisoner in Iran in 2011 after he visited for the first time to check on his grandmother. The congressman joins us now from the Detroit airport before he heads to Germany where he plans to meet with Amir Hekmati. Congressman thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you very much. It is a great day.  I am guessing this is probably an emotional day for you too having worked on this as long as you have and having been as close to the family as you have been.  It really is. And you know it started off as working on behalf of a constituent. And it is really turned into feeling like I am trying to get one of my own family members back from Iran. It is really become personal for us.  Do you have any idea at this juncture why Amir was arrested? Do you feel any closer to an understanding of that now than you did when you first started?  No it is pretty hard to predict what will cause Iran to take these sort of actions. In his case the fact that he served as a United States Marine born and raised in the United States but under their law was still considered an Iranian citizen that is the logic that they used. But there is no - there was no evidence. There was no rational purpose for his arrest just unfortunately he got caught up in what really was an international struggle between Iran and the rest of the world. And four and a half years later - finally thank God - he is coming home.  Is it my understanding that the idea of swapping prisoners is something that surfaced in communications with Mr. Hekmati's family? Is that correct?  Yes. I mean we talked back and forth. Of course our position was we would do whatever we needed to do to get Amir home. He is a patriot. He wanted to be loyal to his country and always has been. At the end of the day this is a very satisfactory result. And we support the president in his actions and we are just so happy that Amir's coming home.  Well you have to be aware that some of your congressional colleagues do not take the same view. They feel that this - in fact a number of the Republican candidates for president have suggested that this actually increases the value of this kind of behavior of taking people - prisoner for - on various pretexts. And I just would like to know your reaction to that.  Obviously I disagree with that. Diplomacy is always better than the other alternative. And it is easy for someone with no responsibility for American policy to sit back and second-guess decisions that are made in the real world with real struggles between nations. This is a case where diplomacy prevailed. And leaders like President Obama - who are willing to stand up and do what they think is right knowing that they are going to take shots from candidates for president - you know that is the definition of leadership. And so far what I have seen of those critics they are really not demonstrating the kind of leadership that the office that they are seeking warrants.  I understand that you met at one point in New York with the Iranian foreign minister. What was that like?  It was - it was great. I mean Samantha Power our U.N. ambassador invited me to sit with her for the speech made by Pope Francis. That was the ostensible purpose of my visit. But it was really to get a chance to have a discussion with Foreign Minister Zarif. And he knew who I was. He knew why I was there and you know we pressed very hard. The ongoing discussions both the formal discussions that the administration held but also the informal process that myself and others were engaged in I think was really important just so he knew and the Iranian people know that the United States government and its people take this case seriously. And we pressed that point at every opportunity including with the foreign minister.  Do you happen to know how Mr. Hekmati is doing? I understand that you are on your way to see him. I assume you have not spoken with him yet. Have you spoken with him yet?  No I have not. I look forward to that. In fact I have never met him and I look forward to correcting that tomorrow. What we know - he is doing all right he is lost weight in prison. It is obviously a terrible situation Evin Prison one of the worst of the world. So we expect that he will have some difficulty making that adjustment but we - we look forward to helping him do that. So it starts with a visit with his two sisters his brother-in-law myself tomorrow morning.  That was Congressman Dan Kildee of Michigan a Democrat who joined us from the airport in Detroit before he heads to Germany to meet Amir Hekmati a constituent of his who was just released from imprisonment in Iran where he is been held since 2011. Congressman thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 