 We are joined now by Senator Joseph Lieberman Independent from Connecticut. He is chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee. And tomorrow he will hold a hearing on the Fort Hood attacks. Senator Lieberman welcome to the program. Senator  Thank you Melissa. Good to be with you.  And first I would like to get your reaction to that memo described in Daniel Zwerdling's report a memo from May of 2007 describing this long list of serious concerns at Walter Reed about Nidal Hasan's lack of professionalism and work ethic. As we have reported that memo was sent on to Fort Hood. What are your thoughts on that? Sen.  Yeah. Obviously this is one piece of information about Nidal Hasan and we will in our investigation gather a lot of information about him and about his work in the Army. This document as you have suggested goes less to any evidence of extremism religious extremism or terrorism but much more to a lack of professionalism. And you know it is troubling. I cannot see warning signs here that this is a man who would one day commit a mass murder which I think was a terrorist act but it certainly raises questions about whether he was prepared to be the kind of psychiatrist that we want treating military personnel.  Well as your committee prepares to launch this inquiry what is the aim? How do you define it of what you want to find out? Sen.  Yeah our aim quite simply is to determine whether there was evidence at different places in our government which if brought together would have led people to effectively discharge Nidal Hasan from the military and therefore have prevented this murder at Fort Hood. In other words we are performing this investigation pursuant to our oversight responsibility as the Governmental Affairs Committee but also to our responsibility as the Homeland Security Committee. And it is not unlike the investigation that we authorized the 911 Commission to do after the attack on America on 911. Or in another sense the investigation our committee did into the failures of the federal government to perform adequately in response to Hurricane Katrina. This is about whether the people working in the federal government did what we would want them to do in this case and if not how can we make sure that dereliction of duty or that failure to coordinate information to connect the dots never happens again.  The Obama administration has said that FBI and Army officials will not appear before your committee while a criminal investigation is underway. So if you do not have people with firsthand knowledge available to you what can you really hope to learn about this particular case? Sen.  Yeah. Well that is a very important question. The truth is that if we get no cooperation from the administration from the Pentagon from the Justice Department it is going to be very hard for us to fulfill our responsibility to conduct this kind of oversight investigation to prevent this kind of massacre from ever happening again. But I think we are going to be able to work this out. I have no desire to interfere quite the contrary with the criminal investigation going on. I do not - our investigation does not need for instance to talk to people who were at Fort Hood on that afternoon. But I do need to talk to people who for instance were in the Joint Terrorism Task Force. So I will say that I had a very good talk just a while ago with Secretary Gates about our desires to proceed and there will be a meeting in the next day or so to work out some ground rules. But I think the administration will cooperate. And we have different responsibilities and each is important. Theirs is to determine who murdered these people. And obviously they have already charged Hasan. We have a different responsibility which is to determine whether there are people in the Army or the Justice Department or anywhere else in the federal government who could have handled this case differently particularly sharing information that might have sent such a warning signal that Dr. Hasan would effectively have been discharged and never been there at Fort Hood to kill 13 people.  Senator Lieberman I would like to switch gears and asking about health care. Sen.  Oh okay.  That old topic. You have said that you are opposed to a government-run public option. Sen.  Yes.  And that if a public option is in the Senate bill that you will not allow it to come to a final vote. In other words that you would join in a Republican filibuster. Is that still the case? Sen.  It is. I prefer to say that I would vote against cloture not particularly join with anybody in any political party because I am for health care reform. And you know to me and I think most everybody health care reform has been over the years and particularly over the last year if you look at last year's campaign about doing the kinds of things that are necessary to reduce the ever-increasing cost of health care to more aggressively regulate insurance companies so that for instance they do not deny health care to people based on preexisting illness or put artificial caps on benefits for people who are sick. And then the third is to fulfill our moral responsibility and governmental responsibility to cover the millions of Americans who cannot afford health insurance. That is the significant reforms we should be accomplishing and I am working very hard to do that. The so-called public option the creation of a governmental insurance company just to me seems like the wrong thing to do at this time and totally unnecessary to achieve all the other great goals of health care reform. So people say to me would you really vote against cloture to bring this health care reform bill to a passage? And I say I hope and pray that it does not come to that. But I ask really from my side would the advocates of the public option really stop us from doing the kinds of things I want to do? That is my question. I hope they do not force the issue that far.  Your critics say as you know that you are in the pocket of the insurance industry on this. There are a lot of insurance companies in your home state of Connecticut. Sen.  Yeah.  You have been called the senator from Aetna. Sen.  Yeah.  What do you say to that? Sen.  Well it is just deeply and personally offensive and there is just no basis for it. I am taking the position I am on behalf of the taxpayers of the country and on behalf of what I think is good health insurance reform. I have never hesitated to take on the insurance companies when I have thought they were wrong. I mean when I was attorney general of Connecticut I filed a major antitrust action against the insurance companies. A few years ago I supported the Patient Bill Of Rights - that is all the insurance companies were against. And now I am supporting the move to take away the antitrust exemption of the insurance companies. So you know the personal ad hominem arguments are always irresistible but they are not the best argument. So people have an argument to make for the so-called public option let them come out and debate me. I am ready to take them on on the ground of substance.  Senator Lieberman thank you for talking with us. Sen.  Thank you Melissa. Take care.  That is Senator Joseph Lieberman Independent from Connecticut. 