 Stay home says the CDC. Avoid gatherings this Thanksgiving. No thanks say millions of flyers who have been boarding planes these last few days the highest number of airline passengers since March. Jay Singh has been reporting on this for Simple Flying. That is an airline news site. Hi Jay Singh.  Hello.  So the highest numbers since March - how high are we talking?  So we are only looking at about 1047000 travelers. This is well below what we normally see. Even in the lowest of times we are well over 2 million in terms of daily travelers so we are still pretty low. But for the times 1047000 - it is the highest on record this year since March.  All right. And are the numbers growing as we approach Thanksgiving?  So numbers kind of ebb and flow. The 1047000 was from Sunday. Monday and Tuesday's numbers were about 915000. Wednesday before Thanksgiving is usually the second-busiest Thanksgiving holiday travel day so that could easily cross 1.1.  Today in other words.  Today yes. So that could easily get to 1.1 1.2 million.  Yeah. I am wondering are these numbers higher than the airline industry was banking on? On the one hand as you say Thanksgiving is always the busiest time of the year to fly. On the other hand we are in the middle of a pandemic.  Yeah. I would say compared to where they expected it to be in August and September it is lower. But in the last two weeks with the spike in cases and all of the travel guidance it is about where people expected it to end up. It is not the best thing in the world. It is nothing people are going to be you know celebrating about but it is definitely a sign that there is an appetite for travel.  Yeah. I know you are an airline expert not a public health official but I do need to raise the public health questions that are raised by this. Can we track whether passengers whether airlines are adhering to CDC guidelines during all this travel?  The best thing that airlines are doing are the mask mandates. That is one thing every airline has. Most airlines have gotten rid of exceptions. You can be banned from flying for a certain period of time if you do not wear a mask and airlines have also stepped up their cleaning. As for you know other CDC mandates you know the recommendation to stay home - well airlines really do not do that. But they are working to make your travel experience as safe as possible - not completely safe for sure. You still have to take measures like wearing a mask sanitizing and washing your hands frequently and social distancing where possible.  Yeah. Do we know where all these people are going?  So most people who are traveling are heading home or to visit friends. Others who are traveling on leisure say just for a quick vacation - they are heading to the sun destinations so think Florida and Arizona.  Trying to escape the encroaching winter in the northernmost parts of the country - I want to ask about the rest of the world and where the statistics are on that because obviously here in the States a lot of people are traveling this week because of Thanksgiving. What about globally? Is flying picking up in other places?  You know there are a few markets where flying is just at about where it was last year. This includes Vietnam Mexico mainland China. New Zealand's domestic market is getting to about 80- 85 of what it was in 2019. Looking internationally the - one of the best places is the U.S.-Mexico transborder market. Delta and Aeromexico two partners have said they expect to fly thousands of transborder flights given strong and healthy demand. And all other airlines are also expecting to upgrade their own capacity.  That is Jay Singh. He is a content manager with Simple Flying. Thank you very much.  Thank you so much. I appreciate it. 