 When they were students at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Gavin McIntyre and Eben Bayer loved experimenting with mushrooms - not the magical variety - but mushrooms that could help the construction industry go green. Bayer and McIntyre figured out how to turn mushrooms and wood chips into things like insulation for your home and packing material. This month we are looking at some of the most innovative inventions we have heard about this past year and Eben Bayer is one of the folks behind these two. He is the CEO of Ecovative Design. Eben welcome to the program. Mr. EBEN ive Design Thank you.  So describe what these products do - Greensulate and EcoCradle. Describe what they are first. Mr.  Both Greensulate and EcoCradle are drop-in replacements for the expanded polystyrene you would use either to insulate the walls of your home keep you warm or cold or pack things from televisions to toasters to iPods. The difference is while these products give you the same performance physical and thermal they are totally compostable in your own backyard and they are grown from agricultural waste.  Including mushrooms. Mr.  Yes. Actually the mushrooms are what hold them together.  Now how did you figure out that you could make these things from mushrooms? Mr.  Well I was actually originally inspired growing up in Vermont on a small farm that made maple syrup. And I go walk in the woods and what I saw in the woods is mycelium or the root structure of mushrooms actually holding the surface of the earth together. They are sort of like nature's recyclers. And it was a class at Rensselaer in Benner's Studio where I was challenged to apply this insight to actually forming a business with Gavin.  And you guys I understand started growing mushrooms in your dorm room? Mr.  Yeah actually. We did not have a lab in this class and Gavin was kind enough to offer up this nice incubator which was the underside of his bed.  How does it actually work? I mean explain how you turn mushrooms into insulation. Mr.  Well in our process we are basically using - the mushroom roots are actually called mycelium - as a glue. And we are basically growing a glue. And what we do is we take agricultural byproducts - these are waste products things you would not even feed to animals like cotton gin trash or rice husks -and we wet them. We pour them into a form basically whatever shape you want -and then we add these mushroom shells we have developed. And just like yeast and bread over a couple of days they digest the agricultural byproducts and form them into strong beautiful bio-composites. There is no chemicals. It is as simple as it gets. It is mushroom roots plus seed husks. And because we are using a growing organism for each unit we produce compared to polystyrene we use 10 times less energy and emit eight times less CO2.  Now you say it is more efficient to produce it but is it more efficient in its performance? I mean you know regular insulation does a pretty good job at saving you money on electricity bills and gas bills and so on? Mr.  Absolutely. Greensulate our insulation is very competitive with what you would put in the walls of your home. And as a bonus our material is actually fireproof. If you go on our Web site you can actually see videos of us putting a torch on this material and it does not burn. And that is from the natural silica and the rice husks we use.  EcoCradle the packaging is being used already on a consumer. I mean you have already sort of pushed that out to the markets. Greensulate is still on the sort of the prototype phase? Mr.  Exactly.  Now once you unpack your TV that is been you know sort of protected by EcoCradle could you just sort of take it out cut it up and saute it with some onions?  Mr.  Actually one of our advisors who taught that course at Rensselaer Inventor's Studio has always encouraged us to find win win win solutions and that was one he suggested. But we recommend putting it in your garden where it will actually turn into fertile soil.  But if you did take a bite out of it it would not kill you? Mr.  No. That would taste pretty bad though.  That is Eben Bayer. He is the CEO of Ecovative Design. Eben thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you. 