 Today President Obama continued the 100-year-old tradition of throwing out a ceremonial first-day pitch. He did so for the professor Major League Baseball team closest to the White House the Washington Nationals.   Last year Mr. Obama tossed the opening-day ball for his previous local team the Chicago White Sox. His venue this year brings the tradition back to where it is been most years The nation's capital. It has not been quite an unbroken tradition. After all Jimmy Carter never did it but all the other presidents since 1910 have. It started with Chief Executive Billy Taft. The imposing commander in chief launched the pitch for the Washington Senators from the stands says Carl Cannon deputy editor of Politics Daily. Mr.  He was sitting in the stands in those days with that iconic bunting and he threw the ball to the Big Train Walter Johnson the great Washington Senators pitcher.  Taft threw out the first pitch in 1910 and 1911. He sat out 1912 because he lost a close friend on The Titanic. Vice President Jim Sherman pitched that year. The Taft administration three-season record three games three wins for the Senators. Up next Woodrow Wilson. He threw three openers. He sat out the rest for the Great War and a stroke he suffered in 1919. Mr.  He was on the injured reserve list.  Successor Warren Harding threw two opening-day wins for the Senators and one loss. Silent Cal Coolidge the wily Vermonter opened games that ended with three consecutive wins but in his final season in 1928 he ended with a loss. Herbert Hoover's first three games ended with losses followed by a 1932 victory. Despite being in a wheelchair pitcher Franklin Roosevelt the Cal Ripken of presidents had a mixed record but lots of enthusiasm for the game. Mr.  There are the great iconic photographs of Roosevelt with that fedora hat and he is throwing the ball this big grin on his face and those glasses.  Truman was the first lefty Ike a true pro and JFK set a new precedent He did not wear a hat. LBJ's openers all ended in losses. Dick Nixon had a three-win two-loss record and it was during this time that baseball vanished from D.C. when the Senators left town. Presidents continued to provide that ceremonial delivery at games in various locations until 2005 when George W. Bush welcomed a new team to the nation's capital the Washington Nationals. The tradition continues. 