 We are about to hear about the connection between a stage where Patrick Swayze's mom once performed and a Chinese company that has invested billions of dollars in U.S. properties and businesses. The company HNA Group has been in the news the past few months because of those investments. Noel King from our Planet Money podcast found HNA Group in an unlikely place and tried to figure out why.  HNA's list of investments in the U.S. is impressive - a 6.5 billion stake in Hilton hotels all of the Radisson hotels. HNA is even in talks to buy a stake in SkyBridge Capital. That is the investment firm founded by President Trump's short-lived communications director Anthony Scaramucci. HNA also bought a hotel in my rural hometown Kerhonkson N.Y. which made me curious. I worked there when I was a kid and the hotel needed some fixing. The roof leaked. It smelled moldy. It was millions of dollars in debt. So a few days ago I checked in...  Welcome to the Hudson Valley Resort and Spa.  ...To see if this giant conglomerate had spruced the hotel up. But it was the same old carpet the same musty smell. And on my way to my room I heard someone yelling in the hallway. LOUIE ST.  .  Is everything OK? ST.  No the key will not work again.  Louie St. George is in town for a line dancing event and he is locked out of his room. What do you think of the hotel? ST.  The hotel's a piece of crap - worst hotel in the circuit.  Can you tell me why? ST.  The hotel probably has not been updated since the 1950s when Patrick Swayze's mom performed on that stage over there.  Patrick Swayze's mom performed here? ST.  Yeah on the stage.  So why would this huge Chinese company buy the hotel and then just leave it? HNA declined an interview so I called up an economist Derek Scissors of the right-leaning American Enterprise Institute. For more than a decade he is been tracking Chinese investments in the U.S.  Of 100 million or more.  Oh so you look at where big Chinese money is going.  That is right.  China has been encouraging outbound investment for years. The country has a policy called the Go Out policy. China wants its companies to diversify. But most investments were not that big not a hundred million dollars.  When I started this there were very few investments and I could remember them all.  Then in 2015 Derek saw a striking shift. Chinese companies started investing billions abroad in everything from hotel chains to Park Avenue properties to Cirque du Soleil. One company caught his eye the HNA group.  HNA has something like a growth steroid.  One thing that happened that year 2015 was the head of China's central bank made a big announcement. China he said would unpeg its currency from the U.S. dollar stop following the dollar's every up and down. China wanted its currency the yuan to be a reserve currency like the dollar or the euro. But for that to happen the yuan had to float more freely and run the risk that it would sink. For big Chinese companies this was frightening.  If you are holding yuan you are thinking I do not like this. This asset's going to be worth less. It is going to have less buying power. Let me get out of it. I want to send my money overseas.  So that is what these companies did. And what happened next might explain why that hotel in my hometown has not been fixed up. China in the past few months realized how much money is leaving the country. It started squeezing companies like HNA.  They did not shout from the rooftops we are imposing very strict capital controls. They in fact were imposing capital controls.  This is like HNA getting a smack on the head and being told uh-uh  guys. You are done.  That is right.  Some Chinese banks have stopped lending money to HNA. All of this has illuminated something else. HNA is a bit mysterious. How it got so big so fast who owns the company what their long-term plans are - none of this is clear as of yet. Noel King NPR News.  