 Conversations around Gamergate online have highlighted rampant and violent misogyny and harassment in videogame culture - not just in the games themselves but in the people who make them and buy them. The online firestorm has simmered down but many women in the industry say it is still hard to speak up about these issues.  I am Laralyn McWilliams and I started in game development in the mid-90s. I have worked in a lot of different roles but primarily in design.  McWilliams has worked as lead designer on games like Full Spectrum Warrior. Now she is the chief creative officer at The Workshop a game studio based in LA. She says she has not experienced much overt sexism in her career just more of what she calls casual exclusion.  For most of my career it was things like having meetings with the publisher when the publisher came in from out of town at strip clubs. Most of the time I just was not invited even though I was in a leadership role. Sometimes there was this awkward do-we-tell-her-or-not conversation around it. I remember once - this was just actually five or six years ago. I had been a producer before at other companies but moving into a producer role for the first time at the company I was working for at the time. And at the first producers' meeting literally the first thing that somebody said to me was I hope this goes better than the last time we had a woman at the producers' meeting. So it is been minor for me you know in comparison to what I know other women sometimes go through.  Yeah.  But on the other hand I also know that there are lots of women who have gone through their entire game career really and not had anything overtly sexist happen to them at all.  You maybe do not have the horror stories but you did start speaking out about what other women in the industry face online. What prompted you to do so now?  So in 2012 I was diagnosed with stage four cancer in my tonsil. And going through that experience really changes the way you look at the world I think for some people. It corresponded with a time when I was starting to hear women talk about the things happening to them. And after cancer I just felt like I cannot hear this and not say something. So honestly it is been out of a sense of love for what I do and knowledge that the more different people work on a game development team the more our games and teams really grow and can create more and more interesting and dynamic games. And that is ultimately what it is all about.  Why do you think it is so hard to talk about these issues? Why is it so hard to simply have a conversation within your industry?  I would say the conversation right now is almost impossible. It is considered off-topic. It is considered political. It is considered you know identity politics even when you are trying to talk about something that literally just happened to you. So that makes it difficult. And it is compounded by the fact that I think there is almost nothing you can say that is not going to make somebody feel attacked and make somebody feel angry at you. I have friends who will not speak about it regardless of their experience whether it is been good or bad because of the environment right now. And I think that that is what we need to get past because as long as we cannot talk about it it means we cannot do anything about it.  Why is it that this industry in particular is having such a tough time finding an answer to what you have just talked about?  Tech itself is male oriented. Software is even more male oriented than that. And because games for many years have mostly made games for men it is even more male oriented than the rest of them. So it is sort of this condensed version of all the problems in tech. And I think that because games are one of the lower-paying areas of tech - I mean it still pays very well - but compared to non-game-related jobs - because of that I think the barriers to entry for women have just made women think it is maybe not worth the extra effort to make less work more hours have to move all the time and put up with all this crap.  Have you thought even about what kind of reaction you might face just having done this interview?  Oh yeah for sure. Before I did this interview I talked to four different friends to ask their opinion on whether I should do it. And you know it is for a lot of reasons. Part of it is because I am not super outgoing. It is also though because there is a tendency in tech and in games in particular that if you are a woman who talks about the issues facing women in games that becomes what defines you. You become the woman who talks about being a woman. When honestly for the most of my career and to me it largely continues to feel like my gender should be irrelevant. And even that is something that I wrestle with because I realized maybe it is not that I always wanted my gender to be irrelevant but more that I felt like the way that would make things the easiest for me is if I made my gender irrelevant.  That is Laralyn McWilliams a 20-year veteran of the videogame industry. Laralyn thank you for talking with us and best of luck.  Thank you very much. 