 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  This week we will focus on getting ready for retirement. Given the meltdown in the economy investments have taken a beating - companies have cut their retirement contributions.  First though NPR's Martin Kaste asks if private retirement even works anymore.  Unidentified Man   Okay you are my 401 girl...   Sultry music.    You are my 401 all I can say...  But lately America's romance with tax-deferred retirement accounts has hit a rough patch.  Yeah I have seen my 401 drop somewhat maybe about 25 percent.  On a coffee break from his banking job near Seattle Mark Roberts reflects on his losses. Compared to a lot of people he got off easy. He is only 48 and he plans to stick to his long-term investment plan.  I do not buy and sell quickly. I usually just buy and hold onto them and wait for good things to happen over the long run.  Olivia Mitchell runs the Pension Research Council at the Wharton School.  It is very unusual for people to pay much attention to their 401s. In fact on average the typical worker if he is lucky will sign up with his plan when he takes his job and then never look at it again until 40 years have passed and maybe there is some money in it.  Of course Americans are taking a closer look now. But just as they are fanning the embers inside their retirement accounts there is this.  It was just one of those things where they said oh by the way we are going to pull your 401 match.  John Fitzpatrick recalls the day his bosses at FedEx suspended matching contributions to workers' retirement accounts. The move angered Fitzpatrick so much he quit.  For me that was the writing on the wall saying that they were not caring about their employees as much anymore.  Spokeswoman Nancy Hwa says the hope is that those employers will restore their contributions once the economy gets better but she is not optimistic.  I call it the slippery slope of retirement and security.   She is worried that this is just the latest step in a 30-year process of employers shaking off responsibility for their workers' retirement. Ideally workers would take on that responsibility themselves using their 401s but Hwa says it has not worked out that way.  What the last eight or nine months have shown is that 401s for most workers are not going to cut it. The issue is how do we fix the problem so that you do not have generations of impoverished elderly people in this country.  And yet Americans are not exactly clamoring for the return of the old-fashioned pension. Take Mark Roberts the 48-year-old in Seattle. He likes controlling his retirement investments.  You know I certainly have a few stocks in my portfolio that made me look like a genius. And I have got just as many if not twice as many that made me look pretty dopey.  401s may not be much of a social safety net but they do offer Americans the chance to be geniuses or dopes with their own money. And Americans generally find that kind of freedom pretty seductive.   Martin Kaste NPR News. 