 We are going to begin this hour as we have many times over the last year with a story about a police confrontation caught on video. In this case though an officer did not shoot. Police around the country are talking about this incident. Many see it as evidence that the recent string of police shootings in the news has created a reluctance to use force even when justified. NPR's Martin Kaste has the story.  Last month Cincinnati TV station WLWT aired this body camera footage from New Richmond Ohio.   Get your hands up. Get your hands up.  It shows Officer Jesse Kidder getting out of his car to confront a suspected murderer. Kidder has drawn his gun but the man refuses to surrender. And yet Kidder keeps giving him chances.   I do not want to shoot you man. I do not want to shoot you.  Even when the suspect yells shoot me and charges the officer just backpedals even stumbles and falls backward but he still does not shoot. The suspect finally gives up as a second officer arrives. On national news shows Kidder was praised for his restraint. On Comedy Central Larry Wilmore pointed out sarcastically that the suspect was white. But among cops there was a whole different kind of conversation.  When I looked at it I was disturbed by it.  Russ Hicks teaches at the police academy in Washington state. Standing near a gym where the recruits practice hand-to-hand combat he says his students have asked him what he thinks of the video.  The person that was actually in control of that situation was the suspect. The officer has to be able to control and that is exactly what our students are doing right here in the gym right now is they are learning control tactics. They have to control the scene.  Hicks is actually a big believer in finding ways to avoid using deadly force but he calls Officer Kidder's failure to shoot irresponsible.  If that officer is killed by a suspect who just killed two other people he cannot protect the community.  I have heard from a great many officers who shudder.  Doug Wyllie is the editor of PoliceOne a news website aimed at law enforcement. He is lost count of all the police professionals he is talked to about that video. He says they see it as a case of what they call deadly hesitation. And they do not like all the praise it is getting.  This is a dangerous precedent that society is reinforcing - the notion that officers should not use appropriate reasonable justifiable force when faced with that type of a threat.  One of the police trainers that Wyllie talked to is Dick Fairburn. He specializes in firearms training and he thinks all the controversy over recent police-involved shootings is having an effect on cops.  I think the outgrowth of that is going to be officers who are going to be more reluctant to use deadly force. And it is not polite to say it but they are going to be even more reluctant when there is a racial mix between good guys and bad guys.  But the officer in Ohio gets more slack from Bryan Vila. Vila's a former policeman. Now he is a researcher. He puts cops into simulators to study how they make high-pressure split-second decisions. He points out that Officer Kidder is a former Marine who served in Iraq. Vila thinks that may have given him the kind of mental tools that a veteran officer has.  In the old days people always said oh it is police intuition.  For Vila intuition describes the way that experienced people can make decisions that are faster than the speed of conscious thought.  And it sometimes takes days or longer after something like that for the thought process to start to become understandable.  And the man at the center of all this Officer Kidder - he is now had a few weeks to think about what happened. He says he had some indicators about the suspect's real intentions. For instance as the man charged he dropped his keys then stopped to pick them up. Kidder was in Washington D.C. today talking about the case at a conference. And this is how he summed it up.   I knew he had crossed the line to where I could have used deadly force but I just felt that you know just because you can take a life it does not mean you should.  It is hard to hear him in that conference-room audio but what Kidder says is just because you can take a life it does not mean you should. American cops are given a lot of discretion when making that call and in this case that discretion saved a life. Police researcher Bryan Vila says he wishes the public were more understanding about the unhappier outcomes when cops use their discretion in good faith and make the decision to shoot. Martin Kaste NPR News. 