 South Dakota public broadcasting's Gary Ellenbolt reports.  On a typical summer day the University of South Dakota campus is quiet save for a few summer school students and those who are getting the school ready for the next academic year. But inside the former Carnegie Library on the campus there is the potential for a lot of sound. That is the home of the National Music Museum said to hold the most eclectic collection of instruments in the U.S.   Inside the museum Far East gamelan instruments and medieval mandolins co-exist with a display featuring a post-war novelty act the Korn Kobblers.   Everything on exhibit was either purchased directly by the museum or donated by sponsors.  Otherwise the whole thing would not work.  Dr. Andre Larson is executive director.  To do that in South Dakota is a minor miracle but those of us who love South Dakota and believe in this state and its people know - that it would work. And it has worked and we are very proud of it.  Its latest acquisition a 400-year-old Amati Brothers violin - made to order for King Henry IV of France - is an example. Violin expert Claire Givens who has lent her expertise as an appraiser on The Antiques Road Show brokered the deal that brought the instrument to Vermillion. She first saw it 13 years ago at a conservatory in Wisconsin.  But they were not interested in selling it or deaccessioning it. And so we continued every year to make sure that this violin was in good condition.  The violin was made in 1595 by the Amati brothers. Museum curator of stringed instruments Arian Sheets says they were part of a family of premier craftsmen from Cremona Italy.  Their father Andre Amati was actually the first documented violin maker in Cremona. And we know he had set up his own shop by 1538.  Most everyone has heard of the Stradivarius line of violins and several can be seen in Vermillion. Sheets says the Amatis were established in Cremona by the time Stradivari came along.  Antonio Stradivari claimed on some of his labels to have been a student of Nicolo Amati. But we do not have any record of that.  In May a good-sized crowd gathered to take part in the transfer of the violin to the National Music Museum. It had not been played since 1997 but University of South Dakota music professor Euhno Kim was given the chance to welcome the instrument to town with a Bach solo violin sonata.   The four-century-old violin did not disappoint. Andrew Dipper restores stringed instruments and he has worked to maintain the Amati violin.  I do not usually get teary when I hear something. But that was quite an extraordinary exhibition of the sound of an instrument that is that old.  Dipper says even the case containing the violin has its own history It is decorated with symbols of French royalty.  It has a Louis XVI violin case with it and the interesting thing is the armorials on the case which were illegal to have during the revolution have been partially blacked out because if you were found with royal armorials with anything in your house you would go to the guillotine.  For NPR News I am Gary Ellenbolt in Vermillion South Dakota. 