 Over the last few years many white police officers have shot unarmed black victims and wound up in the news or in court. In Tulsa yesterday one of those officers was acquitted. Tulsa police officer Betty Shelby was on trial for fatally shooting 40-year-old Terence Crutcher back in September. Matt Trotter of member station KWGS was at the courthouse and joins us now. Welcome.  Hi Ari.  Remind us of the circumstances surrounding this shooting.  So Shelby came across Terence Crutcher with his SUV stalled in the middle of a Tulsa street. She was trying to figure out what was going on there. She noticed that Crutcher was acting strangely and she believed maybe he was under the influence of PCP. She gave him orders to get on the ground. He would not comply with those. Instead he walked away from her with his hands in the air while she had a gun pointed at him. And Shelby says when Crutcher reached inside his car window for what she believed was a gun she shot him.  What was the case that the defense made for why the officer killed Crutcher?  The case they made was Shelby believed Terence Crutcher was reaching into his car to get a gun. Now no weapon was found. But what the defense told the jury is that Shelby's training is basically she needs to act instead of react that if she waits too long and waits to see a gun before shooting she could be dead.  Is the police department re-evaluating that training?  Not that I am aware of.  We have some reaction tape from Crutcher's father the Reverend Joey Crutcher speaking outside of the courtroom. Let us listen to this.   Let it be known that I believe in my heart that Betty Shelby got away with murder. And I do not know...  Matt Trotter does that reflect a larger sentiment within the community?  I think it depends on who you ask. Betty Shelby certainly had her own group of supporters. You know they stood outside the courthouse with I-stand-with-Betty banners and were in the courtroom with wristbands and stuff. But yes there is a significant part of Tulsa that believes Betty Shelby should have been convicted.  The mayor gave a news conference saying that he respected the jury's decision but the racial divide in Tulsa needs to be addressed. What does he mean by that?  Well Mayor G.T. Bynum basically ran on the platform saying that he recognized racial disparity in a lot of areas of Tulsa from a life-expectancy gap between the north parts of Tulsa where more black people live and the south parts where more affluent white people live - transportation other sorts of services. So he is launched several initiatives or tried to launch several initiatives to help fix some of that.  He is white we should say.  He is white yes. And today's news conference was an acknowledgment that those efforts need to continue.  Do you expect this is the end or what happens from here?  Well there is no further action that is been announced from the family either embarking on going after those police department reforms or civil suits. I have not heard anything about further protests as of now. The police chief also announced during today's news conference with the mayor that they are evaluating Betty Shelby's status with the Tulsa Police Department. It is not certain that she is going to come back. That is a decision that is going to be made he said in the near future. But a specific timeline has not been given.  Matt Trotter of member station KWGS in Tulsa Okla. thanks a lot.  You are welcome.  