 We have heard a lot recently about the resurgence of General Motors. It has returned to profitability and it is selling its stock once again on Wall Street. But what about the other company that received a government bailout? Chrysler is still struggling. Since the beginning of the year it has lost nearly 500 million. NPR's Sonari Glinton reports on the outlook of the smallest of the Detroit three.  This week President Obama and Vice President Biden went to a Chrysler plant in Kokomo Indiana to bring attention to what they call a comeback. Here's Vice President Biden. Vice President  To bring the automobile industry back we knew we had to change things. We could not just keep doing the things the way we did. We knew the auto industry had to get leaner had to get tougher had to be more competitive. Ms.  We have a lot of ground to make up.  Shawn Morgan is a Chrysler spokesperson. She says the company has gotten leaner. It has fewer employees fewer factories fewer dealers and wages and benefits have been cut. Ms.  There is been a lot of challenging times to put it mildly in the industry and certainly for our company in the most recent past. And we have learned from that but we are going to continue learning.  Its going to need to do that and more. The company finds itself well behind GM and Ford. And many of its products still do not compare well against the best foreign models. It is a situation Chrysler has been in before. Mr.  Well when you have been kicked in the head like we have you learn pretty quick to put first things first. And in the car business product comes first. And product is what brought us back to prosperity.  That was former Chrysler CEO Lee Iacocca in one of his many TV commercials from the 1980s. This is the second bailout for Chrysler. Then as now Chrysler's focus is on introducing new products. Rebecca Lindland studies the car industry for IHS Automotive. Lindland says the new Chrysler and its corporate partner Fiat are taking a big risk in releasing 16 new or significantly redesigned cars. Ms.  There is a lot of expense that is going to be hitting their balance sheets while they launch these new products. But the goal is to make up that expense and to absorb that expense through increased profitability.  And Chrysler is going to be under great pressure to prove it can make money again. So far this year it is had a net loss of 453 million. But Lindland says the bankruptcy and restructuring have given Chrysler a future. Ms.  The outlook is significantly more positive because they have been able to restructure their dealer network. They have been able to right size the company themselves. They are hiring people from outside of the Big Three. And the people that are left are the ones that are really making a difference.  Lindland says when cars hit dealer showrooms customers will notice. Tamara Darvish runs four Chrysler dealerships in Maryland and Florida. Darvish says she is already noticed a difference in Chrysler and wants me to test one out.  Ms.  Are you scared? No no you just press the button. There is no key.  Oh.   Ms.  Can you hear that? You feel your whole body sitting in that seat?  I cannot lie I do. Ms.  I mean the Dodge Challenger is the car that you drive with your entire body and soul.  Darvish has been a Chrysler dealer for 30 years. She remembers the first bailout vividly. Ms.  I want to see Chrysler reemerge as the great car company it was. And I sort of just want to have the same feeling I had as being a part of that like we did back in the '80s.  Darvish like many analysts believes that given time the company will be profitable again. The question is how long that will take to happen. Sonari Glinton NPR News. 