 Twenty-thousand - that is how many people the World Health Organization predicts will be infected with Ebola in the next six to nine months. 3000 people are known to have already come down with the deadly virus. About half of them have died. One of the epicenters of Ebola is the West African country of Liberia. In the densely populated capital of Monrovia a major concern is how corpses are handled they are highly infectious. Every day specially trained teams go out to collect the bodies and they are not able to keep up with the demand. NPR's Nurith Aizenman went out with one of those teams.  The body collectors pull up to their first stop of the day. It is a dirt lot at the edge of a steep hill overlooking a river. They have come to collect the corpse of a woman who died in a house at the bottom. Her name was Rachel Wleh. The men change out of jeans and sneakers into surgical scrubs and rubber boots. They are one of four teams doing this work in Monrovia with funding from the International Federation of the Red Cross.  I have my surgical gloves as you can see. I have my heavy-duty gloves. I have my goggles.  Alexander Nyanti is pulling on his surgical gloves and gathering his goggles. He used to be a student studying economics at a local college. But the college has been closed along with every other school here because of the Ebola outbreak. Nyanti's 23 slender and soft-spoken. He looks a little nervous at the thought of going into Wleh's house.  I do not feel fine but I have to go there. I must go there.  A few feet away Sorie Fofana is more nonchalant. He is the creative one.  I was an artist - T-shirts drawings.  People used to pay him to put his designs on their T-shirts but this job pays better. He is 21 lanky and laid-back. Still he says every morning he has to steel himself to go out.  When I wake up in the morning I will pray to God to give me strength and focus.  Mark Korvayan is the team's leader. He is a longtime employee of the Ministry of Health and a father figure to the crew.  I am the head of the team - the burial team personnel.  The men gather up their gear and begin the slow climb down the hillside picking their way carefully over rocks strewn with trash and drying laundry. At the base of the hill they walk past cement block homes at the river's edge. People stream out of the doorways. The whole neighborhood is turning out to watch this. Wleh's husband was the doctor at the local clinic - that is also where the family lived. He came down with Ebola earlier this month and died a few days ago. Wleh got sick soon after. She died yesterday afternoon. Wleh's children stand to one side. They hug their arms to their chests and hang their heads. The eldest Larry Wleh is 22.  She was vomiting. She had chills. She was feeling weak.  As he describes his mother's symptoms Korvayan marches up to warn Larry Wleh that he and his brothers and sister absolutely must get tested. If they touched their mother while she was sick there is a good chance they have been infected too.  You say you did not touch your mother? Now who touched her? The person that touched her needs to report himself to the center.  Wleh's kids stare back at Korvayan in mute horror. Finally Larry the eldest speaks up. He mumbles that their health is fine. Their problem is a different one - in the space of a few days they have become orphans.  We do not have a father we do not have a mother.  The team begins putting on their last layer of protective gear. They unfurl white plastic jumpsuits and pull them on. Next come the face masks and goggles. They tape their sleeves shut with meticulous care and check each other for exposed skin. Their life depends on getting this right. The corpse of a person who dies of Ebola is extremely dangerous. It leaks bodily fluids loaded with the virus. Anyone who comes into contact with those fluids can become infected. Their last defense is a prayer. The men gather in a circle and touch hands. God our father - as we are going in may you be the protector Korvayan says. We will take the precautionary measures but may you seal us with your holy spirit and with your angels. Korvayan claps his hands to signal it is time to go in. The men walk into the house slowly single file and head into a bedroom. They emerge a few minutes later. They have packed Wleh in an army green body bag and drag it across the floor. They pause at the door and discuss the best way to lift up the body safely and then proceed out of the house. As they carry Wleh past the crowd several women begin wailing. The cries swell to a chorus. Wleh was beloved in this neighborhood. This is the closest thing she will get to a funeral. The hike back up the hill is excruciating. At the top the men stop under a tree and collapse against it. Korvayan says the state of Wleh's corpse was unnerving.  Well when I saw the body my skin creeped.  He says they found Wleh lying on a bed blood leaking from her mouth.  Her nose I saw was saliva. Very wet saliva. Wet. But her mouth - she was leaking with blood.  The men carry Wleh's body over to a long flatbed truck. They heave it in and drag it to the back. Now comes the most dangerous part - getting out of their protective suits. They arch their backs and contort their limbs in an awkward shimmy to avoid touching the outside. Then they spray each suit with disinfectant solution and place it in a trash bag. The men are paid for this work a thousand dollars a month - generous by Liberian standards. But their families do not want them doing it. Nyanti the economic student says his parents will not even let him stay in the house. They are worried he is going to infect them all. Fofana's parents have begged him to quit.  My mom and dad do not want me to do the job. But I feel I can do it to save my nation.  Like the other men Fofana says that what started out as just a job a way to earn a living has become a calling. He is seeing firsthand how crucial this work is to stopping the Ebola's spread. He knows the risks but he says someone's got to do it for the country.  I am going to serve my country. If I die I die for my country.  The men close up the back of the truck. They have got six more bodies to pick up today. And after that a long drive to the crematorium. Tomorrow they will do it all over again. Korvayan says he cannot even guess how many bodies he is collected since he started this work.  I cannot give you a specific number. I have gone far I have picked up enough.  I have gone far he says and picked up enough. Nurith Aizenman NPR News Monrovia.  Our story was produced by Nicole Beemsterboer in Monrovia and you can see a video of the body collectors doing this dangerous work at npr.org. 