 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Unidentified Group Mubarak has to go. Hey hey ho ho Mubarak has to go.  That is a crowd outside the Egyptian embassy here in Washington D.C. today. They were calling on Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to step down. Now many of those who turned out have family in Egypt - including Karim Ali who is been in sporadic contact with relatives in Cairo. Mr.  You know the Internet and cell phones were down yesterday but this morning cell phones are working and we are able to communicate with them. And thank God they were all doing very well.  Loay Yusef has family there too many of whom are taking part in the street demonstrations. Mr.  My father-in-law went out for about 10 minutes. He could not hang with the young guys. So he went up - gone back inside the apartment. But he said it is getting pretty bad there.  One protester we met at the embassy Mohamed Hafa says he has not yet been able to reach his family back home. Mr.  It scares me a little but I - at the same time I feel like you know everybody in Egypt is working hard and - to end this regime. And I am sure that they are some of the people that are doing that and I wish them luck. And you know - hold onto this whole thing will be successful and I will hear from them again.  Demonstrators outside the Egyptian embassy here in Washington. Robert Malley worked the Mideast desk at the National Security Council under President Clinton. He is now the program director for the Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group. He says all of the protests in the region and Egypt and in Tunisia and even Yemen are in many ways linked. Mr.  I think what we are seeing in Tunisia and Egypt and Yemen and elsewhere is not just protest about living conditions about poverty about...  Regimes. Mr.  ...about regimes. It is also the symptom of a sense of powerlessness of impotence of humiliation lack of dignity that the Arabs have felt now for a long time but in particular over the last period where you have seen the war in Iraq we have seen the dismantlement of the Palestine Authority during the second uprising intifada. You now see the humiliation of the Palestinians who are not able to get anything from Israel. Step after step you have seen Arab as being the past - expected on history. And I think that as much as anything else is what is propelling people who have been unhappy about the lack of bread and jobs and a voice for decades. There is nothing new. What is new is that right now they have no hope that their leaders can give them any sense of dignity of nationhood.  And what is new of course is that there is this medium primarily Al Jazeera... Mr.  Right.  ...that millions can see and they can watch and they can find out what is happening... Mr.  Right.  ...elsewhere. Mr.  And I mean this has been obviously a boom for Al Jazeera - very great few weeks for them. They were the ones who really covered the Tunisian uprising and perhaps helped it in a significant way. And they are now on the air showing what is happening in Egypt. This has been an Al Jazeera moment.  There is a lot of talk about stability in Egypt. I wonder If that government were to collapse and say the Muslim Brotherhood which is the only real credible opposition in Egypt were to fill that power vacuum would that bring about the kind of stability that the United States would want to see? Mr.  It is doubtful that it is the kind of stability the U.S. would want to see. I think that is precisely why Hillary Clinton and others are being very caged about this.  They are afraid. They are afraid of that. Mr.  They are afraid of that scenario. It is President Mubarak's playbook. Every time there is a threat he says it is a threat from the Muslim Brotherhood it is a threat from the Islamists and therefore Islamic radicalism. And therefore the U.S. has to be on its side.  Yeah. Mr.  This time it seemed at one point you know it was not going to work. The Muslim Brotherhood had nothing to do with the demonstrations earlier in the week.  You worked at the National Security Council once right... Mr.  Right.  ...under President Clinton. What are the options that the administration now has? Mr.  First I think they are trying to gather as much information as they can - which everyone is trying to do and it is not so easy. And second I think really they are trying to calibrate what should they say. Because they know that what they say people pay attention to. And they know that what they say or do not say can get them in trouble.  So I think it is really at that level - what are we trying to do what are we saying to the regimes themselves? What are we encouraging them to do and what are going to say publicly? It is a very delicate balancing act and it is sort of the price of decades and decades of a - unhealthy bargain. By dealing with regimes that are repressive yes but pro-American we get what we want. And that bargain is now collapsing because we cannot have everything we want. We could side with regimes at great cost -our reputation in the region and perhaps at great cost our interest in the future. Or we could side with the protesters. And that too could come with great peril.  That is Robert Malley. He is a former Middle East peace negotiator with the State Department and now the program director for the Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group. His latest article co-authored with Hussein Agha can be found in the New York Review. It is called Who is Afraid of the Palestinians? Robert Malley thank you. Mr.  My pleasure. 