 And Bob Arum's also promoting a somewhat lesser known boxer who is vying for the WBA super welterweight crown tonight. His name is Yuri Foreman. Mr.  He is a superb technical fighter. He has not lost a fight and he is been in with very strong opposition. He has a real good chance to win tonight.  Foreman is known as the Lion of Zion. He is a devout Jew who keeps kosher and does not roll on the Sabbath. Foreman was born in Belarus. He moved to Israel as a child and settled in New York to pursue boxing professionally in 1999. And it was here in the U.S. where he discovered Judaism after a chance encounter with an ultraorthodox rabbi. And now Yuri Foreman is not just a rising star in the boxing world he is three years into rabbinical training. I spoke with on Friday a few hours before the beginning of the Sabbath. Mr. Foreman thank you joining us. Mr.  Thank you very much for having me.  You actually came here to the U.S. in 1999 to pursue boxing professionally and it was actually here where you became an observant Jew. You were not an observant Jew in Israel or in Belarus. Mr.  Yes it is true. I - you know what being in Israel for almost nine years and being there secular and only when I came here to United States trying to make my American dream come true which is you know working from six to nine and then going to boxing gym. And I start feeling a little bit drained you know spiritually physically you know and I needed some kind of support.  Now how does being an observant orthodox Jew affect your training regiment? You cannot train from sundown on Friday to sundown on Saturday you cannot eat certain foods. Like you cannot have bacon and eggs for breakfast obviously you know. I mean how does this sort of affect your Mr.  I can have eggs you know but no bacon you know. But being also in New York you know there is not a problem with the kosher food. And regarding from Friday sundown to the Saturday after training you know six days a week you still need at least one day of rest.  On the seventh day God rested so on the seventh day you should not be boxing. Mr.  Exactly. God rested and so might as well I rest too you know?  Has studying the Torah and the Talmud made you a better boxer? Mr.  The book that we are studying is . It is a code of law. And it requires a lot of thinking you know and a lot of reading. And you know it helps me in a way to be more focused to see like smaller details. You know like for example my opponent would drop his right hand you know or have some openings perhaps with it I would not see you know. So I think yeah it helps me in that way.  Now you are going into this fight 27-0 - you have never lost a fight. But only eight knockouts. Now some critics say you know Yuri Foreman is a talented guy but he does not have the killer instinct. Mr.  Well I am working on that you know.  The killer instinct rabbi. Mr.  Yes.   Now your name is Yuri Foreman and your name Yuri is actually George in Russian is that right? Mr.  It is yes.  So is there any chance you will create a Yuri Foreman's Lean Mean Kosher Grilling Machine? Mr.  Yeah. I think it is really time for Yuri Foreman Grill. Kosher burgers you know?  That is the lion of Zion Yuri Foreman. Most probably the first rabbinical student in history to contend for the WBA's super welterweight title. Yuri Foreman thanks and good luck in the fight. Mr.  Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. 