 According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture sometime after World War II one reptile stowaway a female brown tree snake possibly pregnant probably slithered off a ship and onto the island of Guam. Over the next 60 years the offspring of that founding mother snake in the absence of natural predators have flourished to excess. Guam today is evidently awash in brown tree snakes - one to two million of them. And while the problem is interesting it is the solution to this problem that caught our attention the plan that USDA and other agencies are using to pull a St. Patrick and rid the Pacific island of its snakes. Dan Vice is a biologist with Wildlife Services - it is a USDA agency. He is in Guam and has worked on this project for over a decade. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much Robert.  And first before you describe how you hope to exterminate thousands if not hundreds of thousands of tree snakes first why is it necessary?  Well a little bit of history. When the snake arrived on Guam there were not predators on the island. The snake arriving here was able to quickly exploit the relatively defenseless birds to the point that today there are virtually no birds left in the forest. And this now super-abundant snake has a tendency to get into cargo and into aircraft and onto ships and move around.  OK. Well let us move on to the solution to this which involves huge quantities of dead mice.  For an unknown reason the brown tree snake on Guam very readily consumes dead prey - things that it has not killed itself. And once researchers discovered this we were able to combine the attractiveness of the dead mouse with a very effective but very low-risk toxicant acetaminophen which is a very common over-the-counter painkiller and fever reducer for people.  Now the idea here is that the acetaminophen - essentially Tylenol to use the brand name - that is toxic to the tree snakes and the tree snakes would eat dead mice if they came upon them. So the idea is to somehow make the mice the delivery vehicle of the acetaminophen.  Absolutely. And what makes acetaminophen such a good choice for this work is that it is highly toxic to snakes but it is very low toxicity to virtually everything else. And so we have developed a system where the bait mice are affixed to a floatation device. It is basically two pieces of thin cardboard with some accordion-folded tissue paper attaching the two pieces together.  The mice effectively are parachuted down into the treetops.  Yes you could say that but it is not literally a parachute. But the concept is the same. We are trying to float them down gently.  You are a wildlife biologist. As an example of evolution this scheme as it has evolved the notion that somebody would have come up with the idea of acetaminophen to kill the snakes dead mice to deliver the acetaminophen and then these little tissue paper and cardboard sort of parachutes to be dropped out of helicopters to fall into the trees where the snakes would get them that is an extraordinary scheme.  It is. It is trying to solve a problem when you cannot Google the solution. There is nobody that would done anything like this before.  Well Dan Vice good luck to you.  Thank you so much Robert.  And thanks for talking with us.  You are welcome.  That is Dan Vice a biologist with the USDA's Wildlife Services in Guam.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 