 By the numbers it is clear Chicago is still in the grip of a tremendous spike in violence. So far this year according to the city's police department there have been more than 2500 shootings and nearly 500 murders. Last year 762 people were killed the most homicides in two decades.  Our member station WBEZ is reporting on the city's gun violence. Their series is called Every Other Hour. That is about how often there is a shooting in Chicago. They have been exploring the question of who picks up a gun and why.  In Chicago research shows that the shooters are more likely to be teenagers. Today WBEZ's Patrick Smith has this story on two young men who talk about how they joined gangs and how they struggled to get out.  I mean the things that we do like when we go retaliate it is a bad thing. You know like - but people just do not know why we do the shooting. Like there is a story behind why we shoot people.  That is Alex. We are not using his full name or the other shooter I talked to named Jaime because some of the crimes they openly talk about occurred when they were juveniles and they fear gang retribution. Alex who is 21 now says when he joined a gang he was only 12 and living in a neighborhood on the southwest side of Chicago. He says it all started in eighth grade when he got suspended for the first time. That was for bringing a BB gun to school. Alex says that earned him a reputation. And soon the guys he calls the neighborhood knuckleheads started hanging out with him.  We used to hang out a lot until one day like some gang member approached us and started chilling with us. You know like he kind of told us that we wanted to join that we will be promised money drugs and protection. I wish that guy would have never approached us 'ecause like he introduced us into like this lifestyle that I am in now. Like if it was not for him I probably would have just been playing Yu-Gi-Oh! cards.  Alex says at first he made a lot of money selling drugs and helped his mom pay bills. But quickly the violence made him regret joining the gang.  These guys were doing - like killing people. I would actually be like I am supposed to ride along with these guys watch them kill somebody so next time I come I know how to kill somebody.  Soon Alex was the one holding the gun.  The first time I hit somebody with a bullet intentionally was when I was 13 years old.  Alex was out in his gang's neighborhood and one of the older gang leaders gave him a gun a .45 caliber handgun and deputized him as security for the block.  I took the gun. As a little kid I really did not know how to use a gun.  Alex says he got in the alleyway and kept watch until a car filled with four people pulled up and asked if they had weed for sale. Alex says they were actually rival gang members trying to get the jump on them. When one of Alex's friends approached the car to sell them drugs they leapt out and attacked him.  As soon as the guy jumped out the car he charged at us with a bat not knowing that I had a gun on me. So I pulled it out. And I was aiming for his chest. And I squeezed the trigger about four or five times striking him in the chest. And as soon as I pulled the trigger once the gun it jerked my shoulder back. But after that like I felt a little bit like hyped up.  The guy he shot survived but police caught Alex with the gun and charged him as a juvenile according to court records. He spent about two and a half years shuffling between juvenile jail home confinement and youth prison. When he got out the gang rewarded Alex with drugs and money and props for pulling the trigger to protect his fellow gang members. But eventually Alex wanted out of the gang. He even went back to school to get his GED.  I was doing so good. I had a job. I was not - I was not going to my hood for a year and a half. And you not showing your face around the block it is consequences. You know it is called the SOS smash on site. You know like when they catch you they beat you.  At first I did have SOS. I had smash on site.  That is Jaime. He joined a gang when he was 13 years old. He says when he tried to get out he was threatened with a beating too. But now the threats were more serious.  We got him on another SOS. We got him on shoot on site.  Jaime says in the past he was often the shooter for his gang.  That is how I earned my nickname Trigger.  Jaime says he never planned to join a gang. But after his brother died of a drug overdose he says he started to feel lost and hopeless. Then all of his closest friends joined a gang together. Jaime was being threatened by other gang members when he walked home from school so Jaime joined up with the same gang as the rest of his friends. He says he was 15 the first time an older gang member called O.G.'s  handed him a gun and told him to go shoot rivals.  That day the O.G.'s wanted one of the shorties  to go handle business. Nobody wanted to do it. All right you do it. Man I was like man I will do it. Like I want to do it.  Jaime enjoyed shooting. But he began to feel that he and the other kids were being used by older gang members.  It was an adrenaline rush. I would be so blind at the fact that I was getting sent off. You know I was a walking send-off bro. Like they will send me and shorties off 'ecause they did not want to do it themselves but they still want people to get shot.  But still the gang meant a lot to Jaime and it took him a long time to finally leave. He says his gang gave him protection and something to belong to.  They accept anybody bro - anybody. It do not matter if you are geeky or something. They are going to accept you bro. That is the thing. A lot of people do not know how to do that. They do not know how to accept people. They do not know how to bring them in with open arms you know? Everybody wants to just choose their own circle. Like no gangs they accept anybody bro. It do not matter you know? So you are more than welcome. You are more than welcome to come home.  Jaime lives with his mom and says he is trying to stay out of the gang. He works as a busboy and aspires to be a rapper. Alex says he tried so hard to stay out of trouble too. After a year and a half away from the gang he was taking welding classes at a community college when one of his closest friends was shot and killed by rival gang members. Alex went back to his block took the beating waiting for him for dropping out of the gang and asked for a gun so he could get revenge.  Sometimes like there is a big story behind why the guy shot him you know or why the guy wants to shoot somebody. And I mean it is about whose gang's the toughest actually or what gang got the most kills. You know it is like whose dies the fastest you know?  Alex ended up shooting at a group of people on a porch. He did not hit anyone but he got caught by police right after. He talks about gangbanging retaliation and violence like an addict talks about drugs. He knows it is bad for him and everyone around him but something about it keeps pulling him back. When I talked with him earlier this year he was under house arrest. We sat in his living room while he wore an electronic monitoring bracelet around his ankle. Since then he is been incarcerated and is now awaiting trial. When he talked about the cycle of violence he was adamant that avenging his friend's death was the righteous thing to do. For NPR News I am Patrick Smith in Chicago.   That story is part of a project looking at gun violence in Chicago by member station WBEZ. The project is called Every Other Hour and you can find out more about it at npr.org.  Tomorrow Chicago's violence reaches an anti-gun activist.  These parents that I am helping their kids got killed. How do I know that your kid as not killed my people? How do I know?  We will hear one Chicago mother and the startling choice she made as our series continues.  