 Making friends can be hard for children with autism because it can be tough for them to read other people's body language and facial expressions. Peter Balonon-Rosen of Indiana Public Broadcasting reports that improv might be able to help.  You guys ready to do the warm-up?  Yep.  OK. Five four three two one.  This is improv theater class and the kids are pumped. Here at Indiana State University's psychology clinic the class is designed for children 6 through 9 with high-functioning autism.  One. One. One. One. Whoo .  Eight-year-old Shaw has autism anxiety and attention deficit disorder. He likes to show off. Here he spells my name.  P-E-T-E-R.  How did you know that?  Because it kind of looked like that is your name.  Once a week Shaw comes here to this class created by Rachel Magin who is a grad student at Indiana State University. The focus - communication.  Through our facial expressions or through the way our body language shows it or just the tone of our voice.  Magin is measuring how children interpret these things because children with autism...  Are not able to read those cues as well.  Body language recognizing emotions - that is a language.  And they have not necessarily learned that language. OK so here's what we are going to. We are going to...  Shaw and classmates choose sentences out of an envelope pick a random card with an emotion on it then say that sentence in that emotion.  In that emotion. Who wants to try one?  Me. Me. Me. Me. Me.  Me. Me. Me. Me. Me. Me. Me.  Sometimes it runs smoothly.  Say it sounds really great in a happy voice.  Yay it sounds really great in a happy voice. Yay.  But like in real life the way you say the words changes their meaning so when emotions do not obviously line up with the words it is more of a challenge for these kids. They play a guessing game with the phrase it is over.  It is over.  Sad.  No.  Scared.  No.  Happy.  Yes.  What would have helped him to show that he was happy?  Silas Shaw's 6-year-old sister who does not have autism but comes with her brother she knows.  Yay it is over. Yay it is over. Yay.  OK so jumping up and down having the voice get a little higher - it is over - and a little louder.  Maybe it is something we all could use.  We are going to role-play how to deal with anxiety.  But for these children it is especially important. People with autism often find the world confusing and stressful. Shaw plays someone nervous to go to a new school.  I think it is going to be scary.  Take deep breaths and you will not be scared.  The idea is pretty straightforward - get children to act out different situations think about their emotions and they will be better at doing it when they need to because they can draw on improv.  It is being recognized as kind of a technology for human connection and communication.  An hour and a half down the road Jim Ansaldo is a disability education research scholar at Indiana University. He runs an improv summer camp for teens with autism and says programs are rare but growing.  What improv really does is create a safe and fun and authentic environment in which to practice where mistakes really do not matter.  Janna Graf the mom of Shaw from earlier says the change is real. She saw that when the 8-year-old who she says can ramble introduced himself at a church group.  When he learned about how to stop and pause and take a moment he said my name's Shaw I am 8 years old and he actually took his hands and waved it to the next person.  So how did that make you feel?  Wonderful because now he is learning how to wait.  And it is this kind of feedback that the researchers are using to see how improv classes transfer to real social skills. And so far they are encouraged by the early results. For NPR News I am Peter Balonon-Rosen.  