 As we await word of a troop buildup in Afghanistan some Marines are returning from war. Everyday hundreds of members of the 2nd Battalion 8th Marine Regiment arrive back in the U.S. They cram into buses headed for Camp Lejeune North Carolina. It is a bittersweet homecoming. Thirteen in the battalion died in Afghanistan. NPR has been following the 28th throughout their deployments. Back in May we met Lance Corporal Josh Apsey and his family as he was preparing to ship out. The other day Catherine Welch of member station WHQR was with Apsey's parents as they welcomed him home.   Josh Apsey turned 19 during the deployment. His father Tom knows the boy he sent to war will return a combat veteran. Mr.  And I know I am going to be welcoming back instead of my little boy that got on that bus my young man my hero that I am extremely proud of so I just cannot wait.  But he has to wait. The buses have been delayed. Tom and his wife Vicki have been here for hours. It has not dampened their spirits. Ms.  We are very ecstatic excited anxious. Mr.  Cannot believe it is almost here. Ms.  Yeah. It is definitely definitely so.  The afternoon turns to night and still no Marines. But their bags arrive. Mr.  Be careful with that.   The Apseys comb through the slew of olive green duffle bags. Mr.  We found two so far. Johnson Baker just went out on that .  They grab their son's bag and go back to wait for the buses. They are standing exactly where they waited to send Josh off six months ago. But they are in a very different place. Mr.  We were talking the other day that we actually feel like we have kind of aged during this process. Ms.  I know. I have a few more wrinkles and a little bit more gray hair. And I have put on a little bit of extra weight. I am just like Gosh you know we have earned that I guess as parents you know really being concerned for our son.   And finally after a five-hour delay the buses start pulling up.   It is chaos. Everyone storms the buses. Across the crowd the Apseys find their son grab him and give him a hug.  Lance Corporal  I am home. I am home.   It is a scene that plays out again and again that night. On another day there is another homecoming  more families waiting for their moment. Mr.  It is exciting is not it?  Mr. J.  Yeah it is giddy you know and it is really the fun time.  That is Jim Diepenbruck. He is the parent coordinator and he spent this deployment taking care of the parents of this battalion keeping them informed even attending funerals. He has been divided all these months between worrying about his own son Darren and worrying about everybody else. Mr. J.  Maybe I will be totally Darren's dad when all the companies come in and I see all the families with their Marines and their sailors.  But not every family is going to see their Marine. The unit coming home on this day was the hardest hit. And two families of Marines who died are here. There is something about watching the doors close and the buses leave. Steve Posey is one of them. He is wearing a button with a photo of his son Lance Corporal Gregory Posey. He was 22 years old when he died in July. His dad remembers him as a lovable prankster. Mr.  He would loan out anything sometimes even if it did not belong to him. He had a good heart.  Posey's son loved being a Marine. That is why the family is here. Mr.  We had planned on being here. We are sticking to our plan.  He fights back tears. Mr.  These guys meant a lot to us so we are here for them.  Diepenbruck has been checking in on the Poseys all night. There is nothing he can do for them now. And finally after hours of waiting the buses start rolling in. Families rush to meet them but the Posey family stays right where they are huddled sobbing.   Mr. J.  This just has to be so tough for them.   Diepenbruck glances back worrying for the Poseys. But he has to go.    He crosses the street to join his wife and greet his son. Mr. J.  Here we go.  Unidentified Woman Hey. Hi sweetheart. Mr.  How are you doing? Unidentified Woman Oh I am good. Mr. D.  Nice to see you guys. Mr. J.  Oh man good to see you. Mr. D.  Yeah.  The Diepenbrucks hug and start catching up. Mr. D.  We got delayed delayed delayed. It is like ridiculous right. And we were just like let us go home please.  Now they are home most of them. For NPR News I am Catherine Welch. 