 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. This year the boys' cross country team at Hopi Junior Senior High School won its 20th consecutive Arizona state championship. But on the Hopi reservation in the high plains of Northeastern Arizona teens are worried about losing more than races. Fewer and fewer young people there can speak Hopi. And many worry that with the language they will also lose their culture. Youth Radio brings us this story from Hopi Junior Senior High School in Keams Canyon Arizona. It is called Last Words. Unidentified Man  Mr.  Since the beginning we have been taught about the end. When our language dies we are told that the world will begin dying with it. Unidentified Man  Mr.  We have a prophecy that one night lost brothers will awaken from the dead then they will draw a line from one end of the village to the other. One by one they will line us up and then they will ask us . Are you Hopi? Can you speak the Hopi language? And if you cannot respond back in fluent Hopi they will place us on the right side of the line. And soon after that they will cut our throats. This is what we call our judgment day. Unidentified Man   Mr.  This is our school the Hopi Junior Senior High School. Our Hopi language is dying and me and most of my friends are struggling to speak it. Ms.  When I talk to my friends we speak English we do not like speak our Hopi language. Because some of my friends are not Hopi others are but they do not really know how to speak it. Mr.  This problem is not new to our generation. Ms.  I am 66 years old. Mr.  Hopis stopped learning our language.. Ms.  I was not allowed to speak my language. Mr.  ...when they were punished for speaking it in schools. Ms.  You are afraid you are ashamed and you are crying and they tell you to stop crying and hit you but how can you stop crying when they hit you. Mr.  That is what happened to my grandmother Eloise Coochyamptewa. Ms.  Eloise Coochyamptewa. Mr.  She stopped teaching her children... Ms.  I regret it now. Mr.  ...to protect them from suffering the same humiliation that she had to endure when she was in school. Ms.  I remember holding on to a fence just crying and then my dad will be dragging me to the classroom. It was so scary to sit there. That is what happened to me. That is why I did not teach my kids. Mr.  Remember the part remember when we were sitting there doing laundry and I asked you how do you say this how do you say that what is the word for up down where did you go things like that. Ms.  Oh yeah. And I told him even if you cannot pronounce it right at least I will know what you are trying to say. You know that way I can help you I can correct you. I just hope it do not die do not die because that is the only thing we have right now is our language and our ceremonies but it is not too late. It is not too late. Mr.  At our school there is only one student who is fluent in Hopi. Ms.  His name is Alrye Polequaptewa. Mr.  And everyone calls him Hopi boy. Ms.  Hopi boy. Mr.  Hopi boy. Mr.   You never forget a language that you first learn. Mr.  The thing that makes Alrye different from everyone else is that his parents forced him to speak Hopi. Mr.  I learned the language from my parents when I was just a  a little baby. That is all they talk to me in was Hopi. And Hopi it was supposed to be the first language you will ever learn. Ms.  Some people made fun of Alrye when we were younger because he had a traditional haircut and spoke the language so well. Mr.  Number one Hopi boy coming through the door I guess they admired me but I thought they were like teasing me. Mr.  I kind of looked up to him because he knew Hopi and I started to learn words from him and I started learning and learning and learning and learning. It just started popping in my head and I started getting an idea of what people were talking about. Mr.  Later on as I wondered why be like them when I can be myself and be different. And then I did that and I became a role model.  Unidentified Group  Mr.  The land of the Hopi is the center of the universe. We have lived on these three mesas for generations and all that while are people that have been speaking the Hopi language but now everybody says our language is dying. Unidentified Group   Our story Last Words was produced by Youth Radio. 