 In Libya the fighting drags on and the struggle between rebels and forces loyal to Moammar Gadhafi is seeping across the border into Tunisia. Normally quiet towns are feeling the effects of intrigue between Libyans who support one side or the other and people who side with the rebels say they are being spied on and attacked by Gadhafi's agents. NPR's Corey Flintoff sent this story from the Tunisian city of Djerba.  Djerba is an outwardly placid place a sun-bleached stretch of the Mediterranean with white-washed hotels that cater mainly to vacationers from Europe. Tourism has fallen sharply since the Tunisian revolution that began in December of last year. In the place of tourists Djerba now has an influx of people from Libya some fleeing the fighting some involved with it. It is the first sizable town on Tunisia's southern coast only about two hours by car from the Libyan border. Some Libyan rebels and their supporters are lying low in Djerba. On a dirt road on the outskirts of town five young men gather in a room on the unfinished top floor of a nondescript house. The room is nearly bare except for some foam mattresses a television set and a shelf draped with the Libyan rebel flag. One man a 21-year-old who calls himself Sanaad Libya taps at a laptop computer. The rebels here maintain a website and issue a printed newsletter. Mr.    He says the young men have come from the fighting in Libya's western Nafusa Mountains. They are in Djerba to rest recruit and organize among the refugees. They say they cannot always tell whether the people they meet are with them or against them.  And my friend is a rebel but actually he is a spy. We cannot trust.  That is a 23-year-old former engineering student who identifies himself only as Axel. Earlier this week there was an attack against the office of a Libyan refugee aid group called the Libyan Freedom Headquarters that is associated with the rebel side. That office is now closed and its leaders are gathered on the balcony of a posh cafe that overlooks the sea. Like the student rebels they asked that their names not be broadcast because they fear retaliation against their families in Libya. This man Fouad identifies himself as the president of the group which he says provides only humanitarian assistance for Libyan refugees not military support.  About one week ago come a lot of strange people in our office and they ask for . They ask for money. They ask for food. The people for Gadhafi you can see it.  Fouad says they raised suspicion because they did not seem like refugees.  There is not people - they need help or something like that because they come in a bucket a lot of money with them.  Fouad suspects the visitors were just scouting the office preparing for an attack that came just a few days later. The assistant manager of the office takes up the story. He shakes hands awkwardly because his right hand is wrapped in gauze. Unidentified Man   He says the office was nearly empty when dozens of men showed up wielding knives stones and clubs. The assistant said his hand was cut as he tried to fend off the attackers with a chair. Unidentified Man  Mr.  It was a miracle. He took the chair and really defending himself. You cannot imagine this power you know because either you die or you save yourself.  That is Abdul-Raazik whose son also in the office was stabbed repeatedly. Now in the cafe the son raises his shirt to show several bandaged wounds in his chest belly and side. The men say the Tunisian police eventually came and broke up the fracas. For now the Libyan Freedom Headquarters is closed but the men say they plan to find a new location and keep up the effort. Abdul-Raazik says Gadhafi will not make it easy. Mr.  Spies are everywhere in Djerba. Of course he is defending himself and he is sending eyes and so on. The Tunisian government now is very very very weak and they do not want to close the borders.  These men do not want to see the borders closed either but as long as Libyans can cross into Tunisia they will bring their conflict with them. Corey Flintoff NPR News Djerba Tunisia. 