 This afternoon kids at hundreds of middle schools all over the country were dancing exactly the same dance at exactly the same time. At least they were trying. It was called a flash workout directed by two powerful women.  Hello everyone. It is Beyonce and I am very very honored to be a part of our First Lady Michelle Obama's let us move initiative.    Hey .  The kids were dancing to Beyonce's song Move Your Body with the help of a video she made for the first lady's anti-obesity campaign. NPR's Neda Ulaby checked out the dancers at Alice Deal Middle School in Washington D.C.  Imagine it is your job to make 500 middle schoolers make exactly the same moves at the same time. Michele Ortiz is a P.E. teacher. She is dedicated the past two weeks preparing her kids to perform for a crowd that includes Michelle Obama. Ms.  It is definitely going to be something that they are going to remember forever for the rest of their life. It is like you know they have been so excited about - they worked really hard on it. They all been being like Ms. Ortiz can I be in the front? I want to be in the front.  Most of the kids hear at Deal Middle School are actually in pretty good shape and they are excited about new moves like the cat daddy the shuffle and the Dougie kind of a slick rocking motion like a boxer warming up. Ms.  It is like where you move your arms from side to side and you just have fun with it and you freestyle. Ms.  My favorite part of the dance is probably the cat daddy. It looks like - so you just like squat your knees down. You just move your hands like in you are in a wheelchair. Ms.  I like the  dance but I probably like doing the cat daddy than those. It is like doing the wheelchair but having your arms out doing like a wheelchair motion.  That is 13-year-old Cherva Chase 11-year-old Cameron Gatz and 12-year-old Rebecca Armstrong in matching black T-shirts that say move your body. There is a few random and choreographed things going on - jazz hands caterpillars even a not quite successful flip. Middle schoolers come in dramatically different sizes but right now on a sunny athletic field in springtime 500 big and little bodies are moving together more or less. Neda Ulaby NPR News.    Now run to the left to the left to the left. Now run to the left to the left. Now run to the right to the right to the right come back to the right to the right.  If you want to get moving yourself you can watch the instructional video for the workout dance at nprmusic.org. Keep going.    Wave the American flag. Wave the American flag. Hey. . Hey. 