 So it seems the spring slump that many predicted for the economy has not come to pass. For thoughts on that and other topics we turn to our Friday political commentators E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Brookings Institution. E.J. welcome back. E.J.  Good to be with you.  And filling in this week for David Brooks Ramesh Ponnuru senior editor with National Review Ramesh welcome to you.  Thank you.  Well the stock market seemed to really like these numbers today. Ramesh let us start with you. Your outlook on what these numbers say about economic policy what you think is working and what might not be.  Well I think what was the really positive development in today's numbers was not just the 165000 for April but the upward revisions that made February and March look a lot better than people had thought. And these are not numbers that are reducing the unemployment rate as fast as we would like. There is still a crisis of long term unemployment which unfortunately is getting short shrift in Washington. You may remember that we had a press conference this week. Nobody asked President Obama about jobs.  It did not come up yeah.  But there is still some progress. The economy is not as weak as some people had feared. The sequestration is not damaging the economy as much as many critics had worried and all of these things are very positive.  But E.J. if you look longer term do you think those across-the-board spending cuts will start to take a bite? You also had the payroll tax cut that went away in January. Is there a gloomier picture ahead do you think?  Well yeah I do not think these are great numbers. They are good in the sense that we are not in a catastrophe. Neil Irwin on The Washington Post blog site said look we have had no double-dip recession that people predicted but there has not been a big recovery. John Ydstie's piece about low expectations reminded me of the American Socialist Eugene Debs who once said there should be another beatitude blessed are they who expect nothing for they shall not be disappointed.  The soft bigotry of low expectations of the economy there you go.  Yes exactly. You know you wonder where would we be if we had let the payroll tax holiday continue another year? Where would we be without the sequester? We are holding an economy down and while this is good news we are not crashing again it is not fast enough.  I want to move onto another topic. At the news conference that Ramesh mentioned this week President Obama renewed his vow to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. Of course this was a pledge he made back during the 2008 presidential campaign. He calls Gitmo a recruitment tool for extremists and not necessary to keep America safe. Ramesh do you see any appetite in Congress for actually closing Guantanamo Bay?  There has been strong bipartisan opposition to the president's plans in the past in Congress and I do not see anything likely to change that. And I really wonder whether Obama is even serious as opposed to just signaling to the segment of his base that is very passionate this issue that he still stands with them. Because he surely knows both about the existence of that bipartisan opposition and the fact that the polls suggest that most people in the public are not with him on this issue either.  E.J. do you think he is serious? The president said I am going to go back at this. Has the administration do you think articulated a plan for what they would do with those detainees if Guantanamo were to close?  I think the answer's no. I mean Congress does not want these folks coming into the United States. That is his big problem but he is been president now for over four years and this thing has festered. There are a small number of people there. The facility has wound down. I think he is getting to the point where if he is going to offer this rhetoric yes it must be closed he is going to have to do something whether Congress likes it or not.  And finally to one more question that the president was faced with this week. At that new conference he was asked do you still have the juice to get the rest of your agenda through this Congress. And let us listen to just some of what he said in response.  As Mark Twain said the rumors of my demise may be a little exaggerated at this point.  So he is kind of mangling the Twain quote there but we get the point. Ramesh do you think with the failure of the gun bill to get through Senate the president's inability to roll back sequestration some problems with the immigration compromise has the president indeed lost his juice as the questioner put it?  Well I think that at the very least some of the expectations that his supporters had after he was reelected are being downsized. And a lot of people when he talked about rumors of his demise having been exaggerated were reminded of President Clinton saying at a press conference that many thought of as kind of a low point in his presidency that he was still relevant. But Obama's just been reelected. That is the difference in the political circumstances whereas in Clinton's case it was right after a bad midterm that he had said that. I think that the president has as you said the gun bill failed sequestration has not worked out politically the way he thought it would and he does not seem to be making any headway on taxes. So I think he is really running into the limits of what a lot of people had thought was going to be a liberal moment.  E.J. you seem to be expressing some frustration in a column this week about things you think he could be doing that would restore that juice if you want to call it that.  Right well I think what he said about the fact that he should not take most of the blame for this it comes from Republican obstruction is true. And the Senate is using the filibuster routinely. That is true. The right-wing Republicans want him to fail. That is all true. But I think Americans like their president to look a little happier and more hopeful. This is the guy who used hope as his central concept. And for example if you take that gun vote I think what is really striking is that the backlash against senators particularly Senator Kelly Ayotte who had a pretty rough week up in New Hampshire...  Of New Hampshire.  ...this week says this can come back. And I think he needs to be more hopeful and I also think he needs to go back to the original agenda we have lost track of you know including his pre-K program the minimum wage increase more infrastructure. He is got to be sort of more aggressive and just happier in his work even if I do not blame him for being a little depressed about things.  Just briefly though E.J. are you saying it is the optics he needs to look and sound different as opposed to doing anything differently?  Well I think he is got to make a broader case for his program and not let us get caught in all of this deficit madness all the time. People want the government to help them and do stuff.  OK thanks to you both. Have a great weekend.  Thank you.  Thank you.  E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and Brooking Institution and Ramesh Ponnuru senior editor with National Review. 