 Now we are going to continue our coverage of the storm that is inundating parts of Houston as we just heard by going to Colonel Steven Metze. He is the public affairs officer for the Texas Military Department that is conducting search-and-rescue operations and he is with us now to talk about the rescue efforts being conducted by the National Guard. Colonel thanks so much for being with us. We know you are very busy right now.  Glad to be here.  So how are the search-and-rescue operations going?  They are going pretty well. We are finally getting breaks in the weather where we can get in. We are starting to see pictures and videos of our high-profile vehicles that are able to get into pretty deep water - basically tall trucks - and get people to safety. We are starting to see a significant number of hoist operations - hoist rescues with helicopters - lowering people down to put hoists on people and pulling them up out of the water. So we are really starting to see now you know what we have been preparing for and trying to get in place for actually happening.  Do you have any idea of how many people still are waiting to be rescued? I mean as you might imagine you know we are hearing from people. People - we are hearing from people on social media. Friends of people are calling and just trying to get attention for certain people in certain areas saying that you know they are - people are starting to get frightened. Do you have any sense of what the scope of the rescue operation that remains to be done?  I really do not at this time. We are so focused right now on going where the need is - wherever the local and state agencies call us and tell us to go where you know wherever they see that someone needs help. You know that is our entire focus right now. What can we do to help with safety security and protection of lives? So I am not tracking you know how many more there are to go. We are only focused on what can we do right now?  Do you feel that the Guard was prepared for this?  Well we have certainly prepared for episodes like this you know throughout our history right? We have done joint exercises with - and interagency exercises intergovernmental exercises you know coordinating with DPS and the Texas Division of Emergency Management. We have done that for years. We have had floods before. We have had tropical storms. We have had hurricanes before although you know none higher than Cat 2 in recent history. You know I do not think - but this is historic level. Right? This is beyond anything we have seen in anyone's recent memory. So there is always an opportunity to learn from every operation and what we can do to improve. And I think we will do that here too. But you know this is what we have trained for. And you know we prefer not to have to use our training in an actual tragedy. But when called you know the men and women of the Texas Military Department are proud to be a part of you know Texans serving other Texans.  Before we let you go this is your opportunity to offer your wish list - if I can call it that. Is there something that you need? Is there something that you do not need? Is there anything that people can do to be helpful to you right now?  The two biggest things that I would throw out there are one you know your first responders are absolutely still the first line. So when you have issues when you see things call 911. And then they - you know if they need help from us it will filter up through us and it will all follow one smooth channel. Calling us directly - it is kind of confusing too the way of the whole system - because we are set up to support them. And then the other thing is we have seen some drones in the area - you know insurance companies members of the media people who just want to get video footage. Those drones form an actual risk to our air operations our pilots and the people they are trying to rescue. So the FAA has put a ban on drones and we want to make sure that that word gets out there as well.  That is helpful to hear so thank you for that. That is Colonel Steven Metze. He is the public affairs officer for the Texas military operation which is conducting search-and-rescue operations. Colonel thanks so much for speaking with us. Good luck to you.  Thank you. 