 We are following the nationwide debate over health care through the experiences of people in one Maryland county - Howard County near Baltimore. Lisa Jolles has a stake in this discussion in several ways. She and her husband owned a small business so they are affected by the employer mandate that is in the House Democrats' bill. And their small business is an insurance brokerage so they are very directly affected by it. Welcome back to the program Lisa Jolles. Ms.  Thank you.  And first talk to me as a small business owner with a payroll the requirement is to provide health insurance or pay a penalty if your payroll's over a quarter of a million and it goes up to eight percent if you have a 400000 payroll. Would any of that change the way you do business with your own employees? Ms.  Well not us personally except that the provision I think what most employers do is they obviously try to provide insurance at least for the employee. I see more employers that are providing it. We pay a good percentage almost all of the employee portion but we do not pay towards dependents. Part of that mandate is that we are also responsible for contributing a portion towards dependents.  And you think a lot small businesses that employ people around you and Howard County would have a problem with that? Ms.  Possibly it depends on how you want to allocate your resources. In other words you know if we are going to say we are going to contribute 500 towards their employee benefits well that is medical dental disability short term whatever we are contributing so we can only slice it and dice it so many ways.  Can you imagine small businesses trying to game these limits that is if you can get your payroll down by calling some people who are now employees independent contractors or form smaller companies. Ms.  Oh absolutely. Yeah. I mean we had a company recently that just - they you know had a meeting they told everyone we cannot afford it anymore and then what they are doing now is they are - they did have another company that was you know kind of a dormant Maryland incorporated company they are bringing that in. They are putting the two owners on there and two other employees key employees that they wanted to cover and they will find ways around it.  Okay I can see that small businesses with tight payrolls would resist the idea that they have to contribute more toward their employees' insurance. But on the other hand... Ms.  Right.  ...you are an insurance brokerage. All those healthy 20-somethings out there are subject under the House bill to an individual mandate. The market of people who are going to be having to buy health insurance would in theory increase under this bill. Would not you get more business that way? Ms.  Yes if you sell individual and group insurance definitely. That is the basic premise that I would think needs to happen. Because obviously if everybody is covered then we do not have the problem with people using the emergency rooms as their doctors and other people paying for it. We also have less adverse selection. So we have more people for the insurance companies to insure which spreads the risk more. I mean it solves a tremendous amount of issues.  What about the idea of the public health insurance plan? Ms.  Well I do not know that it would operate like they think it would. I mean we think it would obviously decrease competition because we think that it would kind of be an unlevel playing field.  You just assume that a public health insurance plan would be marketed through I do not know who the Social Security administration or the regional HHS office not through... Ms.  Right.  ...not through commercial insurance brokers. Ms.  That is the way that I am interpreting it. And I do not want to create too much offense here but if you want something that you can you know purchase from nine to five and off on weekends and off on government holidays I mean that is going to be our government system.  Well Lisa Jolles thank you very much for talking with us once again. Ms.  You are welcome thanks so much.  That is Lisa Jolles of Jolles Insurance in Ellicott City Maryland which is in Howard County where we have been following the progress of the health care debate. 