 Donald Trump has run his presidential campaign by his own rules and he is been blowing away politicians playing by the old rules. Sure Trump is amassing the building blocks of a traditional campaign structure but he is also investing heavily to appeal to voters with something that is made him a fortune over the years - branding. NPR's Peter Overby reports.  Here's the part of a Donald Trump event that is not unique. It happened in Jacksonville Fla.   What a group of people. Incredible.   Then comes the story to connect Trump with Jacksonville. It is not a story any other candidate could tell.   When I had a casino boat built here it did great. We sold it made a lot of money so I love Jacksonville. I love it.  Politicians do not often brag about making money. Donald Trump does. It is part of his brand.  You know it is successful it is risk-taking but it is combative. He is not afraid to offend. He is a fighter. He is entertaining. He is confident.  Brad VanAuken is a branding strategy consultant in Rochester. He is got a checklist of what makes a successful brand.  It actually measures the five drivers of customers insisting upon the brand and the number one driver is awareness.  By now is anyone not aware of Donald Trump? He is been a celebrity since the 1980s doing real estate deals casinos marriages and reality TV. Trump claims his brand as a sizable chunk of his net worth. Again Brad VanAuken.  If you have heard the saying that any kind of publicity is good publicity that is largely true. The number two driver of brand insistence is relevant differentiation.  The Trump campaign declined requests for comment for this story. But the relevant differentiation from the other candidates can be teased out of the campaign spending reports for the third quarter. No money for media consultants or TV or pollsters but plenty of cash for events starring Donald Trump. Three-hundred-forty-nine thousand dollars was spent on venues and production plus another 10000 for event staging consulting. At those events Trump does not talk like a politician.   We are going to have so many wins they are going to be pouring out of your ears. You are going to get tired of winning. You are going to say Mr. President let us have a loss this is getting boring. And I say no I will not do that.  Meredith Post is a brand strategist in Cincinnati. She calls Trump a disruptor in his market of presidential politics. What else is out there that is similar?  There is a lot of disruptive brands out there. One that comes to mind is Axe.  For those who do not know Axe sells grooming products to guys from their tween's to early 20s. This ad is for a hair product.    Smell my finger.   Who is that?   It is Greg .  Definitely disruptive.  They have an irreverent tone of voice that goes back to what they promise what the experience will be like. It is something that is unapologetic.  Meredith Post points to Trump's slogan Make America Great Again.  Just because the fact that he added on the again at the end it spins it to act like America has not been great and so he is going to bring us back.  This summer the campaign spent more than 900000 on hats t-shirts and other stuff emblazoned with Make America Great Again. The hats go for 20 to 30 bucks each at donaldjtrump.com. Your purchase incidentally counts as a campaign contribution. Peter Overby NPR News Washington. 