 If you follow the news from Syria and Iraq it can seem as if the so-called Islamic State is unstoppable. The Sunni group also known as ISIS has also gotten support from some local Sunnis frustrated with their governments. But some Sunnis are standing up to ISIS. Recently NPR's Alice Fordham travelled to an Iraqi town under ISIS attack and she found one tribe that is resisting the extremists and appealing for help.  The only way for civilians to get to the town of Dhuluiya is by boat across the river Tigris since ISIS blew up the main bridge here. Steering through long reeds we pull into a little harbor. I have come to this town about 60 miles north of Baghdad to meet the Jubbour tribe a big Sunni group in this agricultural area who have halted the advance of the Islamic State. At first glance it seems lush here. So we are bumping through the streets of Dhuluiya through houses with back gardens full of pomegranate trees. It is really beautiful here I say. And they say it is not all that beautiful right now actually.  .  In fact we are about two miles from the front line. ISIS fires maybe a dozen mortars a day at the town. At a school converted to a hospital I meet senior men from the Jubbour tribe. They tell me how ISIS blazed down from the North in mid-June. The villages north of here are Sunni where many feel oppressed by the Shiite-led government. Some allied with the Sunni militants. Others fought and fell 'till those extremists reached Dhuluiya.   Since that time the fighting started and everyone from third-grade students to sheiks took part in it. Everyone raised their weapons.  This is Barzan Ahmad a Jubbouri and a university professor.   After the fighting had been going on for two days they proposed having negotiations between ISIS and the sheiks here.  So a delegation from the Jubbour tribe went to meet an Islamic State leader who ordered them to join ISIS and kill 30 members of the tribe - army officers doctors - as punishment for working with the Shiite-dominated government of former Prime Minister Nouri al Maliki which many Sunnis despised.  . They said we have come to liberate you from this injustice and oppression caused by Maliki's rule.  The sheiks were outraged.  .  Sheik Mawloud Awad Hassoun says the tribe believes in peaceful coexistence. A lot of them are educated - engineers and lawyers. We do not see ourselves as slaughterers he says. So the tribe declined ISIS's offer to join them and began fighting against them again. In the chaotic hallway of this makeshift hospital I meet Ahmed Issa who joined the fight against the extremists and lost his leg.  . They are criminals. They are killers. If they enter your house they are going to kill you.  And even though Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq are generally at each other's throats here Shiite fighters from a town across the river came to help out.  . We have become more than brothers. What hurts them hurts us and what hurts us hurts them.  Fighting together they pushed the militants back. It helps when Iraqi army helicopters hit some Islamic State positions. But they say they need more help from the government. Muaffak Kamel Ali stopped working with an electricity company to fight.  . We want military support. We are under pressure here. They are shelling us from there and advancing toward us. So we need shields military backing so we can defeat them ourselves.  And this is something you hear across the country. Over to the west in Anbar Sunni tribes fighting the Islamic State say they have lost 200 men to the extremists in recent days. They too beg the government for weapons.  .  .  .  Thank you. As I say goodbye the Jubbouris tell me they are hoping for a meeting soon with Iraq's prime minister. And that is key because the U.S. wants the government here to take the lead before it helps the tribes. But the help has to come soon. Over the weekend 250 Jubbouris were captured by ISIS. Alice Fordham NPR News. 