 The Boeing 737 Max was grounded this spring after two of the jets nose-dived into the earth killing nearly 350 people. Today the FAA announced it is found a new problem with the plane that will further delay the jetliner's return to service. The airline most impacted by the grounding is Dallas-based Southwest Airlines which only flies 737s. Southwest has nearly three dozen of the new Maxes. NPR's Wade Goodwyn looks at how the carrier is coping without the largest aircraft in its fleet.  The heart and mind of Southwest Airlines is here in its Network Operation Center.  No everything's good. I was just checking times on crews coming back internationally.  Copy that. I got you.  OK.  They call this place the NOC. It is big.  Let us check in with a few of the facilities just to get updates on how things are going. We will start on the Northeast with Washington Center...  It is a roughly 4000-flight dance card every day. Bad weather mechanical breakdowns delayed flight crews - improvisational dispatch performed here day and night. And that day in March when the FAA said park your Maxes right now demanded a whole lot of improv. Tim Anderson is the superintendent of dispatch on the bridge in the Network Operations Center.  We had to go in and find flights - basically lines that flights were not booked very full on and cancel flights and then piece things together to where we were able to run an operation with 35 less airplanes.  Unlike United American or Delta Southwest does not utilize a hub-and-spoke network but flies point to point instead. A Southwest jet will start the morning in Oklahoma City fly to Dallas Love Field then Austin onto Houston Hobby turn west to Phoenix followed by San Jose and in the evening in Portland. If that plane's a Max that is 175 seats times six flights - somewhere around a thousand passengers with no plane that day. Multiply that by 35 Maxes and you have got an unholy mess.   All righty it looks like I can put you on standby for the 30 flight. But there is a stop and it would get you there later. So...  Oh shoot.  At Southwest's home airport Dallas Love Field operations have largely returned to normal. The airline has grown into such a behemoth that the grounded Maxes represent just 6 of the airline's flying operations. How this extended grounding plays out financially for Southwest is an interesting issue.  The impact of the mass grounding is a net negative financially to Southwest Airlines.  Andrew Watterson is an executive VP and chief revenue officer for Southwest. Watterson says fewer seats to sell means less revenue even though fewer seats also translates into those seat prices going up.  Yes prices are set by supply and demand in the marketplace. So undoubtedly there is some impact to this but it is a net negative. We wish it had not happened.  The cost in foregone revenue due to the grounding bad weather and other factors was north of 200 million in the first quarter. Still the airline managed to beat analyst expectations in spite of 10000 cancelled flights. But airline analysts like Helane Becker at Cowen say the Max grounding will act as a drag on the carrier through the lucrative summer months and not just southwest either.  We have said it is in the hundreds of millions of dollars possibly as high as a billion for the airlines in the Americas. But because it is a moving target we have not been able to quantify it specifically.  Southwest has left its 35 Boeing 737 Maxes off their base schedule through Labor Day although that is almost certain to be extended into the fall. Regulators at the FAA have indicated the Max could stay grounded through the end of the year. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas.  