 Do not expect corgis and decorum. That is the word on the new movie comedy The Favourite. There is palace intrigue and a British monarch an 18th-century one - Queen Anne played by Olivia Colman. Our critic Bob Mondello has this review.  To judge from The Favourite Queen Anne was not the easiest of employers to work for especially if you were a lowly footman.    Did you just look at me? Look at me. How dare you? Close your eyes.  When we meet the long-infantilized monarch played by Olivia Colman she is in near-constant pain from gout is regarded as flat-out crazy by the men in her court and distracts herself by playing with 17 rabbits. On matters of state she is a bit vague relying on her confidant Lady Sarah played by Rachel Weisz to keep her clued in.    We are at war.   We won.   Oh it is not over. We must continue.   Oh. Oh I did not know that.  Lady Sarah is the power player behind Anne's throne manipulating the queen to her own benefit and that of her husband and even to the benefit of a titleless cousin who arrives at the palace fresh from being shoved into a dung heap.    I apologize for my appearance. I hoped I might be employed here by you as something.   A monster for the children to play with perhaps.  Abigail played by Emma Stone manages to ingratiate herself first with Sarah who makes her the queen's chambermaid but is smart enough to want to keep her on a short leash...    Let us shoot something.    Sometimes it is hard to remember whether you have loaded the pellet or not.  ...Then with the queen who proves susceptible to flattery....    You are so beautiful.   Stop it. How you mock me.   If I were a man I would ravish you.  ...And then with members of the court who know the limits of the game she is playing.    Favor is a breeze that shifts direction all the time. Then in an instant you are back sleeping with a bunch of scabrous whores.  Director Yorgos Lanthimos the guy behind such cosmic weirdnesses as The Lobster and The Killing Of A Sacred Deer brings his trademark off-kilter style to his first period piece.    They were all staring were not they? I can tell even if I cannot see. And I heard the word fat - fat.   No one but me would dare and I did not.  He shoots from disorienting angles divides the film into chapters with titles like I Dreamt I Stabbed You In The Eye and throws in both a nude food fight and a minuet with clubby dance moves. He also gives his three leading ladies free reign to have at it and they do so with gusto Coleman especially finding the pathos in the queen's various infirmities her dependence on others and her emotional isolation.    None for the queen.   What?   Well you cannot have hot chocolate. Your stomach - the sugar inflames it. Abigail hand me that cup.   Do not.   I am sorry. I do not know what to do.   Oh fine give it to her. Then you can get a bucket and mop the aftermath.  The real Queen Anne reigned over England Scotland and Ireland in the early 1700s and it was during her reign that England and Scotland united to become Great Britain. You will not learn that from watching The Favourite. I got it from the Encyclopedia Britannica along with the fact that Restoration comedy was at its height right about then. That is what I was looking up because a Restoration comedy filtered through this director's eccentric modern sensibilities is what The Favourite most resembles - witty profane sexually explicit improper in the extreme a comedy of manners without any manners at all. I am Bob Mondello.  