 In many ways Sochi was a curious choice. It is known more for beaches and sun than for snow and ice. The city does not even have an ice rink. It has just one summer stadium and there are not nearly enough hotels or even roads to accommodate Olympic size crowds. Well to learn more about Sochi we called on Slava Shirokov. He is a travel agent who has already been making travel arrangements for those looking forward to attending those 2014 games. Thank you so much for being with us. Mr.  It is a pleasure to be here.  Now first of all let us think about the map of Russia. Where exactly is Sochi on that map and how do you get there? Mr.  Okay. It is on the south tip of Russia right in the footsteps of Caucasus Mountains.  Okay. Mr.  So if you imagine Russia being on the U.S. continent it will be somewhere around Southern California.  Mm-hmm. So when Russians think about Sochi do they think winter? Mr.  No no. They think about beaches cocktails swimming ocean sun palm trees. That is the typical perception of Sochi in Russia.  So it sounds like holding the Winter Olympics in Miami.  Mr.  Yes kind of. Actually Sochi is the southernmost point where Winter Olympics have ever been held.  So how did Sochi win over the Olympic Committee? Mr.  Well there are a lot of rumors about it. They say that Russian President Putin lobbied extensively. And since the collapse of the Soviet Union Russia has never had a chance to host the Olympics. So this is a big show for Russia a big opportunity for the country to say hello to the world.  So big opportunity also big challenges. What are they going to have to do to get ready for all those Olympic crowds? Mr.  They basically have to build all infrastructure from scratch roads airports hotels ice rinks stadiums. They estimated 14 billion a couple of years ago. Right now it looks more like 20 billion that they will have to spend on it.  So is the goal here not just to create this moment of pride for Mother Russia but also to create an international resort destination at the end of this? Mr.  Well that is the idea. That is the plan. They are hoping that after the Olympics Sochi will become Russia's Alps. The place does have a unique natural habitat and unique climate. It is warm and you drive for 30 minutes and you are in the mountains and you can snowboard. And then you go back to the beach and you can swim. That is quite unique about Sochi. Remember Russia is a huge country and has a lot of tourists. And these tourists these days travel to Turkey to Egypt to Alps. Russian government prefers to have something domestic where Russians can spend their money.  What is going to be the biggest challenge to ready the city? Mr.  I think hotels are going to be quite a challenge having enough hotel rooms. Right now Sochi has - claims to have 48000 rooms and they say that they will have 10 more thousand rooms ready in four years. Of course I will personally travel to Sochi this summer to see what kind of rooms these are because you know one thing is two-star rooms another thing is Olympic standard rooms.  How is business? How many people are actually making early arrangements for Sochi? Mr.  You would be shocked. Yesterday after the closing ceremony in Vancouver our phone lines our emails they were overloaded. People started planning Sochi already.  Really? And right now there is not quite enough hotels so I guess the construction crews better get busy over there. Mr.  Right now we do not even know what hotels will be working. We will know the hotel availability only later this year and early next year.  So are you actually able to make arrangements for people if you do not know where you can book their hotel? Mr.  Not at this point. At this point we only have waiting lists. As soon as we find out what hotels will be offering and as soon as we take a look at the actual rooms so we know what we are offering only then we will reach out to the clients who are on the waiting list and tell them what their options are.  A lot of trust. Mr.  Yeah.  Well thank you very much for coming in to talk to us. Mr.  My pleasure.  All the best to you. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Slava Shirokov. He is a travel agent and as he is been telling us he is already making travel arrangements for the 2014 Olympics in Sochi Russia. 