 The world champions of Little League baseball will be paraded around their hometown of Chula Vista California tonight. Last Sunday the Park View All-Stars beat Taiwan in the Little League World Series Championship game. Now the young all-stars have brought newfound fame and attention to their mostly Latino community near the U.S.-Mexico border. Ana Tintocalis of member station KPBS has their story.  Unidentified Woman  Move. Unidentified Woman  Move.  Life is just not the same in Chula Vista. Named one of the 10 most boring cities in America by Forbes magazine late last year the town has since come alive thanks to 12 Little League champs. Mr.  Well our motivation was definitely trying to put Chula Vista on the map and just bringing it home.  That is 13-year-old Luke Ramirez the team's 6'2 powerhouse hitter who all the girls love. Unidentified Woman  Yes everybody loves Luke. Unidentified Woman  He is hot. Unidentified Woman  He is pretty. He is hot.  Unidentified Woman  His eyes are so .  It seems everywhere the boys turn now people are screaming their names or wanting autographed baseballs. Unidentified Woman  What does that say? Unidentified Man   all their team names.  Players Jensen Petersen and Oscar Castro say they knew they were going to get some attention. Unidentified Man  . Unidentified Man  This  was like all over the place. Unidentified Man  A few months ago we were like no one really knew us that much. Unidentified Man  Yeah people just - only people in our district knew about this. Now like all over the state all over the city.  And all over the nation. The television audience for the Little League World Series was the largest ever. Mr.  Oh yeah that makes me feel proud. This is our home area. This is it. This is Chula Vista.  Stephen White is a science teacher at Rancho Del Rey Middle School where six of the boys attend classes. Mr.  You have got a lot of hard-working people. Those dual-income families are working hard. Everybody who lives here is just a good all-American person who does what they can to survive and they raise their kids as best they can.  Chula Vista is located near the border just south of San Diego. It is been hard hit by the foreclosure crisis with the highest rates in the county. The large majority of families here are second third or fourth generation Mexican-Americans. That is reflected in this Little League team with names like Kiko Garcia Oscar Castro and Isaiah Armenta. Ms.  I call him El Torito in Spanish because when he bats he moves his feet like a bull.  That is Isaiah's mom Martha Armenta. She says even die-hard Little League fans had no clue where Chula Vista was or what this team was all about. Armenta says even in the innocent world of Little League baseball there was some ugliness. Ms.  They had said that all they had to do was beat the little Mexicans. And I was insulted. You know we have a mixture. We do have a lot of Latinos but we have a Hawaiian child. You know we have an African-American child. You know we are the melting pot team.  And Armenta says it is the boys who are giving the city a new face with their intelligence and style. And the city's gone all out to celebrate their hometown heroes gathering at local bars to cheer on every World Series match  all-school assemblies with marching bands and balloons.    Last night the boys were on The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien.  Mr. CONAN O' Please welcome the Blue Bombers the Chula Vista Park View Little League All-Stars.   They have also hit up a San Diego Chargers' practice. Tonight a citywide parade. And next week they get a trip to Washington D.C. where they will meet President Barack Obama. For NPR News I am Ana Tintocalis in San Diego. 