 Well here's one positive anecdote about the Affordable Care Act. We are about to meet Lela Petersen who lives in rural Colorado. She is a small business owner. NPR interviewed her for a healthcare series back in 2009. NPR's Jeff Brady checked in again with Petersen and he learned that her expensive health insurance is about to become more affordable.  Lela Petersen owns a store out on the eastern plains of Colorado in the small town of Flagler population 600. The business is best described by its name.  It is the Anything and Everything Store.  In this big open metal building you can find a second-hand couch a new watch and Christmas decorations. Locals jokingly call it the Flagler Walmart. As business owners health insurance is a challenge. Petersen is 57 years old her husband is 60. They have some pre-existing conditions. He has diabetes and she has a back injury. The HMO policy they have carried since 1992 now costs 1950 a month.  When you pay 1950 for insurance you might as well forget retirement. There is just no way.  Petersen and her husband planned to retire early five years ago but she never imagined that health insurance would cost as much as the rest of her bills combined. At the beginning of October she checked out Colorado's insurance exchange set up under the Affordable Care Act and she was pleasantly surprised.  We have got on the exact same company we were with the exact same plan and for both of us we will pay 832.  Becoming part of a pool helped Petersen. The new law also forbids insurance companies from charging more for pre-existing conditions. That saved her a lot. And federal tax credits brought the cost down even further.  It is dropping us down by 1100 a month.  1100 a month. What does that mean to you? I mean how will that change your life?  Well we can retire. We can go fishing. We can actually see a future.  The Affordable Care Act could mean big changes for lots of people especially those who want to retire before they are eligible for Medicare. In 2012 the Employee Benefit Research Institute conducted a survey of workers. It found more than half planned to stay in their jobs longer than they wanted to so they could keep health insurance through their employer. Paul Fronstin directs the health research program at the Institute.  We will see how this plays out. It is going to be interesting to watch because we do not really know how it is going to play out at this point and how many people will choose to do something different and how fast that might happen.  Fronstin says that poll was taken in 2012 before a lot of people understood how the Affordable Care Act would affect them. And he says even now many are unsure.  There is a lot of lack of knowledge about the law because people cannot get on the website and find out what the premiums are for them.  Colorado is an exception. It is among the 14 states and District of Columbia that are running their own healthcare exchanges and websites. Patty Fontneau is CEO of Connect for Health Colorado.  Well we went up and opened the website on October 1 and it is really the technology has been up and operational since that point in time.  Back out in Flagler Lela Petersen says the website was confusing but she got the answers she needed over the telephone. Regarding the politics Petersen does not belong to a political party and she says she votes across the spectrum. But she lives in a solidly Republican area and out here her views on Obamacare are not widely shared.  And we have heard a lot about the healthcare and how awful it was and even my son is against it so we do argue about that.  Lela Petersen and her husband are signed up for their new much cheaper policy under the Affordable Care Act now and it will take effect on January first. Jeff Brady NPR News Flagler Colorado. 