 As Scott mentioned the RV industry is or was vital to the economy in northern Indiana. RV makers in Elkhart County cut nearly 7000 jobs last year. Rob Reid runs an RV dealership - the Great Lakes RV Center in Elkhart. Mr. Reid thanks for being with us.  Thank you very much.  And give us a sense of just how bad business is these days for you.  Well it is a struggle right now you know. We out here in Elkhart would like to feel that the glass is still half full. So we are still you know trying to keep a positive outlook on everything and just try to sell every RV that we can.  Well a good outlook never hurts.  That is right.  How much of you had to downsize yourself?  We have had to downsize significantly in the last three to four months. We had two retail dealerships in Elkhart Indiana. Now we are down to one Great Lakes RV Center. We have had to downsize sales staff and you know support staff as well as our service center. We have got a big service center here in town. And we have had to downsize down to just core people.  Hmm. So how many people have you had to lay off?  We have had to lay off probably about 15 people off the top of my head. Our front door traffic or the local people are not coming in right now. Number one it is the wintertime. Number two the economic conditions are not favorable for that. However we have seen good traffic on our e-commerce site and that is turning into sales. Our downside is is that those people that are still wanting to buy cannot get credit. President Obama spoke on that significantly in his speech here at the Concord High School in Elkhart.  Yeah he was talking about people who cannot get financing and new mechanisms that he is going to try to set up for that. What did you think of what he had to say today?  Well I think those mechanisms you know at face value seem very strong. I think that if he really has weight enough to get the banks to extend the credit once they have gotten the money rather than you know remodeling CEO offices and you know going on retreats I think it will be great. You know we are seeing people with 700-plus credit scores that are traditionally just good credit people not being able to get credit to buy a new RV and that has a huge impact on the RV industry as a whole. It is similar to automobile industry is that if the retail customer cannot get credit that does not you know provide a sell or a deal for RV dealer once that happens the manufacturer does not get a reorder from us or an order out and then they hurt. So it is kind of a catastrophic effect when that one retail customer cannot get funding.  Hmm. And it sounds like the reports of corporate excess are really sticking in your craw.  Yeah. Yes it is sure. You know and you sit there as just Joe Taxpayer - or one of the other interviewers I told him I am RV Rob instead of Joe the Plumber it is hard for us to fathom how people can get away with that kind of stuff and it is actually our taxpaying dollars and you know we get reports from the press how they spend that money it is kind of disheartening.  Mr. Reid as you drive around - or walk around - Elkhart what do you see that gives you a sense that this part of the country is in terrible shape right now?  Just the level of lines there are at the WorkForce One or the unemployment office - people standing out there for hours. And it is not warm here. It is cold. You know even - even in the short time that he was at Concord High School those are the people there that - they just want to work and earn an honest day's living and go back home.  Well Mr. Reid thanks for talking with us.  You bet. I appreciate the time.  Rob Reid runs the Great Lakes RV Center. That is a dealership in Elkhart Indiana. 