 And now it is time for our regular segment Words You will Hear. That is where we try to understand stories we will be hearing more about by parsing some of the words associated with those stories. Today we are going to talk a word that is been inspiring Aa lot of angst in the online community. The word is algorithm. It is something you started to learn in - I do not know fifth grade? But now you are hearing it a lot if you pay attention to Facebook Twitter and now Instagram. Algorithms are the key to what we see and do not see on our social media streams. Instagram which is owned by Facebook just announced that it will begin testing a new algorithm that will decide what content we see first instead of displaying posts in reverse chronological order. We wanted to find out more about how algorithms are put together and why social media companies use them so we called Kurt Wagner who is a tech journalist at Recode. And he is with us now. Kurt thanks much for joining us.  Yeah it is my pleasure. Thanks for having me.  So first for those of us who have not been in fifth grade for a while can you define what an algorithm is and then tell us what it does?  Well an algorithm in this sense is - it is kind of an equation that pulls in a lot of your personal tastes and preferences and then creates a you know personalized feed or stream for you the user.  So Instagram has been pretty successful. Why do this now?  You know it is a good question because they have more than 400 million users. They are the fastest-growing social app. So it is - it is a  it is an interesting move because why mess with something that seems to really be working? But I think the idea is that you know they said when they came out with the algorithm that people only see 30 percent of the things in their feed that they could see on Instagram. So you are actually missing 70 percent of the photos that your friends are sharing. And so this way if they are using an algorithm the idea is that you are no longer going to miss any of the good photos that you really want to see and therefore the app's going to be more useful to you.  I was going to ask that. What is the business rationale for this? How does this help the business? Is the argument that if you see - if they better anticipate what you really want to see you will use it more often? Is it something like that?  Oh yeah. So these companies all make the vast vast majority of their revenue through advertising. And not just advertising but very targeted advertising. So these ads are pretty valuable because they are so specific. And therefore it can go to an advertiser and say hey you know we can make sure that your ad gets seen by the exact demographic you want it to. And therefore you know the more often you are opening the app the more ads you are going to see and the more money the company can make.  You know interestingly - you know a lot of users have not in recent years been pleased when they are A reminded that the companies are kind of messing around in their personal information.  Right.  That is thing one. And you know when they change the way they receive information I was just wondering whether there has been any reaction to this. And is there way to opt out if you just - if you like things the way they are?  So yes people do not like when these companies tinker with the products that they use every day. I think there is something like 175000 - maybe more at this point - folks who have signed a petition on change.org to say hey you know Instagram cut this out. We want our reverse chronological feed the way it was. As of right now they are going to test this feature and then it should be turned on probably for everyone in a few weeks. But we do not really know if they are going to give you the option to opt out. Facebook for example does not give you that option. Twitter is kind of tinkering around whether or not they are going to give you an option to opt out. So I think it is too soon to say. But again this is something that they have been testing a long time. So I hope that they get it right because there is 400 million people who are going to be pretty angry otherwise.  That is tech journalist Kurt Wagner. We caught up with him in Denver. Kurt thanks so much for speaking with us.  Yes thank you for having me. 