 Today's events in Congress suggest that lawmakers are getting serious about tech giants. There are three hearings looking at how much power Amazon Apple Facebook and Google have. One company that has been pushing for this kind of oversight for years is Yelp. The review service has been saying that Google is trampling competitors and Yelp CEO Jeremy Stoppelman joins us now. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thanks for having me.  To start just briefly why do you believe that Google is a monopoly?  Oh well I think it is obvious that Google is a monopoly. You really cannot search the Web without turning to them. You know they have the dominant browser Chrome which a lot of people search through. Of course people go to Google directly. And then if you go on your iPhone you even end up on Google when you type into that search box in Safari.  And what does that mean for you Yelp a company that offers reviews of local businesses restaurants et cetera?  Well over the years Google has built out a similar property to Yelp which is in Google Maps these days. And they actually bias their Web search such that their property Google Maps shows up first. And it makes it really hard to find Yelp these days in search results.  But Google says that it is just giving users what they want which is results to the question without having to go to another page - Yelp - and ask the question again.  That is a great point. And I think you know if a consumer is typing in 2 plus 2 they should absolutely see the answer is 4. But when you are looking for a pediatrician and your child is sick you want the best results. You want to know where is there a trusted doctor? And Google might not be able to provide that. That is dependent on the content that they have collected versus the content that other sites like Yelp might have.  You were on Capitol Hill last week talking with lawmakers. Tell me about the kind of responses you got.  The mood in Washington is quite different from when we first started on this issue. You know I began down the path of talking to regulators back in 2011 and there does seem to be a lot more political on both sides to really scrutinize Google as well as other big tech firms.  What do you think has changed?  I think you know in the wake of 2016...  You mean the election interference.  Yeah. I mean I just think people realize that just a couple companies control a massive amount of human attention. And the decisions that they are making - the algorithm decisions - actually affect what people think and what they see. And I think that is troubling to both sides.  You have been focusing on Google but presumably anything Washington does would apply to the tech industry as a whole. Broadly speaking what do you think a more fair world would look like in this arena?  You know I think it is about creating a level playing field - making sure that if you are a monopoly you cannot block startups you cannot block innovative competitors and protect your monopoly. So in the case of Google you know it is actually come out in documents that they were fearful of Yelp in the local space. And so they actually degraded their search results knowingly to push their own product and make sure that that competitor you know stayed in its cage.  Tell me about what regulation that you would be comfortable with would look like. I mean what would the law actually do?  I mean in our specific vertical when you are searching for a pediatrician when a child is sick we just think you should get the best of what is on the Web. And so if Google does not have the best answer - which by the way it often does not in local - it should be willing to surface you know other resources with the same prominence it surfaces its own content.  That seems kind of subjective. I mean it is hard to imagine Congress writing that into a law.  I do not think so. I mean you know Google itself has supported things like net neutrality. And so we simply ask the question what about search neutrality?  When you started this fight you were kind of a lone wolf in Silicon Valley complaining about Google. Do you sense that other tech companies have started to join you in criticizing the big guys?  Well we have been the lone wolf when it comes to speaking out on this issue. There is no shortage of companies that have issues with Google and its behavior. It is just that Google is so powerful and so many companies are reliant on Google in various ways that they simply cannot speak out. Many of them come to me privately to talk about their issues.  Europe has been far ahead of the U.S. in this movement. I mean Europe has already fined Google for monopolistic behavior. Do you think the U.S. is likely to catch up with the Europeans?  I certainly hope so. Vestager in Europe the competition chief there has done a great job leading the way in identifying some of these issues far before U.S. regulators really took it seriously. And so that is great but Europe still has more work to do. And you know we are encouraged that U.S. regulators are finally paying attention.  Jeremy Stoppelman is the CEO of Yelp. Thank you very much.  Thank you.  And NPR also reached out to Google today. The company said they have no comment. 