 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. Today a House subcommittee tried to get to the bottom of the salmonella outbreak. The outbreak has been traced to products made by the Peanut Corporation of America or PCA. It has sickened at least 600 people perhaps thousands and it is linked to nine deaths. Food that contains PCA's products has largely been recalled at this point. The hearing was trying to get at why the outbreak happened. NPR's Joanne Silberner reports that answered some questions but not the biggest one.  What every representative on the subcommittee wanted to know was why did Peanut Corporation of America run a plant with obvious problems? And why did the company ship product that had tested positive for salmonella? They subpoenaed the head of the company Stewart Parnell. The chairman of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee Bart Stupak of Michigan started off. Representative  Mr. Parnell did you or any officials at the Peanut Corporation of America ever place food products into the interstate commerce that you knew to be contaminated with salmonella? Mr.  Mr. Chairman members of the committee on the advice of my counsel I respectfully decline to answer your question based on the protection afforded me under the United States Constitution.  Investigators from the Food and Drug Administration examined the records at the Blakely Georgia plant that is the source of the contamination. They found instances where initial testing showed the presence of salmonella in peanut products and the company knowingly shipped those products. And investigators for the House subcommittee found supporting emails as well. Congressman Stupak asked Parnell if he had listened to the previous panel at the hearing where people testified about how their families had been seriously affected by the outbreak. Again Parnell would not answer. Rep.  I just asked you if you heard the other panel. Mr.  Mr. Chairman and members of the committee on the advice of my counsel I respectfully decline to answer your question based on the protection afforded me under the United States Constitution.  And Stupak asked him if Parnell considers food poisoning the cost of doing business for Peanut Corporation of America. Again Parnell declined to answer. Parnell's refusals followed emotional testimony from the son of a Korean War vet whose dad died a police officer from Oregon whose three-year-old son got sick and Jeffrey Almer of Minnesota whose mother Shirley died four days before Christmas after suffering serious cramping and diarrhea from salmonella. Mr.  Shirley Almer had a lot of sisu which in her Finnish heritage describes a person with spunk fortitude and determination.  She had been successfully treated for lung cancer in 2007 for a brain tumor in 2008. She was recovering from a urinary tract infection at a rehab center when she ate some peanut butter. Mr.  Cancer could not claim her but peanut butter did.  The meeting gave many committee members a sense of deja vu including Republican Greg Walden of Oregon. Representative  At this time we want to highlight the need for enhanced authorities in several areas. Number one authority for FDA to issue preventive controls for high-risk foods.  And he says the agency would like authority to get to food records easily without going to court or threatening the food manufacturer or in the case of the current outbreak using food safety provisions meant to apply to bioterrorism investigations. As Democratic Congressman Nathan Deal of Georgia said the fate of the peanut butter and jelly sandwich is in the balance. Joanne Silberner NPR News Washington. 