 Singer Nancy Wilson has died at her home in Pioneertown Calif. after a long illness. The Grammy Award winner was 81. Public radio listeners may know Wilson as the host of the NPR series Jazz Profiles. Elizabeth Blair has this appreciation.  Ebony magazine once said Nancy Wilson was a singer whose head heart and soul always seemed totally enmeshed in her songs.    You are so late getting home from the office. Did you miss your train? Were you caught in the rain? No do not bother to explain.  Smooth elegant with a wink - in the 1960s Nancy Wilson was in a league with Frank Sinatra and Nat King Cole at times even outselling them. She was beautiful and stylish appearing on the covers of Ebony and Jet. Focused on her career from a young age she once said she intentionally set out to make a hit when she recorded the song You Do not Know How Glad I Am.    I wish I were a poet so I could express what I would what I would like to say.  The song went to No. 2 on the pop charts. Nancy Wilson was born in Chillicothe Ohio. Her father was an iron foundry worker. Her mother was a domestic worker. Wilson grew up singing. Her grandmother had an organ that her aunts would play. She sang in church and devoured her father's record collection. That is how she first heard the high-pitched voice of singer Little Jimmy Scott. In an episode of Jazz Profiles devoted to Scott Wilson talked about listening to his records over and over again.   It was as if he was singing just for me.    Can you get back in?  That is Little Jimmy Scott singing. She once said there would be no Nancy Wilson if it were not for Little Jimmy Scott. Wilson recorded some 70 albums. She was named a jazz master by the National Endowment for the Arts. But she would not be pigeonholed.    The best is yet to come and babe will not it be fine? You think you have seen the sun but you as not seen it shine.  Her career went beyond music. She hosted her own variety show on NBC and appeared as a guest on many others. She was an NAACP Image Award winner and active in the civil rights movement including the 1965 march on Selma Ala. Nancy Wilson looked for songs that told stories. On NPR's Piano Jazz she told host Marian McPartland she tried to tell those stories from the heart.   I really love a good lyric. I like songs that have a story. I want a beginning a middle and an end. I think I try to close my eyes and then I become wherever that song is. And that is what is so special about them.  Nancy Wilson did not want a funeral according to a family statement. A celebration of her life is being planned. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  