 Well joining us to talk about politics now columnists E.J. Dionne of the Washington Post and the Brookings Institution and David Brooks of the New York Times. Good to see you both. E.J.  Good to see you.  Good to see you.  And as we just heard President Obama has been trying this week to focus on economic policy. He hit the road to promote an agenda for strengthening the middle class. Speaker John Boehner promptly dismissed the president's Galesburg Illinois speech as an Easter egg with no candy in it. E.J. you have written about President Obama's week as a bid for history and one that could prove influential for many years. Does not he first have to be influential and successful in a few months?  Well he has to avoid catastrophe in the next few months and I think that is part of the purpose of the speech. And indeed for all the criticisms of the speech it struck me that in recent days you have had a lot of Republicans begin to back away from the idea of shutting down the government of going to the edge on the debt ceiling. Not only people like John McCain but also people - real conservatives like Senator Richard Burr or Congressman Tom Cole. So I think on the short term it may do some good but this is about the long term. I mean why do we think of progressives especially think of Franklin Roosevelt as a great president? Why do conservatives think of Ronald Reagan as a great president? Well these are people who changed the terms of the national debate and had their ideas dominate for a long time after they left office. And this speech I think was very important because he was making the case for middle-out economics basically a broad middle class spread the wealth around to use that famous line as opposed to trickle-down economics. Growing inequality he said is not just morally wrong it is bad economics. So I think it was important that he begin in the final years of his presidency to change some of our assumptions.  David do you hear some kind of big core idea there in the president's words?  No. You know who is ever been for trickle-down economics by the way? You know what I liked about the speech was that we are out of the stupid cyclical debate we had which was whether we should have more stimulus or less or austerity. That was never going anywhere. We are back to the real debate. And I congratulate him for that for getting us into the structural issues. We have these gigantic structural issues - technological change globalization widening inequality males just fleeing the labor force. And so these are big gigantic problems. My problem with the speech is that first the solutions he has are way too small for the problems. The solutions are fine more infrastructure spending more education reform that is fine. But it is not commensurate with the size of the problem and there is no overarching theory about what we should do about it. I do not really blame the president because the academics and the experts do not have an overarching theory about what we should do about this confluence of problems either. But I would have liked to have seen a bigger approach some coherent approach about how we deal with what really are the core problems of the age.  I just disagree on two counts although I appreciate some of what David said. One is that there is not an overarching theory here. I think there is an overarching theory here which says there is a legitimate role for government in making a lot of investments that can actually help us grow. Government is not just a drag on the economic system. And also by making some changes in the labor market like the minimum wage. Second I think the real test is going to come in the next eight weeks. The White House promises and I hope they keep the promise that it is going to be an eight-week campaign. He is going to lay out a series of ideas in more detail in future speeches some old and some new. And I think it is going to be interesting to see what the new things are.  David?  Yeah well I would just say the problems we have are a confluence of social issues and economic issues. The social issues are collapsing marriage people born out of wedlock disintegrating social capital. And to really speak intelligently about this you cannot just talk about economics. You have to talk about social structures. And what he did the minimum wage that is fine. As I say infrastructure fine but he is not really getting at what are the core things that really define the moment.  Well he criticized the notion of the inevitability of inequality. Is he going after a conservative Republican idea there?  Well I think he is absolutely right about that. We have widening social inequality. We have widening income inequality and Republicans have been very slow to pick up on this and offer their own solutions by the way. Actually Rick Santorum is one of the guys - some of the social conservatives are a little better on it because they do understand the confluence of single parenthood and limited economic opportunity. But you have to speak about it in these complex social ways and I just do not think he got there.  In the interests of authentic as opposed to fake bipartisanship I would make the point that I do think that if you care about inequality you have to care about family and social structure. But if you care about family and social structure you have to care about inequality because our inequalities are part of what is harming American families.  One other topic. The House of Representatives voted this week against limiting the gathering of phone data by the National Security Agency. The vote was and you can take your pick now either a near-win for what Idaho Tea Party Congressman Raul Labrador called the wingnut coalition right-wing Republicans and left-wing Democrats or an actual win for pro-security pro-establishment Republicans and Democrats. What happened this week and what do you guys make of it? David?  I would say it is a moral victory for the wingnuts. And you know you look at the moment. What are we faced with? We are faced with a rising libertarianism both on the left and the right. That is the movement that is really rising in power. We saw it in a bipartisan way in the Congress today.  Chris Christie says it is dangerous rising libertarianism.  I agree with that but it is there.  I do not view it that way. I actually thought this was kind of a wonderful thing. Justin Amash 33-year-old libertarian John Conyers 84-year-old liberal say wait a minute we have some questions to ask about the NSA. And the vote was as bipartisan as you will ever find 94 Republicans and 111 Democrats for it. I do not think this is a vote to make us less secure. I think people have a lot of legitimate questions about the national security state. Great piece in David's paper about this FISA court all the appointees being Republican. Let us open this debate. This was a vote to keep it open.  Well I think we do have the debate but we do have a situation where according to most of the people who actually know what they are talking about these programs have saved lives.  David Brooks and E.J. Dionne thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 