 It is been nearly a year since Mayor Karen Weaver declared a state of emergency in the city of Flint. Before she became mayor the city switched its water supply to the Flint River in a cost-cutting measure. The water was not properly treated which caused corrosion in old pipes leaching lead and other toxins into the city's tap water. People were afraid to drink or even bathe in the water. Since then a lot has happened. Charges were brought against two Michigan state officials and one Flint city employee for their roles in the water crisis. And researchers now say that while the tap water is better than it was people should still use filters on their faucets. The city has replaced hundreds of contaminated lead pipes but that is not to say the problem is solved. Mayor Weaver joins me on the phone to talk about the obstacles to fixing this water crisis once and for all. Thanks for coming back.  Thank you. I am glad to be back.  When we spoke in January you said that getting filters was just a Band-Aid and the lead pipes were the issue. And now although hundreds of pipes have been replaced experts say as many as 29000 homes have water lines that need to be replaced. How long will that take?  That is exactly right. Well you know the answer to that depends on the money. And it is how quickly and how much money we can get to address this issue. Right now we have had let us say in total 27 million. And it will get us about 5000 new lines that have been replaced. Our goal has been to get about a thousand done before the end of the year and we are close to having about 600 of them done right now.  And in the meantime are people just using filters on their faucets or are they still using bottled water to...  Both.  ...Cook and bathe and everything?  Both - we have to use both. People have to use the filters and we have to use bottled water. And that is the issue. And you know the filters only work in the kitchen. They are not in the bathrooms. So that is why this is still you know a crisis in the city of Flint.  When we talked almost a year ago you were very new to the job. You were feeling very optimistic saying we are going to fix this problem. Over the course of the year how has that changed?  Well I am still optimistic. I am still optimistic. Am I happy? I am happy for some of the progress we have made. But we know we deserve to have more money. And I am hoping that there is going to be a vote in the next week or so saying that Flint is going to get some more money for infrastructure because Flint still deserves that.  When you talk about a vote on infrastructure funding for Flint you are talking about a vote in Congress where the lawmakers are going to allocate this money.  Correct.  When I visited Flint people talked a lot about broken infrastructure and also about broken trust. So you have described what it is going to take to rebuild the infrastructure. What is it going to take to rebuild the trust?  You know that is a tough one. And building trust is harder than rebuilding infrastructure. And one of the things that we are doing is - I have been very adamant about letting people know what is going on every step of the way letting them know if it is good news or bad news. But the other thing we have had to put in place is as we are doing the water testing we have a number of experts doing this water testing hoping that their results corroborate each other's result so people can say OK four of them got these same results we can move on. You know we believe that.  Now the last time we talked back in January you said you were really excited for the potential that Flint had and that you were looking forward to coming back on this program and taking a victory lap.   And I said when is that going to be? And you said you did not know.  I do not know. But we do - we have got great potential. And even in this crisis one of the things we have been able to do is hire our own people. And that is been great as far as you know with the water distribution and...  You mean putting people to work fixing the problem in their own city.  Putting people to work in their own city. You have got it. And that is been something really really good. We have had some conversations with some businesses that are looking to move to Flint. That will be another victory for us because people will see that Flint is worth the investment. So we are putting some things in place to let people know that we are not going down. We are going to rise up and it is going to take a while because all of the things - it was almost like the perfect storm of what happened to Flint in some of these other instances. And so it is been an opportunity for us to really be able to say let us look at some things we can do. How can we move Flint forward? So that is what we are doing.  Well Karen Weaver we have not forgotten about you. We will keep checking back in and hopefully you will take that victory lap sometime soon.  I am going to. I am going to. And I want to have the interview with you when I do.   Mayor Karen Weaver of Flint Mich. thank you so much.  OK thank you.  And here's the status of that congressional vote Karen Weaver referred to. The House of Representatives passed two bills earlier today directing 170 million in aid for Flint. The bills will now move on to the Senate. 