 If the president was hoping his message would win over House Republicans it did not. At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue while Senate Democrats staged a series of speeches to build support for Obama's positions House Speaker John Boehner dug in his heels. NPR's Tamara Keith joins me now from the Capitol. And Tamara it did not take long for Speaker Boehner to come before reporters with his rebuttal to the president today.  Yes. And again he called on the president to negotiate. He laid out the case that negotiations have happened in the past on debt ceiling increases and government spending bills like are being debated now. REP.  The long and short of it is there is going be a negotiation here. We cannot raise the debt ceiling without doing something about what is driving us to borrow more money and to live beyond our means.  So if the president's message was we will negotiate but only after you reopen the government and take the risk of default off the table then Boehner's message at his press conference today was that is not my idea of negotiating.  What the president said today was if there is unconditional surrender by Republicans he will sit down and talk to us. That is not the way our government works.  Well tonight the House passed a bill that would create a working group to discuss the country's fiscal troubles. Tamara how would that work and is it getting traction?  It is not gaining a lot of traction outside of the House and it passed largely with Republican support alone. For a lot of people this brings back bad memories of that failed supercommittee from two years ago. But this not-so-super committee is actually even more toothless. It does not have a deadline. It does not really have much of a mandate. The only thing they are required to do is meet daily to discuss the government's fiscal problems including increasing the debt limit cutting spending on programs like entitlements and cutting government spending more broadly. It does not do anything about revenues which is why Democrats are not particularly excited about it. And the White House has already issued a veto threat saying this working group would do nothing to solve the immediate pressing obligations the Congress has to open the government and pay its bills.  All right. Well let us talk about over the Senate side when Majority Leader Harry Reid has called all senators to the floor he did that this afternoon. What is he up to?  I think he was trying to get attention though he did it at the precise time that the president was having its press conference. So he did not get as much attention as maybe he would have liked. He took the opportunity to announce the introduction of a bill today to suspend the debt limit to avoid default. And it would suspend the debt limit all the way through the end of 2014 getting past the midterm elections. Here was Reid explaining why this needs to happen. SEN.  We may have our differences Democrats and Republicans but we should not hold the full faith and credit of this great country hostage while we resolve it.  So Tamara at the end of the day a lot of talking does anybody see a way out of this impasse?  The only thing that I will say for right now is that for a long time it felt like Groundhog Day here on the Capitol but everything was just sort of the same again and again and again. Today felt a little different. Like they were - they felt a greater sense of urgency.  OK. NPR's Tamara Keith at the Capitol. Tamara thanks.  You are welcome. 