 The pandemic continues to worsen in some parts of the world. China is not one of them. It is largely been able to keep the virus at bay. But China is being criticized for a lack of transparency about the disease and its failure to cooperate with international partners seeking a better understanding of the virus's origins. Here with more on this is NPR China affairs correspondent John Ruwitch. And John let us just start with the president. President Biden's seeking a redoubled effort using intelligence agencies to understand the origins of COVID-19. Based on what we have seen in the past few months what can they expect by way of cooperation from China?  Very little Audie. During normal times there is not a whole lot of cooperation between China and the U.S. on intelligence matters. Now there is just not much cooperation between the two on anything. But beyond that you know President Biden's given the intelligence agencies three months. With or without Chinese help that is a tight deadline. And some think there are legitimate questions about whether or not there is even a satisfactory answer to be found by intel agencies out there. I talked to James Green. He is a former U.S. official with a couple of decades of experience dealing with China and here's what he said.  This 90 days probably will not do much. But as I said I think it is because the information is not knowable in an intelligence-gathering sort of way.  Yeah. So in other words maybe nobody not even China or other targets of intelligence gathering has answers.  Relations between the U.S. and China are of course at its worst - right? - in decades. I mean how is that affecting the ability of investigators to get to the truth on this?  Yeah it is probably making things much more complicated. You know some experts think that at the beginning of the pandemic there was probably a window of opportunity for early cooperation. But in early spring of 2020 a year ago you know former President Trump turned from praising China and how it handled the pandemic or the virus at that time to blaming it calling it the China virus the Wuhan virus. That angered Beijing. And so far you know the Biden administration has changed tone on China but the tough-on-China policies of the Trump era mostly remain in place. And in some areas the Biden team is extending them. You know just today the Customs and Border Protection Agency accused a Chinese fishing company of forced labor and is blocking imports.  What part has China played in pushing alternative narratives when it comes to the origins of the virus?  China's pushed back quite consistently against the idea that the virus escaped from a lab by some accident. It even says there is no proof that it came from China to begin with. Of course the first cases were in China. That is where it seems to have started. But it is pushed theories that - you know one is that U.S. soldier athletes who were in Wuhan in the fall of 2019 for a competition may have brought the virus in or that it came in on frozen food imports. And they say that it is - you know it is now time to start to look outside of China for clues about the origins of this pandemic right? Yanzhong Huang who is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations says as far as Beijing is concerned the story of the pandemic is an open and shut book. You know China under the Chinese Communist Party has defeated the virus.  The political stakes for China become  so high and it was impossible for them to backtrack from its official narrative now.  And can we look to any history for I guess a sense of what could happen next?  Well the closest example for something like this having happened was SARS in 2003. I mean there was a similar initial cover-up in China initial information blackout. But then the government took it in a very different direction. They had a very different response. The leadership came clean. They accommodated to external pressure to a certain extent. And it worked domestically and on the international stage for them. I mean it is safe to say the political landscape at home and abroad for China is just very different now so where it goes is unclear.  That is NPR's China affairs correspondent John Ruwitch. Thank you.  Have a great weekend. 