 Now as NPR's Joel Rose reports the board has voted to award the degree after all.  Let us face it. Most honorary degrees come and go without a fuss. And for a while it seems like Tony Kushner's degree from the City University of New York's John Jay College of Criminal Justice would be one of those. Then at a routine board meeting last week one of the university's trustees got up to speak.  There is a lot of disingenuous and nonintellectual activity directed against the state of Israel on campuses throughout the country.  Board member Jeffrey Wiesenfeld went on to read several quotes from interviews and writings that he attributed to Tony Kushner.   I have never been a Zionist. I have a problem with the idea of a Jewish state. It would be better if it never had happened.  Even Wiesenfeld seemed a little surprised by what happened next. There was no discussion about Tony Kushner's politics no debate at all really just a vote. And the university board decided to approve all 20 of the honorary degrees except for Kushner's.  Unidentified Man Are there any opposition? Any abstentions? That carries.  Everyone said very quietly let him smear me and attempt to damage my reputation this represents my politics which I think is really kind of appalling on any number of levels.  Tony Kushner is mostly known for his play Angels in America and his screenplay Munich. He is also edited a book of essays on the Israeli- Palestinian conflict. Kushner has been critical of Israel particularly that country's treatment of Palestinians but he says the quotes Wiesenfeld read at the board meeting were taken out of context to distort his views.  No one with any responsibility should call me an extremist on issues relating to the state of Israel.  Ellen Schrecker teaches history at Yeshiva University in New York.  It sends a message to the academic community and to the broader community that some ideas are too dangerous to be discussed or appear on campus. And that is such a violation of academic freedom that I really felt compelled to act.  Morton Klein is president of the Zionist Organization of America.  To give a degree to somebody who is had this type of incredible enmity toward Israel is validating that enmity. This is not a time to validate this type of hatred that Tony Kushner reveals.  In 2006 Klein's group tried to prevent Brandeis University from giving Kushner an honorary degree without success. Kushner says he might wind up accepting a degree from the City University too under the right circumstances.  I am not accepting it with footnotes. If that is where we are headed then I think I will not be interested.  Joel Rose NPR News New York. 