 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. The Gossip Girl TV show on the CW Network is known for pushing envelopes. The show which is based on the popular books of the same name follows the lives really mainly the love lives of rich kids in Manhattan's Upper East Side. Well this week they not only pushed the boundaries of good taste they also pushed a lot of parents' hot buttons with a much-hyped episode that featured a menage-a-trois. Well it is no surprise that the plotline has drawn protests but some parents are taking a much more nuanced approach. Instead of banning the program they are using it a teachable moment or a barometer of their kids' attitudes. Liz Perle falls into that camp. She is the co-founder of Common Sense Media. The group's stated mission is to look for sanity and not censorship. And Liz Perle joins me now. Welcome to the program. Ms.  It is a delight to be here.  Now I understand that you have a 19-year-old daughter and a 16-year-old son and that you tried to steer your son away from last night's controversial episode. Ms.  I sure did actually. It is many conversations that I would like to have with my son and I use Gossip Girl actually to get to some of the ones he will not talk about on his own. But frankly I said there is a Warriors game on and then you can do your homework 'ecause one conversation I was not ready to have with him was about a menage-a-trois.  For the listeners who did not watch the show last night a little bit more about this. The young people on Gossip Girl were focused on a list of the things to do in college before you graduate and a threesome is the last item on that list. And here's where they admit whether or not they have had one. Let us take a quick listen.  Ms.   Have you ever Mr.   Have I - no no no never. No never. Have you? Ms.   But it was in the movies. That does not really count. Ms.   Not me. No.  Okay. One of them said it was in the movies because she is an actress. And there is a lot of what you do not see there - batting of eyelashes and coquettish tilting of the heads. And they eventually do what they were talking about doing. Is this the kind of thing that makes you squirm? Ms.  As a mother and as a professional parent at Common Sense Media it certainly gets my attention yes because they are positioning this as an absolutely normal must-do kind of thing. And they are positioning it to my kid who is actually starting to think about college. So those two things get twinned in his mind and then I am going to have to pull the strands apart.  So what is the dilemma there? How do you handle something like this if this is as you say a teachable moment? Ms.  Well you know one of the things that we try and do at Common Sense is teach our kids to see because we cannot cover their eyes. And there are right times and right places for right introductions of right conversations. I am not sure this was one I was ready to have. But we did talk about it in the car this morning. And I said so you missed a good episode last night. And he said well I actually heard about it on Facebook from somebody.  Does the network here the CW Network have parents in a bit of a trap? The more that parents protest the more it can just drive up the ratings? Ms.  You know it is - one of the things I did talk about with my son this morning was this was a pretty desperate attempt just to get ratings and we used it as a moment to sort of talk about how the industry works which is look at how hard they have to scream at you to get you to tune in.  Did your son know what a menage-a-trois was before this episode? Pardon me if I ask? Ms.  You know he did and I have no idea how. It was one of those okay then so how do you know that kind of conversation? And it was oh mom. So I mean these kids are growing up in such a sexualized environment that it is almost imperative for parents to get to their world and get into it and talk about it and see what sense they are making out of it all.  Thank you Ms. Perle. Ms.  You are welcome.  That was Liz Perle. She is the co-founder of Common Sense Media. 