 We are going to take a look now at what the latest scientific research says about this hurricane Florence and how climate change is affecting hurricanes in general. We are joined in our studio by NPR science correspondent Christopher Joyce. Hey there Chris.  Hi Audie.  So what do we know about whether climate change is having an impact on Hurricane Florence?  Well we notice to start with that the Atlantic and the atmosphere are just different. They are different now than they used to be. Sea surface temperatures are higher than they used to be and ocean heat is what after all fuels hurricane intensity and size. Number two the atmosphere is warmer than it used to be so a warm atmosphere can hold more moisture than a cooler one. Yeah we know that. So this week what researchers did was use a computer model to recreate an Atlantic Ocean that used to be before climate change. And then in the computer they recreate Florence and then grow it so to speak in the cooler Atlantic and then compare that to the Florence that we are getting this week. What they found was well Florence is more intense than it would have been otherwise - a little bit. But the big thing is it is a lot wetter than it would have been in a cooler climate 50 percent wetter. And it covers more area. It is bigger. I need to add a caveat. This is early research. It is not been through peer review. The authors say look we need to firm this up. But it is interesting because it is very similar to what scientists said about Harvey last year in Texas. The high temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico and the water off of the Gulf of Mexico and the atmosphere made it bigger and wetter.  But does this mean that hurricanes will continue to be bigger and wetter?  That is what climate scientists have been predicting and they are starting to see that - I mean everything from not just bigger and wetter but sea levels are higher. So Sandy pushed water farther inland in 2012 because sea level was higher. And now there is other research that shows that since the late '40s hurricanes - big ones anyway - seem to be slowing down and hovering more often. And we heard that about Harvey and we are hearing that about Florence - that it is slowing down. That means dumping more rain in one place.  For people who live in hurricane-prone parts of the country namely the southeastern coast along the Atlantic what can they expect as a result?  Well it means more flooding. But it is also not just floods along the coastline. It is inland. And I looked at some data from Munich Re which is a big reinsurance company. And it shows that in the Carolinas at least once you leave the coast fewer than 1 percent of property owners have federal flood insurance.  And I guess the question has to be asked then about financial losses right? What does it mean going forward?  Well it means that people are going to need to have flood insurance and then really going to need to know what the future's going to hold. And that is a problem because as we heard earlier people are not really talking about what is going to happen in the future. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has a flood insurance program and they tell you if you live in a flood zone and if you need to buy flood insurance. But they do not calculate what is going to happen in the future with sea level rise and warming and bigger storms and wetter storms. They look backwards to calculate those flood maps. They are aware of it but they just do not do that. And states do not really do it either.  So you may have property that looks OK now but 10 20 30 years from now...  Well people really do not know. In some areas there may not be that much of a difference. In some areas there may be a big difference. But you know like they say past performance is no guarantee of future results.  That is NPR's Chris Joyce. Chris thank you.  You are welcome.  