 We know you know that this year's Christmas will not be the same. Even at NPR we have canceled the gift exchange and the lunch from Chinatown for safety reasons. So whether you are skipping your neighbor's Christmas open house or you are not flying across the country to be with family there is a good chance your festivities this year have also taken on a new shape. Well we asked listeners to share their stories of rethinking celebrations to help us bring light to a dark year. So heat up a hot chocolate or spike your eggnog as we take a listen.   My name is Juan Cardosa-Oquendo . I live in Houston Texas. And I am 30 years old. My parents are from Puerto Rico. And in Puerto Rico and in some parts of the Caribbean we do parrandas which is our version of carolling where you get together with friends and family at midnight and then you just go house to house unannounced. And you sing at people's doors. And you ask them to let you in. And then they have to feed you. You know people are just being silly and singing and drinking and eating. And everybody whose house you go into you invite them to go along with you. And the goal is to make it till sunrise.  .  So I have a Puerto Rican Christmas music playlist. And these past few weeks I - my boyfriend and I have been driving around doing errands. We have been singing our favorite songs from the playlist and just transporting ourselves to a parranda in Puerto Rico.  .  My name is Brandi Welvert . And I live in Rock Island Ill. And I am 41. Every year my best friends and I host a girls night gift exchange. We play a fun game where we swap gifts and we steal gifts. And it gets kind of rowdy. And we have drinks. And we have food. And it is just a really fun way to kind of unwind during the holidays. And we have done that for 13 years. And since we cannot really pile you know 40 people in my friend's living room we are coming up with an online edition. We are calling it our 14th Annual Girls Night Gift Exchange COVID Edition. So it is kind of cool because some of the people who moved away and have not been able to attend are actually going to participate this year. And they are like shipping gifts to us. And we will have to quick turn around and ship gifts back to them. So it will be kind of a fun way to get them back in.  I am Kenneth Kaparud . I am 38 years old. And I was born and raised in Nebraska. And I live currently in Omaha Neb. Some of the best things about the holidays - a friend from college and I always participate in the annual TubaChristmas concert. There is a band of about oh 40 to 50 people. In Omaha at least it is a free concert at the Joslyn Art Museum. And it is something that I have been doing since 2016 which was - unfortunately it is when my father passed away. And before that I did not have a tuba to play but I was - my mom gave me his tuba. And I was able to then join my friend and kind of do it in honor of my dad and our friendship. We have been friends for about 20 years. . So our plan is to have a tuba Christmas but do it in sort of a caroling format where we somehow strap our tubas onto ourselves you know dress up in full regalia and put Christmas lights on our tuba and kind of deck them out. And then we are going to go door to door in our neighborhood and tuba carol at a safe social distance from the people in the house and from each other. .  My name is Tacy Quinn . And I live in Burnsville N.J. And I am 42. In a normal year when we travel to see my side of the family and my mom we are Norwegian on that side and so what we like to do is make something called kringle which definitely at Christmas time we love to get together and make this treat that just reminds us particularly of my grandmother. This year we cannot travel. We are not going to. So what I decided is we should embrace this idea of friluftsliv which is this Norwegian ethos of getting outside no matter the weather. And it can be a new way that we are honoring our family. And maybe they can be outside where they are too under the same sky having winter adventures. I think going forward we are going to embrace friluftsliv and continue to challenge ourselves to get out at least once a week. But already I am noticing the difference with our ability to be grateful for each day be grateful for the fresh air. We have done really simple things like taking a hike. We have also done things that are a little more special. We did a family trail ride on horseback and it turned out to be probably the most relaxing thing ever. These horses they are just gentle giants.  My name is Martha Cecili-Ovidia . I am 35 years old. And I live in Miami. I have not hugged my mom since March because my husband's a nurse. So I bought one of those inflatable costumes - it is a dancing hippo - to surprise her on Christmas Day that she can hug me with that costume on. So that'll be our first hug in about a year. We are Colombian. And I do not know where the tradition comes from but I would say 10 minutes before the clock strikes 12 we pack bags and at the stroke of midnight give kisses and hugs. And then we run around the block yelling screaming singing with our luggage - like 40 of us 40 Colombians - to celebrate the new year but also to make sure that there will be travel and new experiences in the new year. I am pretty sure the kisses and the hugs part at midnight will not be happening this year. It will be more of waves and fist pumps. But this year in particular I have realized that the tradition of running around the block with our luggage has actually nothing to do with travel but has to do with time together. And so I think this year it is rooted in this place of the promise of this getting better.  That was Martha Cecili-Ovidia Tacy Quinn Kenneth Kaparud Brandi Welvert and Juan Cardosa-Oquendo. We asked them if this year's traditions will change anything about Christmases of the future.  It is important to observe our traditions in ways we can find ways to connect.  My boyfriend and I - this December is like we have been a year together so it is all like a long line of tradition that I can continue with him.  Maybe we can start a new tradition of doing tuba caroling. And maybe I can convince my family when the kids get a little older.  Going forward I know we are going to be much more intentional about making that family time.  This silly tradition is actually a place where I am rooting my hope. It means something. I think I will always think of it differently.   This piece was produced by Jonaki Mehta. Thanks to everyone who shared their stories and to so many others who told us about their holiday traditions. However you are spending Christmas we hope you stay safe and healthy and that the promise of a new year brings you hope. 