_x000D_

From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.



And I am Melissa Block.

This year a familiar exciting voice will be missing from broadcasts of the Kentucky Derby and the other Triple Crown races the Preakness and Belmont Stakes. Tom Durkin who has called the races on network television for the last decade has decided not to renew his contract with NBC Sports. The reason? Stress and performance anxiety.

We are going to talk with Mr. Durkin about that decision in a moment. First let us listen to him calling the final stretch of the Derby in 2004.

Mr.  And Smarty Jones rose to the lead by journeyman jockey Stuart Elliot and they have taken the lead away from Lionheart. Farther back is  and here is the first undefeated winner of the Kentucky Derby since Seattle Slew in 1977. Smarty Jones has done it.

 That is Tom Durkin broadcasting for NBC sports in 2004. Mr. Durkin how did you come to this decision to stop doing the broadcast?

Mr.  Well just a general - you know for three months a year I would be walking around with this pit in my stomach and almost a sword of Damocles over my head. You wake up worrying and you go to bed worrying and you are just on edge. And you know the stress leads to bad health.

And I am 60 now and I just thought you know let us - let us just get rid of the stress. I mean I tried everything I could to treat it with hypnosis which I have been doing for 20 years.

 We have some tape from the Kentucky Derby in 2009 when a horse came out of nowhere to win Mine That Bird 50-to-one shot that year. I want to listen to you calling the end of that race.

Mr.   is coming hard down the  track and 's right there too. Now through the inside coming on through that is Mine That Bird now is coming down to take the lead as they come down for the finish and a spectacular spectacular upset. Mine That Bird has won the Kentucky Derby an impossible result here.

 You can hear the amazement in your voice there but I am wondering if that would be the kind of thing that would just give you nightmares - the idea that a horse could come out of nowhere you cannot remember who it is who the jockey is and you are missing a call.

Mr.  Well yeah that was - you know that was - of all the Derby calls I think that is the one I wish I could have gotten back.

 Well everyone was surprised by that one. But I am guess I am curious if sort of broadly that would be the nightmare scenario for you that would just wake you in the middle of the night the night before a race.

Mr.  Oh I have - oh God I have crazy nightmares. And most of the time I just cannot get to the announcer's booth or someone has spray painted my binoculars and I cannot see through or the lenses has fallen out of my binoculars or the horses starting running on the ground.

One time I was - in my subconscious mind I was calling the Kentucky Derby and a Norwegian cruise liner came down the stretch.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  And I could not see the horses. Like oh my God. Those are big ships too. Cannot see many horses behind them.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 Wow that is amazing. It is interesting that you are still going to be announcing at the track at Belmont and at Aqueduct in Saratoga. Is that a whole different thing for you being the track announcer as opposed to being the race caller for the TV broadcasts?

Mr.  It is like being a baseball player and you play 164 games a year. The Derby is like being at bat and you are down one run the man's on second the count's three and two it is the seventh game of the World Series. It is that kind of intensity that kind of stays with you for a long time.

 Do you think that that will be a bittersweet thing when the Kentucky Derby is run on May 7th and you are watching not as the announcer but as a spectator? Is that going to feel funny?

Mr.  I am not the weepy type.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

Mr.  I am the only guy in the place that does not cry when they play My Old Kentucky Home. No I am comfortable with the decision and I will watch it with a clear mind and probably 50 bucks to win on Shackleford.

 So an open mind and a whole lot less anxiety I guess.

Mr.  A lot less. And by the way I will be able to watch the Kentucky Derby actually sucking down a mint julep while the race is going on. So that is good too.

SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER

 Cannot beat that. Well Tom Durkin we will miss hearing you on the broadcast for the Triple Crown races. Best of luck to you.

Mr.  Okay I hope you bet the winner.  From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.    And I am Melissa Block.  This year a familiar exciting voice will be missing from broadcasts of the Kentucky Derby and the other Triple Crown races the Preakness and Belmont Stakes. Tom Durkin who has called the races on network television for the last decade has decided not to renew his contract with NBC Sports. The reason? Stress and performance anxiety.  We are going to talk with Mr. Durkin about that decision in a moment. First let us listen to him calling the final stretch of the Derby in 2004.  Mr.  And Smarty Jones rose to the lead by journeyman jockey Stuart Elliot and they have taken the lead away from Lionheart. Farther back is  and here is the first undefeated winner of the Kentucky Derby since Seattle Slew in 1977. Smarty Jones has done it.   That is Tom Durkin broadcasting for NBC sports in 2004. Mr. Durkin how did you come to this decision to stop doing the broadcast?  Mr.  Well just a general - you know for three months a year I would be walking around with this pit in my stomach and almost a sword of Damocles over my head. You wake up worrying and you go to bed worrying and you are just on edge. And you know the stress leads to bad health.  And I am 60 now and I just thought you know let us - let us just get rid of the stress. I mean I tried everything I could to treat it with hypnosis which I have been doing for 20 years.   We have some tape from the Kentucky Derby in 2009 when a horse came out of nowhere to win Mine That Bird 50-to-one shot that year. I want to listen to you calling the end of that race.  Mr.   is coming hard down the  track and 's right there too. Now through the inside coming on through that is Mine That Bird now is coming down to take the lead as they come down for the finish and a spectacular spectacular upset. Mine That Bird has won the Kentucky Derby an impossible result here.   You can hear the amazement in your voice there but I am wondering if that would be the kind of thing that would just give you nightmares - the idea that a horse could come out of nowhere you cannot remember who it is who the jockey is and you are missing a call.  Mr.  Well yeah that was - you know that was - of all the Derby calls I think that is the one I wish I could have gotten back.   Well everyone was surprised by that one. But I am guess I am curious if sort of broadly that would be the nightmare scenario for you that would just wake you in the middle of the night the night before a race.  Mr.  Oh I have - oh God I have crazy nightmares. And most of the time I just cannot get to the announcer's booth or someone has spray painted my binoculars and I cannot see through or the lenses has fallen out of my binoculars or the horses starting running on the ground.  One time I was - in my subconscious mind I was calling the Kentucky Derby and a Norwegian cruise liner came down the stretch.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  And I could not see the horses. Like oh my God. Those are big ships too. Cannot see many horses behind them.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   Wow that is amazing. It is interesting that you are still going to be announcing at the track at Belmont and at Aqueduct in Saratoga. Is that a whole different thing for you being the track announcer as opposed to being the race caller for the TV broadcasts?  Mr.  It is like being a baseball player and you play 164 games a year. The Derby is like being at bat and you are down one run the man's on second the count's three and two it is the seventh game of the World Series. It is that kind of intensity that kind of stays with you for a long time.   Do you think that that will be a bittersweet thing when the Kentucky Derby is run on May 7th and you are watching not as the announcer but as a spectator? Is that going to feel funny?  Mr.  I am not the weepy type.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER  Mr.  I am the only guy in the place that does not cry when they play My Old Kentucky Home. No I am comfortable with the decision and I will watch it with a clear mind and probably 50 bucks to win on Shackleford.   So an open mind and a whole lot less anxiety I guess.  Mr.  A lot less. And by the way I will be able to watch the Kentucky Derby actually sucking down a mint julep while the race is going on. So that is good too.  SOUNDBITE OF LAUGHTER   Cannot beat that. Well Tom Durkin we will miss hearing you on the broadcast for the Triple Crown races. Best of luck to you.  Mr.  Okay I hope you bet the winner. 