 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Im Melissa Block.  And Im Robert Siegel. Within 10 years there could be a shortage of 45000 primary care physicians -thats one prediction at least. And one possible solution is to increase the number of highly trained nurses and physician assistants who do primary care. We have been focusing on this most basic health care this week. And once again Im joined by NPR's Julie Rovner. Hi Julie.  Hi Robert.  The shortage of primary care professionals is particularly bad in large rural states. Yes?  Absolutely. You know people are having trouble all over the country finding someone to give them primary care but it is definitely worse in rural areas. According to the journal Health Affairs 21 percent of the nation's population lives in rural America but only 10 percent of the doctors practice there.  Earlier in the week you talked about the fact that the new federal health law will extend health insurance to tens of millions more people. So does that law do anything about boosting the supply of primary care doctors?  You know it really does. Lawmakers knew that there was going to be this shortage and that they were going to add to it with the people who are getting insurance. So the law increases payments for health professionals who provide primary care now. The law doubles funding for community health centers that provide care in areas where there are shortages of health services. And it also increases fundings for programs that train students to become health professionals in the future.  You are using the phrase health care professionals health professionals - not doctors. You mean more than just doctors.  That is right. As American patients most of us are used to getting our primary care from someone we call doctor. But increasingly primary care is being delivered by whats called midlevel professionals. These are people like physician assistants and nurse practitioners. They have more training than a registered nurse but less than a full-fledged doctor. There are just over 200000 P.A.s and N.P.s practicing today around the country. And in many states they can practice on their own. They can write prescriptions and do many of the things that a doctor does.  And thats what today's story is about?  Yes I spent a day with a physician assistant in rural Maine - a part of rural Maine where it is been very difficult to attract doctors I might add.  Okay. Thanks Julie. And here is the concluding part of Julie Rovner's series this week about the crisis in primary care.   It is a little before 6 a.m. and Jim Love is taking the long way to work. Most of the tiny town of Pittsfield Maine population 4200 is still asleep as he peddles his bike through the cool tree-lined streets. He stops at the local park to check on a mother loon that nests every year at the foot of the same dam. Mr.  See the loon...  Mm-hmm. Mr.  ...sitting in the grass?  Ever the caregiver he is worried that no eggs have hatched yet. Mr.  A chick it is going to be hard to get raised and get out of here in time before cold weather.  Love who looks younger than his 62 years gets back on his bike and heads up the hill to his office just down the street from the local hospital. He knows these will be the last quiet moments of what he expects will be a very long day.   Once inside he checks out the schedule on his computer. Mr.  So far today we are booked for 22 patients and the phone line has not opened up yet.  When it does open he says the remaining slots at his clinic Sebasticook Family Doctors will fill quickly. Mr.  My inbox just turned red so that means two patients are now scheduled in for the 7 of the clock slot. And looking ahead starting at 9 of the clock Im booked pretty solid from 9 a.m. right through noon. Five of those are new patients that I have not seen before.  That is because the doctor who used to practice with him in the clinic quit a week earlier. So Love is seeing many of that doctor's former patients as well as his own. Mr.  Good morning. How are you? Unidentified Woman  My ears have been ...  But Love isnt a doctor himself. He is a physician assistant - though most of his patients ignore the distinction between a P.A. and an M.D. Mr.  Ninety-nine percent of them call me doctor just because it is easier that way.  Of course to watch Love in action it is easy to forget he is not an M.D. Mr.  Now how often are you checking your sugars at home? Unidentified Man Twice a day. Mr.  Twice a day? Unidentified Man Yeah morning and night. Mr.  Whats the lowest youve gotten?  And most of his patients at least on this day dont seem to care what his title is. Robert Marshman is from nearby Exeter Maine. Mr.  Tell you what I think he is better than any medical doctor I have been to. And I have said that to everybody I have talked to.  Love planned to become a doctor. But he could not get into medical school out of college. He worked for several years as a registered nurse instead. When he decided to go back to school in the mid 1970s he was urged to go to medical school. But with a wife and child he was put off by the financial obligation that would mean. Mr.  It just simply was not at that stage in my life feasible. I did not have the money.  So he became a physician assistant. P.A.s get training that is similar to what doctors get just less of it. The average P.A. program lasts just over two years. And he is good at what he does in part because he knows his limits. Mr.  I am good. Im experienced and I am confident and all that kind of good stuff. I am not an internist. And I tell my patients that. I just do not bring the same sophistication that a really skilled internist - and I should not.  Love says he thinks people like him - P.A.s and other so-called midlevel practitioners - are a big part of the solution to the nation's shortage of primary care providers. Mr.  We are ideally suited for it. And it is so cost-effective compared to any other form of medical provider. So we need to be educating a lot more of us.  And not just in rural areas but increasingly everywhere. Dr.  You know whether it is P.A.s or nurse practitioners they are going to be an integral part of this - sort of the new horizon in medicine.  That is Michael McDonald. He is the primary care doctor who supervises Jim Love. But they dont work in the same building. McDonald works at another branch of Sebasticook Family Doctors about 25 miles up the road in Dexter Maine. They communicate primarily by phone and email and each has his own separate group of patients. Dr.  It works out well. It helps our patients get access to care and you know - and provides good quality medicine.  It is already a pretty typical arrangement in rural America. And as the number of primary care doctors goes down and the number of midlevel practitioners rises it is becoming more common in urban areas too. But McDonald hopes his midlevel providers dont start streaming to the city. He says he couldnt run his primary care practice without the services of his physician assistant and nurse practitioners. Sebasticook Family Doctors serves some 8000 patients from 20 rural towns in four counties in central Maine. Dr.  It is been very difficult to get M.D.s to come to the area. Or if they do they do not stay for very long and they leave. All of our nurse practitioners and P.A.s have been here almost since the beginning since we started.  Jim Love in fact has lived in Pittsfield for more than 20 years and he says he has no intention of leaving - at least not until he retires. Mr.  I really am dedicated to this practice and taking care of the people we take care of. I really want this to succeed.  Mr.  Hey there. How are you doing this morning? Unidentified Woman  Oh Im doing better.  It is now nearing 11 a.m. in Pittsfield. Jim Love is greeting his 11th - or maybe 12th - patient of the day. Mr.  Okay. You are taking the 400 and the 200 both at bedtime? Unidentified Woman  Yeah. Yeah.  And no matter how dedicated you are some patients are more challenging than others like this new patient he is seeing for the first time. Mr.  She is truly above my pay grade. She is got a whole host of serious psychological and physical ailments. Im really not comfortable treating her.  But Love says he will continue being her primary care giver because she has no place else to go. He will consult with his supervising doctor and specialist as needed. It is what makes his life both so rewarding and so overwhelming. He is hoping the practice will find a replacement for the doctor who just left and he is hoping it will be a doctor. But even if it is another P.A. or a nurse practitioner he will be glad to have another set of hands to share the load. Julie Rovner NPR News. 