 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. House lawmakers are considering a temporary patch for the Highway Trust Fund. The fund's been running low on cash which could bring many road improvement projects to a standstill as early as next month. President Obama has endorsed the temporary fix even though he says what is really needed is a long-term funding solution.   Congress should not pat itself on the back for averting disaster for a few months kicking the can down the road for a few months.  The house legislation provides a 11 billion to keep that road in a little better shape between now and next May. NPR's Scott Horsley reports much of that money would come from a budget maneuver called pension smoothing.  If you have never heard of pension smoothing do not feel bad neither had any of the tourists we spoke with outside the Capitol including Marie Suggs Franklin Ellis and Lisa and Sam Verhovek.  No I have never heard of the term pension smoothing. Have you?  I have heard of pension increasing.  Make it easier to get your pension? I do not know if that is it or not.  Is that like rounding up to the next highest number - smoothing every thing out? I do not know.  And again it is pension smoothing not a pension smoothie. Actually pension smoothie might be a more accurate name for this. Take the fruit of a tax-averse political culture some nutty government accounting a frozen legislative process and throw them all in the congressional blender.   A cynic would say it smoothes out the requirement for legislative decisions.  Len Burman is a professor at Syracuse and director of the Tax Policy Center here in Washington.  There was a time when policymakers were basically willing to just say OK you want these services you can pay for them. And now they are saying you want these services. They are really popular and we will pretend to pay for them with smoke and mirrors.  Here's how the smoke and mirrors work in this case. Congress tweaks its formula so companies that offer traditional pensions do not have to put as much money aside for future retirees. That makes the companies look more profitable in the short run so they pay higher taxes - nearly 6.5 billion or more over the next decade. Over the longer term of course those companies may have to make up those pension payments. So years from now the government's tax revenues could shrink. That is far enough in the future though that it does not count in today's congressional scorekeeping. Burman says lawmakers are spending the extra tax money now without thinking about the future.  It is a terrible deal all around. Basically what they are doing with this pension smoothing is they are borrowing the money from American companies. And they are basically making a really risky loan because by those companies making smaller payments to their pensions they are more likely to have their pension plans go bust.  If that happens both tax payers and retirees could pay a price for the short-term highway fix. Experts say there is room for debate over how companies' pensions contributions should be calculated. James Klein who represents big employers as president of the American Benefits Council argues there is little danger in this smoothing formula for future retirees. But he admits Congress got there in a roundabout way.  I would like to believe that the change is based upon an understanding of the need for stable pension funding. I suspect that as much as anything else that it is based upon the fact that it gets scored as a revenue raiser and therefore can be used to offset other expenses.  The House bill also relies on extended customs fees and money set aside for LUST - that is Leaking Underground Storage Tanks - to fill the hole in the Highway Trust Fund at least temporarily. Watchdog Maya MacGuineas of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget says lawmakers would be better off steering clear of such tricks.  There are plenty of options whether you want to raise taxes cut some transportation spending or do a little bit of both to actually finance this highway spending in a reasonable and honest straightforward way.  So far though a Senate proposal that would fix the trust fund permanently with higher gasoline taxes has stalled. On the bright side at least our Capitol tourists Sam and Lisa Verhovek have learned a new phrase - pension smoothing. S.  Sounds mellow and nice but... L.  Pension smoothing... S.  It sounds like it is a budget gimmick. L.  Yeah absolutely sounds like a budget gimmick.  Just do not let this ice cold gimmick give you a brain freeze. Scott Horsley. NPR News Washington. 