 If you thought the British scandal involving newspapers and phone-hacking could not get any more absurd think again. The latest chapter involves a former news executive the prime minister and a horse. It seems Scotland Yard loaned the horse to Rebekah Brooks. She is Rupert Murdoch's now-ousted protege. And she runs - or shall we say trots - in the same circles as Prime Minister David Cameron. Vicki Barker picks up the story from there.  There is a long waiting list of British animal lovers hoping to take in aging police horses. Once retired the horses are not supposed to be ridden again. Former Murdoch executive Rebekah Brooks did not just jump the queue. She also rode the horse - called Raisa - before returning the steed which has since died two years later. And last week at the emergency EU summit in Brussels David Cameron was forced to end days of speculation and qualified denials to admit that he too had ridden Raisa before becoming prime minister and in the company of Brooks' husband a fellow old Eatonian.  I am very sorry to hear that Raisa is no longer with us. And I think I should probably conclude by saying I do not think I will be getting back into the saddle anytime soon.    Her name is Rebekah.  Rebekah.   And she rode the fastest police horse in the West.   Britain's political satirists have not had this much fun since someone leaked untrue allegations that another conservative prime minister John Major tucked his shirt into his underpants.   Um - well it is quite rarely that something so juicy falls into your lap like this.   You have made the most of it I must say.  My heart leapt...  That is political cartoonist Steve Bell talking to the BBC. Bell drew Rupert Murdoch riding Cameron horsey-style holding Brooks' severed head on his lap. But most damaging to Cameron's image Bell says is not the Murdoch connection. It is the reminder that Cameron who likes to paint himself as a regular guy is actually from Britain's landed elite.   He knows how bad this sort of - the upper-class posh bloke on a horse is bad news for him.  Sheila Gunn was John Major's press secretary. Gunn calls this a perfect storm for the public psyche.  I mean there is two things that seem to obsess the British even now - and that is class and animals.  Her advice to fellow conservative party operatives Impose radio silence. Do everything possible to starve this story of oxygen. Not likely say British satirists.    There was talk of murder cover-ups and obstructing justice's course. But all the papers talked about was Rebekah's borrowed horse.  They say this could run longer even than John Major's underpants. For NPR News I am Vicki Barker in London.  