 Nathaniel Rateliff was a kid in small-town Missouri when he found a tape that changed his life.    Walking in the park just the other day baby. What do you - what do you think I saw?  Well it was actually - it was in the barn when we lived out in Bay . Our landlord Mr. Piontic  he - I guess for some of the country kids it was like a place to party in the middle of a cornfield and he found the Led Zeppelin tape up out there and I found it in the barn.    Hey boy do you want to score?  Rateliff's parents were devout Christians. He was not allowed to listen to secular music and he did not like having to play in his family's band at church. So that tape opened up a whole new world.  Secretly we would listen to it which I am surprised my dad did not know that I was - you know I would have my headphones on and playing When The Levee Breaks and Misty Mountain Hop on my drums. It was always the strangest thing to me because growing up in church was like well if God made music why is this secular stuff so much better?   I do not think the devil is trying to trick us.  If God did not want me to listen to Led Zeppelin why did he  why did he allow it to happen?  Then why did I find this tape? I was like why are not our worship songs as good as that?    I have been coolin' out baby.  Now Nathaniel Rateliff makes his own very different style of music. He and his band Nathaniel Rateliff  The Night Sweats found huge success with their first album. Now they are out with their second. It is called Tearing At The Seams.    Now it might be that I am being swayed in a lie.  Nathaniel Rateliff it is hard to listen to this music and sit still. Is it as much fun to play it as it sounds like it must be?  It is a blast. You know I am so fortunate that my bandmates and I are - it is like a gang of brothers really. We roll into a place and people are like are you guys in a band? I was like can you tell? There is like eight of us. And we just...  Do we smell like the tour bus?   Yeah I know right? You know before we walk onstage every night we just tell each other we love each other and just like remember to have fun.    We will be dancing and having fun. Tell your mama that you are leaving home and your friends are going to come along.  I want to ask about one of your bandmates who I gather you are particularly close to. This is Joseph Pope III. You all grew up together best friends.  Yeah. Joseph and I are very close closer than brothers really. His wife joked the other day. She is like I did not realize when I was marrying Joseph that I was also marrying you. You know we grew up together and moved to Colorado in '98 together. And you know sometimes you meet people in your lives and you just realize that you are supposed to spend your life together.  And was this something you two arrived at together like we are going to grow up we are going to be musicians we are going to have a band?  You know we immediately started playing music together. Joseph I think at the time when I met him played trumpet. And he kind of immediately started playing guitar and writing songs. And then we just continued to make music together. And you know I think when you are young you have these ideas and aspirations of becoming a you know rock star or a professional musician. And I did not really expect for all of this to happen.    Wait did you think that I would break underneath the pressure in here? Now at the heart if not to feel is a wandering waste in the driest land .  Were you always the lead singer?  Actually in the beginning I was a little shy. And my mom and my dad played and so did my sister and I was always encouraged to sing or forced to sing. But I really wanted to be a guitar player and songwriting was sort of a second to that.  It is funny because anybody who is seen you perform live is going to have a hard time reconciling that guy with somebody who is shy.   Yeah I know. I guess I am one of the things so...    And it happens all wrong and only half of it is seen from here.  You wrote all the lyrics on this album and you have talked about one song that you finished and then you just completely broke down. What was that song?  Well it was actually Still Out There Running.    Yeah baby we could set the whole thing on fire I was a king standing alone looking back to see how far you have flown. I as not grown and I as not changed at all .  I was kind of going through a lot in my personal life last year. I had written a song and I was actually just redoing the harmony vocal. And I just - I realized what I was singing about at the time and it just sort of shattered me. You know sometimes you write things and you do not know the impact of them on your life.    I am choking on every word.  Do you want to talk about what it is that you are writing about here what you were getting at and working through with this song?  It is a conversation between two people that really love each other and just sort of the idea of looking back at all the beauty that the two people shared together but then also the question of you know we could just - we could just burn this entire thing.    Wake me up. See the fire has fully surrounded us Hey I know as I am coughing upon the ashes of every friend and the love I used to know it is still out there running.  Is it hard or is it cathartic to write something that I mean clearly still touches you really deeply today as we speak and then have to go out and perform that in front of a big crowd?  There are moments that you know you are just taken to a different place in performing these songs and sometimes discovering the things that you wrote them about. And sometimes that happens to be in front of a lot of people. But I feel it is my job to be vulnerable and accept that that is what I am here to do. And hopefully my vulnerability connects with other people and other people allow themselves to be vulnerable as well. And in doing that hopefully we all start to think about each other a little bit more and take care of each other better than we do.  Yeah. You have also talked about how you left little secrets for yourself through this album - little secrets like what?  Well I cannot tell you NPR because...   Fair point.  ...Then it would not be a secret. You know I think sometimes songwriting is sort of an inside joke with yourself and you know those are the little secrets for me. You know I feel like in a lot of ways with this record I was pretty - you know when I sat down to write some of the songs I knew what I was writing about and it was really a question - it was like all right just how honest are you going to be? And I just tried to be as honest as I could be.  Nathaniel thanks so much.  My pleasure.  The new album from Nathaniel Rateliff  The Night Sweats is titled Tearing At The Seams. It is out this Friday.    I am all right today. You are going to find a way to cross and you going to get there . 