   I saw miles and miles of Texas.  And to those many miles Texas towns with some memorable names.    I saw miles and miles of Texas gonna live here till I die.  Blanket Texas Stagecoach Domino Paint Rock. Each name has at least one story behind it and this week we have been bringing you some of those stories. Today we will hear about Weeping Mary. It is a tiny town in deep East Texas. Photographer O. Rufus Lovett has taken pictures of the residents of Weeping Mary over many years. He explains the town was established as a freedom colony land given to former slaves after the Civil War. O.  There was a lady named Mary who lived there and folklore has it anyway that a white man that wanted to purchase her land and she did not want to sell it to a white man. So he got a black gentleman to go and purchase the land for him and so Mary was tricked out of selling her land to another African American. And she became very distraught over this and wept and wept. And she kind of became known as Weeping Mary in that community and then the community hence became known as Weeping Mary.  You said Mr. Lovett that folklore has it that this is the story. I suppose nobody knows for sure. This is a story that is passed down from generation to generation.  I think that is right. And you know this is a story I have heard and actually had to do a little coaxing after visiting Weeping Mary over a period of the time to even get the story from some of the elders in the community. So this is front porch lore in Weeping Mary.  If you talk to young people in Weeping Mary do you think - would they be able to tell you where the name came from?  I do not think so. I think that is something that is left up to the older folks to pass down and I am not sure how much that is passed down anymore. And oftentimes they do not want to discuss that because of the circumstances but I think it did deal with a racial issue. At the same time it is part of our history unfortunately. In a way it is part of who we are.  Well Mr. Lovett thanks for talking to us about Weeping Mary Texas.  Oh absolutely. Thank you.  That is photographer O. Rufus Lovett telling us how Weeping Mary Texas got its name. You can see some of Lovett's pictures of Weeping Mary on our photo blog The Picture Show that is at NPR.org.   Tomorrow on the program a massive oil boom in South Texas brings big changes to a small city.  This guy took this check to the bank and he told the lady that he needed to put the check in the bank right way because it was check for 100000. When the clerk looked at the check she said it is not 100000. It is a million.  We explore how Cotulla Texas is dealing with the changes brought on by the Eagle Ford Shale boom. You can see photos of my travels in Texas on NPR's On The Road Tumblr. That is at NPROnTheRoad.tumblr.com. 