 The site is located near the city of Xian. And as President Obama visits China today some of those terra cotta warriors are visiting Washington D.C.   Unidentified Men   Stanford Professor Al Dien curated this exhibition. He is an emeritus professor of Chinese history. And back in 1977 he traveled to the city of Xian to see them just a few years after local farmers discovered the site.  And as we rounded a corner there was on display the kneeling archer and I was so excited that the people accompanying us took me over to the side and insisted I sit down. They thought I was going to have some kind of a heart attack.  Thankfully he did not and over the years he is seen hundreds more.  What is most amazing is that previous to the creation of this army the only figures that we had were small rather crude figures that were put into tombs to accompany the deceased in the other world and this kind of life- size realistic portrayals down to the fingernails - even the strands of hair on the head are depicted. Where did that come from? It was a creation out of nothing like it before. There was no line of development let us say as you had in Greece with sculpture over centuries before the great statues were made. Here it was something that was done almost on the spot. I mean you think about life-size horses being put into kilns of that size of that weight just really incredible.  Back at the National Geographic Museum the director Susan Norton takes us to see the warriors.  And of course every one is different. The faces are different the headpieces are different. As you can see the clothing or - the detail and the extraordinary effort to do this was huge. I mean I do not even think we can really imagine having 700000 people work on a project.  Seven hundred thousand. That is the number of workers archeologists believe helped build the terra cotta army and the burial site for the emperor Qin Shi Huang Di.  So he did not sit around twiddling his thumbs.  No he did not and neither did those 700000 people who built this tomb.   That is true.  Incredible. All right. So what do we have over here? I see - this is a chariot?  This is a chariot with horses.  And over here we have a warrior or an archer.  The kneeling archer and you will see on the kneeling archer some of the pigmentation. These were actually - the warriors were painted in primary colors and over the years that paint has gone away. This particular piece still has some reddish tones and the face is pink. That is actually what they did look like.  What they look like. And every face is different.  Yes.  And the expressions are different and the features - and I wonder if I mean it would be impossible to know but presumably some of the people working on these statues modeled them on themselves.  Well and that of course is the big mystery because if there are 7000 which there are believed to be and of the thousand that they have found all are different it is believed that these were modeled after someone whether the people building them themselves or you know whether they had models who were actually part of the emperor's entourage.  You can see pictures of that entourage of warriors Susan Norton was describing at our Web site npr.org. And if you are coming to Washington D.C. between now and the end of March you can see them in person at the National Geographic Museum.  