 The warming climate means more intense rain and that means more flash floods. In Texas officials hope that letting people see the rising waters on their smartphones can help keep them safe. From member station KUT in Austin Mose Buchele reports.   Fire department - what is the address of the emergency?  This is tape of a 911 call during one of Austin's many recent flash floods. This is known as the Halloween flood of 2013.   I was driving and the water - the water was too fast. It is too much. I am in the middle of the field.  The woman said she was driving to work and hit water. Her truck was washed into a field.   I am holding myself on a tree.  Madam.  It sounds like she says she is holding onto a tree.   Madam do you have anything that floats?  The call cuts off but this woman appears to have survived. Five others died in that flood. In Texas 75 percent of flash flood deaths happen on roads often at low water crossings where cars are swept away by flooding creeks. So officials here are always trying to keep people off of dangerous roads in heavy rains. In Austin they think they may have found a new way.  All right. So we are at Joe Tanner near 290.  This is Matt Porcher. He is with the city's flood early warning team.  And this is kind of one of our frequent flyers for low water crossings. Every time we have heavy rainfall in south Austin Joe Tanner will overtop from Williamson Creek.  He would come here to put in a flood camera. As we talk the truck arrives. The team breaks out a ladder gets to work installing it about nine feet up a utility pole. From there it will post images online so people can see creek conditions. The city already has flood gauges to measure rising water and a website to tell people about road closures. But Porcher and his team are betting on the power of the image to keep people from putting themselves at risk.  Rather than someone having to drive up to this low water crossing and try to make a decision there - well can I make it? It is only a couple inches of water - they can just pull up the creek camera say oh it is flooded. So I need to find another alternate route.  They created a mobile-friendly website and are working on a way to alert people about specific crossings. Other flood-prone cities like Miami are also developing similar ways of warning people. But will sharing images really keep more people off the streets?  Yeah I think so.  This is Dr. Nicholas Kman. He is a medical manager for FEMA's Urban Search  Rescue team in Ohio. He is studied the rise of what are sometimes called disaster apps. He thinks pictures can be a powerful online tool. But he says this type of tech often relies on cellular service or Wi-Fi to get the information to the public.  A lot of times in a disaster those things will go down. So if there is no cell service and you are relying on your cellphone to power the app or there is no Wi-Fi then you are not going to be able to use it.  And in fact spotty cellular coverage has been a challenge for the team at some low water crossings here in Austin but not on Joe Tanner Lane. After the camera's up the team crowds around a laptop on the back of a pickup truck to see how the image uploads to the website.  That looks pretty good right there.  Yeah yeah. I am happy.  Yeah.  That is just perfect placement so I do not even think we really need to tweak it.  There are now seven cameras posting photos online in Austin and the city hopes to put up around 20 more by the end of the year. Porcher says they have also gotten calls from neighboring communities about installing them. He hopes one day there will be a statewide system of cameras trained on Texas creeks and rivers helping to keep people out of harm's way. For NPR News I am Mose Buchele in Austin.  