 It is not really a surprise that people's personal data on Facebook was gathered and sold and spread around. Most people have known for quite some time now that our information online is far from secure. But the recent news about Cambridge Analytica getting millions of people's information seems to have hit a nerve. We wanted to get some perspective on this so we have called Siva Vaidhyanathan. He is a media studies professor at the University of Virginia and he is with us now. Professor thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you Michel. It is good to talk to you.  Well this has sparked an outcry and some calls to DeleteFacebook. Do you think this is a real thing?  I think it is a thing among an elite strata of Twitter users. I do not think it is going to turn into a mass movement. Nor do I necessarily think it should. You know people who study social media people who do data science privacy advocates even the Federal Trade Commission - we have all known about this practice that Facebook has had since about 2010. You know since about 2010 Facebook has been sort of promiscuously and notoriously duplicitous and irresponsible with our data. Now people are upset about it and they should be but they should have been upset about it then too. And some of us were. But nobody was paying attention because Facebook was this shiny happy new company.  As you are suggesting that this has been an open secret for years is there something about this episode though that feels different to you?  Oh it feels different in terms of the public awareness. You know I think that is a major change. And the fact that there seems to be growing dissatisfaction with Facebook - that is been building since the 2016 election when it was pretty clear that President Trump had exploited Facebook successfully. But that was accompanied by serious propaganda efforts disinformation and misinformation efforts from certain agents coming out of Russia right? Facebook is just barely coming to terms with that. But I think there is public awareness that I wish had been around before the damage was done.  So you are saying you think there is something about this episode that is hitting a nerve. You know why now is this the episode that is getting all this attention?  Well I think there is a bit of spy novel  to this whole latest episode right? Cambridge Analytica itself is this sort of secretive front company that is controlled by billionaire genius Robert Mercer. And Steve Bannon you know was on the board. And the people who run Cambridge Analytica seem to brag about their ability to manipulate minds. The spy novel elements of it are very attractive right? Here's an actual narrative an actual story for people to get shocked about.  I think people are probably getting the clue right now that you are a bit of a Facebook critic.   Yes.  You have a book coming out soon called Anti-Social Media How Facebook Disconnects Us And Undermines Democracy. But I do want to ask if you think that this issue is unique to Facebook.  It is unique to Facebook because Facebook is so pervasive right? Two-point-two billion people use Facebook every month around the world. That is a tremendous amount of power. It is cultural power. It is intellectual power. It is political power. It is financial power. It is an incredibly important part of people's lives around the world.  Well that - yeah that kind of leads to the question I was going to conclude with. Is there anything that people can do if they are upset about this? If they are worried about their privacy being invaded or if they do not like the uses to which their - this information has been put is there anything people can do? Can they...  Sure.  ...Delete their profiles?  Yeah. I mean we could delete our profiles. A few hundred thousand Americans delete their profiles does not matter because you know a few hundred thousand people in India just signed up for Facebook. So that is not going to hurt Facebook. But you should delete your Facebook profile if Facebook puts you in a bad mood if it distracts you at work if you are getting into nasty arguments with your uncle. You know those are reasons to get off of Facebook. But do not get off of Facebook because you think it is going to make a difference to Facebook or to the world. If you have a problem with how Facebook has misled us abused our privileges abused our relationship with them we need to use the instruments of regulation to curb its power. So if we act as citizens we have a chance. If we act as Facebook users we have no chance.  That is Siva Vaidhyanathan. He is a media studies professor at the University of Virginia. Professor thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you Michel. This was a pleasure.  In a statement today CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced a breach of trust quote between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it unquote. 