 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel.  Ms.    This is a big season for Danielle De Niese. She is a 30-year-old soprano who is returning to the Metropolitan Opera to sing a starring role in The Marriage of Figaro. And she has a new CD of songs by Mozart.  Ms.    Danielle de Niese joins us from the Metropolitan Opera studio in New York. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you Robert. Lovely to be speaking to you.  You made your Met debut 10 years ago when you were just 19. It was also in The Marriage of Figaro but in a smaller role. What is it like to return to the Met? Ms.  It is unbelievable. I have come back to the Met a couple of times since then but to actually return in the same production in which I made my Met debut which was such an emotional moment. Obviously as a 19-year-old it is quite unbelievable when I think back now. And when I was singing Barbarina back then with this incredible cast of Cecilia Bartoli Renee Fleming Bryn Terfel Dwayne Croft Susanne Mentzer Jimmy Levine it was just - it was unbelievable. But to sing Barbarina with them I remember at the time dreaming about having an opportunity to sing Susanna in this same production and I used to go to the wings actually and watch Cecilia and Bryn getting ready during the overture. And I just thought of that what that moment would be like to be there preparing to play Susanna at the Met. And you know now here I am. It is going to be amazing.  How different is your singing or your voice today from 10 years ago? Ms.  Oh my God. It is - gosh I would not even be able to compare it. I mean it is a funny thing singing because you feel as if you are always absorbing and learning how to do what it is that you feel you naturally know how to do. And you have to examine the technical aspect of what it is that you do naturally - and that is the study of technique. So it is a very funny thing. I remember even from the first Barbarina to the second year when I did it I had made so much improvement vocally that I thought well what I did the year before must have been awful. And I went and watched one of the PBS broadcasts of it just ready to cringe. And actually it was not at all. It is just that when you learn how to understand your voice and your body you sort of grow with your technique. And so that is what is changed. And also as an artist sort of dramatically as well growing on stage learning to be in my skin which is something I probably have felt from a younger age than most.  Speaking of a younger age than most you decided to become an opera singer at a very early age I gather. Ms.  It was unbelievable really. I decided that I needed to be an opera singer at about 8 eight and a half  What Ms.  which was shortly after my first classical singing lesson. I was completely bitten as they say by the bug and it felt like the most natural way of expressing myself you know with a classically produced sound.  When you say it struck you as the most natural way to express yourself natural is the last adjective I would expect. Ms.  Really? Yeah I suppose so because you know it is an art so it requires study and practice and dedication and understanding. But there is an element of just being. When you understand all of the things technically that you need to do to put your voice in the right place you can then just be. And I think as a younger singer you only know how to be and then you have to understand the technique behind it. I mean it is a little bit like you know they talk about Tiger Woods sort of re-analyzing his golf swing halfway into his career. And when you have to break and deconstruct something down you can sort of for a moment forget how to do it naturally and then you build it up again with that technical understanding.  There is one track on the Mozart album your new CD in which you sing with the great Welsh bass baritone Bryn Terfel Ms.  Bryn yes.  and you sing the duet La ci darem la mano from Don Giovanni. I want to listen to that for a moment.  Mr.   Ms.    Did I hear you singing along for a moment? Ms.  Was I being taped?  Well Ms.  Oh I am so embarrassed. Yes I was singing along.  Ms.  I did not realize anyone could hear me.   What was it like singing with Terfel in that? Ms.  Oh it was incredible. You know we met in the studio and it was so funny. He is such a wonderful artist. He is so relaxed. And you know he was saying to me well you are very Zen in the studio. And I said no not as much as you are Bryn.  Meaning contained? Ms.  No just relaxed.  Relaxed. Ms.  You know it is so easy to get worked up in the studio because you are going in there and there is all these people staring at you and they are all waiting for you to sing. And you know for me every experience that I am having in the studio I am on a very very steep learning curve because I am learning everything for the first time. You know I have only made two recordings. So you know it was very relaxed. And it was a wonderful way to go into the studio when we were doing this duet.  Mr.   Ms.    Well Danielle just before you go tell me about what it is like being 30. Ms.  Oh Robert. I do not know what I think about it. It still feels very young obviously because you know I have been already for more than 12 years at least since my Met debut working in the opera world and singing in various different opera houses all over the world. Now I am meeting more people that are around my age because of course it is all going to level out in the end.  You mean they are catching up with you is what is happening.  Ms.  Yeah or that I am finally sort of - working people with people within the same decade as me which is quite funny actually. I did not realize how young I was until I saw some other young singers understudying Barbarina in Amsterdam and they were 18. And I looked at them and I thought Oh my God you are a child. You are a child. And I did not realize when I was 18 what that must have looked like for others because you know when you are that age you are very best to be as professional as possible. And I did come into that situation wanting to put my best foot forward as I maintain with my work ethic now. So I will just continue to do more of the same and wait for 40 right?   It does come around. Ms.  It will.  Yeah. Well Danielle de Niese thank you very much for talking with us. Ms.  Thank you pleasure.  Soprano Danielle de Niese stars at the Met in The Marriage of Figaro beginning September 22. And her new CD is titled simply The Mozart Album. You can hear the entire album and download a free track at the new npr.org.  Ms.    You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 