 We are learning new details about the shootings in Jersey City N.J. yesterday. After shooting a police detective at a nearby cemetery a pair of attackers engaged in hours of gunfire with police at a kosher deli. In the end six people are dead including the officer and the two people officials say are responsible for the mass shooting. Quil Lawrence joins us from Jersey City. Quil what have you learned so far?  Well we learned at a press conference with the attorney general mostly some basic facts - confirmed that a man who was 47 and a woman 50 apparently gunned down the Jersey City Police detective Joseph Seals after he approached their U-Haul van which had been IDed  as connected to a murder on Sunday. The two attackers then drove a mile to a kosher grocery store next to a Jewish center and they went in shooting. There was a two-hour intense gunfight which left both attackers and three civilians dead inside.  We have heard conflicting things about the motive for this attack. What is the status of that right now? What do people know?  Well the attackers reportedly had posted on social media supporting anti-Semitic groups. But the attorney general was very careful not to characterize a motive. He was very cautious about it. The mayor of Jersey City Steven Fulop however gave a press conference right afterwards at the scene of the crime to reiterate his conclusion from a very personal perspective that this is a hate crime against Jews.   I am Jewish. I am the grandson of Holocaust survivors who immigrated to this country because it is a place of tolerance. And like I said we need to be aggressive in calling it out for what it is. I know some people will say that we should review things and take our time. But when you look at the facts of what transpired yesterday it is difficult to argue anything other than that.  I want to focus a little bit on the victims here. Can you tell us more about them?  We do not know a lot. Mindel Ferencz was 32. She was a wife and mother. She and her husband ran this kosher grocery store and deli. And he - her husband - had stepped out next door for a midday prayer so he was not there when the attack happened. Moshe Deutsch 24 years old - locals have described him as a yeshiva student. Apparently he was just in there as a customer got caught when the gunmen entered. And Miguel Douglas 49 - now we are not sure about that name. The attorney general reported that name but we have heard others. Residents told me that he delivered groceries for the store. And another man was inside was shot and escaped out the back. He has not been publicly identified yet.  We can hear a little bit of the noise behind you. And I know you have spent the day in the neighborhood. Can you describe this area and also maybe how residents are reacting to what they are learning today?  Yeah. You might be able to hear the music. I stepped into a little Dominican diner down the street from a synagogue and across the - which is across the street from a Catholic school. It is a very diverse city. I would not say it is fully blended. You can feel that there are many different groups living here. They told me that they are good neighbors. There is some tension as gentrification has hit and the Jewish community is growing here. They have moved after being priced out of parts of Brooklyn. But this ward - city Councilman Jermaine Robinson is a lifelong resident of this town. And here's what he said this afternoon.   My heart goes out to all of the victims the police and our Jewish community our brothers in this fight here. A great leader once said hate cannot drive out hate only love can do that - and I think broad  efforts of resilient community.  And he was talking - he noted that we were all standing there on the street across from the crime scene on a street named Martin Luther King Drive. But I think it is fair to say everyone here is still in shock. And talking to Jewish residents in particular in this case and really people who come from other communities and across the country - they are wondering you know where there might be another attack against Jewish Americans again.  That is NPR's Quil Lawrence. Thank you for your reporting.  Thanks. 