 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  As we hear from NPR's Hansi Lo Wang computer scientists have been trying to crack the code on the next generation of passwords. And one researcher says all you may need is a squirrel.     I am Rocky the flying squirrel.  No not that squirrel. Just a squirrel. Then security expert Markus Jakobsson says just imagine...  Maybe you went jogging in the forest and you stepped on a squirrel.  Oops. Sorry Rocky. But Jakobsson says that is one way to create a strong password.  Think of a story. Turn it into three important words of the story.  And instead of punching in a random series of characters on a computer or a smartphone users just need a three-word combination from a story they will remember. Jakobsson says the more bizarre...  Jogging forest squirrel.  ...the less likely a hacker will be able to get into your account. And the more likely you will be able to remember it. That is a good thing because technology writer Clive Thompson says our memories are lousy.  Everyone knows that they should have a password that is harder to guess. But the truth is we humans are pretty bad at remembering characters that make for a really strong password.  There are other options for authentication. Ed Felten is chief technologist for the Federal Trade Commission and he says security researchers group all the different ways a user can prove his or her identity into three categories.  Something you know like a password something that you have like some kind of an object or a physical key like we unlock our doors with or something you are. That is some aspect of your body or your physical person.  Our memories are bad with passwords and we can easily lose a key. So some researchers have turned their focus to biometrics - that is using parts of your body as I.D.   Just like in the movie Minority Report.    Look at me.   Positive for Howard Marks.  It is the year 2054 when a quick scan of your eyes can tell a computer who you are. Tom Cruise's character is on the run from the law desperate to change his identity. So he finds an underground eye surgeon.    All I am trying to tell you is that I will have to remove your eyes completely. And I have to replace them with new ones.  OK this is a bit extreme. But engineering psychologist Kelly Caine says one of the main reasons why we have not seen a wide use of biometrics instead of passwords is...  Your credentials - so your face your iris or your fingerprint - cannot be re-issued if they get compromised.  So Ed Felten says the best way to protect your digital identity is using multiple layers of security with passwords.  The familiar passwords are not perfect. They are far from perfect. But they are the easiest alternative for now.  Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 