 Democrats are more likely to maintain control of the Senate than the House. Even if they do there is a possibility that they could be choosing a new Senate leader after the election. The current majority leader Nevada's Harry Reid is in the fight of his life against Tea Party favorite Sharron Angle. And even if Reid ekes out a victory some of his Senate colleagues could challenge him for control. Manu Raju is congressional correspondent for Politico and he joins us now to talk about a possible shift in the Senate. Thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  Let us begin with Harry Reid and a couple of possible scenarios. If he loses and if Democrats do not maintain control of the Senate what happens? Is Jim DeMint of South Carolina first in line to replace him? Mr.  No most likely it is going to be Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky current Republican leader. He is already locked up support. And so if Reid loses and Democrats lose control of the Senate you are going to see McConnell become the most powerful man on Capitol Hill..  And you do not think that he would be challenged? 'ecause there is this rumor... Mr.  Very...  ...that DeMint might take him on. Mr.  You know a lot of people think that because of the way that DeMint has been positioning himself over the last year in which he is challenged the party establishment supporting these Tea Party candidates in Republican primaries. But DeMint has said he supports McConnell. He is not going to challenge him. And you know even if DeMint did he would not have the support. He is not particularly popular within the Republican Caucus.  If the Democrats do maintain control of the Senate and if Harry Reid manages to win it is still been widely reported that there are some hard-charging Democrats who are working quietly on the sort of sub-rosa campaign to possibly replace him. Help us understand what is happening there. Who are we talking about? Mr.  We are talking about Dick Durbin of Illinois the number two Democratic Senate majority whip. And the number three Democrat Chuck Schumer of New York. Both men are seen as the possible successors to Reid. And incidentally they are roommates on Capitol Hill too. But you know they both would bring much different styles to the leadership table. If Reid wins both men say that they are not going to challenge him. But if he loses I think you are going to see a very tightly contested race something that we have not seen in the Senate in about 15 years.  Durbin and Schumer say that they will not challenge him. Is it possible that Reid will give up the gavel if he wins? Mr.  He says he is not going to. He says that he wants to serve six years as majority leader. Although you know there are rumors that he would you know if won he would be majority leader for this coming Congress. And then afterwards he may step aside particularly if Democrats lose control of the Senate in the 2012 elections - which is a very possible scenario considering that there are double the number of seats that are Democratic that are up that cycle than Republicans. And Reid may decide hey it is not worth being minority leader. You never really know on Capitol Hill.  On Capitol Hill what kind of backroom politicking and posturing is going on? Is it possible that Democrats looking for someone to blame or concerned that Reid - even with his status on the Hill is in the fight of his life - might be counseling him to consider other possibilities? Mr.  I think that is an unlikely scenario 'ecause the Senate is such a clubby place. And I think that they would want to keep some sort of continuity if they lost. I think what you are going to more likely see if the Democrats lose control of the House there is almost certainly going to be a leadership struggle to replace Nancy Pelosi who of course is the current speaker. And then if she were in the minority she would have to consider whether to run for minority leader against Steny Hoyer of Maryland who is the current House majority leader. That is where there is a lot of posturing right now...  And a bit ambitious himself. Mr.  That is right. And you know so I think that that is what the very likely scenario is. So in the Senate it probably only will happen if Reid loses himself. And that would be quite a fight and itll all happen in the backrooms of Capitol Hill.  Manu help us out and remind us When do the leadership elections take place? Mr.  They would take place right after the elections in the lame- duck session. That'll be the middle of November.  Good to talk to you. Thank you so much. Mr.  Thanks for having me. Manu Raju is a congressional correspondent for Politico. 