 In 1964 the science fiction writer Isaac Asimov speculated that within 50 years we would all have robotic kitchens. They would automatically brew our coffee toast our bread and fry our bacon and eggs.  Well he was not too far off. This month the White Castle fast-food chain known for its slider-sized burgers said it is hiring a new line cook Flippy.  Flippy is an industrial robotic arm on an upside down robotic rail which allows it to slide in between workstations.  As Miso Robotics CEO Buck Jordan points out Flippy is a burger-flipping robot. It costs about 30000 out of the box.  Or measured a little differently 35000 White Castle burgers. And the biggest perk Jordan says is better burgers.  Everything is cooked perfectly every single time. There is a huge reduction of food waste and greater customer satisfaction due to higher quality higher consistency and faster speed of service.  Flippy learns from its mistakes too using artificial intelligence.  Economist Tyler Cowen at George Mason University says it is probably a sign of things to come and not necessarily bad news for fast-food cooks.  In the longer term I think there will be fewer burger flippers and more robots doing that job but those people will be re-employed say looking after the elderly who might prefer a human touch to a robot. So again the total number of jobs probably is not going down.  Cowen does worry though about a robot's ability to satisfy the American consumer.  You hear people give their special orders or they want pickles on the side or they want it in a different kind of bag. The complexities of human nature are hard to predict and a human can still handle most of those kinds of requests better than a machine can.  Amid a global pandemic Jordan says the lack of a human touch is precisely one of the advantages of his robots.  There is a whole new set of challenges that cannot be solved in any other way than automation. You have to social distance in kitchens. These kitchens were never designed for that.  As Cowen points out robots have taken over much more slowly than Asimov and others predicted. My home robot still cannot figure out how I take my coffee in the mornings. 