 It is National Poetry Month. And if that makes you roll your eyes or shiver with memories from 7th grade English class you are not alone. Thankfully NPR's Andrew Limbong has been working on an episode for NPR's Life Kit about how to appreciate poetry. And he joins us now. Hi Andrew.  Hey Tom.  Now these days - obviously these days people have more time on their hands and maybe they are ready to start reading poetry. What advice do you have for them?  I talked to one expert Franny Choi. She is a poet and a poetry educator. And she actually has her students read poems two different ways. The first way is to savor every syllable is how she pronounces it. So it is like really chew on the mouthfeel of each syllable. And that way you start to notice like oh the sound S has come up a bunch here. That is interesting. And then the second way to read it is to read a poem like you are explaining something really difficult she says. And that is sort of like you slow down and take each phrase clause by clause. And I think what that does for me is give me a sort of like bird's-eye view of what a poem is trying to tell me without getting bogged down in the sort of like details of a word.  And so once you are actually taking apart these poems and really dwelling on them and appreciate them maybe the time comes when you can actually try to write poems yourself. And your team the Life Kit team is encouraging folks to do that right?  Yeah. Like I said with a lot of us practicing social distancing we are asking people to write a haiku. For you know just a quick refresher a haiku is three lines and it is five syllables then seven syllables and then five syllables. And you know write a haiku about social distancing and how you feel about it. You know we are asking you to share it with us on Twitter. We are at nprlifekit. And you can use the hashtag socialdistancinghaiku. And then if we have the time I just want to shout out one from Hannah Miller  who said  he has a secret - found it rearranging drawers. COVID ring - I will. So not that all art has to necessarily reflect reality but if  - if she is saying what I think she is saying with this poem then congratulations Hannah.  Quite sentimental. That was NPR's Andrew Limbong. You can find his episode on appreciating poetry on the NPR Life Kit feed. And remember to send your poem using the hashtag socialdistancinghaiku. Thank you Andrew.  Thanks.  And the Life Kit team is not the only place you can share your poems. We are asking our listeners to share their poems with us for National Poetry Month. If you would like to hear your original poem on the air tweet it to npratc with the hashtag nprpoetry. Each week through the end of April a published poet will join us on air to talk about some of the submissions that caught their eye. And even though Twitter has changed its character limit we are sticking with the original rules. Poems must be 140 characters or less 