 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The Egyptian military has launched an intensive operation against radical Islamists in the Sinai Peninsula. The move comes officials say in response to more than 200 militant attacks on police and security forces just in the past two months. The operation has focused largely on territory in northern Sinai near the Gaza Strip. So far the Egyptian military reports at least two dozen militants have been killed or wounded in the attacks which were mainly carried out with Apache helicopters. I am joined now by NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson who is in Cairo. And Soraya what more details can you give us about these military strikes against the Islamists?  The attack began around dawn and was carried out mainly by two Apache helicopters which attacked four houses as well as a mosque in which militants were said to be meeting at least according to the military. And in addition to these locations - and this was all in various towns in northern Sinai - the military attacked several weapons depots that were said to be created by the militants there and also attacked two SUVs in which militants were escaping.  And what more can you tell us about the militants themselves who are now being targeted by the Egyptian military?  Well these are people who either lived in Sinai or moved there. And it is a place that is become incredibly radicalized especially in the last two months after President Mohamed Morsi was ousted from power. These are Islamists who feel that democracy has not worked for them and they have become incredibly moved towards violence. They say they will restore their rights in any way possible. They have been particularly angry with police and the military who they feel have not defended them. And this is something that has gone on even before when Hosni Mubarak was president.  Now in fact the Egyptian military blamed the ousted President Mohamed Morsi for allowing the northern part of Sinai to become a haven for radical militants whom they are now targeting. Is that true?  There is no doubt that during his tenure as president that he did not do much about what was happening in Sinai. But this sort of radicalization and even more so the armament that has moved into there that was going on long before that. A lot of the arms were coming from Libya after the revolution that happened there and the strife and so a lot of things - a lot of weapons were moving into Sinai. And this is a very lawless area. It is a place where Americans have been kidnapped tourists have been kidnapped. And so it is been very lawless even before Morsi took power.  Has the Egyptian military signaled how long these military strikes might continue?  They say it is open ended in the sense that they want to make sure that they take care of this threat. But it is unclear exactly when it will end.  And we mentioned that these strikes are coming in the northern part of Sinai right by the Gaza Strip which is run by Hamas. Is the operation having a spillover effect in Gaza itself?  Yes because the military has been targeting - they do this periodically but they certainly during this operation have been targeting the area that is sort of along that border. And so they have been evicting people from their homes there. They have been bulldozing the tunnels. There are hundreds of tunnels there that are used to carry goods and you know arguably weapons back and forth. And so that has been sealed off. But the feeling among the Bedouin there is that they will move back in at some stage. It is not something that is a permanent solution - at least when you talk to locals that is what they say.  OK. NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson in Cairo Soraya thanks very much.  You are welcome. 