 Attention soccer fans in Los Angeles - the upcoming Major League Soccer season is about to get loco. Today the LA Galaxy announced its newest forward the Mexican superstar Javier Chicharito Hernandez.   He has been with us every prayer because he is a dreamer .  Chicharito is the leading goalscorer for the Mexican national team and to tell us more about this big move let us bring in Luis Miguel Echegaray. He writes about soccer for Sports Illustrated. Welcome.  Thank you so much for having me. I am so excited.  Well we are so pleased to have you. All right so you know just watching that promo video we just heard it makes you think that Chicharito is going to make everything in LA like amazing and incredible and absolutely perfect. Is he really all that?   It is a very good question. Listen we have to put a few things into context when we are talking about Chicharito.   First of all he is pretty much the golden child of Mexican soccer not just because of his career which includes Real Madrid Manchester United Bayer Leverkusen West Ham and later Sevilla. But also just from a marketing perspective - you know Chicharito in English means a little pea. Like he is just adored by everybody.  .  And when you come to a city like LA which has the biggest Mexican American community in the country it is basically a win-win.  So I mean it used to be that really awesome soccer players came to the U.S. when they were nearing retirement not when they had further ambitions down the road. Chicharito is 31. What are his ultimate ambitions? What does this move mean for him?  Yeah it is a really good question. I think to answer the first part of that - MLS used to rely so much on the aging Europe star. But now what you are seeing a lot more of is actually the influx of Latin American talent whether it is really young players from South America or Central America or those that are reaching the latter stages of their career. Chicharito obviously fits in the latter part of that.  Yeah.  But he can still deliver in a league that even though it is developing is obviously not as strong as Europe. Now I want to pump the brakes on any LA Galaxy fan because last year LA Galaxy fans had Zlatan Ibrahimovic who is just an absolute machine and created so many goals and so many highlights. Chicharito is not a Zlatan Ibrahimovic type of player but what he will do is he will energize the LA Galaxy fanbase and MLS in general I think.  Well as you say also Los Angeles has one of the biggest Latino communities in the U.S. This promo video is clearly aimed at them. So in terms of the fan base for MLS like what can Chicharito do that other big recruits have not?  Well funnily enough it is actually a path. And sort of imagine the Latin American energized fan base in MLS and the way that teams are promoting their clubs every season - imagine it as a snowball that is just growing and growing thanks to their Latin American stars. And now you come back to Chicharito with LA Galaxy who is going to do the same with the Mexican American community not forgetting by the way that its biggest rival right now is LAFC. And whose star is there? None only but his Mexican teammate Carlos Vela. So this now creates another storyline where you have clearly and arguably the most exciting matchup that we are going to see which is LA Galaxy against LAFC. Imagine you know the Red Sox against the Yankees...  Yeah.  ...But each star comes from the same nation. And it is just going to be tremendous.  I love it. Luis Miguel Echegaray covers soccer for Sports Illustrated. Thank you so much.  Thank you. This was great. 