  At the end of 2009 if you checked a music critic's best of list this was probably on it. It is an album called Merriweather Post Pavilion by the band Animal Collective. It followed 10 long years of recording and touring for the band. And their soft-spoken front man Noah Lennox took his newfound success in stride.  I think one thing that helped us is that we had kind of a slow build. It was not like we were playing to 10 people and then suddenly we were playing shows of 20000. So there was never this moment that kind of felt like overwhelming or anything like that.  And while there are traces of the uplifting influence of Brian Wilson for sure Noah Lennox thinks this new music has a somewhat darker feel than his past work.  I was not thinking of the thing as being a sort of dark lonely thing but I think it kind of came out that way. I think you cannot help but have the atmosphere and the environment kind of come out in what you are doing.  Because when you are working with Animal Collective you can all sort of bounce ideas off each other.  Mentally yeah. It is like a totally different thing.      For people who may not be familiar with your work explain how you actually produce music because some of it of course is done through computers right?  It is all recorded on a computer although I do not like to mess around too much with tweaking the sounds in the computer. I usually try to keep all that live and sort of performance-based.  And - but there are all these different layers to the music you produce. And I want to play actually a bit of a track from the record. It is called Friendship Bracelet for a moment before I ask you to kind of walk me through the process of that song.  Sure.      Tell me what we are hearing here. Can you break it down for us?  There is many layers of vocals although they are all sort of singing the same things.  They are your vocals.  And then there is several layers of percussive elements clapping and making little hits here and there. And then besides that I like to think of like salt and pepper. You just kind of like put these weird little sounds in there to spice up the song. It usually keeps my mind traveling through the song.      It is funny because right before you said salt and pepper I was picturing a chef. It really is like that. It is sort of this kind of intuitive sense of should I add some of this and a little bit of this?  I will often think about making music and making food. I am a terrible chef but...  You live in a you live in a good...  ...I do not know what that means.  ...you live in a good food city though.  I do.  Forgive me for this. I mean there is almost a religious sound. And I do not mean religious in the liturgical sense but religious like powerful like almost like you are making modern electronic versions of these soaring Christian compositions of the 18th and 19th centuries as cavernous sound by composers like Bach and Handel and Edenheiden. Do you kind of approach it that way?  Most definitely. And I feel like for those guys I could not say for sure but what it seems like it was kind of like a special event or not something that they would just do on a Friday night or something you know what I mean? And although I try not to take it maybe that seriously I am definitely more in that zone of thinking about music. Music for me is definitely not something I feel super casual about.      You ever go into churches in Lisbon and just listen to music?  I do sometimes go into churches but I have not been into a church where is there been music as of yet.  It seems like you take some of that atmosphere and you put it on this record that soaring big ethereal sound.  It is essentially just an effect that you put on a sound that makes it sound as if it is in this really big room. It is always been a type of sound that I have been drawn to maybe too much. I kind of slap it on everything unfortunately. But I guess music just sounds really good to me in that kind of space.      Noah Lennox thanks very much for coming in.  Thanks very much for having me.      And if you want to hear Noah spin a few of his favorite new records as the guest DJ over at All Songs Considered check out our website nprmusic.org. 