 Of course only one Republican will win the party's presidential nomination but for the remaining contenders there can be other benefits. Case in point Most of the current GOP hopefuls have written books and so their campaigns can double as book tours. As we hear from NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea sometimes it is hard to tell the politics from the promotional events.  Books by presidential candidates are nothing new. It is a time-honored device to lay out both a personal story and policy proposals. The all-time sales champ in this category is Barack Obama's The Audacity of Hope. This is from the audio version.   In the current campaign the bookshelf is loaded. There is Mitt Romney's No Apology. He talked about the book on The Today Show last year.   Texas Governor Rick Perry's book is called Fed Up! He too went on The Today Show before he was a candidate.   Texas Congressman Ron Paul meanwhile has been writing books for many years. His most recent is called Liberty Defined. He visited The View this year before officially jumping into the race.    Longtime publisher Peter Osnos has worked on political books. He says it is a medium where the candidate has total control.  A book has a great virtue. It is just you and the reader. There is no interviewer. There is nobody to get in the way.  Congresswoman Michele Bachmann releases her new book next week. That is actually kind of late. But Bachmann who has slumped in the polls after a strong start will use the occasion to reintroduce herself to voters. But the commingling of candidate books and the campaign itself raises some questions. Dennis Goldford is a political scientist at Drake University.  You can ask in a way Is the book there to sell a presidential candidacy? But in some cases you may wonder if the candidacy is there to sell the book.  Which brings us to two candidates who stand out in this field for their aggressive approach to product promotion former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and businessman Herman Cain. Gingrich is a prolific author writing on politics and history. He is co-authored a brand-new novel set during the Civil War and he produces movies. This trailer is from a Gingrich-produced film called A City Upon A Hill.   Additionally emails from Gingrich are often about a movie or book he is selling. Cain's book meanwhile is called This is Herman Cain. His travel schedule has prompted many to wonder if it is all really about selling books. Visits to Iowa have been rare. Instead he is been in Arkansas Tennessee Wisconsin and other places far from the early caucus and primary action. Cain addressed the assertion that his ultimate goal is to land a TV show like former candidate Mike Huckabee did after his failed 2008 presidential run.  If you know Herman Cain you know that nothing is further from the truth. If you do not believe me I invite you to get a copy of my new book This is Herman Cain.   You know if you can find one because they are selling like hotcakes.  Cain made those comments before allegations of past sexual harassment and an awkward answer to a question about Libya went viral. Any candidate would worry about the impact of such things on a political campaign but selling oneself as an author or a TV host or commentator is another matter. Constituents there can be much more forgiving. Don Gonyea NPR News. 