 And finally this hour a hole. This summer NPR's science correspondent Joe Palca has been helping us out. Occasionally our mix of news and features does not completely fill our two-hour program and we end up with a few small holes to fill so Joe has been filling them with short science-y pieces about holes. He is talked about black holes theoretical holes even donut holes. Here's his latest.  After doing several stories about holes I began to wonder whether this whole idea was such a good one. And then I thought well how come people do not get confused when I use the word hole in two different ways like I did just now.  So what is going on with a word like hole is just an example of something that your brain is having to deal with pretty much all the time.  Jennifer Rodd is at University College London. She studies how our brain makes sense of these ambiguous sentences. She says usually we can sort out meaning by context.  The politicians running for election or the films running at the cinema or the rivers running through the valley.  If context is not available we tend to fall back on the way the word is most commonly used.  If I say something like can you see that pen I have not given you much context but you are more like to assume I am talking about something to write with than about an enclosure for animals.  Another way to resolve ambiguities is recent experience. So if Robert Siegel and I just finished playing tennis and I said to him I cannot stand that racket he would probably think I was talking about the thing I just hit the tennis ball with and not heavy metal music or the dishonest business practices of the tennis club. There is one occasion when people seek out ambiguity on purpose puns as in if gophers went extinct it would upset the whole ecology. The hole ecology?  And for some reason that we completely do not understand people find that funny.  Well if you ask me this failure to understand the humor in puns is simply a case of scientists trying to by holier than thou. Joe Palca NPR News. 