 Eight seconds - that is how long a rodeo cowboy must stay on a bucking bronco to get a score. In the new movie The Rider audiences see how one cowboy made it through those eight seconds then had his life changed by what happened one second later. Critic Bob Mondello calls the film a modern-day Western with a hero who is a real discovery.  Brady is a horse trainer and rodeo rider who lives for the excitement of the competition - music blaring crowd roaring horses bucking as riders hold on for dear life. He still gets an adrenaline rush every time he goes. But for a while now he is watched from the sidelines. A freak riding accident that was captured on TV allowing him to relive it left him in a coma for three days. Now he has a metal plate in his head and orders from his doctor.    No more riding. No more rodeos. If you do not stop your seizures are going to get worse.  This is a little like telling Brady not to breathe. He is 21 lives in South Dakota and has been training horses since he was 8. When his dad decides to sell their horse Gus it is like he is losing a member of the family.    Carry Gus in his travels Lord. Just be with him all the time and protect him. Keep him safe. God and Jesus hear my prayer. Amen.  Brady's buddies sitting around the campfire smoking weed and strumming guitars also pray for fallen comrades - for Lane for instance Brady's best pal who was grievously injured riding a rodeo bull.    We are him and he is us. We are all one in this together. .  Those last phrases tell you that these cowboys pale complexions notwithstanding are Native American. There is a feather tucked into Brady's Stetson to honor his Lakota ancestry though he looks like a slender handsome Marlboro Man when astride a horse pretty much the only place he feels alive. The fellow playing Brady in The Rider is Brady Jandreau. And as that suggests there is a lot of overlap between the story we are seeing and the performer's story. The scar on his head the plate in his head is real. So is the TV footage of his being thrown and also the question of where he goes from here. Writer-director Chloe Zhao met Brady before his accident and fashioned the film's story from its aftermath. Many filmmakers blending fiction and fact this way would emphasize the documentary aspects. Zhao captures the look and feel of classic Westerns - wide-open prairies sky for days majestic sunsets and ever at the center this wounded cowboy who is so gentle with horses even ones who are crazy skittish.    Nobody's ever been on his back. Nobody's touched him.  Brady holds out one hand for the horse to examine sidles closer moves back when the horse steps his way approaches when the horse pulls back. It is a dance. And it gets results.    Good boy.  The horse that no one had ever touched is soon allowing Brady to put one arm over its back to put a leg up.    Did you learn this on your own or someone teach you?   My mom and dad.   Your mom and dad?   Taught me about everything I know. And I learned a lot being on their back looking down them ears. Oh good boy. You did not even know you did that did you?  Brady is just as attuned to the feelings of his best friend Lane who is doing rehab after being paralyzed in a far worse accident. It is hard to watch these two young men as emotions overcome their cowboy reserve without your eyes brimming. But as wrenching as The Rider sometimes is it is also suspenseful heartbreakingly beautiful and humane. There is a reason it took the top prize at the Directors' Fortnight awards in Cannes. The Rider is an exhilarating ride. I am Bob Mondello.  