 The artist currently known as Prince has mended fences with Warner Brothers Records. The label is the home of his biggest hits and the target of his derision after a highly public contract dispute back in 1996. This week the label released not one but two new Prince albums - the solo Art Official Age and PlectrumElectrum which is a collaboration with the rock band 3RDEYEGIRL. Reviewer Tom Moon says the albums herald a return to form for the prolific composer and multi-instrumentalist. Just do not call him a comeback.    Oh wake up.  Over the last 20 years Prince has gotten more attention for his spat with Warner Brothers and the shenanigans about his name than for the music he is continued to make. Curiously he remains a force because on any given night he can walk on stage and do this.   As a performer Prince remains undeniable among the living best. That track is one of several rousing blues-rock jaunts on his collaboration with the female trio no known as 3RDEYEGIRL. According to the press release this was recorded live in the studio on analog equipment. It is the first time in many years that Prince has captured the spontaneous combustion feeling of his live work on a record.  3  We came from a people who built everything in farmer land. Let us stop looking for a reason to die and just sound the alarm. Maybe the hand that you are looking for is at the end of your arms end of your arms end of your arms.  Curiously that energy is mostly missing from the other release a science-fictiony concept album.    Breakfast can wait. Finally my eyes are open. I dream about you all night long. The only thing that I have been hoping for is before you go to work babe we get it on.  All of the Prince tricks are here - the salacious bedroom bound reframes drum programming that is wickedly effortlessly funky. But it feels somewhat airless. To make the contrast clear Prince does a song called FunknRoll on each record. On the solo album it sounds like this.    Another mother further you are committing a crime. Let us roll. Let us roll baby baby.  And with 3ne sounds like this.    So finally beloved we meet at last. Middle of the here never mind the past. Only way to get to where you never been is to party like you as not going to party again.  For a long time now critics have been saying that Prince has lost his touch as a pop composer - that nothing compares to the writing on his first 9 or 10 albums for Warner. This twin look at his current creativity suggests that material is not really the problem. Incredibly he is still cranking out clever and catchy tunes. It is just that in the studio he sometimes loses touch with that thrill-seeking intensity that comes naturally to him on stage. Call it the unexpected. Call it call it wow.    You can call it call it wow.  Whatever it is he seems to have found it working with 3RDEYEGIRL.  The latest works from Prince are Art Official Age and PlectrumElectrum. Our reviewer is Tom Moon. 