 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block in Dallas.  And I am Robert Siegel in Washington. Greyhound racing has been on a downward trend for decades. Only seven states still have the sport and most of the tracks are in one state Florida. NPR's Greg Allen reports that Florida's legislature is now considering a bill that could be the death knell for the industry.  It is a weekday afternoon at the Mardi Gras Casino in Hallandale Beach near Fort Lauderdale. Inside some players are at the card tables but most of the action is around the slot machines. The slot machines and card games are relatively new here. For most of the 80 years it is been in existence the casino was known as the Hollywood Kennel Club later as the Hollywood Greyhound track. Outside only about a dozen people are in the grandstand. But the dogs are on the track. Handlers lead out the greyhounds. The dogs get excited as they are loaded into their starting boxes. And then the race begins.  Here's comes Dixie. And all .  Eight greyhounds are running and it is the first of 18 races. As a sport greyhound racing's best days were probably 50 years ago when in most areas horse and dog tracks were the only legal gambling outside of Las Vegas. In recent decades many greyhound tracks have closed. Concerns about how the dogs are treated have led many states to ban greyhound racing. Today 13 of the remaining 24 tracks are located in Florida but a bill making its way through the legislature may soon reduce that number.  What I would like to see is I would like to see the state of Florida come into the 21st century.  Maria Sachs is a state senator who is working to pass a bill that would lead many of Florida's tracks to stop racing greyhounds. For several years now the legislature has allowed most of the tracks to also run poker rooms. A few like the Mardi Gras Casino and other tracks near Miami also have slot machines. Sachs' bill would allow them to keep the slots and the card games even if they eliminate greyhounds. She says it just recognizes a fact greyhound racing is a dying industry.  The attendance has gone down. The treatment of the dogs of course has gone down as well because they are not making any money anymore.  There is not much dispute about the economic facts. In Florida the amount bet on dog races is a third of what it was just a decade ago. A consultant's report to the legislature found only a few tracks still make money on greyhounds. For the rest the dogs are a loss-leader that allows them to continue operating their profitable card rooms and slot machines. Sachs' bill has been gathering steam at the legislature in part because it is supported by groups like the Humane Society and others concerned about how greyhounds are treated. Between last May and February 95 greyhounds died at tracks in Florida as a result of illness and injuries. At the Mardi Gras track the first race has just run. Trainer Alan Murray is walking one of the racers a brindled black and tan greyhound named Musical Chairs.  That is Chairs.  How did he do?  He did well. He ran third.  So he made the money on this one.  Yeah he made money. He did good. He tries hard.  Murray has a law license and an economics degree. He and his wife a veterinary assistant raise greyhounds. Like most in the industry he angrily rejects charges that his dogs are not treated well. Yes as in any industry he says there are bad apples. But even with declining purses Murray says there is no incentive for owners and trainers to cut corners when it comes to taking care of their greyhounds.  If you are cutting corners you are not making money. You do not get paid unless your dog runs fourth or better. If you cut corners then that guy next to you is going to whip your butt.  Jack Cory a lobbyist for the Florida Greyhound Association believes the real issue is that some greyhound tracks want to become full-fledged casinos.  They think if they do away with live racing then the legislature will chip away and give them slot machines this year table games next year. And you will have 13 casinos operating in the state of Florida.  At the Palm Beach Kennel Club Vice President Joe Rooney says concerns that the bill being considered by the legislature may kill dog racing are not warranted. Some tracks will close he says but his is one of three or four that will keep racing.  I think actually you would just end up with better dogs better kennels better operators. And I think we would still have plenty of dogs to meet our requirements.  Even Rooney concedes however that the days of greyhound racing appear to be numbered. In Florida the legislature is considering an overhaul of the state's gaming code one that may open the way for big resort casinos in South Florida. That is competition that even the fastest greyhounds are going to find hard to beat. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 