 One of TV's most beloved sidekicks has died. Valerie Harper best known for playing Rhoda Morgenstern on The Mary Tyler Moore Show died this morning in Los Angeles. She was 80 years old. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has this remembrance.  Blunt insecure self-deprecating and stylish - Rhoda Morgenstern was the friend you wish you had yourself.    You know that award thing we are going to on Saturday?   Yeah.   I am not going.    Mary what I mean to say is right now I can think of better ways to spend Saturday than watching you win an award you know?   I am not going to win.   You are not.   No probably not.   In that case I will go with you.   Valerie Harper told NPR in 2010 that Rhoda was the perfect foil for the buttoned-up Mary Richards.   Rhoda had this wonderful quality of saying the unsayable. Things that Mary Richards would not say because she is too much of a lady or you know it is not polite Rhoda the New Yorker from the Bronx would just say it straight out.    Tell me. What else are you taking that is nicer than what I got?   Shall we go?   I bet your bathing suits are cuter than mine too.   Oh Rhoda they are not.   Bikinis right?   Yes.   Mine look like sweatsuits with short pants.   They were one of TV's great comedy teams says Syracuse University professor Robert Thompson.  I mean we had Lucy and Ethel. They were kind of the Romulus and Remus of TV girlfriends and we would get a lot thereafter - Laverne and Shirley and Cagney and Lacey. But Rhoda and Mary were - I do not know. When they were on stage together even though they were not dancing it was kind of like watching Astaire and Rogers. They just worked perfectly together.    In spite of everything you are really a pretty hard person to dislike.   I know what you mean. I am having a hard time hating you too.   We will both have to work on it.   In her memoir Valerie Harper talked about how she obsessed over how to define Rhoda. She helped give her that hippy chic look with colorful scarves and flowing skirts and pants. She wrote that she also tried to soften her edge. As Rhoda Valerie Harper won three Emmys in a row in the early 1970s and then the sidekick stepped into the spotlight. Rhoda Morgenstern got her own show and another Emmy.    My name is Rhoda Morgenstern. I was born in the Bronx N.Y. in December 1941. I have always felt responsible for World War II. The first thing I remember liking that liked me back was food.  Valerie Harper was born in Suffern N.Y. Her father was a lighting salesman. Her mother was a nurse. Harper's first love was ballet. Her first job - a dancer with Radio City Music Hall when she was a teenager. In the late 1950s she was a chorus girl in Broadway musicals. To hone her comedy chops she did improv with Second City where she met her first husband Dick Schaal. She later married actor and TV producer Tony Cacciotti. After years of doing sitcoms Harper took on some serious roles. She co-wrote and starred in a one-woman play about Nobel Prize winner Pearl Buck. She portrayed the late Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir in another solo show Golda's Balcony.    Citizens of Israel the Israel Defense Forces our sons have entered the fight.  But Valerie Harper will be remembered most for her impeccable comic timing - a skill she put to very good use when she played the glamorous hard-living actress Tallulah Bankhead in the play Looped.    And so Patricia as I was telling you that deluded rectum...   Rector.    Rector.   Well now that is what I said.   No you said rectum.   Oh.    Well that gives it quite a different meaning.  Valerie Harper was nominated for a Tony Award for Looped in 2010. She told NPR before taking the role she had some reservations about repeating some of Tallulah Bankhead's salty language.   But I got around it. And when we - and we presented her as she was in life. The F-bomb was all over. And every time I did a show I would say do not bring the kiddies to see Rhoda.  In 2009 Valerie Harper had a cancerous tumor removed from her lung. In early 2013 she was told the cancer had spread to areas surrounding the brain and that she probably would not make it through the spring. In typical Harper fashion she remained upbeat in interviews like this one on the syndicated TV talk show The Doctors.   And more than anything I am living in the moment. I really want Americans and all of us to be less afraid of death and know that it is a passage but that - do not go to the funeral before the day of the funeral. While you are living live.   Long after The Mary Tyler Moore Show Valerie Harper talked about how grateful and lucky she felt for landing the role of Rhoda who she called as downright relatable as they come and a character she loved. Millions of female viewers felt exactly the same way. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 