 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. BP is doing risky underwater work today. It is trying to cut through a heavy riser in its latest effort to capture some of the oil that is been gushing into the Gulf of Mexico. So far the risk has not paid off. Oil has now washed ashore in at least three states and Florida is likely next. NPR's Debbie Elliott reports.  After weeks of looming offshore the orangey-brown crude is now fouling beaches and marshes from Louisiana to Alabama. Louisiana has been hardest hit so far but since yesterday signs of the pollution have shown up on barrier islands in Mississippi and Alabama. Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour says a strand of caramel-colored emulsified oil came onshore on Petit Bois Island south of Pascagoula. Governor  It is like two miles long but about a yard wide and not solid apparently.  Barbour says this is the first significant amount of oil to hit Mississippi and warns it will not be the last. He is calling for stronger offshore defenses to prevent oil from reaching the coast. Gov.  This hopefully was a wakeup call for us.  It is increasingly clear that there is no stopping what is coming. The oil on Petit Bois came up from under the surface so it was not detected by overflights. Patches of oil have also hit Dauphin Island Alabama south of Mobile. Further east in Orange Beach near the Florida border tar balls have washed ashore and streams of oil are just about six miles out in the gulf. It is coming at the worst possible time the start of the summer tourist season. At a town hall meeting today in the city gym local officials pressed BP for a commitment to pay local businesses who have been hurt by the oil spill. Former BP CFO Paul Bashem was booed when he dodged the direct request. Mr.  I will certainly give a commitment that I will work hard to achieve each of your complaints.   Restaurant owner Regina Shipp says she is been through four adjusters since filing a claim for a 10000 loss at the end of April. Ms.  They are not doing what they say. President Obama is getting on TV saying We will make BP pay you. President Obama they are not paying.  She worries how businesses will stay afloat here. Ms.  You know Orange Beach is a tourist town. You know we - my husband and I moved our family here because it is a tourist town and we are restaurant tourism and that is where you make your money off tourists. If the tourists die the town dies. It will be a ghost town.  Orange Beach Mayor Tony Kennon says the town knows how to handle a natural disaster - but not this. Mayor  This unfortunately is just a black cloud that is just hovering and we all feel helpless in that we just do not feel like we have any ability to effect the change or be part of ending this. It is a very frustrating feeling.  It is a frustration that is spreading with the oil along the Gulf Coast. Debbie Elliott NPR News Orange Beach Alabama. 