 Some of you might be feeling a little shall we say over-served after last night maybe a little draggy not lot of pep in your step. It is OK your superpowers will return. In the meantime here's a Found Recipe classic that is all about one woman's super skills.   My name is Claudia Lucero and I can make cheese in one hour.   That is right. Claudia Lucero of Portland Ore. has the power of one-hour cheese.  Mozzarella ricotta paneer goat cheese queso blanco.  OK. All right - full disclosure - these are actually simple cheeses. Lucero the woman behind urbancheesecraft.com says to make them you do not need superpowers. You only need practice and they are relatively easy to make in an hour or less. But cheddar...  Cheddar you age anywhere from two months to 10 years to make it really sharp. Crazy - I do not have that kind of time. I have got one hour .  Nonetheless Claudia Lucero has created a 60-minute pseudocheddar. She calls it the smoky cheater. Here's how she did it.  What I want is a firm wheel that you can slice and have as a snack. It has that golden cheddar hue. And I wanted a really nice savory flavor with a little bit of tart aftertaste. I separate the curds from the whey after having added turmeric for color and smoked paprika. And then I kind of want to do a little bit of a cheddaring process. And what that normally is is you press the curds together stack them on top of each other leave them for a while come back do another folding and stacking.   Well if we are doing cheddar in one hour we have got to snap this up. And so I do that for about a minute and move along . And so you know I know at this point I am very much drunk on my own power. I press it into my wheel mold and it is looking amazing. I let it cool for a bit pop it out and it is gorgeous. And I really think I did it. I am a total genius. But then I go to slice it and it feels a little squeaky. There is a little resistance but that is OK. I keep going and I try to melt it. And it is not melting it is just kind of keeping its shape but it is getting beautifully crusty and golden on the outside. And it turns into almost like its own grilled cheese sandwich. I taste it and it is delicious.   So it was a keeper and I decided to call it smoky cheater because it is nice and savory and smoky with that smoked salt and paprika but it is definitely not cheddar.   Claudia Lucero - she is the author of One-Hour Cheese and if you have ever dreamed of being a cheese maker here is your chance. Lucero's recipe for the smoky cheater is on our Found Recipes page at npr.org. 