 Now another Syrian activist one who says he was in the house yesterday with those foreign journalists when it was shelled. He goes by the name Abo Bakr and he is a resident of the Baba Amr neighborhood in Homs that is been under siege for 20 days now. After the attack that killed Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik Abo Bakr says he fled to a nearby house already occupied by a family. He is now one of 20 people hiding in the two-room house. I spoke with Abo Bakr earlier today through an interpreter and I began by asking him to describe yesterday's attack.   We were bombed yesterday with 25 rockets. We were not targeted. Nobody knew our location. We were hosting six foreign journalists. We were hearing so many explosions around us but then the sound got closer until one rocket hit the backyard of the house. Then rockets started hitting the roof and that resulted in the roof falling down completely. We were working in this place. The shelling intensified and we decided to leave the building in groups. The second group was preparing to leave. That group had the journalists who were killed.  Activist Abo Bakr says he was with journalist Edith Bouvier when she was injured hiding in a corner of the house. We were holding each other he said with the rockets falling like rain above our heads. After the attack he says he carried Bouvier to the nearest car and took her to a makeshift hospital. Immediately after they left two more rockets hit the house. I asked him to tell me as much as he safely could about where he is now.   I am in Homs in Baba Amr. There has been an intensive shelling since the early hours of the morning. Snipers are located in buildings around the neighborhood. Baba Amr is a middle-class neighborhood. Houses here are either one or two stories. This makes it easy for snipers to kill people. They are entertaining themselves by killing the people in front of them in addition to shelling us.  Since the attacks yesterday would you say that the bombing in this part of Homs is it as intense as yesterday more intense or is there any sign that the army has stepped back?   The intensity of the shelling has not changed since day one. Now I am sitting in this house and I could be killed at any moment like what happened yesterday. At any moment now a rocket could hit.  How are people surviving in Homs Abo Bakr?   It is as if we are living in a prison but in an open prison a prison where if anybody goes out they can get killed. People are surviving on the water they have in their houses. There is no food no clean water. All we have here is some light food. Sometimes we do not even eat. Yesterday and the day before I did not eat. The day before that I ate only onions and garlic.  The international community Abo Bakr is meeting in Tunis. It is called Friends of Syria - 70 countries from around the world trying to figure out how to respond to what is going on in your country. What is your message to them?   Syrian blood is so cheap. More than 10000 men women and children have been killed. These are massacres. Then for two people an American and European there are many statements from Europe. This man and woman are good friends of ours. I am not talking badly about them but just look how cheap the Syrian blood is for the international community in general and for the Arab community specifically.  Our message to the international community is to provide humanitarian corridors for us here in Baba Amr. We have more than 500 martyrs in the last 20 days. This is a huge number. I do not want to say they were just killed. They were shattered by these rockets. You walk here in Bab Amr and foul odors are everywhere because of the body parts scattered here and there. There are many bodies under the rubble that we cannot get out. The situation is very tragic. We demand humanitarian corridors for medicine food and clean water. We just want to live as half-humans not even full human beings.  Apart from those humanitarian corridors Abo Bakr are you asking the international community to intervene militarily in Syria right now?   The only solution for the Syrian revolution is the military solution and to have a no-fly zone. After the no-fly zone we must be supported militarily. This is the only solution for our revolution to succeed. Bashar al-Assad has no mercy. Baba Amr is a residential area. There are only citizens unarmed people. We just want a no-fly zone and limited military support. With our strong wills we can defeat Bashar al-Assad.  Abo Bakr it is good of you to talk with us today. Thank you very much.  Thank you. Thank you very much.  That is a Syrian activist who goes by the name Abo Bakr speaking with us from the besieged neighborhood of Baba Amr in the city of Homs. 