 Among the biggest prizes Republicans are hoping to win this November is the Senate seat in Illinois formerly held by President Obama. The Democratic candidate State Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias is a basketball-playing friend of the president. But his campaign has been hobbled by a state college savings program that lost tens of millions of dollars and by the failure of a bank owned by his family. The Republican nominee Congressman Mark Kirk was considered the dream candidate for the GOP - a moderate whose views play well in that blue state. But Kirk's front-runner status is now shaky after revelations that he has exaggerated his military record and other parts of his resume. From Chicago NPR's David Schaper reports.  The last month or so has not been good for Congressman Mark Kirk but that is not because of anything he is said or done recently. Actually it started with comments he made back in 2002 at a committee hearing. Represent  I have been in office just one year. Before that I was a Navy Reserve Intelligence officer was the Navy's Intelligence Officer of the Year in 1998.  It turns out that Kirk's boastful claim is not true. He was part of the Intelligence Unit of the Year named such not by the Navy but by an outside group. Then there is this claim Kirk made on the House floor in  Rep.  The last time I was in Iraq I was in uniform flying at 20000 feet and the Iraqi Air Defense Network was shooting at us.  It turns out that is not entirely true either. The military has no record of Kirk's plane taking fire. And there were other exaggerations and embellishments too. Kirk claimed to have served in Operation Desert Storm but he did not. He claimed he commanded the Pentagon's War Room but that is not true either. And Kirk's claims about his background as a teacher contain some inaccuracies too. He has often claimed he worked as a nursery school and middle school teacher but an official at the upstate New York church where Kirk did part-time work in the nursery school tells The New York Times he was never ever considered a teacher. Three weeks ago about the military embellishments Kirk said he quote simply misremembered it wrong. But after apologizing to newspaper editorial boards and in a handful of TV interviews Kirk has refused interview requests including NPR's. In a statement a campaign spokeswoman says Congressman Kirk believes his time working in a nursery school and middle school provided valuable life experience which he has built upon throughout his career in public service. But Kirk ran away from reporters yesterday after speaking at Senate candidates' policy forum at a luncheon hosted by Chicago's Metropolitan Planning Council darting out through a kitchen doorway at a service entrance and into a waiting SUV. But his opponent Democratic Illinois State Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias did stop to comment. Mr.  I think this goes to the fact that he is got some serious questions that he needs to answer.  For months it had been Giannoulias who was on the defensive for his office losing tens of millions of dollars from a college savings program the failure and FDIC takeover of the bank owned by his family and the Illinois GOP has been running ads portraying Giannoulias as a mob banker.  Unidentified Announcer Over the years Alexi Giannoulias has had some shady ties including the mob.  This Sopranos ad refers to questionable loans made by the Giannoulias family's Broadway Bank where Alexi worked as a senior loan officer before being elected state treasurer in 2006. Roosevelt University political scientist Paul Green says the Illinois Senate race has devolved into a mess of charges and counter-charges about who did or did not do what. Mr.  This is very Shakespearean. It is much to do about nothing. Puffing up your record you know everyone does it. Mr. Kirk may have gone farther than most but again it is not what this contest should be about.  The race is tightening up with polls showing Republican Kirk losing support and Democrat Giannoulias moving into a statistical dead heat. But surveys also show the nastiness turning off many Illinois voters and opening the door for at least one third-party candidate. The Green Party's LeAlan Jones has surged to getting the support of 14 percent in one recent poll. David Schaper NPR News Chicago. 