 It is a year until the start of the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro and despite worries over construction quality and delays Brazil is promising that everything is on track. All this week Rio has been running Olympic test events. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro spent this morning at one venue itself the subject of controversy over the quality of its water.  The rowing Olympic test matches are underway in Rio de Janeiro's lagoon. It is a beautiful cloudless day and there is as you can hear a lot of excitement.   U.S.A. U.S.A. U.S.A.  I am beyond excited. We have been looking forward to this for months and I just cannot believe it is finally happening.  That is Jennifer Moffat from Manlius N.Y. who is here watching her daughter row. These test events allow organizers to make sure that facilities are working and to run through operations - kind of like dress rehearsals. And so far so good on what is happening on the surface of the water. Last week though an Associated Press investigation found that the water quality here is basically equivalent to raw sewage. So we decided to ask one of the U.S. coaches here about whether or not there should be a change of venue.  The conditions have been great. The water is a great lake to row on and pretty. It is fair. So if FISA has us racing - if the - our governing body has us racing then we are not worried.  That is Conal Groom who coaches the men's sculling team. He says at this point most Olympians have been training for this course.  It is a sport that looks really simple - a bunch of round buoys in a body water - but there is a lot of technical stuff. You know the athletes and the infrastructure have just put too much work to prepare for this course this setting.  Other athletes agreed. Both the world sailing and rowing bodies have said they will be testing the waters for viruses something that they were not doing before but they have not called for a change of location. And Rio is promising it will try and improve water conditions before the games. So it seems for now all will go ahead as planned. But as one Brazilian resident of the city quipped to me outside the rowing venue I am sure it will be a fine for the athletes but we will have to deal with our terrible water long after the Olympians are gone. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Rio de Janeiro. 