 Now we are going to remember one of the last stars of Hollywood's golden age. Doris Day died this morning at her home in California after a brief bout of pneumonia. She had celebrated her 97th birthday just last month. Of course Day was a movie star but that was sandwiched between her early success as a big band singer and her later activism for animal rights. Sonari Glinton has this appreciation.  She was the girl next door which is probably why her films with Rock Hudson were so successful. I mean who would not want to see a young Doris Day in the bathtub?    You will find that most people are willing to meet you halfway if you let them.   Am I going to see you tonight?   Oh I would love to Rex. But I already have a date tonight.  In this scene from Pillow Talk the screen is split. Day and Hudson are in their separate bathtubs but it looks like they are in the same one with their feet touching. Kind of risque for 1959.    I will pick you up at 8.   I will be ready.  That was day at the height of her film success but her career began as a big band girl singer. And with Les Brown's big band she had one of the biggest hits of World War II.    Going to take a sentimental journey. Going to set my heart at ease.  For many GIs Doris Day represented the kind of girl you would want to fight for and come home to.    When I was just a little girl...  The end of the war brought the end of the big band era and the beginning of Day's film career. Alfred Hitchcock used Day's voice as a plot device. In The Man Who Knew Too Much a distraught Day sings a distress signal to her kidnapped son.    Que sera sera. Whatever will be will be.  Que Sera Sera became her signature tune and went to the No. 2 spot on the charts. Will Friedwald wrote the book on jazz singing - literally.  I mean she really is sort of the mother of all tuneful sunny blondes. But at the same time there is definitely a dark side to her. You know she can explore that kind of emotion very effectively in song.    There'll be no one unless that someone is you.  In the musical drama Love Me Or Leave Me Doris Day plays '30s singer Ruth Etting opposite Jimmy Cagney who plays her jilted mobster husband.    You have got to give her credit. The girl can sing.  In the '50s Day played a lot of these meaty roles in movies such as Calamity Jane Pajama Game The Man Who Knew Too Much. But it was not until the end of the decade that she settled into the romantic comedies and the persona that would stick - the girl next door. Norman Jewison directed Doris Day in two films in the 1960s.  She was a good girl. She was not too smart. She brought a kind of an honesty and a freshness. And she was also strangely sexy.    You always tell me perhaps perhaps perhaps.  Doris Day's husband and manager died suddenly in 1968. Not only had he lost her entire fortune but he signed her to a television series without her knowledge. Doris Day slogged through the five seasons of The Doris Day Show and left Hollywood. And it seems if she could not be the girl next door in her youth as the years passed she could come close - sort of. Sonari Glinton NPR News.    Perhaps perhaps perhaps. 