 Judd Apatow started writing stories from his own life into his comedy on the late-90s TV show Freaks and Geeks. It was about a kid named Bill Haverchuck. When Judd Apatow was young he says he would make himself hamburgers or grilled cheese sandwiches and watch talk shows to get through his parents' divorce. So he wrote a scene for Freaks and Geeks where Bill comes home from school and turns on the TV.  And he just watches Gary Shandling do standup on The Dinah Shore Show and slowly goes from being depressed to laughing his ass off. And after I made that Jay Katzen who is our producer and one of the directors said that is the best thing you have ever done and it is the most personal thing you have ever done. And that changed how I approach all of my work. I just realized for the first time that my stories might be interesting.  When Apatow was young he moved here to L.A. and did standup. But then he says he had more success with writing. Apatow and I sat down the other morning to talk about his movies about the HBO show Girls which he executive produced about politics and about his latest project. We started with the bromance movies he is made like Superbad and 40-year-old Virgin which he says are sometimes misunderstood.  You always have to start people in an immature place or in a place where they need to learn a lesson. And there are always people who do not quite understand that if everyone is mature there is no comedy.   Which just would not be funny.  It is like asking Jerry...  If like Seth Rogen started out as like this fully-formed - you know?  Yeah. It is like asking Jerry Lewis not to go lady. Like that is the whole thing for female characters for male characters. I was just reading an interview with Lena Dunham in Rolling Stone magazine and she was talking about how some people do not get that she wrote the joke of the show - the idea of white female entitlement - that we were making fun of that.  He is talking about the show Girls. Lena Dunham is the creator and star. It is now in its final season. Apatow says the show about four young women in Brooklyn definitely has some haters.  If a woman says I love myself I love my body I am comfortable with my life comfortable with my mistakes and I deserve a seat at every table and everything should be completely equal there are guys who lose their minds. And she certainly has decided to go right at all of that and to be outspoken. And I think she is been an incredible inspiration to millions of women.  One thing I just recently read is that you are one of the writers for the you know sort of now infamous speech that President Obama gave in 2011 at the White House Correspondents' Dinner. We actually have a clip of it. We are going to listen.   No seriously. Just recently in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice at the steakhouse the men's cooking team did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around but you Mr. Trump recognized that the real problem was a lack of leadership. And so ultimately you did not blame little John or Meatloaf. You fired Gary Busey. And these are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at night.  Of course this is President Obama making fun of Donald Trump. And you know the camera pans to Donald Trump. He is obviously very upset. He is not laughing.  Here's the thing. He runs the country like he ran The Apprentice. The premise of The Apprentice is a crazy rich guy has his daughter and his son oversee celebrities doing tasks. And then they come back to him and they tell him how they did. So in every episode he is like how did - how did Meatloaf do Ivanka? And then she says Meatloaf really did a great presentation. And then he makes some impulsive decision about who to fire based on not being there not really even understanding anything. Except now he is the president and he is literally going hey Ivanka how did North Korea do on that ballistic missile test? What should we do? Did you ask your husband?  So you have very strong feelings about this administration.  Why you working me up in the morning.  .  It is like so early.   I know. I am sorry. You are obviously - you know you favor the Democrats.  It is not favoring the Democrats. There is no logic in how he thinks. I do not want someone who is the president who says 3 to 5 million people voted illegally when there is zero proof. It is a crazy person.  You can say this stuff. But I guess the real impact - right? - is like a couple of things like how you spend your money and the kind of stuff you make right? I mean it is how do you think about yourself in this moment and what you can do.  As a Jewish man who has no interest in Judaism whatsoever there is something in me that says when bad things have happened in the past people were supposed to get more active and speak up and prevent them. That is what is important to me is that everybody - and I do not care what side you are on. You can disagree with me but everyone better get active. Everybody better vote and be thoughtful.  Are you doing that? Are you like doing registration stuff? Are you doing activism like organizing? Are you...  Well I do benefits. I did a benefit for the ACLU a few weeks ago. We did a benefit for the USO last week in New York. I try to work with people like Rock the Vote and it was effective. I think we were part of a campaign that got about a million and a half new people registered. It would be so irresponsible not to speak up. I do not know what I would do in my home and in my life if I did not rant a little bit and as thoughtfully as I can with some humor.  Yeah I was going to say how is it going to affect your work like projects in the future? Like do you think that is going to seep in?  I do not think it will. I think my instinct creatively is to make things that are very funny and happy and silly. And in this moment where the world is very scary I feel like my role is to make people laugh really hard.  .  And it does not make me think I want to write a new TV series about the Trump surrogates. Although I keep telling the world someone should make that show. The Trump surrogates. It is free. Go take it.   I want to talk about your latest show Crashing. It is coming out soon on HBO. And I want to be honest. When I first heard I was like a show about a white guy trying to make it as a comedian? And I am not trying to be a jerk when I say that. I am just - you know I wanted to know...  It is just because I am not Asian. People are like dying for this show about an Asian comic written by Judd. But you know the show is multicultural. There is a lot of different types of people on this show.  Yeah it is not even the white thing. It is like another show about a comedian dude trying to make it in the world.  Well you know the show is also about God and religion. It is about a guy who is very religious. He marries the first woman that he is ever dated in his life. She is unhappy with him and cheats on him. And it forces him to pursue his love of comedy. So he moves to New York. He is not good at all.  Right right right I was going - can we listen to a clip really quick?  Yes please.    I feel like I won an award. Like you brought me up like I won something. I think it is weird when you win an award you are supposed to point to god if you thank him. You go thank God and you point to the sky because that is where God is. But we are on planet. The sky is that way as well right? So I want to win an award like a Golden Globe so I can go up and just be like I want to thank my lord and savior Jesus Christ.   He points sideways and like...  You pick the one clip that only works with a visual joke.  You can see it. I mean yeah he is like pointing sideways.  That is an NPR blooper. He says I want to thank God then points down. But what is interesting about the show is that he is a very religious person hanging out with dark and wounded comedians like Artie Lange. So within this attempt to pursue his dream he is also talking about his spirituality and trying to keep his soul while hanging out with a lot of people who do a lot of things that maybe some people should not do.  How much of your life is in there too? I mean we talked about you doing standup.  Yeah. I mean my love of comedy is certainly in there also how uncomfortable I get around successful people. When I was young I wanted to be at the table with the good comics but terrified to talk terrified to make a joke. All these characters - the 40-year-old virgin - they all have some part of my Bill Haverchuck nerdy terror.  Right going back to that Garry Shandling scene. Well Judd Apatow thank you so much for coming in today.  Well thank you.  Judd Apatow's show Crashing premieres on HBO on Sunday.  