 ALL THINGS CONSIDERED turns 40 years old today. And to mark this milestone we have asked NPR's Susan Stamberg has been here since we first went on the air on May 3 1971 and she poked through our dusty archives to revisit some of the programs past birthday celebrations.  When we started there was war in Vietnam demonstrations against that war the voting age was lowered to 18 the Beatles had broken up and in the air as well as on our air in the early '70s a sweetly notable absence of irony. Host Mike Waters marked ALL THINGS CONSIDERED's first birthday.   We will not devote this program to looking backward over the year.  Well not the whole program. We did give a party invited some children and asked what they liked on radio and TV. Nobody mentioned ALL  us.   I like I Love Lucy and Dick Van Dyke and love Jeanie.   When you are seeking a solution to ...  Do not drive do not ride walk it.  On ALL THINGS CONSIDERED's second birthday 1973 this non-commercial radio program ran a contest asking listeners to compose commercials for nicer living. We gave an example. The singer is Linda Wertheimer.   When your head in a shambles so much so that it just rambles...  Sort it out seek escapes take a walk.  See what I mean about no irony?   From National Public Radio in Washington ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.    Good evening I am Susan Stamberg. We are marking the third birthday of our program today and thinking youthful thoughts. First Bob Edwards has a summary of the day's top news.  The Watergate prosecutor's office...  A president resigned a war ended we got a new theme they changed like hairdos and ATC turned five then six. Every year we marked out birthday. In those early under-resourced years I think we did it in amazement that we would made it to another May 3. At least by age seven we got a sense of humor about it.   In a congratulatory message to the staff NPR president Frank Mankiewicz took to the intercom and he said seven years may not be much for a struggling young public radio network but look at it this way if we were a dog we would be 119. The staff applauded and then barked.  Age 10 seems a big deal. Bill Siemering NPR's first program director who conceived of ALL ngratulations and concerns.  I would fear that because of its success there is a tendency to not take as many chances and not to have as much fun as you should have.  Twenty another milestone half of perfect vision. So we found some people who were 20 and asked what it was like.  I feel like I can make decisions about my life that I could not have made a couple years ago.  Another decade 10 more candles on the radio cake in 2001 some 30 year olds reminisced.  I grew up in a state of profound nuclear angst.  I had a scrapbook of Princess Diana. Her wedding that was really cool.  The Gulf War was a TV special and it is all precision and clean and smart bombs and CNN.  Today they are all 40 and so is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. For some of us it is nice to be 40 at our age. Wishing ATC many more lively decades. I am Susan Stamberg NPR News.  Pardon?  ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  I am drawing blank.  I do not understand. Is what 20 years old today?  Oh hi again. I could not resist this. We were half our age when this was recorded. In 1991 our audience was maybe half its present size but running it again at 40 keeps us humble.  ALL ones are they?  ALL THINGS CONSIDERED is for National Public Radio.  Oh yeah.  I do not listen to National Public Radio. 