 The U.S. women gymnasts have been dazzling all week and the team has nicknamed themselves the Final Five in tribute to their fierce leader Marta Karolyi. She is stepping down after the Rio Games. Karolyi and her husband Bela have been towering figures in the world of gymnastics shaping and coaching generations of U.S. gymnasts. To talk about Marta Karolyi's legacy we have writer Dvora Meyers. She is author of the book The End Of The Perfect 10. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  Marta Karolyi is officially the national team coordinator for U.S. gymnastics but it seems like she has a lot more power and influence than that. Can you kind of describe her role in the sport today?  Well officially she runs the national team training camps where once a month all the top gymnasts in the United States come and they are trained and observed. And she gives out these international assignments. Now technically there are two other people on the committee that decides who makes these teams. But I think most people recognize that Marta's voice is the loudest in the room and the most important. Like the team that she really wants is generally the one that gets selected. But she is also I mean - the girls really respect her. And the girls really want to please her. Deep down making Marta happy is what a lot of these girls are after.  Now Marta was born in Romania as people know. She was married to fellow coach Bela Karolyi. Now tell us about the system that they developed in Romania what they essentially exported here to the U.S.  So the system that they developed in Romania - they were given permission to create an experimental school in Onesti in the Carpathian Mountains which is where actually Nadia Comaneci was from so just really lucky. But anyway they created this centralized model where the gymnasts sort of trained a lot without distractions and where the real priority was on sports and all the other things were kind of secondary.  And of course they have a ranch in Texas which has become something of a mecca for elite gymnasts right?  Yes. So now we have this semi-centralized training system where once a month the members of the national team and other gymnasts who receive invitations and their coaches go down to Texas for five days and train with the national team training staff and stay in like cabins on the ranch.  Not everyone looks fondly on the Karolyis tenure. They have a reputation for being tough have been accused of demeaning athletes in the past. People have been critical of some of their methods. Can you talk to that history and whether Marta was a part of it?  Yeah. Well in the '80s and '90s especially when they moved to the Unites States - like stories started to come up about how harsh they were on the athletes how hard the girls trained and they were not particularly kind to them. And some of their athletes like Dominique Moceanu and others have spoken out against them and spoken about their experiences. And others have defended them and said that this was necessary that this was how they were motivated to train and compete at this level. If you want to beat the Soviets you want to beat the Romanians you really have to work incredibly hard.  And is Marta Karolyi still talked about in that way?  Over the years I have definitely noticed - I mean she is still considered a real tough cookie. That said it seems like she has softened and even seeing her break down and cry at the Olympics when the team told her what their name was - the Final Five in her honor - it is definitely been a noticeable slight softening. I still would not want to have to work through those training sessions with those girls. I still think it would be - I still think it is really really hard .  What do you think her legacy will be?  When I think about her and Bela but especially with Marta they built two gymnastics powerhouses in two different countries. You know putting their methods aside and whether or not you agree with how they coach I think it is a real testament to sort of their vision and their leadership abilities.  Dvora Myers thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.  Dvora Meyers - she is author of the book The End Of The Perfect  The Making And Breaking Of Gymnastics' Top Score - From Nadia To Now. 