 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Ari Shapiro. In Utah a piece of immigration reform has been stalled by the federal government. Three years ago Utah broke new ground in the debate. Elected officials business and faith leaders came together to sign something called The Utah Compact. It called on federal and state leaders to pass reasonable immigration reform. The Utah legislature went a step further passing among other things a state-run guest worker program. But without the go-ahead from the Obama administration that program has not yet been implemented. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports there is now even talk of repealing it.  Inside the Spartan rotunda of the Utah State Capitol there is a mural of Brigham Young and the first Mormon pioneers. Beneath it is a more modern sculpture of a woman walking forward with her son who is holding a globe.  So - and as you can see this one is titled Immigration and Settlement.  The symbolism is not lost on State House Speaker Becky Lockhart.  Utah is a place that understands the value of immigration - right? -the value of peoples coming to find a better life.  A Republican and LDS church member Lockhart cowrote the state's guest worker law. It allows immigrants living in Utah who came to the U.S. illegally to pay a fine and apply for a two-year work permit assuming they pass a criminal background check. Now to understand why this was considered so monumental you have to go back to that moment in early 2011. Frustration and anger over illegal immigration was at a fever pitch especially in border states.  Can you hear us Mexico? This land is our land.  Arizona passed a law the previous summer requiring police to check immigration status during routine traffic stops.  But it is not your land.  In Utah Speaker Lockhart and her colleagues watched the boycotts and the court battles that followed and decided to go a different way. Lockhart recalls how an unlikely political alliance formed partly spurred on by the recent signing of The Utah Compact.  We all believe in the American dream and we have always believed you know the Statue of Liberty. Come here and live the American dream and - but we want people to do it legally. And something's wrong with the legal way. It is not working as it should.  Here's how Lockhart sees things - tens of thousands of immigrants have come to Utah illegally in recent years lured by plentiful jobs in construction and tourism. This state has the second lowest unemployment rate in the nation but Utah's education and healthcare budgets are strained. So why not bring all the new residents out of the shadows she says and tax them?  When states get involved in this it is because states are very frustrated 'ecause we are dealing with the consequences of a failed federal policy right?  But Utah's guest worker law is predicated on the federal government granting it a waiver. The state has had to extend the law's effective date twice while they have waited. There has still been no response from the Obama administration. Likewise neither the White House or the Department of Homeland Security would discuss Utah's waiver request with NPR. The impasse has sparked growing calls to just repeal the whole thing when lawmakers reconvene here next year. Bob Wren chairs the group Utahns for Immigration Reform and Enforcement.  So nothing will happen with it and we just keep extending it. It makes us feel good to say that we have the solution for the entire world in the state of Utah.  There is also cynicism among immigrant rights activists like Tony Yapias.  I have been pessimistic from day one. I mean we are just saying why are they pushing this law because this is never going to get implemented - I mean of all states the Obama administration to give Utah a Republican state say an experiment with immigration.  But whether or not the law ever gets implemented there isbeen a big shift in Utah. The entire atmosphere toward immigration is a lot less charged. Democratic State Senator Luz Robles cosponsored the 2011 law.  It is not an issue in Utah anymore. I think that is like the first thing that gives us a signal or you know a flag that we have succeeded.  It has not hurt either that police in cities like Salt Lake for the most part do not worry about immigration status. Utah also gives in-state tuition and driving privileges to immigrants living in the country without papers.  .  Jesus Savala a resident of Salt Lake since the late 1980s says laws like those are helping curb discrimination and racism. Savala and his wife and grandson are shopping in the Latino mall on the city's west side. It is a collection tacquerias clothing stores and banks anchored by a Rancho supermarket.  .  Savala says Latino immigrants are also speaking English more than they used to and that is helping them integrate into the community. He remembers the 2011 guest worker law fondly. Yet three years on he has a brother-in-law who is still struggling to find steady work. He is the last the family without papers.  .  It is frustrating he says. My brother-in-law just wants to be able to work here legally.  .  Latinos are Utah's fastest-growing minority but this region has also seen a sharp rise in immigration from Pacific island nations owed to the influence of the Mormon church. A booming tech sector has also attracted Indian and Pakistani immigrants and from that community you hear some of the same things. Attitudes towards immigrants legal or not have changed considerably in Utah.  You know it is been gradually getting better.  Sunny Nisar opened his curry-fried chicken restaurant a year ago on this gentrifying block of State Street south of the downtown skyline. At sundown on a recent night people filed in to break the Ramadan fast. Nisar knows firsthand that things are gradually getting better. Two days after 911 his family's original Halal restaurant in Salt Lake was set fire. It was quickly deemed an anti-Muslim hate crime. Nisar says community leaders and the LDS church rallied behind them and that started something bigger.  There is a lot of awareness going on. A lot of people are getting to know us better than just going off what they see on TV and what they have maybe - you know have misconception in their head.  Nisar does not pay too close attention to politics but he says Utah's religious values are a big reason why the state embraced a softer approach to immigration. You hear this from people everywhere here - business owners Republicans Democrats churchgoers. Utah is a pro-family state and the tone on immigration is a lot calmer here than on the border. Just take state House Speaker Becky Lockhart who was eager to point out Utah's history at the beginning of the story. She says her views on immigration have evolved a good deal in recent years.  Utah is a unique place. In Utah we understand the human factor. And it is not a black and white issue right? It is not this way or that way or - and there are people's lives here.  Lockhart who is not running for reelection says she is proud of what Utah did. She is also still holding out hope that the federal government will consider granting that waiver so the pilot project can move forward. Kirk Siegler NPR News. 