 These days the American South is an essential part of hip-hop. It is hard to imagine what rap would sound like without artists from Houston like Megan Thee Stallion...    Simon says put your hands on your hips. Simon says put your hands on your knees.  ...Or New Orleans artists like Juvenile...    Girl you working with some back yeah. You bad yeah. Make a brother spend his cash yeah his last yeah. Girls frown when you pass...  ...Or of course Atlanta artists like OutKast.    Southernplayalisticadillac funky music. Now players if you choose it...  This has not always been the case. Just 25 years ago when a young Atlanta rap duo was named best new artist at the Source Awards the reaction was less than enthusiastic.   That duo was OutKast and Andre 3000 had a proclamation that day.   But it is like this - the South got something to say. That is all I got to say.  Southern rappers have often been dismissed and denigrated for their spin on the art form which is why NPR Music has now published a canon of Southern hip-hop - 130 songs and albums. The project is called The South Got Something To Say. Editor Briana Younger and NPR Music's Rodney Carmichael are here to break it down for us. Thanks for being here.  Thanks for having us.  Thanks for having us.  Briana tell me about this huge ambitious project. I mean how did you go about creating this canon - figuring out who was out who was in?  Yeah. Well I mean I knew that the South - such a huge and diverse region and that I could not do it by myself and that a lot of the ways in which Southern rap had been characterized on mainstream platforms had been done by writers and critics who did not necessarily come from or identify with the South. So I found around 25 critics from all across the South and we just kind of voted and discussed and discussed some more what this thing would look like.  You know when I was a kid it was all about New York versus LA like East versus West. Why do you think it is taken so long for Southern rap to get its due?  I mean you know old hatred dies hard you know? And folks been hating on the South so long it is just in their blood now. But the really big thing I think is the fact that you know the music industry has always been based on the coasts. A lot of that respect and just that understanding of how to translate what is going on in the South to the rest of the world it is been lacking.  Briana?  You know it is certainly true that people everywhere have enjoyed Southern rap and it is the dominant sound. But it is also true that it is not really respected you know as an art form. It is not necessarily always seen as sophisticated or skillful. Like Big K.R.I.T. on Mt. Olympus which is one of the songs we included...    Now they want to hear a country - rap. Five albums in...  ...It came out in 2014 and he calls out all of this. He talks about people claiming they cannot understand Southern accents. He talks about artists in other places taking certain sonic and cultural markers of the South and then it suddenly being the cool thing.    Like one of these days I am going to be a rapper but all my verses going to be borrowed. So I am going to take from all these Southern artists that mainstream never heard of recycle all of their lingo and make sure I screw my words up. Bravo for you...  He talks about even himself people saying he could have been the king of hip-hop but they would not give it to Andre 3000 nodding back to those source words. And this song would have been out nearly 20 years later.    You telling me I can be king of hip-hop and they would not give it to Andre 3000? Please.  You know these are all old conversations that are still very relevant and that still drive a lot of the discourse around Southern rap.  So with 130 artists on this list give us one example of a track that like really represents what the South brings to hip-hop.  Well I hope everybody recognizes Knuck If You Buck.    Knuck if you buck boy. Knuck if you buck boy. Knuck if you buck boy. Knuck if you buck boy. Knuck if you buck...  That is an anthem that has transcended the South in the many years since it is been out in the ether. Crime Mob is an Atlanta group - or was an Atlanta group - that you know put this song out on their debut album.    Yeah we knucking  and bucking and ready to fight. I bet you I am a throw them things so haters best to think twice. See me I as not nothing nice. And Crime Mob it as not no stopping. It be like Saddam Hussein Hitler and Osama bin Laden...  You know it is one of those songs that you hear at sporting events. It is a song you hear at the club but you know you see a lot of memes and a lot of you know a lot of Internet stuff created around Knuck If You Buck.  And as I was scrolling through this list there are a lot of things on here that seem to have been very influential but did not get national attention. Briana why do not you tell us about one of those?  Yeah. Kind of staying in line with Knuck If You Buck we had Gangsta Boo's Where Dem Dollas .   Gangsta Boo was the first lady of Three 6 Mafia - an absolute rap Southern Memphis queen. That song in particular is so essential because in addition to being her biggest hit you kind of get a lot of history and lineage there. Women in rap and especially Southern women are often kind of pigeonholed as only talking about or rapping about sex or their bodies. That is never really been the case then or now. And so here we have Gangsta Boo making gangsta rap just you know kind of talking her stuff getting her money. Her flow is tight. The lyrics are tight.    Get your mind twisted like some dreads on a Jamaican's head. Vicky lingerie candles lit rose petals on the bed. Blazing...  And we also hear the chants on the hook. A lot of the things Memphis was doing early on are the roots of a lot of things Atlanta in particular would become known for like crunk and trap music. As we just heard in Knuck If You Buck you will hear kind of a through line.    Where the dollars at? Where the dollars at? Where the dollars at? Where the dollars at?  At this point Southern rap music is so influential. I mean you have got like trap beats all over the place people rapping with a Southern twang. And so when you looked at present-day music like how did you choose who to include?  To me I did not want us to be afraid of saying something fresh is also great and worthwhile and fits in this dialogue that we are building out. And so like Lil Baby was always someone I felt strongly about including because we have already begun to see how he is impacting the genre and the culture. And I did not really need five years to make that assessment.    Trap house Jeep goes too fast. I do not even wear no seatbelt. That little - got no breasts. Upgrade now she got D-cups. Hop out the Range I am glowing. Who is Lil Baby? He going in. Man these old rappers getting boring. They be taking shots I ignore them. Send them...  Is there one example you can give us of somebody who you think indicates where Southern hip-hop might be going next?  Yeah. I think Denzel Curry is an interesting case study. His album Zuu from last year it is kind of in its own dialogue with say like a Travis Scott Astroworld which is included or a J. Cole 2014 Forest Hills Drive where we see these rappers explicitly calling on their homes and identifying themselves at the places that made them.    That was back in Carol City yeah when I was just a jit with the all-black faded Dicky with the Raider fit. That was it. We was lit. You all was not even - yet. We was Three 6 Wu-Tang mixed with Dipset. Ricky used to take me...  I think the one thing that is always been true about Southern rap in particular more so than what you get on each coast is that it is constantly evolving into something new. One year is snap. The next year is crunk. The next year is trap music you know? And I think that the reason that the South is able to do that is because you know for one thing as Briana pointed out it covers many states and it covers many styles. And so that is always churning and coming out and reproducing and replicating something new.  That is Briana Younger and Rodney Carmichael. You can see their work with the project The South Got Something To Say. It is up at npr.orgsouthernrap.    Want to be a baller shot caller. Twenty-inch blades on the Impala. Call her getting laid tonight. Swisher rolled tight got sprayed by Ike. I hit the highway making money the fly way. But there is got to be a better way. A better way yeah. 