 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  I am Audie Cornish. And we begin this hour with arms in Syria. The deadline is this weekend for the regime to hand over its chemical weapons. And it looks like Syria is on schedule to finish getting its chemical arsenal support where it will be shipped out and destroyed - at least that is the arsenal the government has declared. And this presumed success in limiting weapons of mass destruction may have mixed impact on the terrible civil war. In a moment we will also hear about the U.S. effort to send conventional arms to Syria. But first the chemical weapons. And we are joined by NPR's Alice Fordham now in Beirut. And Alice as we said the deadline is on Sunday. What do we know about how far along Syria is in this process?  So the international body - the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons - that is been overseeing this month's long effort they say it looks like they have taken more than 90 percent out and onto boats now. And that is more than 90 percent of the weapons that Syria has declared of what the world knows about.  Now you mentioned this has been going on for months. But remind us how we got here. How did Assad agree to give up these stocks of weapons?  It was the fear of something worse. You probably remember in August last year there was a horrific chemical weapons attack just outside Damascus which killed hundreds of people including children. The U.S. blamed Assad's soldiers for it. Assad denied responsibility. For a while it seemed as if the U.S. might actually respond with airstrikes but eventually with Russian mediation there was a compromise and Assad agreed to give up 1300 tons of dangerous chemicals or things you can use to make dangerous chemicals.  Now how has this made a difference on the ground in Syria?  Well a lot of people say it has not made the difference in the way that they would hoped. In the seven months or so since we saw that attack Assad's forces have made big gains. He is given up chemical weapons but he is used conventional weapons to level parts of the rebellious eastern side of Aleppo which is Syria's biggest city. And with the help of Hezbollah fighters from Lebanon he is retaken a crucial stretch of territory in the west which has a major highway along it. And his forces have besieged several areas which has starved a lot of people who were firmly with the opposition into submission and truces and surrender.  So it seems as though the opposition is in deep trouble at this point.  Right. They are angry and they are downhearted. And you know often they direct this at the United States because they say that Assad's felt he can act with impunity since the U.S. backed off the airstrikes.  But if Sunday's deadline is met can that at least stop the chemical attacks?  Well even that is in doubt actually. There is not proof but some Western officials worry that Assad never declared his entire stockpile of weapons. And lately we are hearing allegations of the use of chlorine gas in small-scale attacks. They do not seem anything like as lethal but we have spoken with doctors working inside Syria who alleged that they have treated chlorine attacks recently. The regime blames the rebels but at least on some occasions there is footage of devices being pushed out of helicopters and only the regime has those.  So Alice how could the government be using chlorine though if they are not supposed to have chemical weapons?  Well chlorine was not covered in the chemical weapons agreement. It is used in lots of industrial processes for example. It is also very difficult to prove its use. It disappears quite quickly before you can get a soil sample to a laboratory. And that highlights why some people are angry about all the attention just on the agreement and on chemical weapons. There is 250 people dying some days in Syria at the moment killed by conventional weapons. And people feel like that should be enough to make the international community want to intervene to stop this slaughter.  That is NPR's Alice Fordham in Beirut. Alice thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me Audie. 