 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Today the Senate moved one step closer to regulating trading in derivatives. Derivatives are those complex financial instruments that were at the heart of the financial collapse two years ago. The Agriculture Committee approved the measure by a vote of 13 to 8. One Republican Charles Grassley of Iowa voted with the Democrats.  Meanwhile the Senate Banking Committee is hard at work to finish its broader financial reform legislation. This morning White House economic adviser Lawrence Summers talked about financial regulations. In an interview at his West Wing Office Summers described the bill under discussion as the most comprehensive reform of financial regulation in more than 60 years. As for the revival of the bill's chances and of Republican interest in negotiating on the bill Lawrence Summers says that doesnt just reflect last week's news of an SEC civil complaint against Goldman Sachs he says it reflects far longer term considerations. Mr.  Financial reform is an issue that brings the American people together. There is no one satisfied with the status quo. There is almost no one who believes that the major danger is that Wall Street will not be able to take enough risk. And therefore there is a very strong commitment to standing up for the public interest against the special interests.  It sounds to me you are saying the Republicans have likely reconsidered their political position on the same field rather than... Mr.  I will let the Republicans speak for themselves. For us in the White House the matter is very clear. This is about a foundation for future prosperity. And even more fundamentally it is a test of the ability of our government to stand up for the public interest against the strongest most highly-paid and most willing to spend special interests.  I am sure you heard former President Clinton's remarks the other day when he was asked about regulating derivatives. Back when he was in the White House he said on that score he was wrong to have followed the advice of you and your predecessor at Treasury Robert Rubin. In those days you were against regulating derivatives. Where did you have it wrong back in the 1990s? Mr.  Much has changed. The credit default swap market didnt even exist in the mid 1990s and that is the center of our trouble. I have consistently been for transparency consistently been for clearinghouses consistently emphasized the need for legal certainty in this area. And there is no question in the context of current conditions that we need far stronger oversight. We need far more reliance on clearinghouses. You know people do not really know what a clearinghouse is.  But this individual derivatives market has changed in... Mr.  What that means is the taxpayers being on the hook if someone fails their counterparties their partners in the clearinghouse will be on the hook.  If the derivatives are regulated in an open exchange as you say counterparties would be on the hook not taxpayers. But Jamie Dimon the head of JPMorgan Chase says depending on what this new regulations do the cost to his bank could be between 700 million and 1 billion. Are their customers going to be on the hook for that as - will we all pay more in fees to our banks to cover the added costs that the banks will face for trading in these derivatives? Mr.  If you look at the market value of the major financial institutions if you look at the levels of compensation that they are able to provide their employees many cases people over 10 million I do not think there is any question that they can absorb the costs of providing for safety and soundness without passing it on to consumers who need to borrow money or depositors who deposited in those banks.  But there is a difference between whether those institutions can afford to absorb those costs or whether they will opt to absorb those costs and try instead to pass them on to their customers. Mr.  You look at the derivatives market the participants in those markets are overwhelmingly the largest financial institutions. So it may be that there will be some passing on to consumers but the consumers in those markets are the largest financial institutions. And so yes they bear more costs because there is no longer reliance on implicit government insurance. That is as it should be.  I want to ask you what you made of an argument that William Cohan wrote about in a column on the op-ed page of The New York Times yesterday. He described this as obscene. He says the big banks are borrowing money from the Federal Reserve at an interest rate about a half a percent and they are buying Treasury bills at 3 percent making money off the government and keeping interest rates so low that people who were saving who were depositing with them can barely make any money by doing so. Is something wrong with that picture? Is there something wrong with it that would be changed by the financial regulation bill? Mr.  If the financial regulation bill had been in place we would have a more stable financial system. We would be much less likely to confront a period like the present one. So the financial regulation bill would make an emergency like the present one less necessary. I do believe that in an emergency of this kind that we have avoided - and it is a great credit to Chairman Bernanke and it is a great great credit to the policies that the president adopted when he became president 15 months ago. Zero interest rates were a part of that. They were the right thing to do but they would not have been necessary if we had acted to prevent the disease.  I know you are pretty optimistic about the economic indicators right now. When does the emergency end? When are we out of the shadow of the crisis? Mr.  You know when a patient has a heart attack the sense of a major medical problem does not go off like a light switch it recedes. That is the process that we are in.  Do you see it receding right now? Mr.  Right now we are surely in a period of much less risk than the period six months ago but we obviously have a long way to go. We have a statistical recovery but still a human recession. And no one can declare any kind of victory as long as 15 million people are unemployed.  And in terms of the problem that Mr. Cohan described of almost free money at the Fed for banks who then can actually make money by buy and trade when is that emergency passed? Mr.  Robert we in the - it is a good try. We in the administration have a very consistent policy and it is contributed to success over time of respecting the independence of the Federal Reserve and neither trying to predict nor prescribe the Federal Reserve's behavior in setting interest rates.  Lawrence Summers thank you very much for talking with us once again. Mr.  Thank you.  Lawrence Summers is director of the National Economic Council and assistant to the president for economic policy. 