 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The drought that is gripping much of the country is taking a toll on the Mississippi River. Less water is flowing and river traffic has been brought to a standstill just south of Memphis. Further south at the mouth of the Mississippi low outflow means saltwater from the Gulf of Mexico is creeping in. That is threatening the drinking water supply for the New Orleans area as we hear from NPR's Debbie Elliott.  Traffic is still moving in the lower Mississippi including a ferry that runs commuters between New Orleans and Algiers.  If you do not own a car that is the only way to get across the river.  Aaron Burrow works on the water. He is a chef on a riverboat that is currently docked upriver because of the drought. He knows how the low flow affects navigation but did not consider what it could do to the water supply.  Drinking water's always been fine. The Mississippi River and the communities have been living along here a long time.  The saltwater has already moved 90 miles upriver and is just five miles from the landing where he got on the ferry. Saltwater typically encroaches up the Mississippi every eight to 10 years but that could be changing according to Mark Davis director of the Tulane Institute on Water Resources Law and Policy.  With rising seas and if we talk about deepening the channel of the rivers to accommodate bigger ships this kind of thing is something you may face more frequently. And if you get it wrong it can affect you know the vitality of industries and the health of populations.  Industries and communities that tap the river for fresh water. Normally the strong outward flow of the Mississippi keeps saltwater at bay but Davis says the lower river bottom is below sea level so when there is less flow coming downstream the Gulf moves in.  Saltwater hugs the bottom of the river because it is heavier and it is denser than the fresh water and that is what makes it a wedge not a wall. And right now given the low flows in the Mississippi and the level of the Gulf we are watching the water work its way toward New Orleans.  It is already affecting neighboring Plaquemines Parish to the south. Parish president Billy Nungesser no stranger to disaster declared a state of emergency a couple of weeks ago when redfish started showing up at the river and saltwater breached parish water intakes.  You know we have been through four hurricanes and an oil spill and if you would told me this was going to happen I would not have believed you.  The parish is now buying water piped in from New Orleans and other systems and is also sending barges upriver to gather fresh water.  And we are drawing water from those barges. The parts per million of salt got well over 1000 so it required us to do that to give good drinking water to the people of the parish.  The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers says the saltwater has been encroaching more than a mile a day but that pace has significantly slowed in the last few days and New Orleans district commander Colonel Ed Fleming says the Corps is working to stop it.  To try and arrest the development of the saltwater coming further north we built a sill in the bottom of the river.  It is basically an underwater barrier to block the saltwater wedge.  The sill is an earthen levy built on the bottom of the river on the floor of the river. We do not want to impact commercial traffic that comes up and down the river.  The Corps used a similar strategy in 1988 and '99 to protect the New Orleans water supply and officials are optimistic it will work again and the problem goes away once the rains return upriver. New Orleans Sewerage and Water Board director Marcia St. Martin. MARCIA ST.  At the moment I do not think it is a threat. We do not anticipate having to experience saltwater as a matter of taste coming into the plant.  A matter of taste because health officials say the saltwater is not a danger to most people unless they are on a low sodium diet. Debbie Elliott NPR News. 