 We are going to hear now from an American doctor who spent three weeks in Sierra Leone last month treating Ebola patients. He is Dr. Lewis Rubinson an intensive care physician at the University of Maryland Medical Center. He is also specialized in disaster preparedness.  So I obviously had anxiety but this is also work that I have been doing for my entire career both in terms of health care system response as well as had done work on viral hemorrhagic fevers from my background in bio-defense and bio-security. So I thought if not me then who? And clearly they needed additional people to assist.  And how much training did you have before you went to Sierra Leone about personal protection?  Personal protection I would been teaching almost all of my career. But honestly the personal protection equipment that we use there which is mostly applying World Health Organization and MSF principles for PPE were more extensive than anything I had seen before. And when you get there you are not trying to re-create the wheel. You get there you meet people who have been doing it successfully you know that Doctors Without Borders has been responding to Ebola for 20 years and there is been a lot of different thought and implementation and lessons on what personal protective equipment to use. So while I did jump right in I had excellent buddies teaching me each step of the way. And again it was not like I was unfamiliar with it but you still need to learn the processes that they want to employ.  Well as you think about seeing patients again at the University of Maryland Medical Center and think about preparedness around the country what lessons have you brought back from your experience in Sierra Leone that might apply in this country which obviously is seeing nothing on the scale of what is going on in West Africa?  There are nearly 6000 hospitals in the U.S. It would not have made sense to me that every single facility would have the ability to be honestly prepared. It does not mean that there does not need to be an appropriate level of the ability to identify patients and provide early treatment and keep staff safe. I think that is really on every institution because we cannot control where patients present. But I think out in West Africa we got very very good at being 100 percent all of the time. You had to. In the U.S. there is no technological fix for this. We cannot buy a widget and just solve it and give it to the hospital and say you are prepared right now. Most of this is about diligence it is about discipline and it is about 100 percent adherence. And I think again that is very hard to imagine that every facility could do that. Not because they are not good facilities it is just there are other priorities that they need to be taking on at the same time. Again every facility needs to be able to identify the patient take care of the patient early keep the staff safe but I think it is very hard to imagine that every facility would be good at managing a patient throughout their course of the disease especially if they get very sick like had happened in Dallas.  That does raise all sorts of questions though. Even in those initial stages as you say you cannot control where a patient might present. Staff would need to be protected even in those early phases and you are saying it is unreasonable to expect that every facility every staff worker would know the protocols and be fully protected. So there do seem to be a lot of gaps there.  No I think that is fair. But it is not an all or none Melissa. You know if you are focusing on early identification and isolation most of that is going to come through the emergency department or entries from the community. That is where you can concentrate a lot of your teaching right? It does not need to be every single worker in every single site. So while I think clearly it would be best if we had a strategy to teach everyone and to keep them adherent I think what we have learned from many other things as there is a tradition of knowledge and there is only so much training you can do. So if you concentrate your training on your high-risk areas - because we are still only talking about eight patients you know over just under 1 million hospital beds. Focus on the infrequent but high consequence. That area is mostly going to be your emergency department and other entrances from the community. Do very good teaching for those people and then do regional planning to try and see if there are places that are willing to go beyond that to make sure that all of their processes are in place to be able to care for a patient from day one all the way through to the end of their hospitalization.  Dr. Rubinson thanks very much for talking with us.  Sure. Thank you I appreciate it.  That is Dr. Lewis Rubinson an intensive care physician at the University of Maryland Medical Center in Baltimore. 