 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  I am Melissa Block. And we begin this hour with rising tension between North and South Korea. Relations between the two neighbors have hardly been good but they have gotten far worse since an international investigation blamed North Korea for sinking a South Korean warship. Today the Pentagon weighed in announcing joint anti-submarine exercises with South Korea. And Japan has cited the tensions as a reason for closer military cooperation with the U.S. NPR's Anthony Kuhn reports now from Beijing on the possibility of growing U.S. military involvement in the region.  South Korea's President Lee Myung-bak gave a stern speech today at a war memorial in central Seoul. He said that his country would exercise its right to self defense if its territory were violated by military force. He also pledged to bring North Korea before the U.N. Security Council and he suspended most trade between the two Koreas. Here in Beijing Secretary of State Hillary Clinton praised Lee's actions and agreed with South Korea's conclusion that the North had torpedoed the South Korean warship Cheonan killing 46 sailors in March. Secretary  The United States fully supports President Lee's responsible handling of the Cheonan incident and the objective investigation that followed which we and other international observers joined. The measures that President Lee announced in his speech are both prudent and entirely appropriate.  Pyongyang has denied involvement in the Cheonan incident. The tensions come as U.S. forces are consolidating their bases and preparing to give wartime operational control of combined forces to South Korea in 2012. The debate on the wisdom of this move is now likely to heat up. John Park is director of the Korea Working Group at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington D.C. He says the Cheonan incident could change perceptions of North Korea leading to a more robust U.S. military posture. Mr.  The portrayal of North Korea has been more of weak and the concern of a North Korean collapse being the greater threat. But with the Cheonan it could be something of a game changer where it is viewed as a potent conventional threat.  But other than reassurances and military drills the U.S. has not said how it would beef up its military presence. Thomas Fingar is a former deputy director of national intelligence and a scholar at Stanford University. He does not see any defensive holes that need plugging. Professor  I do not see a capacity deficit on the part of the U.S. in the region the South Koreans the Japanese. There is plenty of force capability out there now to deal with North Korea.  Meanwhile in Japan residents of the island of Okinawa angrily protested Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama's decision to move a U.S. Marine air base to another location on the island despite his campaign pledge not to. Secretary Clinton said Hatoyama made the right choice. Sec.  As a former politician I know how hard Prime Minister Hatoyama's decision was and I thank him for his courage and determination to fulfill his commitments.  Beijing has responded coolly to the Cheonan investigation. John Park says Beijing sees security in being the only country with close ties to both Koreas. Mr.  Picking one Korea over the other to the Chinese has always invited instability. And so right now this notion that we need to get China onboard to support the South Korean-led efforts I think it is very important to reevaluate that in this broader context of what the Chinese are trying to pull off.  Stanford's Thomas Fingar says that the U.S. force posture in Asia may eventually be scaled back as it can project military force over greater distances. Prof.  In the long run we are probably going to draw down because we have got long legs we can get there in a hurry.  And that he adds will make U.S. forces less of a hostage to any potential adversaries nearby. Anthony Kuhn NPR News Beijing. 