 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. And we begin this hour in Afghanistan. Secretary of state Hillary Clinton has arrived in Kabul. She is there along with dozens of foreign ministers for an international donor's conference. Diplomats are already calling the meeting a symbolic success because it is not being held in London or Tokyo. But many Afghan civilians are less impressed and remain deeply disappointed after nine donor conferences in nine years. NPR's Quil Lawrence reports from Kabul.  Since 2002 international donor conferences have pledged over 40 billion in reconstruction aid to Afghanistan though perhaps only 35 billion has been delivered. For the donor's conference tomorrow the road from the airport to the venue is freshly painted with red and white stripes and decked out with smart new Afghan flags. But the rest of Kabul's roads are not getting the same treatment. The dust-choked dirt roads of the capital are often the first thing Afghans mention in their list of questions about where the billions of dollars in donor money has gone. Another of the city's traffic artery is the road past Barubala is just now getting paved. Mohammad Yama a shopkeeper next to the dusty construction site wonders why it took six years for the work to even start and now more than two years to lay a mile or two of asphalt. Mr.   Our president is corruption.  Corruption is why the Afghan government has been so slow he says. Yama does not trust the international donors either. And on that point he actually agrees with the government. He would like to see more of the reconstruction money going into the hands of Afghans instead of international contractors. That is the goal of Afghan finance minister Omar Zakhilwal for the conference. Mr.  If I am asked the question to choose between doubling the pledges but continuing with the existing mechanism of delivery worse is keeping the pledges at where they are but then agreeing to the government's proposal to align its resources with its reality. I will pick the latter. And I believe the impact of the latter would be greater.  Only 20 percent of the money coming in goes through the Afghan government perhaps a sign of the international community's lack of faith in the Karzai administration. But Zakhilwal argues that the foreign governments and charities administering the aid have been equally wasteful. He wants to see 80 percent of international aid come through the Afghan government's development plan. This is a message that dovetails perfectly with a growing push from the west to draw down here. And U.S. ambassadors to Afghanistan Karl Eikenberry says the current Afghan cabinet is up to the task. Ambassador  But for the first time we have got a clear strategy. We have got the resources aligned against it. I think we have got a good group of partners here who can grip this. They know what the stakes are. We know what the stakes are. We are going to lean into this and try to make progress over the next year.  But this conference may be more symbolic than substantive. Dozens of international delegations will produce a joint communicae but Afghans are fairly skeptical about what else. Ms.  Many foreign delegates will come including some foreign ministers basically the U.N. secretary-general  they will have nice speeches.  Afghan member of parliament Fawzia Kufi says the current government is still so rife with corruption that it does not matter what the donors do. Ms.  The problem in Afghanistan is not lack of funding but the problem is with the capacity with trust in terms of delivering and outcomes and is very hopeful.  She says the Afghan government needs to be changed completely. But some observers say that in coming to the Kabul conference the foreign ministers from around the world seem to be accepting that the Afghan government is not going to change. Western diplomats and Afghan ministers promise there will be stringent accountability measures taken with this new plan to realign aid to Afghanistan. But still the bar has been set fairly low for the Kabul conference. When asked what would qualify the conference as a success the United Nations top representative in Afghanistan answered that it would be a success simply to hold the conference in Kabul. Quil Lawrence NPR News Kabul. 