 And this is NPR's Martin Kaste. The pipeline fight in Washington has been understandably frustrating for Canada and the conservative-led government there is particularly peeved at American environmental organizations. Here is Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver speaking to the CBC.  Their objective is to prevent development of resources in Canada.  On Monday Oliver went on the offensive accusing American greens of not only blocking the Keystone XL but worse he says they are also trying to keep Canada from selling its oil to anybody.  There are some groups in the United States that do have that view and they are sending money into Canada and they are trying to game the system.  The system the Americans are trying to game he says is this one.   These are public hearings for a new pipeline that would run from Alberta to Canada's west coast to fill up oil tankers bound for Asia. The Canadians figure if the U.S. blocks the Keystone XL that is all the more reason to make sure they can sell oil to China. The terminal would be near the village of Kitimat on British Columbia's wild northern coast. And the local Clifford Smith told the regulators that he worries about spills.  The proposed pipeline will come through our back door and the ships will come in and transport the crude oil. We are indeed facing a double-barreled shotgun.  These hearings are just getting started. An astonishing 4500 people have signed up for a turn at the mic in towns and villages all along the pipeline route. And the process may drag on for two years. Kathryn Marshall calls it a mob-the-mic tactic.  You know signing up all kinds of people to speak on an issue but they are all kind of saying the same things and they are being encouraged to sign up by one organization kind of like a filibustering kind of campaign.  Marshall runs a pro-industry organization called Ethical Oil which is running radio ads right now in British Columbia.   The ads call out environmental organizations by name. One of those is Ecojustice Canada.  And it is poppycock.  Karen Campbell is a staff lawyer at Ecojustice. In her Vancouver office she acknowledges the 275000 received a few years ago from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation in California but she says that hardly means Ecojustice is somehow under American control.  These are positions that we have taken and would be taking and it is fortuitous. And it is great for us that there is support from foreign foundations for this.  She points out that American money weighs heavily on the other side of this debate. American oil companies have a big stake in Alberta. Campbell is visibly shaken by the government's attack on environmental organizations. She says she is just not used to this kind of political intensity.  What is happening here is just so un-Canadian and it is almost too American for me. And - but that is what it is.  But others say it is not so new. Margaret Wente a columnist for The Globe and Mail in Toronto says natural resource battles can be deeply divisive in Canada and invoking the ugly American is an old tactic.  Historically Canadians have been hypersensitive to American influence and the suspicion that American money is playing a part in Canadian politics. And Canadians do not like to be pushed around by Americans.  But usually it is business interests that are accused of being under American control. What is new about this situation she says is that the tables have been turned and now it is the environmentalists who find themselves accused of being the lackeys of the nefarious Yanks. Martin Kaste NPR News. 