 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish...   ...and this is Bibi Tanga  The Selenites.  BIBI TANGA    My heart is jumping. My heart is jumping. My heart is jumping jumping jumping out of my chest out of my chest.  The group borrows its sound from all over the world a little bit of oomph from American '70s funk the call and response of Afrobeat and the attitude of French pop. The lead singer Bibi Tanga comes from well just about everywhere.    I had a crush on her my baby brown. Now my heart is bleeding because I am looking like the rest lately lately in the evening.  I was born in Central African Republic many years ago and...   ...and my father was a diplomat so we used to travel a lot when I was a little kid. From zero to 10 I was traveling so I started school in Moscow in Russia. I went to Germany Belgium. I was also in Brooklyn in '78. So maybe I saw you know the beginning of hip-hop or something like that. And then went to France and I spent all the rest of my life there.  So most of your teen years...  Yeah yeah teen years yeah.  ...are - you are in Paris.  In Paris yeah of course. Paris in the suburb yeah.  So with all of those different influences give me a sense of what is a song that you remember your parents used to play a lot or some piece of music that you still remember that was a favorite of theirs.  My parents both when we were young they both a record of Ella Jenkins which is...  Ella Jenkins I am not familiar with.  Yeah. She is an American singer. She doing all those Negro songs spiritual songs and Gospel and I was raised in it because my parents used to play this record every day every morning before we would go to school. And there were songs like you know...  Well it is O Lordy me and it is O Lordy my. Who is going to be your man?    Who is going to be your man? O Lordy me yes it is O Lordy my. Who is going to be your man? Who is going to shoe your pretty little foot? Who is going to glove your hand? Who is going to kiss your red ruby lips? Who is going to be your man?   Ella Jenkins.  Well no...  Oh you do not know Ella Jenkins?  I did not think...   ...well I know. I feel very guilty about it. But of all the influences in the album you know funk and French pop...  Yeah.  ...and a song like - we have one song Poet of the Soul which is actually based on a Walt Whitman poem right?  Yeah yeah.  Leaves of Grass. So Gospel was the last thing I was expecting you to say just now.   Yeah yeah no because you know I am just - I am saying this because when you are listening to some kind of Negro spiritual or Gospel it makes you be an open person so you can listen to everything after this. So my best was this and now of course there is a lot of mixture in what we do in life.  Right. This song Poet of the Soul tell me a little bit about it. It is got a real funky vibe.  Yeah.   Yeah because you know I do not know this poet called Walt Whitman. We have got a lot of books in the studio. So when we just playing music together we have those books. And if we want to sing we just take the book. And I did this thing you know I just opened a book of a poem of Walt Whitman and I was reading it. It was like I was talking you know? They call him the cosmic poet because the way he writes things you know it is like when you were talking like he was inside you you know just expressing...   You open up to...  Yeah.  ...Leaves of Grass...   Yeah yeah.  ..and you get this song.     I am the poet of the woman the same as the man. And I say it is as great to be a woman as to be a man. And I say there is nothing greater than the mother of men. I chant a new chant of dilation and pride. I am the poet of the soul. I am the poet of the body. I am the poet of the soul. I am the poet of the body. I am the poet of the soul.  Now you sing in three languages on the album - French and English. And is it Sango?  Yeah. You are right. Sango.  Tell me about that language and sort of which one do you write in.   Sango is my first language and I express myself in Sango when I am talking with my mother with my brothers and sisters. It comes naturally. We start speaking in French and then it turns to Sango. So it is really out of my skin like you know? And when I am writing songs it depends on what I am talking about you know?  You do it a different way each time.  Yeah yeah yeah.  Well this song - one of the songs that I love is in Sango and I think it is called Banda A Gui Koua?  A Gui Koua.   A Gui Koua.   That is about the point in the song where in my kitchen I put down whatever I am doing to just have my little dance break...   Cool.  ...the kitchen.   Translate what does the song mean?  This is the name of a fruit because this fruit is very tasty. I really like it. It is tasty. It is spicy. It is made with vegetables and fish. And when we eat it it has to be really hot you know?  OK.  So this is why we call it Banda A Gui Koua. And it is about a food that I really love because you know I really like it because when I am in France and I miss my country my mother once she was in France she just cooked that thing and I am eating it. It is just like I am transported to my country.   And you have been touring many countries in Africa...  Yeah.  ...over the last few months. And is this a song that gets a lot of response from the crowd or do people know you more for your kind of funk and French kind of pop sound?  Both sides. But this song made them go crazy you know? People were jumping in the crowd. This was really Banda A Gui Koua everybody jump up. They say OK Banda A Gui Koua.   Yeah. Well it had that effect on me so I believe it.   I was really happy.  Well Bibi Tanga thank you so much for talking to us about the album.  I am talking too much. Thank you so much.   There is never never enough for radio. We love it.  Thank you. Thank you very much.   Bibi Tanga his new album is called 40 Degrees of Sunshine.  