 The nation's for-profit colleges and universities have reaped a windfall from the new post-911 G.I. Bill. The top for-profits brought in about a billion dollars from the bill in the last year alone.  The Senate HELP Committee has corrected this information to say that the 1 billion figure applies over two years.  As NPR's Larry Abramson reports some lawmakers say federal regulations encourage these schools to target current and former members of the military.   At a Senate hearing today lawmakers and witnesses praised the two-year-old post-911 G.I. Bill saying it had helped many vets and active-duty service personnel go to college.  But Ted Daywalt president of the service organization VetJobs says abuses are common.   When one looks at the evidence the current post-911 G.I. Bill has truly been usurped by predatory for-profit schools.   Daywalt says many schools see military people as particularly attractive because their benefits do not count as federal support in a very important rule that for-profit schools must follow. For every 100 a school takes in only 90 can come from federal money such as student loans or Pell grants but G.I. funds do not count as federal money in that equation.  Holly Petraeus now looks out for vets at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. She says as a result of that exemption for-profit schools tailor their offerings so they will appeal to vets and active-duty personnel.   Easy to sign up military-friendly you can do it online. But the question is what is the value of those courses or that degree once you have completed them?   In many cases not much according to Petraeus's editorial in today's New York Times. Senator Tom Harkin said at a news conference that these schools have much higher dropout rates than not-for-profit schools even though they cost the government a lot more money.  Senator  Public schools is about 4874 and the for-profit schools 10875 so they get this huge dropout rate but they are charging twice as much as the public schools.   Many feel that the Veterans' Administration and the Department of Defense just do not police these schools closely enough. That was the conclusion of a GAO report earlier this year. And they say the government does not counsel personnel about websites like GIBill.com. That is a private site that steers military folks to the school of their choice as long as it is on the site's list of for-profit schools.  Bob Norton of the Military Officers' Association of America says the VA and the DOD need to monitor students' educational progress.   Look at degree completion look at licensing certification. Look at the outputs.   Meaning just how many people are graduating. And what kind of jobs are they getting with those degrees? The for-profit education industry says there is a good reason why service members and vets flock to their programs.  Brian Moran of the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities says his members offer the online courses and flexible schedules that soldiers and vets want.   It comes as no surprise to us just recently the G.I. Bill was expanded to include online and non-degree programs of which private sector colleges do and do well.   And there are many members of Congress who support the  for-profit schools based in their districts. That makes it unlikely that lawmakers will take any dramatic steps.  The Department of Education already faces a court battle and legislative challenges to new rules released earlier this year. They are meant to ensure that all for-profit students find good paying jobs.  Larry Abramson NPR News Washington. 