 The big U.S. trade deficit with China is likely to be a topic of conversation at the summit this week at Mar-a-Lago. President Trump has promised to boost the U.S. economy and create jobs by closing trade gaps. But as NPR's John Ydstie reports most economists including some who support Trump say the president appears to misunderstand what a trade deficit is.  President Trump believes trade deficits are at the root of America's economic problems. Here he is criticizing trade deficits during the presidential campaign.   I believe in free trade but we got to get something out of it. We cannot have free trade where we lose 500 billion a year where we lose a hundred billion with another country and 50 billion with another one.  The problem with Trump's view says economist Chad Bown is that trade deficits are not necessarily bad. And through trade both countries benefit even if one has a deficit. CHAD P.  Trade is not a zero-sum endeavor. It is win-win. And I think that is a different framework than he is used to dealing with - you know coming from the world of real estate where if I get something out of a deal you know it is something that you do not get.  For instance if Norway imports wine from France and exports oil to that country both are benefiting by exporting something they are very good at producing and importing something they cannot produce efficiently. And Bown says for highly developed countries like the United States a trade deficit does not necessarily imply economic weakness. In fact the smallest trade deficit in recent years was in 2008 2009 during the Great Recession. Economist Larry Kudlow who has advised Trump on economic issues expressed frustration at the president's focus on trade deficits during a recent commentary on CNBC.   I do not understand it. Trade deficit is a terrible gauge of the economy. Or let me put it in reverse. If we are in a position of having a large trade deficit that means we are growing and we are growing faster than the rest of the world.  Growing fast enough to have the income needed to buy more imports. And when U.S. consumers and businesses buy imports they are getting a Japanese car or German dishwasher in exchange for their dollars. So the question is what happens to those dollars? Well very often they are reinvested in the United States says Kudlow.   We are importing capital and that capital can build factories can put up car plants whatever. It is fabulous.  This has been a good deal for the U.S. economy says Chad Bown a fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. That is because Americans do not save enough of their income to support all of the investment the U.S. economy needs but our trading partners help us out by investing for us.  We are essentially borrowing from the rest of the world at relatively low interest rates to be able to make the investments that we need without having to do the savings ourselves.  And Bown says the fact that countries like China hold large amounts of U.S. debt means they have an interest in keeping the U.S. economy healthy.  Trade imbalances really have not been a significant impediment to the performance of you know the U.S. economy over the last 30 40 years or so while we have been running these trade deficits.  But it is not all good. While the overall economy and most individuals benefit some people are hurt badly by trade. A recent MIT study documents the deep and long-lasting damage inflicted on some American workers businesses and communities by the flood of imports from China in the early 2000s. Chad Bown acknowledges there are losers from trade.  Some people if they now face competition from Mexico or from China they may lose their jobs. Companies may go out of business. And so there is a role for governments there to step in to do something.  Bown says that does not mean erecting barriers to trade but it does mean supporting workers and communities as they adjust and retool for new jobs. John Ydstie NPR News Washington.  