 A stunning upset in Australia and a huge moment for a 19-year-old American tennis player. Sloan Stephens who has never won any title knocked out the powerhouse Serena Williams to a chance at the semifinals at the Australian Open.  This morning when I got up I was like look dude like you can do this. Like just go out and play and do your best.  That is Sloane Stephens after the match in Melbourne. Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated is there covering the Open. Jon Wertheim dude Sloane Stephens was down a set. She came back to win. How did she do it?  Dude.  Dude.  She can really play tennis. She did what so few have done against Serena Williams and neutralized her power. In fairness she did benefit from - Serena had a bit of an injury. But this was a very poised unflustered performance. There is a nice mix of offense and defense in here game. She really trite as it sounds she really did meet the moment yesterday. Big big win for her.  Worth noting too that these are both African-American women and the hyperbole around Sloane Stephens' victory is huge so this - she has ignited a bomb under women's tennis. Make no mistake a star is born.  Hey we have dudes and bombs in our story. That is rare. But no I mean I think you know it is funny is the racial subtext of this is something that will be explored. Already we are hearing about how Serena was Sloane Stephens' hero and idol when in fact in truth that is really not the case at all. Inevitably there're going to be comparisons but the truth is that Sloane Stephens is a very talented player who happens to be African-American. But any notion that she was inspired by Serena Williams that she took up the sport because of her as has already been reported is patently false. And I think if anything the fact that there is not this obvious cause and effect I think is actually grounds for celebration.  How would you describe Sloane Stephens' style of play? What makes her so great?  She is very quick on the court. She is not all large. She is not a big intimidating physical presence but she hits with deceptive power. She moves very well. She has a very outgoing personality as we heard. She is really been endearing and she is very social. And I think that really is an asset when she plays. That really came to bear yesterday. I mean she is playing Serena Williams. She would never been this far in a major tournament. She is only 19 and the first three times she served for three games she did not lose a point. She was the more composed player at the end and I think her love of the stage is really something that is going to be an asset to her career.  I read that after the match Sloane Stephens rushed over to her cellphone to see whether her mom had sent her a text. Her mother is not there with her in Melbourne.  And then she checked her Twitter following which of course if the great currency when you are 19 years old. You know I talked to Sloane Stephens after the match and she said do you know how much prize money you get for reaching the semifinals of a grand slam tournament? So she did not know about her prize money but she did know her Twitter following. Sign of the times. But her mother and also her grandparents who she says were watching on the box which is what they call a computer are not here with her. You can be assured that they will most likely be present at the next big event she plays.  And she reported that she had gotten a tweet from John Legend. Is that right?  She would like John Legend to sing at her wedding. And there is something very endearing about this. I mean sometimes you see these players and even as teenagers they are fairly jaded and they are cautious about what they say and they do not necessarily exude much joy and Sloane Stephens is completely unplugged. And who knows how long it will last but she is really enjoying the occasion and it makes it very easy to root for her as well.  That is Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated. We have been talking about Sloane Stephens the 19-year-old who beat Serena Williams to advance to the semi-finals at the Australian Open. Jon thanks so much.  Thanks Melissa. 