 When Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico last week power lines were knocked down cell towers were destroyed landlines were cut off. So amateur radio operators stepped in.   Just in case let me just see if we have any answers to the relays. Whiskey Papa Three Radio listening.  That is Angel Vazquez in Puerto Rico. Twice a day he broadcasts to the continental U.S.   Whiskey Papa Three Radio November Three Mike Victor Fox.  And that is Greg Dober another ham radio volunteer. He lives in Pittsburgh. These two guys are part of an informal network of ham radio operators who relay messages about how people in Puerto Rico are doing back to family and friends here. And Greg Dober is on the line with us now. Welcome to the show.  Thank you.  So for people who do not totally know can you explain how ham radio works?  The way it works it is just the old technology. Basically what we do is we have an antenna. We have a radio. And in that case with talking to Angel we use - for baby boomers it is called shortwave. But it is basically like when you were growing up with a set of walkie-talkies but just a little bit more power and a little bit more sophistication.  And it sounds like the way these messages are coming out of Puerto Rico and getting to the mainland is like a game of telephone. Could you just sort of explain how that network works in Puerto Rico?  Yeah it is almost - like you said it is like a party line. In this case if we have a network and the ham operators in Puerto Rico are checking into the network and there is a net controller basically that is like your telephone operator. And the telephone operator is connecting other ham radio operators in the United States who have checked into that network to say I am willing to take messages. And Angel was one of the first Puerto Rican ham operators to actually get on and say I need to get word out that we are OK. I just happened to be at the right place at the right time when he called.  Wow. So we have got a little bit of one of your conversations the last part of one of your conversations. Let us just listen to that for a second.   Yeah great. Yeah N Three Mike Victor Fox go ahead.  Roger. I did get a hold of Shirley . She is very happy about hearing about Tony . And I talked to Karen  and told her about Phil . You can relay to Phil that she is also going to tell Phil's mother that he is doing fine.  Roger roger roger. So...  Wow. That - so that is you talking to Angel Vazquez.  Correct. He had already gave me some messages to run. And then what I did is I made the phone calls. And then he obviously wants to confirm them with the people that you know asked for the message to be sent so he would get back on and ask that you confirm that you got a hold of the contacts that he wanted you to make.  How many messages have you relayed since the hurricane hit?  Myself about a hundred.  Oh wow. And what is - what are one or two that you know are you know you are going to remember for a long time?  Honestly there was one woman who - she just broke down in tears when I told her. And she actually called me back five minutes later and she basically asked me you just called me. And what you told me I want to hear it again to make sure I heard it right.  And what had you told her?  I told her that yes I did call you five minutes ago. And the news I gave you is the news that your loved one is OK.  And so she just had to hear it one more time?  She had to hear it one more time yes. And like I said as soon as I told her - and it is odd because you are telling people - I mean I was calling people in California in Texas. And you are telling them hi I am from Pittsburgh Pa. and I have news out of Arecibo for you or out of Puerto Rico. So for them it is kind of like what? You know that is not the way they are expecting to get their news.  It makes sense that they would be like wait is this for real?  Right. And so that was kind of it. Usually we ham operators are considered boring individuals you know? And one young woman said to me - after I told her she said you guys rock. And that I was not expecting to hear either because you do not really hear that as a ham radio operator.   Do you ever check back in with people? You know have you had sort of reason to?  No I have not only because again you know it is kind of one of those things where I think people are still in shock. These people are just so happy to hear that they are - especially in this situation where we are still - we are into a week after the hurricane and there is still people without electricity maybe for months and communication. So really I think that you know they deserve a little bit of privacy.  Well Greg Dober ham radio operator thank you so much.  Thank you. 