 And now our series for this week Highly Specific Superlatives of 2017. Today - the most retweeted tweet of President Donald Trump. Here to present it is NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Hi Tam.  Hello. And I would like to also think of myself as sort of a resident expert on Trump tweeting at this point.  OK if you accept that role.  It is...  It is a dirty job but somebody's got to do it.  Somebody's got to do it.  And the winning tweet for this past year turns out to be more audiovisual than textual.  That is right. It is a tweet that went out July 2 and does not have a lot of words just FraudNewsCNN FNN. And then there is a video.   What is going to happen?  Oh my God.  So this is a video of President Trump back when he was a businessman in a wrestling match as part of the WWE the professional wrestling where he knocks a man down to the ground. The video has been modified to replace the man's head with the CNN logo.  I think first video featuring a future president at a WWE event throwing somebody to the ground...  Yes.  ...Probably. And it is part of the president's preoccupation with the news media and with CNN.  He tweets about the news media on a very regular basis including today feels that he is mistreated and talks about it a lot. I should say that this tweet generated a huge amount of controversy because you have essentially the president of the United States taking out a news organization metaphorically. But still it was highly criticized at the time. President Trump - he has a certain philosophy about his tweeting which he outlined in an interview in late-October on Fox Business with Maria Bartiromo.   When I put it out you put it immediately on your show. I mean the other day I put something out. Two seconds later I am watching your show. It is up. Donald Trump...   You are right. We are watching your Twitter feed.  OK. And you know they are well-crafted.   If he does say so himself.  Yes. And he loves generating that conversation pushing the news cycle. And he says that he doubts he would be president without social media.  Well this was the most retweeted Trump tweet of the year. What were the runners-up?  Number two came November 11. This is while President Trump was on his Asia tour. And he tweets why would Kim Jong Un insult me by calling me old when I would never call him short and fat? Oh well I try so hard to be his friend and maybe someday that will happen exclamation point - which is an interesting thing to tweet given the current dynamics between North Korea and the United States in recent intercontinental ballistic missile testing.  Yeah. So that is number two. What was number three?  Number three President Trump tweets despite the constant negative press covfefe...  Covfefe yes.  And then it just trails off. We had to figure out how to pronounce covfefe. We believe this is how it is pronounced. That tweet was deleted approximately nine hours after it was originally sent out. And yet it was still his third-most retweeted tweet.   OK. That is NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith with her year-end highly specific superlative the most retweeted presidential tweet of the year. Thanks Tam.  You are welcome. 