 At this time of year depending on where you live you can always count on certain holiday traditions. New York City has the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center. In Santa Fe people line their driveways and sidewalks with luminarias. And for more than 30 years Seattle has had its own Nutcracker ballet with sets and costumes designed by the late children's author Maurice Sendak. But after 32 years Pacific Northwest Ballet is retiring its one-of-a-kind production. From member station KPLU Florangela Davila reports.   In Seattle The Nutcracker has danced to that same ubiquitous Tchaikovsky score. And just in case you do not know the storyline...  So there is a girl named Clara. She like goes to a party and then her grandfather Drosselmeier gives her a nutcracker.  That is 10-year-old dancer Sadie Beers who likes the color pink computer programming and point shoes. She explains how in the ballet in the middle of the night Clara goes searching for her nutcracker.  She starts looking around and then trips over a baby mouse.  And that is pretty much when the fight scene begins which is when Sadie and the rest of the toy soldiers - each dressed in long red coats and furry black hats - battle a wily team of over-sized rodents.  Go go team nutcracker.  But this Nutcracker then departs from the more traditional storyline. In Act II there is no Sugar Plum Fairy or the Land of the Sweets. Instead there is a lavish Turkish palace with servants in headscarves and a leggy peacock with a swishy tail. And if you are familiar with more Maurice Sendak's Wild Things you will instantly recognize the toothy tiger with the big yellow eyes that totters and leaps. Kent Stowell co-founded the ballet company with his wife Francia Russell. They were the artistic directors back in the 1980s when they envisioned a different kind of Nutcracker production and approached Sendak.  Well I flew to New York and we sat down and started talking about it and I said well I want to do a Nutcracker and he says well I do not even like ballet.  Sendak had designed three operas and one off-Broadway children's musical but Stowell says he regarded the typical Nutcracker as too blah and well too cute.  He likes real things you know like monsters and children that cry and make demands.  In Seattle's Nutcracker there is a huge rat puppet with a thick twitching tail that looks like it wraps all the way to the other side of the stage. There are canons that get blasted. And the Christmas tree that doubles in size to 48 feet right before your eyes can spook the tiniest of tots. Stowell says Sendak wanted to challenge kids.  Maurice and I thought what makes children happy is to be a little bit of afraid scared overcome things. And so that is what Nutcracker ended up being- a story about a little girl and her trials and tribulations of growing up facing life and romance. And is it a dream or is not it a dream? That is how the ballet ends.  It just takes me back to those days when I was little sitting with my eyes wide.  Jessika Anspach grew up east of Seattle. Sendak's Nutcracker was the first ballet she ever saw. It was that scene at the end of Act I so much snow falling on top of twirling ballerina snowflakes in the forest that made her want to dance. She is in her 11th year with the ballet company.  Part of me had always hoped that one day I would be able to take my kids to see our Nutcracker and say your mom did that.  Now that will not happen. The company's current artistic director Peter Boal says this is the right time to retire this production.  I have been very proud to present the Stowell-Sendak one so it is not a come in clean house and move on.  Even though Boal is attached to this Nutcracker because all three of his kids have danced in it. He is also sentimental about the version choreographed by George Balanchine. That is the Nutcracker he danced in many many times when he was a member of the New York City Ballet. So he is bringing it here making it a new production with sets and costumes by contemporary children's author Ian Falconer best known for his books about a very cultured pig named Olivia. For NPR News I am Florangela Davila in Seattle.  