 If you are ever found yourself fruitlessly trying to tap away at a smartphone's touchscreen with your gloves on - you know the problem it does not work. Well problem solved. Kirk Siegler of member station KUNC reports on gloves that are just as smart as your phone.  So consider this next time you go to update your status to brag about how good the spring skiing is in Colorado. Well Jean Spencer says skiers' phones are getting smarter so why are not their gloves?  They want to be on Facebook they want to stay on their email all day long. So you just have to make the clothing that allows them to do that.  So Jean and her mom Jennifer Spencer invented a glove that makes it easier to operate touch screens on the ski slopes or in chilly subway terminals. Jennifer is introducing me to the Aglove here at the Loveland Ski Area.  If you are looking at this they are kind of black with a sparkle in them and that sparkle is the actual silver in the glove and it is the silver that makes the glove conductive.  To illustrate they have brought an iPad to the mountain as you do.  Here I am playing the piano.   Even in this wired world an iPad on the slopes attracts attention.  Right now I am checking my work email. I do not have any.  The Spencers have handed a pair of Agloves to curious snowboarder Matthew Coleman who they spotted clumsily taking off his gloves and trying to make a call.  Wow I can click really small spaces I have really good dexterity and accuracy.  It turns out the Aglove is just one example of a growing trend toward manufacturing high-tech gloves - not just for operating personal technology devices either. There are now sophisticated gloves for farming gardening baseball...   OK. So I am about to hand you a SensoGlove. It looks essentially like the glove you just put in your back pocket.  It does yup - except for the computer chip on top of your hand yes.  That computer chip has a screen and reacts to sensors in the fingers of the glove. And when Joe takes a swing the screen tells him whether any of his fingers are gripping the club too hard.    The screen shows a hand with a pinky lit up and blinking - meaning Joe gripped the club too hard with that finger suggesting his shoulders are not relaxed enough. But as a seasoned golfer he is skeptical.  There is a hundred pieces of the swing. Your grip is one of those hundred.  Joe thinks the SensoGlove may be more catered to people like Cary Zimmerman who is been eavesdropping on our conversation behind us on the driving range.  And I grip really hard so I am probably going to send this thing off the charts.   I am getting a lot of beeps.  Something like this is the nuance that could help you you know once you reach a certain level get to the next level.  Well I probably have more nuances to worry about in my golf game than these two guys combined.   Ow.  Cold dead shake right.  For NPR News I am Kirk Siegler.   This is NPR News. 