 Symphony orchestras have seen a lot of labor disputes recently due to financial troubles. Musicians are on strike in Chicago. In Atlanta they have been locked out. Contracts for both the Minneapolis Orchestra and the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra expire Sunday with no immediate sign of settlements. Then there is the Dayton Philharmonic. As Emily McCord of member station WYSO reports it seems to have solved its budget woes by merging with the city's opera and ballet.  You cannot walk into the Mead Theater at the Shuster Center in Dayton and not look up. The domed ceiling with its rich orange tones has a smattering of tiny lights that look like stars. It is like being in an outdoor performance at night.  Let us start with Belkis please.  On stage the conductor rehearses the orchestra for its opening concert. This season conductor and artistic director Neil Gittleman is able to offer his musicians something rather unusual nowadays - extra gigs.  In a time when almost every other orchestra in the country is asking its musicians we have less work for you we are actually able this season to offer more work to our musicians than we did last year. And that is a really good thing.  Especially because a few years ago the orchestra's outlook was not so rosy. In 2010 the Philharmonic was operating under a budget shortfall of over 100000. And Gittleman says the Dayton Opera and the Dayton Ballet also faced uncertain futures.  Certainly speaking for the orchestra we had made I think every conceivable cut that was not draconian.  So we wondered could it be done differently? Could in fact the three organizations band together? And when he brought that idea to the other artistic directors of the ballet and opera...  I think people thought it sounded a little bit interesting but probably impossible which is frankly what I thought. But again I figured as long as we are looking at the business model why not look at the business model.  Two years later the three organizations are one. The Dayton Performing Arts Alliance as it is now called has one board and three artistic directors which they say will help  maintain the distinct identity of each art form.  Move move move move go go go...  The Dayton Ballet rehearses in a studio overlooking the city. Even though it is cloudy outside the room is filled with light.  The ballet dancers work during the day.  Karen Russo Burke is the artistic director of the Dayton Ballet.  We work six days a week. Where the Philharmonic works in the evening they have some of them have day jobs. And then the opera they hire out and have auditions in New York and Chicago. They just come in for the two weeks prior.  With the orchestra now backing some of the dance performances the two ensembles had to figure out a way to coordinate their rehearsals. And with all three part of one organization they did not want to compete with each other and schedule conflicting concerts. Paul Helfrich the president of the Dayton Performing Arts Alliance says other questions remain - like how do you raise money for one organization that presents dance music and opera? And how many people will lose their jobs in the merger?  It is not to be - it is like marriage it is not to be entered into lightly.  Helfrich says the three companies were so lean already there was not much to cut. In fact less than five people were laid off. And as far as fund-raising Helfrich says donors can continue to support their favorite arts organizations the same way they always have.  We are committed to allowing people to designate their gifts. And those will be tracked and we will be able to demonstrate that the designated gifts for ballet were used to support ballet performances.  It is all uncharted territory for Dayton. But Jesse Rosen with the League of American Orchestras says many arts organizations across the country are trying to find new ways of doing business.  To me it looks like a period of great great transition. And in some ways that means it is a little messy. We see an unprecedented amount of experimentation.  It will take another season for the artistic program at the Dayton Performing Arts Alliance to fully integrate. But right now for example Paul Helfert says you can buy a season pass to see the Phil and get your choice of free tickets to see an opera and a ballet performance.  Anything we can do to make all the arts more accessible and to demonstrate that they are part of a vital community is a good thing to do.  But come December audiences will really begin to see it. This year when the sugar plum fairy takes the stage in the Nutcracker she will have the orchestra behind her. For NPR News I am Emily McCord. 