 Tonight 400 lights are illuminating the waters of the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool. The lighting ceremony is being hosted by President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Harris and it is meant to honor the 400000 U.S. lives lost to COVID-19. Historian Micki McElya has written about the role of collective mourning in this moment of national tragedy and joins me now. Welcome.  Thanks for having me.  Just to focus on what is unfolding here in Washington tonight the reflecting pool is obviously not just any pool not just any setting. Would you describe for us the majesty of this setting and what you see as you look across that pool?  No this is an iconic vista of heroes and honor and of memorialization. It is impossible to consider that terrain without also thinking of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in 1963. And I think it is fitting not only given the week but also fitting because it marks the collective human activist collaborative response to moments of crisis and national endeavor.  Yeah stay with the collective moment that this represents. I remember reading back in May when we had lost what was then an unimaginable 90000 lives to COVID-19.  Right.  You wrote an op-ed about that we need to mourn together which the pandemic has made impossible to do it in person. You wrote about how sharing grief brings people together and I wonder if you would elaborate on that.  Sharing grief brings people together especially in the United States like nothing else. This is a vast country of an enormous and varied population. Most Americans will never know one another personally see one another. Yet it is in moments of national mourning it is in moments of collective grief and collective honor that we come together.  I wonder whether it is harder to mourn while we are still in the middle of something. The pandemic and these 400000 lives lost it is - I mean it is just tragic to say it but we are obviously not near the end. This is not like a mass shooting or a terror attack or an earthquake where it is awful but then it is over and you can take stock.  I believe that it is more important now than ever and it has been more important to honor those who have died but also to enact collective mourning in part to maintain vigilance in part to remind us how important it remains and is to wear masks to follow public health recommendations. There is no way that we can build from this and repair so much of the damage without a clear-eyed honest sober confrontation of what is happened. This is the reckoning that we need.  Well and it is worth noting that we mark this moment of 400000 lives lost in the U.S. at a moment when our capital city is locked down is militarized in the service of protecting Americans from other Americans. How does that complicate collective mourning? How does such a divided America even begin to do anything - mourn or anything else collectively?  It is both an enormous barrier and makes the stakes that much higher that we share these losses. I am a little struck silent  - that we...  It is hard to find words to capture everything going on.  I know. It...  I know.  You know one of the things that has really struck me is that for the inauguration tomorrow there have been thousands of American flags placed along the mall to represent the people who would have been there the people who cannot be there because they cannot safely gather. Just a few months ago there were thousands of flags there marking the dead. And the toll at that point was 220000. We already have lost so many more people. It is confronting that. And I do believe that these are moments that can help heal not in a naive way but in a profound and true way.  Micki McElya - she is a professor of history at the University of Connecticut and author of The Politics Of Mourning Death And Honor In Arlington National Cemetery. Professor McElya thank you.  Thank you so much.  