 NPR is preparing to celebrate its 40th anniversary. To kick things off the network today released the long-awaited complete compendium of its fundraising announcements. The box set spans the entire history of NPR programming. Critic Tom Moon has this review.  This year at thePublic Media Underwriting Associationcompetition NPR took top honors for on-air sponsorship announcements. After winning the coveted Fundy Award NPR's top brass decided to finally give in to public demand and make these radio gems available. The result is a comprehensive 20-CD collection that is like nothing else on the market.   Support for NPR comes from the Council for Core Values and the Corporation for Living Legacies and from the Spearmint Association promoting flavors when flavors are needed.  You might think that as a loyal listener you have heard all of NPR's funding credits. You would be wrong. The collection includes an entire disc of rarities and outtakes.   Support for NPR comes from Ala Neutral encouraging apolitical thinking on public policy through indifference. Hammerworld - excuse me  let me restrain myself. Hammerworld makers of humane tools for the...  At long last connoisseurs of these tastefully discreet acknowledgments can hear them as they were originally intended. They have been remastered in high-definition 27-bit audio.   Laser Cast makers of political think tanks for home or office.  That voice of course is the legendary Arthur Di Fecanti. He is been reading the underwriting credits since May 3rd 1971 whenALL THINGS CONSIDEREDfirst went on the air.   NPR programs are supported by the new movie Me and You and a Dog Named Boo. By Keuffel  Esser makers of quality slide rules helping today's students to become tomorrow's scientists.  Hearing these fleeting announcements what you realize is that there is a true art to them. The inflections are just so - the timing utterly perfect. When necessary Di Fecanti achieves a tone of Cronkite-ian severity. More often he is the essence of a gentle soul calling out the civic works of an agricultural conglomerate in soothing comforting tones.   Support for NPR comes from Orean and Armstrong Seeds and Seedlings planting ideas and artichokes. We bring the world to your plate.  The set represents a massive amount of work. Nothing in recent memory -not the Neil Young archives project or the 31-disc set of Daniel Schorr Commentaries The Dutch Years 1940-1953 - comes close. But this is not merely entertainment. The Funding Announcements Collection serves as an almost complete oral history of corporate America.   NPR programs are supported by Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Watching over your investments so you do not have to. And the tourism bureau of the German Democratic Republic. Come see us and stay awhile.  The box set is not perfect of course. There is inevitably some repetition over the years. But hang in there because when you pay attention without the pesky distractions of the news and commentaries you begin to appreciate these bits as the very bedrock of public radio. They slip past our consciousness almost unnoticed but they are always there in the background - an ethereal almost magical presence connecting us to the true spirit of the endeavor.  That is critic Tom Moon. The CD boxed set is the collected underwriting credits of NPR volumes 1-20. To hear and see Arthur Di Fecanti perform go to our Web site NPR.org. 