 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. We begin this hour with Mitt and Newt. The two top Republican contenders campaigned in the Tampa area exactly one week before the Florida primary. In a few minutes we will hear more about Newt Gingrich first though to Mitt Romney.  Today Romney released his tax returns and we will have more on that elsewhere in the program. But during an appearance this morning he kept his focus on President Obama. Romney offered what his campaign called a pre-buttal to tonight's State of the Union address. NPR's Ari Shapiro was there in Florida.  From the beginning it was clear that this would not be a typical stump speech. Romney did not walk into his standard anthem of Born Free. He delivered his remarks from a teleprompter not off the cuff as he usually does. And instead of the believe in America banner that typically hangs behind him smudged white letters against a chalkboard gray background read Obama is not working. Romney stood behind a lectern in a cavernous empty warehouse.  In 2008 this plant closed because of an economic downturn. In a normal recovery under strong leadership it could be full of workers by now.  What followed was a 15-minute indictment of President Obama. Romney described it as the real state of our union.  The president's been telling people that his agenda will create economic opportunity that is built to last. That is the phrase he will use - built to last. Well let us talk about what is lasted. What is lasted is unemployment above 8 percent for 35 straight months.  This is a return to form for Romney. He used to focus exclusively on the president but since he lost his frontrunner status he is been focusing more on Newt Gingrich. Romney did not mention Gingrich once this morning talking instead about what a Romney presidency would look like.  Do you want a president who will keep promising that this time he will get it right? Do we want a president who keeps telling us why he is right and why we are all wrong? Or do we want a sense of new beginning and excitement that comes with a new leader?  Romney did not mention his tax returns once either. Earlier in the day he released his paperwork from the last year and an estimate for this year. They show that the family made about 20 million a year mostly from investments. A physician named Michael Santos at the Tampa speech said he sees the tax returns as the strongest argument around for the value of capitalism and free enterprise.  He obviously made a fortune in it but you know the old-fashioned way by working hard by making good investments by being better and giving a better service than your competition. So he understands the free enterprise system and is the best person to go out there and defend it.  Later this afternoon Romney focused on a different more painful side of the free enterprise system the foreclosure crisis. He spoke to voters in front of a vacant home in the Fort Myers area. As people arrived the music from the speakers played somewhat incongruously Celebrate Good Times. Ari Shapiro NPR News Lehigh Acres Florida. 