 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Starting today a new draft what some call the bible of psychiatry is online and open to comments. The American Psychiatric Association will not publish the new Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or DSM until 2013. But doctors researchers and advocacy groups are already pouring over the proposed changes to find out what is and is not included. The manual is widely used to diagnose and determine treatment for various psychiatric disorders everything from autism to obsessive-compulsive disorder to eating disorders like anorexia and bulimia. Now in the latest draft there is a recommendation to add another eating disorder binge eating disorder. It is there thanks in part to Timothy Walsh. He is a psychiatry professor at Columbia University Medical Center and he joins us now. Doctor welcome to the program. Dr.  Thank you very much.  You know when we think about binge eating you might think about something like raiding the refrigerator. Dr.  Right.  Eating an entire pint of ice cream or burning through a bag of potato chips or chocolate chip cookies. Dr.  Right.  At what point does it become a disorder? Dr.  The criteria require a clearly unusually large amount of food to be consumed in a relatively short period of time. And it is a clinical judgment from the person who is making the diagnosis about the history from the patient about how much food is consumed under what circumstance. And typically it is over 1000 calories. There is no specific number but the data we have would suggest it is really an unusually large amount of food. And the other thing that is worth noting is that to meet criteria for the disorder the episodes are recurrent. They happen at least once a week. They are persistent. The criteria call for at least three months of duration. So this is not just one night of eating too much ice cream. It is not the normal overeating that most of us do now and again.  What sort of treatment is now offered? Dr.  Well over the time that this disorder has been under study a number of approaches have been identified. One of the key characteristics that is been documented is that folks with binge eating disorder - many of whom struggle with weight many of whom are obese - are more distressed more anxious more depressed than folks of similar weight who do not have binge eating disorder. And therefore perhaps not surprisingly it is been found that treatments for the binge eating that include techniques or interventions that are helpful for anxiety and depression are helpful for binge eating disorder. So specifically that includes antidepressant medication and it includes some forms of psychological treatment like cognitive behavioral therapy or interpersonal therapy.  If it is not treated what happens if this disorder is not addressed? Dr.  It varies. The outcome over time is variable some people get better spontaneously. But I think the worry is and the concern is that untreated people do suffer. They have a lower quality of life. They enjoy life less well if the disorder persists and that is the problem.  How common is this disorder? Dr.  It is important to know that this is an uncommon disorder. We have data from good epidemiological surveys suggesting that even over their lifetimes only a few percent of Americans develop this problem. And I think that emphasizes that this is really a distinct kind of eating problem. It is not the kind of overeating that is so common.  For those who are struggling with this disorder and those who are studying it how will this make a difference - the fact that it would now be included in the DSM? Dr.  I think the major reason to include it is recognition so that folks who do struggle with it can - when they come to a physician or a mental health professional - can know that there is a category that applies to their problem that they are not given a diagnosis which is the current state of an eating disorder not otherwise specified. A lot of people just find that frustrating and challenging and say why is not my eating disorder important enough to have a real official name? So that is part of it. And the other thing that is very helpful about it is it will further increase our ability as professionals to collect information about the characteristics of these people how many folks come in with these problems and what the best methods are for treating them. We know something about treating them but there is certainly much more to learn about how to take the best care of folks with this problem.  Dr. Timothy Walsh thanks so much for your time. Dr.  Thank you.  Dr. Timothy Walsh is a professor of psychiatry at Columbia University Medical Center. He was talking about the recommendation to add binge eating disorder to the next edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. 