 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. Arun Rath is away. I am Tess Vigeland. The St. Louis community of Ferguson remains at the center of civil unrest. Overnight police tried to enforce a midnight curfew but ongoing clashes led to several arrests. The protests started after the shooting death eight days ago of an unarmed black teen Michael Brown by a white police officer. The U.S. Justice Department is now stepping in to perform a second autopsy on Brown. At Memorial moments ago Captain Ron Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol spoke to a large crowd.   I will stand tall with you and I will see you out there. Thank you.  NPR's Elise Hu is in Ferguson. She has this story of how the small town of 21000 citizens is dealing with it all.  On a quiet morning after another difficult night in Ferguson businesses along the streets put up signs in their windows reading I heart Ferg. And the former mayor Brian Fletcher  is passing out more.   We are going to raise 5000 by tomorrow at noon for yard signs.  So many questions remain unanswered here fueling anxiety that Missouri Governor Jay Nixon tried to address on a number of national networks. He said this to ABC.   People are legitimately upset. I mean an 18-year-old Michael Brown was shot in a street of his hometown. And that scratches a nerve and opens old wounds.  At the predominantly black Greater St. Mark Family Church Reverend Audrey Hollis says there is a real reason for the raw emotions.   The underlying current of racism is still very real in the city of St. Louis and in Missouri as a whole.  But sermons at both black and white congregations sounded similar messages calling for the tough community conversations that have not happened yet.   The problems are deep and systemic.  That is pastor Mike Trautman in his message to the overwhelmingly white First Presbyterian Church of Ferguson.   Too many people have stood tall in this community over the years to allow this event to unravel all the good work that has happened.  For more than a decade Troutman has been working on community issues with interfaith ministry volunteer and Ferguson native Toni Burrow. She is called this place home for 64 years.  One of the things that hurt me so is that people come from outside of Ferguson to do for us. If you look around at the things that go on in Ferguson the lives that we leave we do not need that kind of help.  These longtime friends say they are seeing Ferguson come together during this tough time. On the main drag where protests go on nightly Ferguson residents have been showing up to help clean up. Volunteers have turned a parking lot into a place to drop off food and supplies and community leaders see this moment as a pivot point. Toni Burrow.  My fear is that it will be business as usual when this dies down and it will die down. It always does.  For now as tensions wear on pastor Trautman is using his pulpit to push for changes.  I am hoping that out of this we can renew the dialogue but we have to find a different dialogue. We have to learn how to talk to one another a little differently.  Hope for reconciliation. But first they are praying for peace. Tonight the newly instituted citywide curfew gets it is second test. Elise Hu NPR News Ferguson Missouri.  In the audio of this story we misidentify Toni Burrow as Toni Burwell. 