 An infamous gun is for sale online starting bid 5000. The gun belongs to George Zimmerman. Back in 2012 he used it to shoot Trayvon Martin an unarmed black 17-year-old in Florida. A jury acquitted Zimmerman of all charges but the shooting helped spark the Black Lives Matter movement. NPR's Greg Allen reports the gun sale is the latest provocation from a man who just cannot stay out of the public eye.  For anyone who followed George Zimmerman's trial for shooting and killing Trayvon Martin the Kel-Tec PF-9 pistol is familiar. It was displayed as evidence at the trial. A new one sells today for about 350. Enlisting it for sale at auction Zimmerman made it clear he expected to receive much more than that for the gun. I am honored and humbled to announce the sale of an American firearm icon he wrote in his listing. The firearm for sale Zimmerman wrote is the firearm that was used to defend my life and end the brutal attack from Trayvon Martin. In an interview with Orlando TV station WOFL Zimmerman said he was putting it up for sale so he could in his words move past the firearm.   And if I sell it and it sells I move past it. Otherwise it is going in a safe for my grandkids and never to be you know used or seen again.  But the sale which was set to begin this morning at 11 a.m. did not happen. The website GunBroker.com pulled Zimmerman's Kel-Tec pistol before the auction began. In a text to the Orlando Sentinel Zimmerman said the website was not quote prepared for the traffic and publicity surrounding the auction of my firearm. He is now listed the gun for sale with another website UnitedGunGroup.com. Benjamin Crump is an attorney who represents Trayvon Martin's parents. He spoke on a cell phone from a noisy airport.  Trayvon's parents were outraged when they heard that he was trying to again profit off the loss of their child.  Profiting off the death of their child has been an issues the Martins have continued to fight. Crump says the family is focused on the work of the Trayvon Martin Foundation which is trying to end gun violence. In his listing on the websites Zimmerman angered his critics by declaring he will use some of the proceeds of the sale to fight in his words black lives matter's violence against law enforcement officers and Hillary Clinton's anti-firearm rhetoric. What is not clear is how much demand there is for a gun used in a notorious and controversial killing one that has in many circles made Zimmerman despite his acquittal a pariah. Robert Livingston is with RR Auction in Boston a company that four years ago sold two handguns once owned by outlaws Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow for a half million dollars.  There is a giant difference between someone like George Zimmerman and Bonnie and Clyde.  Livingston says over decades Bonnie and Clyde became romanticized and became historical icons making their guns desirable to collectors.  But someone like George Zimmerman there is no popular culture interest in Zimmerman. And therefore his gun is not something that we would offer or even consider offering.  As for those upset about the gun sale Zimmerman told WOFL quote I could not care less about them. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 