 We had hoped we would not have to say this but the last month has made the trend clear. In the U.S. COVID-19 cases are rising again driven by the highly transmissible delta variant. But these cases are not rising equally across the country. We learned from a White House briefing today that just three states account for 40 of cases nationwide. That is Florida Texas and Missouri. And they are all behind the national average in vaccination rates.   The threat is now predominantly only to the unvaccinated. The data is clear. The case increases are concentrated in communities with low vaccination rates.  That is White House coronavirus response coordinator Jeff Zients. He announced today that the federal government was sending 100 million to rural health clinics for vaccine outreach in places where vaccination rates are generally lower. Joining us now to break down all of this is Andy Slavitt former senior adviser on the White House COVID-19 response team. Welcome.  Good to be here.  So you left the Biden administration in early June and since then COVID restrictions have been lifted in a lot of areas in the country. That was after the CDC issued new guidance on relaxing masking for fully vaccinated people. And I am wondering do you think any of that was just too soon given what we are seeing now?  Well we have had a real challenge vaccinating certain portions of the country as I think everybody well knows and we have a delta variant that is twice as contagious as the 2020 variety of COVID-19 was. When you combine those things together it makes it much more dangerous for people who have not been vaccinated. And even for people that have been vaccinated if they are in communities where there is a lot of unvaccinated people or a lot of hemselves - they want to take a few precautions. So look. I think it is the job of the administration to constantly look at the data and constantly think and rethink what adjustments are needed and I know they are doing that right now.  OK. Well the focus on getting this pandemic under control is on the unvaccinated. How would you try to reach communities with these lower vaccination rates at this point?  Well there is a couple of types of people that have chosen not to get vaccinated. The good news is that about 1 in 3 of them are still open-minded so about 10 of the adult population. Some of them are younger people who just frankly do not prioritize getting vaccinated high enough. They do not feel particularly at threat. And I think that is a very concerted effort with colleges universities and employers to really say hey if we want a safe work space we should consider saying if you are showing up to work or showing up to school you either need to be vaccinated or show a negative test. I think that will help push people. I think there is another set of people that are open to getting vaccinated but they are waiting because they are nervous about long-term side effects or other issues. And for those people I think the FDA final approval of the vaccines will do some good. And I think that is a real opportunity to outreach to them.  I am wondering how significant of a problem do you think misinformation is right now? I mean do you see that as a key reason there are still so many people who are not getting vaccinated?  Well that is exactly where I was going to go next which is of all the people that have been vaccinated the data from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that two-thirds of them believe 1 of 5 myths about the vaccine. And that is a real problem. That means that there is people that are not getting vaccinated because they believe things that are untrue such as that taking the vaccine itself will create COVID-19 or that it changes your DNA somehow. Now those myths are coming from a lot of places but a lot of it is online. And I think the idea of policing ourselves and committing to dramatically reducing the amount of lies and misinformation that comes at people is really really important.  Yeah. Well in the last minute we have left elsewhere in the program we had heard about a group of researchers that advises the CDC. And their model shows the current surge getting worse through the summer and into the fall around double where it is today. What should the top priorities be right now to avoid that scenario you think?  Well what we saw in India was a dramatic surge of delta and then we saw a dramatic decline. And what is going to be very interesting to see Ailsa is whether or not that is what happens in the U.K. If they peak and if they see a dramatic decline it will give us some sense of the length of things. All the things we have talked about - getting vaccinated and protecting yourself - are the fundamental things that we have to do now in the face of things. We have to make sure that we also watch to see that we - if we do need a boost later in the fall or winter because of things that we do that and the federal government's prepared and the CDC and the FDA will make that recommendation if needed. Final thing I will throw in - antiviral. The most exciting potential opportunity in the fall is for a oral antiviral to come out and that would change things.  That is Andy Slavitt former senior adviser to President Biden on COVID-19. Thank you.  Thank you. 