 Up-and-coming comedian Aparna Nancherla is having a great year riding high on a TV comedy special tour and an album titled Just Putting It Out There. All this while wrestling with some pretty tough personal issues on stage.   I am on a healthy diet of pills. They are prescribed for the most part.   One of the things I take them for is depression. It is always great to start off a set talking about depression because people are like I guess you can have it all you know.   Nancherla's very dry sense of humor comes alive through her very expressive face dancing eyebrows and wide smile. I asked her how she developed her style.  It is interesting. When I first started stand-up and did it for maybe a few months like someone was like oh you kind of do stand up like someone who is never seen stand-up before. And - but they meant it as a compliment in that I sort of like do it in my own way of what I think stand-up is for myself.  'ecause we think of stand-up as someone who is sort of prowling the stage - right? - like very physical the pacing...  Yes.  ...Walking back and forth and the presentation of the jokes. There is like this big expectation face....  Right.  ...Like I have told a joke .  Right. And you sort of - it is like you set them up you knock them down. And I think I go on little tangents and make little discoveries as I go. And I think the audience sort of is just along for the ride the stroll.   I realize I have kind of an innocent vibe. And sometimes I will come up here and I will spout my opinions. And someone in the audience will inevitably be like boy she sure has a lot to say considering what she looks like. And that is fine I own a mirror. I am on your side.   But I just want to assure you I have experienced my share of real life. Like I have had orange juice after brushing my teeth. I get it.   There is lots of like playing with assumptions...  Yeah.  ...Which I have made this joke myself when I meet people. I am like you do not look like what I expected.  Right.  And I heard you make a sort of similar joke once. And I was like I recognize this.  Yeah. I think a lot of it is that stand-up like you - very much the audience's initial impression of you is in the first you know few seconds that you take the stage either what you look like like what you sound like like there is an immediate judgment. And so I feel like for me a lot of times I had to address that sort of people being like oh this is not what we expected and sort of being like I know like I do not look like what you are used to seeing but like let us just acknowledge that and move on.  What is your background like? Just for our radio audience who cannot see you. What is so - what is the juxtaposition you are talking about in terms of what they expect versus what they are seeing?  Well I think it is like - I am like South Indian and I am a small sort of soft-spoken woman. And they think it - like you said it sort of does not fit with the image of like this strong sort of prowler of the stage. Like it is very much coming from the opposite direction. I think it takes people a second to be like oh this is still stand-up.   What do you - when you get on stage I think how do you deal with the spotlight?  I think it is interesting 'ecause I have a lot of anxiety. And I still get like stage fright and stuff. So I think I am very like sometimes too aware of my body. So it feels like my words and my body sometimes separate and they do not like mesh together.  You know there is like nervousness and anxiety. And then there is anxiety and depression. And that is something you talk a lot about like on your comedy album Just Putting It Out There. And I want to play a sample of a clip I think which gets at something you do which is not just to talk about these things but to try and help to find them for people.   And like if you do not have anxiety the way I would describe it is like there is an edgy improv group in your brain.   And it just needs like a one-word suggestion...   ...To spin like countless scenarios that no one's comfortable with.   Like the whole time you are just like when will this show be over? I just came to be supportive.   None of these thoughts have a future.  Which is like the toss-away line at the end but is like the nugget of having anxiety - right? - like spinning out scenarios that are not true...  Right.  ...But that freak you out nonetheless .  Yeah. I think I first started talking about anxiety and depression in my work as sort of a way to write myself out of my own head. Like it was at a time when I was sort of in a rut and struggling with them in a real way. So I was like feeling creatively blocked. And I was like well if this is all that is going on with you right now maybe just try writing about that. So I think that is what sort of first brought it out for me 'ecause I had definitely always appreciated comics who were are open about that kind of stuff. I think it really came about just by virtue of like me experiencing it in a real way.  It is not an uncommon theme when it comes to comedy.  Right.  Even if people were not always calling it depression I feel like we have been hearing about it going...  Oh sure.  ...Back to Richard Pryor right?  Yes yes.  Why is that? .  I - like sadness and laughter to me feel linked in a weird way in that it almost feels like once you get to the logical end of one you sort of start entering the other one. And I think for me it is like with depression I am constantly questioning things but without sort of that element of hope. And I feel like comedy is sort of questioning things with adding like a little dose of hope in that you are taking the air out of it a little bit and you are not just being like well I guess that is just how things are. Like you are sort of like this is ridiculous like let us laugh about it. So it adds that sort of levity to take some of the burden off.  It is interesting because I think even for people who do not clinically suffer from this kind of condition I think your jokes feel relatable. My favorite being any pizza can be a personal one if you cry when you eat it.   It is like - that one takes you a while. I always feel like there is a pause...  Right.  ...In the audience as they work that full sentence out in their mind.  Yeah. It is funny 'ecause I almost think there has been a boom in sort of depression comedy or like the idea of like a sad person. Especially like there is this whole contingent on Twitter that is sort of like - it is called sad girl Twitter. And it is just like...  Wait what? Are you serious?  Yeah.  Is that real?  Yeah.   Who are the luminaries of sad girl Twitter?  Well I mainly know the people who are like sort of comedians like in stand-ups. Like I know there is another woman Charlene de Guzman  who writes a lot about like anxiety and depression in her tweets. So in a way like I think some people feel like a little bit burned out on it. So definitely sometimes you will get reactions where people are like I cannot laugh at these jokes. They just feel bad for you. And I am like well that sounds like you do not experience depression if you are like I do not - I cannot relate to you know having a day where you do not want to come out from under your covers.  That is comedian Aparna Nancherla. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Oh thank you for having me.  Comedian Aparna Nancherla. Her new album is called Just Putting It Out There. She is on tour now. 