 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The government shutdown continues now in its tenth day. To make a little extra cash earlier this week one furloughed federal worker packed up a makeshift drum set fashioned out of plastic paint buckets. He took his basset hound Doug and set up outside a Metro station here in Washington with a sign reading Furloughed Throw Us a Bone.   Drummer Jonathan Derr is a writer and editor at the Food and Drug Administration. He lives in Silver Spring Maryland outside Washington with his wife Ashley Derr. She is a stay-at-home mom who also teaches a stroller exercise class for a little extra money. They have a 20-month old son. And they both join us now to talk about the shutdown and how it is affecting them. Thanks for being with us.  Hi Melissa.  Hi.  And Jonathan first let us know how the drumming went.  Oh it went really well. I went down two days last week and I wound up making pretty good money. I made almost double per hour than what I make at the FDA.  And did you do it to pass some time or to bring in some extra cash?  It was to bring in extra cash. You know right now we do not have any paycheck coming in whatsoever. So you know having the cash flow just from drumming on buckets was you know it was a nice little blessing on the side.  And how much did you bring in?  The first day I made 64.80. And then the next time I went down I made 52.10.  For how many hours?  An hour and a half each time. So over the course of three hours over a hundred bucks so it was not bad.  Well Ashley why do not you give us a sense of your family's finances and if Jonathan will be getting a paycheck for his past work before the shutdown?  Sure. So we should get a paycheck tomorrow. We get paid every other Friday. And this paycheck will be for I believe six days of work that he completed before the shutdown began. So once deductions for health care and so forth are taken out I am expecting his paycheck to be a little bit less than half of what his normal pay would be. And then that is it until hopefully the government reopens.  Right the idea is you will be getting back pay eventually.  We hope so. I noticed that thus far only the House has actually passed that bill. But we are very very hopeful that we will get back pay.  Right and that paycheck that should be coming tomorrow can give us a sense about how much that will be and how much that can tide you over?  Sure. So probably approximately I would say 900 or so.  Mm-hmm.  Luckily most of our bills for October - our mortgages and so forth - have already been paid. The tricky thing is of course then if we do not get our paychecks two weeks from now on October 25th that will certainly be a financial challenge.  Well in the meantime Jonathan have you been cutting back on things?  Sure I mean I have just been doing things around the house - playing the bucket drums - I mean anything I could think of. I went downtown and sold my Nintendo and old Nintendo games. So anything I can think of to bring in a little bit of extra cash because in the meantime until we get that retroactive pay we have to live on credit cards.  I feel fortunate that at least we are in a situation where we have credit cards with some breathing room and could charge things if we needed to. I know some families do not have that.  But you would rather not be put in that position.  Right of course. Our normal way of operating is to pay any credit cards off in full every month and to live within our means.  Is there sort of a fraternity of federal workers Jonathan whom you talk to about all this?  Sure friends and coworkers yeah. I have family that are in the federal government. And everybody is - you know before the shutdown happened you know people were living paycheck to paycheck. And it is hard enough to survive with a paycheck. And you know when you take that away that is really a problem for people.  I imagine the two of you are seeing a whole lot more of each other than you are used to.   Is there any upside to this enforced furlough - this paid vacation essentially?  The one silver lining that I can say is that I do get to spend more time with my son. Being able to see him that is very nice but you know I would much rather be getting paid to do my work.  You are also getting to see more of your wife. I think she is probably sitting there wondering why did not mention her.   Oh he can go back to work anytime.   No it has been nice getting to spend some unexpected time together as a family. I just wish that we were able to spend it enjoying it rather than always having this sort of rain cloud of worry over our head about the paycheck.  Well Ashley and Jonathan Derr thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Ashley Derr is a stay-at-home mom. Her husband Jonathan is a writer and editor with the Food and Drug Administration. He is been furloughed as part of the ongoing government shutdown. 