 There is a silver lining to the many vacant storefronts throughout Manhattan. During the pandemic rents have gone down and available space keeps going up. As Camille Petersen reports for some businesses it is a chance to move into the location of their dreams.  Normally in New York City's Rockefeller Center it is hard to avoid jostling someone's shopping bag or elbowing them as you order food. Now it feels pretty lonely inside Rockefeller Center. A few people walk through the hallway. Someone gets their shoes shined. But Eli Sussman is delighted to be here.  I probably never would have imagined being in 30 Rock.  Sussman is the owner of Samesa a Mediterranean fast casual restaurant that opened here in March. Samesa's original location was on a residential side street in Williamsburg Brooklyn.  It is about as night and day as you can get.  The Brooklyn location closed in September because of the pandemic so Sussman started looking for new spaces ones with lots of foot traffic and office workers looking to grab a quick lunch.  Every fast casual concept like the Mecca is Midtown.  Until now getting a spot in Midtown was too expensive and competitive. He would be bidding against big chains. But new leases and lease renewals are down nearly 60 since the early days of the pandemic. Sussman is paying more on rent in Rockefeller Center but expects a lot more customers here. It is quiet now but he is betting that will change as offices reopen and tourists return.  The amount of people that are going to walk by Samesa is so much exponentially greater than what was at my previous location. So I am playing a bit of a long game here.  In Manhattan's trendy Meatpacking District Jesse Dong is also betting on the city's recovery. He owns the clothing retailer Two Minds. The store opened a few weeks ago.  I think there is a lot of people like are you actually going to open a retail store when the retail apocalypse is currently happening?  Dong lost his retail job during the pandemic and started thinking about opening his own store. He was riding his bike and saw an available storefront on his dream street. It has cobblestones and is near luxury shops like Hermes and cultural attractions like the Whitney Museum.  We knew we had to move fast or it was going to slip through our fingers.  Dong says it felt like if he waited to bid on the space he would be up against tenants with bigger names and more money so he signed a lease. He says that puts him in a good position now that New York City has lifted many COVID-19 restrictions.  Because now we are open and there seems to be a return to normalcy.  Mike Slattery the associate director of research at the real estate firm CBRE warns tenants against expecting a huge rent bargain. It is still Manhattan.  There is a lot of tenants who are looking for the deal of the century folks who submit very lowball offers with - you know hoping on a wing and a prayer that someone will accept it.  Chances are they will not. And Slattery says this is the time for tenants to make decisions on new spaces. Over the last six months there is been a 22 increase in the number of tenants looking at spaces. That number keeps rising.  The flow of tenants back into the market has actually started to spark bidding wars.  The business owners who win those wars or who just signed new Manhattan leases like Eli Sussman and Jesse Dong are taking a big risk. For their bets to pay off they need office workers and tourists to come back soon to jostle through Rockefeller Center on a lunch break or on their way to a towering Christmas tree. For NPR News I am Camille Petersen in New York.  