 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz.  Our series 50 Great Voices continues now with a singer whose voice is often described as flawless and smooth as silk.    Love has truly been good to me. Not even one sad day or minute have I had since you have come my way.  The late Luther Vandross was not just known for romantic music. NPR's Elizabeth Blair says he was the go-to singer for anyone looking to get in the mood.  We will get to the bedroom in a moment. First the voice.    .  Supremely fine-tuned controlled and yet effortless.   And not a minute or a day or night that I do not love you. You are at the top of my list 'ecause I am always thinking about you.  He first met bass player Marcus Miller when they were both in Roberta Flack's band.  Luther was amazing. He was a connoisseur of background singers.  Marcus Miller was one of the most in-demand session musicians at the time. So he and Luther Vandross were almost always bumping into each other.  I was probably 17 18 years old when I met him. And I was a hard- core musician mostly jazz so I did not really respect singers that much. They were just somebody in the front of the band to entertain the audience while we were doing the real work in the back you know.  But Marcus Miller says Luther Vandross changed his mind.  Because we are on the road you know and you know during the downtime when we were not performing Luther would you know he would educate me. He would play me you know Aretha Franklin. He would play me Donny Hathaway. He would play me the great great singers and explain to me exactly what they were doing. Most singers cannot do that because you know although they are very talented they are not really kind of technically knowledgeable about what they are doing.  Listen to Dionne. She is going to hold back the vibrato. She is going to add it right now for drama. You know what I mean? He would hit me like that and I was like Whoa this is like playing an instrument. This is you know this is pretty incredible here. And I became a fan of singing and I became a fan of Luther.  And Marcus Miller worked with him for decades and became one of his closest collaborators when Luther Vandross went solo.    Here and now I promise to love faithfully. You are all I need. Here and now I vow to be one with thee. Your love is all I need.  Before long some of the singers who Luther Vandross idolized growing up became fans of his like Dionne Warwick.  I have always described his voice as a piece of velvet. It was smooth to the touch easy to feel wonderful to look at. When I heard Luther's voice I heard peace. It made me feel good.  And what sort of mood could Vandross put you in?  Oh see I had to censor myself right then when you asked me that question.   I will just say baby-making mood. How about that?  Stephanie Williams is music director for the nationally syndicated Tom Joyner Morning Show. So she picks songs that will appeal to the radio show is older audience. She says it is a funny thing with Luther Vandross - even though he could make just about anybody think about things to do in the bedroom Williams says he was not the object of desire.  It was not a sex-symbol thing with Luther even though his music was extremely sexy. You know he could get us in the mood to be with this other guy.   And we loved that.    .  You can see just how much women adored Luther Vandross in a video of the NAACP Image Awards in 1988 when he sang A House Is Not a Home to an ecstatic audience. Anita Baker is almost giddy. A young Janet Jackson has a huge smile on her face. And Dionne Warwick who originally made the song famous is beaming as Luther sings what she calls the definitive version.    And a house is not a home when there is no one there to hold you tight and no one there that you can kiss good night good morning good evening good afternoon hello bye-bye baby yeah yeah yeah.  Marcus Miller says he saw firsthand how Luther Vandross did not need any masculine swagger to make women swoon.  He did it like the opposite. You know he did it with like sensitivity you know just being honest and being open with your emotions. I think that really gets to women. I will tell you man he got more underwear thrown at him man than a little bit.   Luther Vandross apparently never liked having underwear thrown at him onstage or the nickname King of the Bedroom. Marcus Miller says Vandross believed he sang about something deeper.  To him love was the ultimate two people just being connected like on that special level. I think that was the ultimate to him.  But Miller says Luther Vandross never really found it himself.  I did not meet anybody who was like steady with him. You know it would work out for a while but then you know. I do not know man I think that is what made his songs so intense is that he was looking for that. The one thing he loved so much and sang about so well about is the one thing that he really did not get himself.    Are you going to be in love with me? I want you and need you to be still in love with me.  Luther Vandross died July 1st 2005. On a DVD special called Always and Forever the man who started his career as the backup singer and arranger everybody wanted in their band was thrilled to say he would come into his own.  One thing that I love about what is happened in my career is that I was never heralded as the new Otis Redding the new Sam Cooke the new Teddy Pendergrass or Smokey Robinson. I was not the new anybody. I was Luther.  Elizabeth Blair NPR News.    Still in love with me. Are you going to be...  You can hear the music of Luther Vandross and discover more from our 50 Great Voices series at nprmusic.org. 