 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Ari Shapiro. And...   I am Michele Norris.  I am Melissa Block and it is time now for All Tech Considered.   That is how the first All Tech Considered of the decade began on January 4 2010. Sad to say Michele and Melissa are not here in the studio with me this Christmas Day. A lot has changed since then - hosts of this program and technology. In a minute we will look ahead to the next decade in tech. Before we do let us revisit this one. We asked three experts to pick what they see as the most significant ways tech has changed our lives since 2009. The most obvious advancement was the smartphone. They were around in 2009 but now 81 of Americans own one. And technology reporter Omar Gallaga says they have almost become an appendage.  I was in a restaurant over the weekend and you know just across from me a woman's phone was going off every five seconds. You know I heard a chime or an alert - you know different alerts out of her phone every - and I am like how is she functioning as a human in this world? You know she did not even notice that those alerts were going off. I mean that is how much a part of her life they must be so...  And it is not just the phones. Gallaga's daughters who are 10 and 12 have tablets. He says kids these days just go through life differently from a decade ago.  When you see kids at the doctor's office looking at magazines and they are trying to like you know scroll the page  the print page - like yeah. Yep that is an iPad kid right there.  Next we turn to Erin Hatton. She is an associate professor of sociology at the University at Buffalo. And for her the most significant change of the decade is something that would not have been possible without the smartphone - it is the gig economy enabled by apps like Uber TaskRabbit and Airbnb. Hatton says they have redefined what it is to be a worker.  I think that this work has started new conversations between workers and across sectors in rethinking what it means to be a worker and potentially rethinking what kinds of benefits and protections we attach to work.  Beyond our daily lives or our work tech in the last decade has also shaped what we believe to be true. Sometimes we know we are being faked like in Martin Scorsese's movie The Irishman. Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci who are both in their 70s look much younger thanks to technology. In some scenes they are in their 40s.    What is the problem kid?   I do not know. It sounds funny - stops and starts and loses power.   I can give you a hand.  It is believable. Of course there is a darker side of this technology too. Michael Fink is a professor of Cinematic Arts at the University of Southern California and he says it is easier than ever before to manipulate videos and make it seem like something happened when it never did.  The software has become so powerful that things can be altered changed modified so quickly that people would think oh my god. That has to be real. It just happened. And that is not true. The reality is fungible. It can be used by dark forces - let us put it that way - people with absolutely nothing but malevolence at the core of their being. And it is scary. 