 There is been a significant development today in Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. A source tells NPR that the president's son-in-law presidential aide Jared Kushner sat for a second interview with the special counsel team last month one that lasted seven or eight hours. Word came on the same day the White House said Kushner had regained his security clearance. NPR's Carrie Johnson is following these developments and joins us to talk more about them. Hi again Carrie.  Hi there Ari.  What more can you tell us about that session between the president's son-in-law and the Russia investigators?  This meeting happened in mid-April. They kept it a secret until now. And that interview as you said lasted seven or eight hours. I am told it covered a bunch of topics from the campaign to the transition and things after the inauguration things like the firing of FBI Director Jim Comey. But the interview did not cover Jared Kushner's business interests or financial dealings. Of course those could be under investigation by different prosecutors in New York. Still word of this came the same day that Kushner regained his security clearance. And to national security experts that is kind of significant. I reached out to lawyer Mark Zaid. He told me if he were Kushner he would be sleeping easier tonight because if there were really significant problems he thinks Robert Mueller's team would have alerted the intelligence community and Kushner would not have got the security clearance.  And before you started chasing this big story you were chasing  another big story which was the appearance of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort in court. Manafort's asking a judge to throw out evidence that the special counsel collected. What are his odds?  Yeah. Manafort remember is fighting conspiracy and tax charges and accusations he served as an unregistered foreign agent. Prosecutors used materials from searches of his apartment in Alexandria and a storage unit there to build this case against him. And Manafort's lawyers were in court today arguing that the search warrants were way too broad that they swept in a whole bunch of materials that were none of the government's business. The judge praised both sides for the argument. She is going to think about them. But I came away thinking Manafort faces a steep hill to climb here to win.  OK. So Kushner Manafort and a third name from the Russia probe resurfaced today George Papadopoulos. He was a foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign. He is been pretty quiet since he pleaded guilty. What is he up to?  Papadopoulos quietly pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI. Authorities say he lied about when he found out the Russians were offering dirt on Hillary Clinton Donald Trump's campaign opponent in 2016. Today lawyers for George Papadopoulos and the special counsel said they are getting ready for George's judgment day his sentencing maybe sometime later this summer. Papadopoulos has been cooperating with the government. We do not know yet exactly what he gave them but we will know a lot more when it comes time for his sentencing.  And I want you to end by looking forward to tomorrow when there is this big meeting of Republican members of Congress who have been demanding answers about FBI tactics deployed against the Trump campaign. Those members of Congress are going to sit down with people from the DOJ and the FBI. What do you expect there?  Yeah. So far we know that the FBI director Chris Wray the top DOJ official Ed O'Callaghan and the director of national intelligence Dan Coats are going to be there. That all makes sense. Two Republican chairmen in the House are also going to be there Trey Gowdy and Devin Nunes. Democrats in Congress have been complaining because they are not invited at least not so far. And they say that that looks bad. It looks like an effort to politicize intelligence. And we do not want that happening in of all things the Russia investigation which centers in part on President Trump's campaign. As for President Trump he told reporters today he just wants some transparency. He says he is not undercutting this Russia probe as Democrats claim. He said this was a terrible situation. What we are doing is we are cleaning everything up.  And do you expect that this meeting will clear things up?  Has not happened yet.  .  Cannot predict. But with everything related to Russia in this investigation things seem to get less clear over time not more clear.  NPR's Carrie Johnson. Thanks as always.  My pleasure. 