 Well that did not discourage NPR's Jinae West from asking minds both scientific and comedic about one of life's great mysteries. What makes something funny?  We will get to the science of funny in a minute. Let us start though with someone who studies comedy without a lab coat.   My name is Neil Casey. I am a member of the improv comedy troupe Death by Roo Roo at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in New York.  In the second half they take a single suggestion and create their own storyline.   Everything is made up on the spot - no scripts no stage direction. So what is funny? Death by Roo Roo member Neil Casey says it is...  In developing what we call games in scenes which are patterns that are based on something interesting or unusual in the scene and then we figure out a way to build a pattern off of it.  Let us say you are in a movie theater with Neil. You try to enjoy the film but he keeps finding ways to interrupt. He wears a large hat and asked to remove it says...  Sure no problem. I will take this hat right off.  But then he wants to eat your popcorn and talks loudly on the phone.  And every time you would say excuse me sir could you please stop that I would go Oh yes of course I apologize. I never meant to bother you at all. And then of course I would figure out new ways to do exactly what I just promised not to do.  In 2003 a team of researchers at Dartmouth College conducted a study to pinpoint the neural responses to humor.   The study found that when we detect a joke - the incongruity - it activates the front left part of the brain that makes sense of competing ideas. When we appreciate a joke that is the resolution. Activity moves to the so-called pleasure center and generates an emotional response which sounds something like...    I am out.   Joe Moran helped to lead the study in 2003 and is now a post-doctoral fellow at the Center for Brain Science at Harvard University. Although theories of humor exist Joe says that does not mean a formula exists too. We are not all naturally funny. Two people can deliver the same joke but one will probably tell it better and anyway...  Humor relies upon the unexpected. I think that is one of the kind of major ingredients of humor - is the idea that when something is found to be funny then what was just happening or what precipitated it is something that was unexpected. That in some way kind of tickles this response in the brain.  The average person laughs about 17 times per day often without realizing it. And most of what we find humorous are not jokes but everyday witticisms and daily interactions with friends with co-workers with family.  My dad pitched me a TV series but before he would tell me what it was he made me agree to be 50-50 partners with him.  That is Meredith Scardino a writer for The Colbert Report.  And I said no that is a terrible deal. I am not going to agree. And he goes No no no it is such a great idea you are going to love it. And he said OK it is an amazing idea. It is Seinfeld in an orphanage.  Let us circle back to E.B. White. Humor he writes has a certain fragility an evasiveness which one had best respect. Essentially it is a complete mystery.   Well almost. Jinae West NPR News. 