 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. These days to be an Arab and particularly an Arab-American is to be misunderstood. To dispel the many false impressions out there Dean Obeidallah and Maysoon Zayid both Arab-Americans are using a powerful weapon humor. They are stand-up comics and part of a comedy tour called Arabs Gone Wild. When the show came through Washington Obeidallah and Zayid held court at a Mexican restaurant in Chinatown. They put a sign on their table that said Ask an Arab and invited perfect strangers to ask anything they wanted.  Unidentified Man  How do you like the weather today? Mr.  It is cold for Arabs right now in here so  Arab-Americans it is even colder today. Unidentified Man  Do you all like American football? Mr.  I love American football. I love the Giants. Ms.  I love football. But I am going to admit I like soccer too. Mr.  I like football better. Football is my favorite sport to watch and then ice hockey. I play hockey... Unidentified Man  But when you say football which football? American football? Mr.  American football. Unidentified Woman  Are you both Muslims? Ms.  Oh I am. Mr.  My dad's Muslim my mom is Christian. So I was raised with both religions in my house. Ms.  I am Muslim and I identify as Muslim. But you know I always tell people it is really important to know that like not all Arabs are Muslim. They can be anything. And actually what was frustrating for me growing up was that like most of the Arabs I know here are Arab Christians. Unidentified Woman  Right. Ms.  So it was always hard to find someone to date. Mr.  For me I mean I used to date always like you know not Arabs let us put it that way until my last girlfriend whom I went out with for four years who is from the Middle East. She is born and raised in the Middle East. I picked her out of a catalogue. It was great. She is on page three. She was special.  Mr.  No she was not special but she really is from the Middle East. And if it does not work with her I am definitely going Asian next.  Unidentified Woman  I want to know as far as marriage what is required? Ms.  I actually just got engaged and I am getting married to an Arab man. And I am totally against multiple marriage and like most Arabs do not marry multiple people. Unidentified Woman  Okay. Ms.  And if my fiance ever tries to marry someone else they would never find him.  Ms.  So what do you guys want people to know? Ms.  I think the first thing I always like for people to know about Arabs is the fact that we are not like one thing. Arab has a ton of variety and also we are not all Muslim and that we do actually have the best skin. Mr.  I mean we are also comedians. So we want people to know that Arabs can be funny which is something I think a lot of Americans... Ms.  A funny Arab hmm imagine that. Mr.  Right. Exactly. Oxymoron almost is not it where it is - when you hear the word Arab the first thing that comes to mind I doubt is funny. We hope in the future one day it will be like Arabs those guys are funny like other groups. Ms.  All right well thank you. Mr.  Thank you Natasha. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.  Mr.  Well... Ms.  So Dean are you ready to go home? Mr.  I think we answered as many questions as we could get people to actually sit down and ask us. Ms.  Yeah. Mr.  So what do you think? How did you feel about it? Ms.  I liked that. I was interested by the questions. I think Ask An Arab has been a raging success. Mr.  It is been as good as it can be in California Tortilla on 7th Street. Ms.  Dean I am really going - we should go home. Mr.  We were wrapping up... Ms.  We have one last question. Mr.  ...and we have one last person. Ms.  One last customer. We are wrapping up. Unidentified Woman  Do you have like a room for like magic carpets? Ms.  I have like a magic carpet workshop. I am like two years away from getting it off the ground. I am going to be the first one to have an actual... Mr.  I think a magic carpet has so much potential. I like the way you think. Ms.  I got to make it happen. Unidentified Woman  You can do anything right? Ms.  I hope you invest in...   Arab-American comedians Maysoon Zayid and Dean Obeidallah fielding questions at California Tortilla here in Washington. Those questions from people who identified themselves as Cedric Kiwon Sanjana Ashley and Michelle. Zayid and Obeidallah are touring with Arabs Gone Wild. And there is a video of Ask an Arab and more at our Web site npr.org. 