 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The day after the Iowa caucuses the Republican primary field has narrowed. Last night saw Mitt Romney eek out an eight-vote victory over Rick Santorum. And this morning Michele Bachmann who finished sixth announced she was quitting the campaign. Now the remaining candidates trade the frigid cornfields of Iowa for the frigid hills of New Hampshire.  We are going to spend the next few minutes focusing on Rick Santorum. The former Pennsylvania senator managed a remarkable turnaround last night. Not long ago he was languishing in the polls a political afterthought. He is now campaigning in New Hampshire racing to introduce himself to voters there. NPR's Brian Naylor has our story from Manchester.  Tyler Carlisle is having a busy day at Rick Santorum's New Hampshire state headquarters. In between greeting newly converted supporters who want to help out...  Hello sir. Hi I am Tyler. How can I help you?  I am looking to join.  Well that is great. I am looking to get you to join.  All right.  He also recorded a message for volunteers.  Hi my name is Tyler. I am calling from Rick Santorum's campaign to let you know that Senator Santorum's town hall on Friday has been moved to the Windham High School due to large attendance.  It is a pretty good problem to have - having to move your event to a larger venue - and it is where Rick Santorum's campaign finds itself after his surge from the lowest ranks of the opinion polls' pre-Iowa caucus to missing a victory there by just a whisker. Santorum's New Hampshire media coordinator Bill Cahill also found himself a popular guy today as reporters lined up for interviews. He says all the welcome attention has also meant something more tangible.  We have had dozens of people walk through the door today just say we are - can I drop off a check? That never happened here before last week. So that is the kind of thing that is sort of symptomatic of what is going on.  Cahill attributes a lot of the newfound interest in Santorum not just to his strong finish in Iowa but to his speech last night which Cahill calls the most important 15 minutes of the campaign so far. Those who stayed up late enough heard Santorum touch on some traditional Republican themes like small government and low taxes.   I believe in cutting taxes. I believe in balancing budgets. I propose cutting 5 trillion from this budget over the next five years. I support a balanced budget amendment that puts a cap at 18 percent of GDP as a guarantee of freedom for this country.  But Santorum as he has throughout his campaign also spoke with fervor about his faith and his family.   These are the basic values that Americans stand for and those are the values that we need if we are going to go up against Barack Obama and win this election and restore the founding principles of our country to America.   Santorum who is Catholic has been a longtime favorite of social conservatives and evangelical voters. He spent two terms in the House and two terms in the Senate. While there he helped write the welfare reform legislation that President Bill Clinton signed into law in 1996. He is staunchly anti-abortion including in cases involving rape and incest. He co-sponsored a proposed constitutional amendment to bar certain abortions late in pregnancy. And an opponent of same-sex marriage he co-sponsored a proposed constitutional amendment to ban it. While those views won him support from evangelicals in Iowa it remains to be seen how they will go over in less socially conservative New Hampshire. His campaign believes his family focus appeals to all voters and most importantly they say Santorum is now in the game. Brian Naylor NPR News Manchester. 