 The state of Colorado is upsetting its neighbors. It is been just over a year since Colorado formally legalized recreational marijuana and now police in the rural counties that border the state are reporting big increases in illegal marijuana trafficking. Police in these border towns say they did not vote to legalize the drug but yet their communities are dealing with the consequences. In fact two states - Nebraska and Oklahoma - are now asking the Supreme Court to throw out Colorado's law all together. NPR's Kirk Siegler sent this report.  I am driving Colorado State Highway 113 on this pancake-flat stretch of frozen land not far from the Nebraska state line. The local radio has just finished a report on last night's high school basketball scores and then this...   With marijuana legal under Colorado law we have all got a few things to know.  On cue a pot PSA.   And what you get here cannot leave our state. Stick around this place is pretty great.  When B.J. Wilkinson hears that spot he rolls his eyes.  Do you really think that somebody listening to that is going to say oh they said on the radio I should not take my marijuana back into Nebraska. So because they said it on the radio and I got a warning I am going to listen to it - no.  Wilkinson is the chief of police in Sidney Neb. It is the first place you come to after crossing the border and he is showing me around town. Wilkinson knows firsthand that not everyone's listening to those ads. He tells me there is been a 50 percent increase in marijuana-related offenses in Sidney in the year since Colorado legalized from a hundred to 150 cases.  And I am concerned what that will lead to in terms of a change in culture a change in the way that we enjoy a certain quality a certain type of life in small-town America.  Wilkinson likes that small-town life. He spent his whole law-enforcement career working in small towns and he is proud of Sidney and it shows.  Interestingly this building that we just drove past over here is the original Cabela's retail store.  Sidney population 7000 is the headquarters of the hunting and camping retailer Cabela's so there are a lot of jobs to be had here. Wilkinson says Sidney is thriving and he does not want Colorado's experiment with marijuana to get in the way.  I am not disputing the fact that the people of Colorado voted to make this opportunity exist. I get all of that. My problem is that the fallout from it is impacting our way of life and our quality of life here.  A lot of what you hear about pot in this community is still pretty anecdotal. The cops say they are seeing an increase in distribution cases involving high school kids but the high school principal told me they had not noticed more of the drug around yet. The health department said it is an issue they are tracking. Spend a couple days in Sidney and it is not like marijuana is the number-one topic of conversation in town. Bring it up to older folks the ranchers who have been here 60 years and sure they will bash Colorado's hippie culture. One man in a cafe told me that Colorado's dope should not be Nebraska's problem. But bump into someone who is younger and there is a good chance they might tell you pot is not as big of a deal as it is being made out to be.  There is always been pot around.  Brandon Sean grew up here. He does not smoke it but he says this part of the Nebraska panhandle is more independent more libertarian like Colorado.  What do you do? I mean you are not going to stop it from coming over. That is kind of like the border down south - You as not going to stop it.  It is hard to say how much marijuana is coming into Nebraska border towns like this but one thing's clear - plenty of people will tell you if you want to buy pot you do not have to go very far. The closest dispensary is only about a 40-minute drive away in Sedgwick Colo. There is a bar here an old stage coach motel-turned-antique shop and then there is Sedgwick Alternative Relief which markets itself as the first dispensary in Colorado. It is next-door to the hair salon. Sedgwick is small - I mean really small - just a couple streets.  Are you looking for something? You do not look like a local so I just figured I would ask you.  This woman who is getting highlights in her hair ducks out of the salon to ask if I am lost. Cathy does not want me to use her last name because this is such a small town and it is clear she wants nothing at all to do with the dispensary.  I think it is increased our revenue. It is definitely increased our population. Maybe not with the kindest people but...  She lives off one of the back roads by the state line.  You just see more out-of-state plates than what we normally do. Like before the pot shop came into town nobody drove those roads and now you see tons of people all the time.  On this afternoon there are a couple of cars with Colorado plates parked in front of the dispensary. There is also an Illinois I see a Kansas two from Nebraska. The dispensary's assistant manager does not want to give an interview on tape but he tells me they get a lot of customers coming down from Nebraska but they are mostly older buying for their own personal use. They are not dealers. Well this is not some big secret. Top law enforcement in Colorado have said their state is becoming a major exporter of marijuana. Pay a visit to the evidence locker in the Deuel County Neb. courthouse basement and that is pretty clear.  These bags here these totes these buckets - this was all off of one traffic stop. This is 75 pounds of marijuana.  Sheriff Adam Hayward is overwhelmed. Those back roads out of Sedgwick they lead you to Deuel County.  Every bit of marijuana we have in here came from Colorado.  Deuel County is roughly the size of Los Angeles but there are only 2000 people and Hayward has a handful of deputies. This past year there were 32 felony marijuana prosecutions. There were only four in 2011. It has cost this county 150000 money Sheriff Hayward says did not go to fixing roads or schools.  We need to stand up and say no we do not want this stuff here. It is dangerous. It is bad for people's health. You do not want your kids getting involved in this.  And for cops in these small towns along the border with Colorado that is what this fight is about. And it is why Nebraska and Oklahoma are not asking the Supreme Court to force Colorado to pay court costs or anything else. They are asking for Colorado's entire experiment with legal recreational marijuana to be shut down. Kirk Siegler NPR News. 