 The Senate received some extra motivation to reach a stimulus compromise today in the form of new numbers from the Labor Department. Almost 600000 jobs were lost in January that is the most since 1974. An unemployment rate at 7.6 percent - that is the highest it is been since 1992. Economists predicted the numbers would be bad but this is even worse than expected. NPR's John Ydstie has more.  The huge job loss in January is the worst monthly decline since 1974. In fact during the past three months the U.S. economy has shed more than 1.5 million jobs. It is bad says Mark Zandi of Moody's Economy.com. Mr.  The economy is in freefall. Businesses are panicked. They are fighting for survival and that means they are slashing investment in jobs.  Zandi says businesses know banks are not interested in giving them new loans so they are desperate to preserve cash and are cutting costs dramatically. For most businesses the biggest cost is labor. Zandi says today's numbers suggest job losses are accelerating. Mr.  We have lost about 3.5 3.6 million jobs since the job losses began. So the problems are intensifying no sense of any stabilization. In fact things seem to be unraveling.  At the White House President Obama seized on the massive job losses to put pressure on Congress to pass the stimulus package. President  These numbers demand action. It is inexcusable and irresponsible for any of us to get bogged down in distraction delay or politics as usual while millions of Americans are being put out of work.  The president reminded the audience which had gathered for the introduction of his Economic Recovery Advisory Board that the reduction in payrolls is not just an abstraction. President  Somewhere in America a small business has shut its doors. Somewhere in America a family said goodbye to their home. Somewhere in America a young parent has lost their livelihood and they do not know what is going to take its place. These Americans are counting on us all of us in Washington. We have to remember that we are here to work for them. And if we drag our feet and fail to act this crisis could turn into a catastrophe.  The stimulus package passed the House last week. It is run into delays in the Senate. But Senate leaders hope for a vote as early as this evening. Republicans have criticized the package for not having enough tax cuts. A bipartisan group of senators thinks its cost now more than 900 billion is just too high. They are trying to find 90 billion in cuts. For his part economist Mark Zandi says the stimulus package is not big enough. Mr.  Given the severity of the situation the overall package is too small. It should be bigger. And I think because of the severity of the current situation the fact that the economy needs help now in 2009 that argues for more tax cuts temporary tax cuts.  Zandi says the most effective tax cut would be a temporary payroll tax holiday in the third quarter of this year. Allowing both businesses and workers to forgo payment of those Social Security and Medicare taxes for three months late next summer would put money in their hands when they will need it most he says. Stocks rose sharply after the jobs report. Analysts said that is partly because investors believe the bleak news will force Congress to pass the stimulus quickly. John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 