 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's John Ydstie reports.  The 17 companies making the big bonus payments while on government life support included Citigroup Goldman Sachs and Bank of America. Feinberg described the payments in an interview with NPR following a briefing on his report at the Treasury.  Some of these payments many of them were over 10 million per individual which were in our view ill-advised.  Not only ill-advised but undeserved. In many cases Feinberg says the bonuses were given based on no criteria.  Or criteria such as well we guaranteed it regardless of performance. This official is leaving the company and we want to give him or her a very lucrative severance package.  Now remember these are big banks that had taken billions of dollars in government support and were paying out bonuses in the depths of the financial crisis. So why is not Feinberg demanding a refund for taxpayers?  First Congress did not give me the power to do anything more than ask. I have no enforcement authority. Secondly 11 of these 17 companies had already at the time of my inquiry had already reimbursed the taxpayer.  Feinberg also decided against asking for a refund from the six firms that have not paid back the TARP. In the case of Citigroup Feinberg defends that decision by pointing out that the giant bank has paid back some of its TARP loans. In addition it is largely overhauled its pay practices to meet government guidelines.  So I thought that they had already complied with our requests.  Nicole Tichon an expert on compensation issues with the U.S. Public Interest Research Group says the bonuses for bankers are clearly contrary to the public interest. She says it is a shame Feinberg was not able to act more forcefully.  His hands are somewhat tied in terms of statutorily what he could do. But I do not think it is going to sit well with the average families and average taxpayers that while these people were bringing down the economy they were paying themselves these lavish bonuses.  This report is Feinberg's last as the so-called pay czar. He says he does not know whether he is had a lasting impact. Feinberg says he is more confident that the broad range of initiatives on pay from the Federal Reserve the Securities and Exchange Commission and the new financial overhaul legislation could make a difference.  I would like to think that if you look at the entire menu we have had an appreciable impact on pay going forward.  John Ydstie NPR News Washington. 