 The outer bands of tropical storm Tomas have started to lash Haiti. The country has already been ravaged this year by an earthquake and it is now bracing for heavy rains and powerful winds. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports from Port-au-Prince.   Tomas sparked riots in the organized camp of Corail today just north of the capital. Confusion and rumors ran wild over whether or not the 6500 residents were being evacuated. Some people marched through the rows of white tents demanding to be moved. Others said they would not leave unless someone promised them that they would be fed and in a secure building. In the middle of the day camp manager Bryant Castro at the American Refugee Committee clutched a clipboard of an evacuation plan he was trying to execute. Mr.  The entire camp I believe is vulnerable because it is located on a flood plain and it is out here in the open just on the bottom of these hills. If it was up to me and I have told the IDPs everyone should go.  Originally he would announced that the camp would be evacuated. But then Castro was informed last night that there was only shelter space for 1800 of the 6500 residents. Castro says political groups have been causing disturbances in the camp and Haitian government has not provided enough police for an orderly evacuation. Actually there was only one pickup truckload of police at the camp and they were peering into the engine compartment of their vehicle as steam spewed from the radiator. Castro meanwhile said he was simply going to do what he could before the storm hits. Mr.  These schools are built. I am going to leave them open before I leave. I want to make sure I can help save lives and I will open the schools with the limited resources that I have I will exhaust them.  Almost 10 months after the devastating January earthquake more than a million people remain in tents or makeshift shelters around the Haitian capital. The government has called on people to evacuate the camps and seek temporary shelter with friends or family. But in Champs de Mars the sprawling expansive tents and tarps in front of the National Palace Rosemary Gare says she does not plan to leave. Ms.    All my friends and family are here with me Gare says I do not have somewhere else to go. Across the Haitian capital some people were securing down tarps over their shacks or gathering together their important documents but few people were going anywhere. Jason Beaubien NPR News Port-au-Prince. 