 And to talk further about the potential health risks of e-cigarettes I am joined by the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Dr. Tom Frieden. Dr. Frieden welcome to the program. DR.  Great to be here.  Apart from nicotine which we know is highly addictive what components of e-cigarettes are you most concerned about?  One of the things we are concerned about is that we do not know what is in them. With no standards and no regulations there is not one kind of e-cigarette there is literally hundreds. So one of the things that FDA regulation - when finalized - would do would be to require product disclosure. But the nicotine is concerning enough because it is so addictive and because so many of our children are now experimenting with e-cigarettes.  Do you think that in the public eye the fact that they have not been regulated means that people think these have to be safe? The FDA has not done anything about them. I know there are an enormous number of misconceptions about e-cigarettes. For example smokers routinely say well I - if I want to quit maybe I should get an e-cigarette rather than saying I am going to go get an FDA-approved medicine that will double or triple my likelihood of quitting. So there are certainly many misconceptions around e-cigarettes. Well let me ask you about that because there are people - there is a school of thought that says there could be a real health benefit to e-cigarettes if they help people quit smoking conventional-burn cigarettes. Have you seen any persuasive evidence that they actually do help people quit?  I certainly see the theory that they could be helpful and I have heard some anecdotes about individuals who say they have helped them quit. But much more importantly is the actuality that right now we are getting millions of kids experimenting with or using regularly e-cigarettes. We are getting smokers who are perhaps using them not to quit but to keep smoking regular cigarettes. We are seeing large numbers of ex-smokers going back to nicotine products for the first time in years using e-cigarettes. We are seeing the re-glamorization of smoking as an act. And we are also seeing potential exposure of nonsmokers including pregnant women to the nicotine in e-cigarette products. So I see theoretical potential benefits but definite harms occurring.  Has there been enough research do you think?  I think there is just a lot we do not know and need to know about e-cigarettes. You know when it comes to tobacco products we really have to assume they are dangerous until they are proven safe rather than the other way around.  A lot of the e-cigarettes have flavors - cotton candy gummy bear tutti-frutti - flavors that seem to be clearly aimed at kids. And the proposed FDA rules do not address that. How much of a concern is that for you?  I think it is shameful behavior by the e-cigarette companies as is sale over the Internet as is marketing that appeals to children as are free samples. These are behaviors that we saw in the tobacco industry in the '50s and really the e-cigarette industry has been taking pages from that playbook because they have been outside of the regulatory framework until now. This is a first step to try to bring them within that regulatory framework and that is important.  You say it is shameful. But as I mentioned the new FDA proposed rules would not touch anything about those flavors at least not now.  One of the challenges that the FDA has is the balance between stringent regulation and regulation that will stand up to a court challenge. And already the e-cigarette industry has won one court case against the FDA on regulation. Already the tobacco industry has prevailed in the latest decision on graphic pack warnings. So it is a real balancing act between how effective regulation can be and how sustainable it will be in court.  Dr. Frieden I do wonder this. I mean e-cigarettes have been around for maybe five years or so. It is already almost a 2 billion a year industry. And some of the FDA proposals are going to take years to go into effect if they go into effect. Why has it taken regulators so long to catch up?  It is an important step forward to help reverse the epidemic of disease and death caused by tobacco in particular to protect our kids from tobacco addiction. But regulations take time and they are not going to immediately prevent tobacco companies from peddling their products to kids. I think all of us wish that regulation could be quicker but we also recognize that there is a balance between quick and stringent regulation on the one hand and regulation that is going to stand up in court on the other.  Dr. Frieden thanks very much for talking with us.  Thank you very much.  That is Dr. Tom Frieden. He directs the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 