 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am David Greene.  And I am Robert Siegel. The big broadcast networks are rolling out their new shows this week and one in particular is catching the eyes of critics. Lone Star is about a Texas con man who is trying to juggle a wife a girlfriend and a fraudulent oil business. The show is on Fox but some critics say it feels more like a cable show. Well we turn to our in-house TV expert pop culture blogger Linda Holmes to tell us exactly what that means.  Shawn Ryan is an ideal tour guide for a look at cable dramas and broadcast dramas. He is written and produced shows like Terriers and The Shield for cable and Lie To Me and The Unit for the major networks. His list of reasons to put a show on cable starts close to home. Mr.  One is just the basic likability of your main character.  Broadcast networks like their leads to be heroes at heart. On cable Shawn Ryan built a whole show around a guy you would not even trust to water your plants.  Mr.   You tell Antoine I will put a bullet in that fat head of his myself before I will let him kill another cop.  That is Vic Mackey the brutal cop at the center of The Shield. On cable Vic is in good company. On Mad Men there is the duplicitous Don Draper.  Mr.   You will not get a nickel.  On Damages there is the ruthless Patty Hewes.  Ms.   Taking power away from a man is a dangerous thing.  And of course they all owe a debt to New Jersey's own Tony Soprano.  Mr.   There are men in the can better-looking than my sister.  A lot of cable dramas also have long story arcs which makes it tough to draw a broadcast-sized audience. Mr.  Serialized shows face a tough uphill battle.  You might hear everyone talking about a show when it is been on for a couple of years. But when you are already 30 episodes behind in a long story it is hard to figure out what is going on. Mr.  Those kinds of shows - the shows like The Shield like Breaking Bad that have a very serialized storyline it is very hard to build an audience come seasons two and three and four.  That is not a problem for the more self-contained crime procedurals broadcast networks favor.  Unidentified Woman   That is two right? So what is the deal? What is with the dead guys? Unidentified Man   Shellcasings Izzy. Unidentified Woman  Bagged and tagged sir.  On CBS's NCIS there might be a perplexing question at the beginning of the episode. But by the end you are likely to hear the satisfying click of handcuffs.  Mr.   Put your hands behind your back.  All those independent episodes make it easier for new viewers to jump in. In fact that is just what happened with NCIS which has grown over its seven seasons to become one of the highest-rated shows on TV. Shawn Ryan says that one advantage to the cable model is that the seasons are almost always much shorter than the 22-episode broadcast standard. Mr.  Doing the 13-episode season allows some quality control that is very very helpful.  If you think your favorite big-network drama hits a slow patch every year in about March Ryan says you are probably right. Mr.  There is a moment in time when you are making a 22-episode season - and that usually comes around episodes 16 through 19 - where the schedule really is beating you down.  Still some shows might do better with 22-episode seasons or benefit from broadcast television's wider reach. Mr.  You just want to have the right show at the right place. You do not want to tell a story like The Sopranos or Deadwood on the major networks. Where you get yourself into trouble is if you sell the right show to the wrong network and you suddenly find yourself having to work with parameters that do not really match what you want to do with your show.  For now the moral complexity and longer-form storytelling of cable dramas remain relatively rare on the big networks. But that does not mean broadcast TV is not experimenting.  Mr.   What do you need? How much do you want?  Fox's new drama Lone Star has a lying con man for a lead a complex web of stories and a first season that is only 13 episodes long.  Mr.   I will get you the money just do not make me do this anymore.  Once those 13 run out Lone Star's time slot is scheduled to go to Ride-Along a new FOX police drama from Shawn Ryan.  Linda Holmes is NPR's pop culture blogger. You can find her blog Monkey See at npr.org. 