 Even in the early days of silent film moviemakers used camera tricks. They could speed up or slow down the action. And by taping over part of the lens for double-exposures they could put one performer in two places on screen or make her disappear altogether. Today filmmakers have more sophisticated tools digitized special effects that allow them to put almost anything on screen which has our film critic Bob Mondello thinking about how movie style affects movie substance.  OK. Here's a storyline A celebrated millionaire known for public extravagance lives right on the water in a fabulous mansion. He is smooth but reckless drives like a maniac has a powerful enemy and despite a rep as a playboy has just one girlfriend who barely registers on screen. What do you think? Does his story require lavish digital effects swooping cameras a rap soundtrack and 3-D? If I tell you his name is Tony Stark otherwise known as Iron Man probably yes right? What if his name is Jay Gatsby?   F. Scott Fitzgerald's wistful novel about love and longing on Long Island really unleashes the roar in the roaring '20s in Baz Luhrmann's new film version. It has songs by Beyonce and Jay-Z was filmed in 3-D which renders its party confetti spectacular and features soaring shots of a digitized New York digitized mansions and even digitized mountains of coal-furnace refuse in a dump Fitzgerald called the Valley of Ashes. Everything about the film is overstuffed over-decorated and constantly in motion including passages of the text that materialize on screen. It is the great American novel as fever dream. And if emotions and character get lost in all the disco-ball glitz well how could they not?   Now if we want movies to be surprising and not to look and sound like the cookie cutter duplicates we are always complaining blockbusters are we have to allow directors lots of latitude. Luhrmann is hardly alone in bringing a distinctive personal style to material that does not seem a natural fit. Joe Wright recently turned the great Russian novel Anna Karenina into a peculiarly stage-bound extravaganza.   Literally on stage often behind velvet curtains.   Wright's driving idea was that Russian aristocrats were mimicking European royalty essentially performing for their public. And by making that notion literal he gave this frequently filmed story a deliriously distinctive feel. More recently action director Michael Bay took his first shot at an intimate story after a slew of Transformers sequels and what he did was distinctive too.   Yeah not so much. In Pain and Gain Bay took what might have been an amusing three-guys-and-a-scam plot and bludgeoned it into submission with every trick in the blockbuster playbook. Sometimes though a little well-placed gimmickry is exactly what is needed. At the outset of the upcoming documentary We Steal Secrets The Story of WikiLeaks which sounds dry as dust right director Alex Gibney shows us not stolen documents but what looks like the Milky Way a starry firmament of tiny dots that swirl and coalesce and then swirl away again. It is a visual motif he uses throughout the film a representation of the flow of information on the Internet. And though it is completely made-up it is tremendously effective in suggesting how impossible to control that information is once it is out there on the Web. So you will not hear me argue for reining in directors. Maybe Michael Bay a little but not someone like Baz Luhrmann who in Gatsby employs a lot of the same tricks he used successfully in Moulin Rouge. And as he told NPR's Scott Simon quite persuasively this past weekend everything he did was a deliberate thought-through choice from the 3-D to the rap songs. For some people it will doubtless work swimmingly.   And even though I am less enthusiastic I also know this will not be the last screen word on Fitzgerald's words. There've been five film Gatsbys already the first of them silent and black and white. And with film techniques forever changing maybe someday - maybe with holograms - someone will figure out how to make the great and supposedly unfilmable American novel into the great American film. I am Bob Mondello. 