 Imagine you are a teenager in Beijing during the Cultural Revolution back in the 1960s and '70s. Everything that is deemed Western and bourgeois is off-limits banned. And listening to this music as it battles the surface scratch of a 78-rpm record is illicit but the music is powerful. It is transformative.   Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Jindong Cai was a teenager in those repressive days in Beijing and he was transformed by the forbidden fruit of Beethoven's music. He is now a conductor and a professor at Stanford. And he and his wife Sheila Melvin have written about the tumultuous relationship between the music of Beethoven and China. Welcome to both of you.  Thank you.  Glad to be here.  And let us begin. First how important was Beethoven to 20th century China?  Beethoven was extremely important in 20th century China. His music and his personal story are really deeply woven into the country's cultural political and social fabric. They have inspired revolution rebellion reform for over the past hundred years and really brought comfort to people who are suffering and inspiration to people who want to move ahead. He means a lot to a lot of people.  When you speak of his life story suffering is central to this story.  Yes. And Chinese people believe you have to go through a hardship and triumph. That is what our parents told us. Beethoven's life story - just like that.  Losing his hearing for example would be the kind of suffering the kind of challenge that you would be inspired by.  Yes.  And never marrying and not having any children which in a Confucian society is considered a really horrible fate and just you know fighting with his family and always struggling and overcoming at a time when China was fighting with many foreign nations who were carving it up into a sort of quasi-colonies.  Music in communist China had to meet not just aesthetic standards but political standards. How did the party leadership view Beethoven politically?  People sought him out because of his heroic life story. And then as time went on and China's politics became ever more tumultuous some people started saying oh Beethoven's too bourgeois for us but other people said no Beethoven was the original revolutionary. You know he changed music and we can use him to help us change China. And they sort of recreated him as revolutionary Beethoven who was the man who freed music and he could help free the masses of people too.  In 1959 the People's Republic of China celebrated its 10th anniversary which I read in your book was actually a - kind of a double celebration for the East Germany's 10th anniversary. And this this recording comes from the celebrations. This is The Ode To Joy from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony played by the Central Philharmonic Orchestra and the poem of Schiller's The Ode To Joy is translated into Mandarin.   .  Sounds like in 1959 Beethoven was synonymous with everything that China aspired to be but within a few years he would fallen out of favor. What happened?  After that the leftists started to get control and from 1963 really it is starting to criticizing classical music.  What was the theory of stopping people from listening to or performing classical Western music?  Well it was considered bourgeois and anything bourgeois was bad. But I think it is also important to note that it was not just Western music that was banned. A lot of Chinese traditional music was also banned. You could not do most traditional Chinese operas. It was anything old. You were supposed to throw out the four olds and build the four news. So you are going to throw out old culture old thinking old ideas old habits and then they were going to build a new socialist China with an entirely new culture.  In your book Beethoven In China you relate the story of Lu Hongen. Am I - am I saying that right?  Yes Lu Hongen. Yes.  Talk about what happened to him.  Well Lou Hongen was a timpanist and a conductor at the Shanghai Symphony. And he was very courageous and he did not like the culture revolution at all. He spoke out and he voiced his opposition to it. And that obviously got him arrested and he became Prisoner 1144. He loved Beethoven. And he would hum Beethoven Missa Solemnis to himself and he would hum it in his cell. And finally they decided to execute him. And he said to his cellmate if you ever get out of here alive would you please do two things for me? One is find my son and the other is go to Vienna and go to Beethoven's grave and lay a bouquet of flowers there and tell him that his Chinese disciple was humming the Missa Solemnis as he went to his execution.   .  There were quite a few musicians like that who really suffered during the Cultural Revolution. And in Shanghai Conservatory for example during the first few years of the Cultural Revolution there were 17 professors committed suicide or being killed because they were either studying in a foreign country or they simply just dressed like the Westerner.  That was enough to have one at least imprisoned - to dress like a Westerner.  Yeah it was a very bad period.  Yeah.  You describe a performance in March 1977 by the Central Philharmonic of Beethoven's Fifth the last two movements of which were telecast all over the country. And some saw that as actually confirmation in music that the Cultural Revolution was over.  Yes. Until in 1976 the Cultural Revolution was already finished. But until 1977 when they broadcast the Beethoven Fifth Symphony that made everyone believe we finally get over the turmoil.   And of course they would not have heard foreign music played on the radio for 10 years.  Yes. Some of my friends - it really shocked them. After they hear that they just called each other say - is that real?  We have interviewed a lot of people who remember that moment.  Yeah.  Let us flash forward now to the 21st century. When we hear a recording of a Beethoven sonata today there is nothing at all surprising to learn that the pianist is Chinese. In this case it is Lang Lang.   Has the relationship between China and Beethoven - finally something normal and something immune to political suppression?  Beethoven as just - he is now you know as much a composer beloved by Chinese people as he is anywhere else in the world. Yes he is definitely a very normal part of cultural and civic life.  And classical music - it is booming in China. You know there is so many new concert hall being built opera house being built and a new orchestra's created every year. But Beethoven remain the most popular composer and his music has been performed the most.  But I think also what is different is that you know his music is very integrated into China's cultural life - of those people who listen to Western classical music. But also his life story is still taught in schools. Chinese children learn about Beethoven's life and it is still very well known. And people still read about Beethoven's life and his struggles and it still inspires them.  That is Sheila Melvin and Jindong Cai authors of the book Beethoven In China. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you so much Robert.  Thank you. 