 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Im Robert Siegel. Megan Taylor grew up feeling that she was living in the wrong body. In her 20's she decided to do something about it. First she changed her name to Miles and she began taking testosterone and scheduled a double mastectomy -part of sex reassignment surgery. The hardest part was telling his parents. Through it all Miles kept an audio diary. Independent producer Sarah Reynolds turned his words into this story. Ms.  It is interesting that so much can be attached to your name. I have kind of already divorced myself a little bit from Megan. It feels separate from who I am now. And I really have not latched on to Miles yet. Some days I feel more Miles than Megan. It is kind of weird. I have no problem saying Megan Taylor. Megan Taylor. Now I need to say Miles Taylor. But I need to say it in an ownership sort of way. Hello it is 10 on February 2nd. I am still at work. The only people who are here are like the people who are cleaning. Im not actually working but I am working on the letter to my parents.  Ms.   I need to talk to you two about something. Months ago I started writing you a long letter but having edited and revised and picked and poked at it for so many months it started to feel more like a paper for school. I have a gender identity disorder. I have had it my entire life without really being able to put a name to it and it is become severely debilitating over the past couple of years. My body may appear and function as female but in my head I have never felt a connection to my body. The sex of my body is female but the gender I feel in my head is male. Ms.  Hello. Im walking home. It is really quiet. I had to make this walk yesterday as well. I went out with a friend and on my way back I called my parents. And like the first thing out of their mouth is You are walking alone in the dark - is it safe you know is it a well lit area? And it was just that immediate protective parent act. And the only thing going through my head is like Im not necessarily going to get raped out here. I would more so get mugged and beaten because I look like a guy and I walk like a guy. I think that they you know maybe they just think Im out here with a purse or something Im just a sitting target. You know I think that Im getting a little worked up with my parents. They are weighing on my thoughts.  Ms.  But it is time. They need to know. There is no way to protect them and Im doing them a disservice by not telling them. Im not giving them a choice.  Ms.   I have always known I was different but I know now that it was only covering up what I feel I have known all along what I have known since I was six years old when I began putting a sock into my pants when I was alone or when I used to pretend to shave my face with toothpaste and a toothbrush. What I am trying to explain here is that there has always been a disconnection with my gender and my physical body. And I have tried endlessly to figure out what was wrong why I simply did not feel right in my skin. For the first time in my life though I am starting to feel a connection to who I am.  Ms.   For the past few months I have been living my life as male everywhere with the exception of my work. What that means is that all of my friends have been using male pronouns when referring to me and have been addressing me by another name. The name I have chosen is Miles.  Ms.  What day is today Chris? Whats going on?  Today is the day when Miles  Comes out to his parents and is trans-man.  It is happening today. Ms.  It needs to.  It needs to happen. Ms.  I mean is it - Im going to have these exact same feelings if I bump it back a week.  Yeah you are. Ms.  So...  And this weekend is as good as any.  Ms.  I am delivering this information to you in the form of a letter for a couple of reasons. One I never would have been able to say all of this to you in person without completely losing any and all composure. And two I wanted to give you a safe space in which you could react however you need to react without worry of judgment as I realize this is not easy news to hear. However I know this is right for me. You would not be sitting here reading this letter if that were not the case. Ms.  How about it is really important to me that you and dad read this together? You are going to hear me say this again in the letter but I really am okay. Im doing well.  Honestly you are over thinking it. Ms.  I know. She is going to fly through this.  She is going to fly through it because this is not the meat of the issue. She is going to see how long the letter is and she is going to be like okay this is really far less important. Ms.  Yeah I know. So thats - shut up.  Ms.  Decent page breaks.  It is beautifully paragraphed. Ms.  I wanted - because Im used to when you - stop stop it.   I cannot take it anymore.  Ms.  Here goes.  I love you. Ms.  Yeah.  Do you need a hug? Ms.  Im glad to have it done.  Mm-hmm. She will do what she needs to do and I think... Ms.  She is a mother. She is going to eat the burnt piece of toast. She is going to look out for me.  But that what makes her feel good. At the same time Miles look you cannot deny that. You know she wants to look out for you. It is you know part of what she lives for. Ms.  I just checked my email because I have not heard from my mother. The email stared with M.  M? Ms.  It said M dash...  Oh. Ms.  And she never does that. She always says darling daughter or Megan.  Right. Ms.  It says No matter what you do it will not affect your relationship with us. Those are Daddy's exact words. He is however still digesting. I am not as surprised as you might think but I dread the further anguish you will endure. Health risks are a big concern. There are lots - in capitals - lots of questions. Bottom line we will always love you. Do hope you already knew that. Love you infinity M. Which is - that is my mom's sign-off.  Ms.  Im about three months away from surgery. I dont think that Im going to change my mind. The worst that would happen after four months is my voice would lower and I would be a very husky lesbian with no boobs. I wonder if my voice has changed a little but I really dont know. It is March 24th and this is my voice 20 days on testosterone. And this is my voice 22 days on testosterone. Today is April 1st and this is my voice... Today is April 9th. My voice... And this is my voice... Twenty-eight days on testosterone. So five weeks so thats going to be 35... Today is April 23rd 50 days on testosterone. Today is May 5th. This is my voice 62 days on testosterone. Today is May 11th and this is my voice 68 days on testosterone. Today is May 18th and this is my voice 75 days on testosterone.  Ms.  I just to work and I just kind of wanted to document this moment cause this the last time that I am going to be at work as Megan. This is my last official Megan day. This is the last day Im going to be using the women's restroom. This is the last time that I will have my email say Megan Taylor. I think that I have been slipped between these two identities since like August so thats nine months. It is a long time. All right over and out. Mr.  I went into surgery around nine out by 11. The doctor came out and talked to Sharone and Chris. He said that everything went great. Mr.  Last year sucked. I just I felt like I was you know carrying around this secret. My parents did not know. And you want to just kind of like scream at them like yah you know I have this news. You know something is changing and - but now they know. They are really they are really trying. And it is always a big to-do when I return to Texas for the holidays just because I do not see them all the time. Ms.  Weve had this tumultuous year of all the emotions and as you said the mourning and you know and then to finally get you here. And by this time you know you know now we have been waiting and waiting and waiting to see you and meet you know and say oh here's Miles. But anyway there you were and it was like oh your shoulders are bigger.  Ms.  And the hug. Mr.  Yeah that is... Ms.  But you appear to me to be happy in your own skin. Mr.  But you said that you lost a daughter because I am still here and I am still alive. So it is not like I died. Ms.  The hardest thing was the loss you know and the sad thing I mean here you are flesh and blood warm wonderful lovable our child. Mr.  Do you still feel like that? Mr.  No I do not anymore. But I mean... Mr.  Initially. Mr.  I felt like the child that I knew and the child in the picture on the icebox that I knew and grew up with was gone. Just pure and simple was gone. Ms.  I just felt like somebody had taken a cannon ball and shot me through my middle and that I was walking around living my life and going to work and doing everything and acting normal except that I had this huge hole. It was just there all the time. It was there when I got up in the morning. It was there when I went to bed at night. It was just there. But the other thing and I know it is the maternal guilt thing. I do not know if daddy has these same things but I feel you have done like this heroic feat. You have accomplished this on your own without  I mean even though you have known that you have always had our total love and support but that is all you had from us. We were not actually holding your hand. And I still have the text messages I got when you got out of surgery. Mr.  Oh really? Ms.  Anyway well I mean we love you always have always will. It is really nice to spend time with you. Mr.  Very nice to be here. You know like when a movie comes to the conclusion and it culminates with somebody like standing outside and you know and it is just that sigh that you know that breath of just... I ran around without a shirt on for the first time outside. We had a reprieve from the cold weather and it got a little warmer and it was drizzly and I went to the park shed my layers and you know cool breeze on my chest. And it was just absolutely amazing. All right. My name is Miles and I am 29 years old. So this is me signing off and this is my voice 260 days on testosterone.  That story was originally produced by Sarah Reynolds with support from the public radio website transom.org and Jay Allison. Miles Taylor lives in Boston with his friend Chris Jacobs. He started recording his diary in November 2008. His parents Vicky and Bill still live in Texas. 