 One of the biggest challenges facing parents in the COVID crisis is child care. Recent research found about half of the 4.5 million child care spots in the country could be permanently lost because of the pandemic. And without child care it will be hard for many parents to get back to work. Kavitha Cardoza from member station WAMU in Washington D.C. reports.   And this is how we communicate with each other.  Angelique Speight-Marshall has come up with an ingenious idea to keep the seven little kids she looks after at her home-based day care apart. She is given them little walkie-talkies.  They request a toy the bathroom a snack .  These toddlers run as far apart from each other as possible to talk.  Hey Auntie P .  Hello Jules .  Speight-Marshall constantly reminds children no hugs or holding hands no sharing toys or art supplies. Everything she is taught for 23 years this is the opposite.  That has been definitely a strain trying to teach the children not to share. They do not understand it. I am an educator and I do not understand it .  Speight-Marshall's laughter covers up serious concerns. She is serving only half the number of kids she used to because of new health guidelines so she is making far less money. She is had to lay off staff and she spends many more hours doing paperwork laundry disinfecting toys. But she is grateful her day care is still open. Here in Washington almost two-thirds of child care facilities have closed.  It is been kind of rough.  Sylvia Crews ran a home-based child care service in D.C. until mid-March. She says with the stringent pandemic restrictions she just could not make the numbers work.  All the PPEs the Clorox the disinfectants.  Crews says even if she manages to reopen she is not sure how she will afford the new extra expenses.  It is thermometers the face masks the shields.  They are hanging on by their fingernails.  That is Rhian Allvin the CEO of the National Association for the Education of Young Children. She says providers have reached breaking point.  And without a sustained public investment the sector will collapse.  Allvin says more than 80 of providers have reopened but at substantially reduced capacity. Many are not sure whether they will be able to survive long term.  As we look to the financing of the system parents cannot pay any more and early childhood educators cannot earn any less.  In recent months the CARES Act - federal emergency assistance - provided 3 12 billion for early childhood education. Advocates say 50 billion is needed.   Diamond Holland tries to keep her worries from her 2-year-old daughter. She is a single mom who was laid off from her job as a home health aide.  I worry about my unemployment. I worry about my rent. I am worried about all of those things. How am I going to be able to survive?  Holland is desperately looking for another job while also worrying about her other child a 4-year-old. His preschool is closed and she is not sure how long family members can help out.   The batteries went dead.  Angelique Speight-Marshall watches the toddlers play. The majority of children she cares for have parents who are essential workers - nurses grocery store workers and truck drivers. She says any additional funding would help.  Child care powers the economy because while we are caring for the children and the parents are happy the parents are able to go to work. Everybody ready? Go.  Go.  For NPR News I am Kavitha Cardoza in Washington D.C. 