 We begin this hour with a story with an all-too-familiar script.  Late last night this time at a bar in Southern California a man opened fire. In the end 13 people including the gunman were dead. One of the victims was a sergeant with the sheriff's department who was shot as he exchanged gunfire with the shooter.  This afternoon anxious family members are being notified - people like Jason Coffman whose son Cody was killed.  I talked to him last night before he headed out the door. The first thing I said was please do not drink and drive. Last thing I said was son I love you. That was the last thing I said.  Cody Coffman was 22 years old. We are joined now by NPR's Leila Fadel who is in south Thousand Oaks Calif. Hey Leila.  Hi.  Hi. Can you tell us what we know so far about what happened at the Borderline Bar  Grill last night?  Well the Ventura County Sheriff Geoff Dean has identified the shooter as a 28-year-old Marine Corps veteran named Ian David Long who lives in a neighborhood that is not too far from here. And around 20 last night he walked up to this bar shot the security guard outside entered and started shooting. And within three minutes Sergeant Ron Helus responded to the shooting. He walked into the bar right away and he was shot multiple times. And he later died of his wounds. And his colleagues this county his family are all mourning him now. The sheriff described the scene inside that bar as horrific and said Helus responding so quickly surely did save lives. Officers later found the shooter in an office near the entrance of that bar with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.  Is there any understanding whatsoever why this happened?  Well we are expecting some more information soon but at this point no - no motive no understanding if this was targeted or just a random act of violence at a crowded bar. The sheriff said this morning that they are trying to get a search warrant for the shooter's home in Newbury Park. Deputies have responded to the shooter's home in the spring and they found him irate a little irrational. But after mental health specialists evaluated him they decided he was not a harm to himself or to others. So now if they had decided he was a danger under California's 5150 law he could have been held for mental health reasons. And beyond that if the deputies deemed him a danger California also has a red flag law so they could have temporarily removed firearms with a court order.  What can you tell us so far about the victims?  You know as you can imagine it is a tragic day. And I am not too far from where that shooting happened. And as I was walking around I noticed red spots on the ground and it was dried blood from wounded people running away. This was college night at the bar so a lot of these people were really young between 18 and 25. People broke windows to get out of the bar when the gunman was reloading. And later this morning and into the afternoon families are or have been notified that their loved ones are gone - people like Jason Coffman who we heard from earlier.  And you have had a chance in the past several hours to talk to people. I mean how is the community responding right now?  Well they want to help. They have already - the blood drive at the local high school is extremely crowded. A victims' fund has been set up. And they just want to help.  That is NPR's Leila Fadel in Thousand Oaks Calif. Thanks so much. 