 Here's Attorney General Eric Holder earlier today.  We simply cannot allow a trial to be delayed any longer for the victims of the 911 attacks or for their family members - who have waited for nearly a decade for justice. Like many Americans they differ on where the 911 conspirators should be prosecuted. But there is one thing on which they all agree We must bring the conspirators to justice.  NPR's Dina Temple-Raston has been following the story. She joins us now. Dina in late 2009 Attorney General Holder announced that these five conspirators will be tried in New York City in a civilian trial. So today's decision officially reverses that.  So just days after the decision there was a ton of local opposition. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said it would cost hundreds of millions of dollars just for trial security. And frankly that was the beginning of the end for trying the 911 suspects in a federal court.  This reaction in New York that ultimately forced the attorney general to switch venues how strong was that?  And they blocked funding from moving the prisoners to the U.S. They would not allow the Justice Department to spend money on prisons that might house detainees in the U.S. And it seemed like Attorney General Holder was really angry about that. We have tape of what he said.  Decisions about who where and how to prosecute have always been and must remain the responsibility of the executive branch. Members of Congress simply do not have access to the evidence and other information necessary to make prosecution judgments.  You know and then the attorney general said the administration would continue to try to repeal those restrictions and bring other detainees here for civilian trial in the future. But the way the Justice Department sees it Congress essentially told them who they can or cannot prosecute. And that is what is upset the attorney general.  And you could hear that in his voice. Dina help us understand something. What will a military trial actually mean for these men who are linked to the 911 attacks?  What we do know - if someone is convicted they might get the death penalty. But we do not know if they just plead guilty whether they would. That is still untested.  And that is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. Dina thank you very much.  You are welcome. 