 Now we are going to hear the story behind a popular song.  My name is Natalia Lafourcade. I am a singer songwriter from Mexico.  Natalia Lafourcade won four Latin Grammys back in November including for this song Hasta La Raiz. It means to the roots.   .  She explained how her hit song was made on Song Exploder a podcast that unpacks songs with the musicians who created them. Natalia Lafourcade says this song started with a conversation.  I went to my friend's house. His name is Leonel Garcia and he is a great composer from Mexico as well. I know him since long ago. We were talking about the importance of keeping your roots and keeping all the things that build you - your home your friends your family your experiences. I wanted to sing about something that will remind me of Mexico and home. So I was telling him like why do not we try a very traditional riff from Mexico - this huapango thing on the guitar? So he started like playing that huapango.   There is huapangos in many areas in Mexico but I never tried to put any music like that into my music and mix it with this pop sensation of a song.   I started like trying to put the words together and to make the phrases of the song. So I went into the studio and I started discovering the words by singing them. . So I was getting these goosebumps and all that magic feelings that comes to you whenever you are singing a song that you are just discovering.   So I called my friend Mariana Ruiz. So she came to my house and we worked on the arrangements.   I think that the strings give you the feeling of an epic feeling. And that is how you feel when you are flying away from something and you are - you are going through so many things that make you stronger. I wanted to have that emotion and that sensation in the arrangement.   We were first doing that melody - pa pa pa pa pa pa pa  - with a xylophone and with the steel drum. Then he put that melody into the guitar.   There is this line...   . . You are still inside of me because I am keeping you. I am not forgetting. I keep you inside of me. I mean many different things. It is love but it is also all the things that built me and that help me to be who I am now. So I keep all that. I keep my home. I keep the place I come from. I keep my mother my father. I keep my lovers. I keep my experiences. The good and the bad moments - I keep all that. It is important not to forget your roots. Keep that and you can grow up. And you can fly far away and you can be a big artist or whatever you want to be. But it is important I think to keep all that.   .  That was Natalia Lafourcade talking about making her song Hasta La Raiz. This story came to us from the podcast Song Exploder. It is produced by Hrishikesh Hirway. You can hear other episodes at songexploder.net or wherever you get your podcasts. You will also find it featured at earbud.fm NPR's guide to great podcasts.   . 