 When Shirley Temple Black died earlier this week many of the tributes to her mentioned one of the most famous scenes in American movie history a dance on a staircase that Temple performed with Bill Bojangles Robinson in the 1935 movie The Little Colonel. They were the first interracial couple to dance onscreen. As NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports their partnership was more than just a movie milestone.  He was in his 50s. She was six. He called her darlin' She called him Uncle Billy. Bill Robinson taught Shirley Temple his joyful elegant tap-dancing routines. She thought he was the perfect partner.   Shirley Temple Black told NPR in the 1980s that Bill Robinson taught her to feel the beat rather than count it out.  We held hands and I learned to dance from Bill by listening not looking at the feet. It was kind of a magic between us.  Say you get your feet. N.R.  He was unsurpassed during his lifetime.  N. R. Mitgang co-authored a biography of Bill Bojangles Robinson with the late Jim Haskins. He says Robinson was a star in his own right. He was one of the first black performers in vaudeville. His fans included President Franklin Roosevelt and Will Rogers. Famous hoofers looked up to him.  Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire both said if it were not for Bojangles' tap dancing they never would have been the tap dancers that they were.  So you have the pint-sized movie star Shirley Temple tapping up a storm with a giant of the art form Bill Bojangles Robinson. But on- and off-screen they were far from equal. Take The Littlest Rebel in 1935. Temple plays a tiny Southern belle. Film historian Donald Bogle says what is troubling about the movie is that Robinson's character a slave during the Civil War is made to seem clueless.  He has a moment when he is really asked about the war and he seems completely befuddled that he does not understand it.   As in all Shirley Temple films there is an abundance of optimism especially in those dance numbers with Bill Robinson.   Donald Bogle says black audiences had mixed reactions to Bill Robinson's Shirley Temple movies. They were happy he was getting work but did not like his image.  He is this kind of quintessential onscreen Tom figure.  Later in life Shirley Temple said she was not fully aware of the racism Robinson faced when she was a little girl. Once when they were both in Palm Springs working on a movie she stayed in a private cottage he in a room above a drugstore. When she asked him why he was staying there he told her do not fret his chauffeur was staying there too. Despite all that separated them Shirley Temple considered Bill Robinson a real friend.  Bill Robinson treated me as an equal which was very important to me. He did not talk down to me like to a little girl. And I liked people like that. And Bill Robinson was the best of all.   Bill Bojangles Robinson died in 1949. It makes sense that he and Shirley Temple would get along so well. She was Little Miss Sunshine his favorite saying everything's copacetic. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 