 President Obama is in Rhode Island today to talk up how the White House and Congressional Democrats have helped small businesses in this tough economy. He is also in the state to fundraise for congressional candidates but he is not there to endorse the Democratic candidate for governor Frank Caprio. Caprio only learned that last night. And this morning in an interview with WPRO radio Caprio unloaded. Mr.  I never asked for President Obama's endorsement. You know he can take his endorsement and really shove it as far as I am concerned.  Well John Mulligan is Washington bureau chief for the Providence Journal and joins us from Rhode Island. First of all what was this news that was learned last night about President Obama's non-endorsement of the Democratic? Mr.  Well Robert this was the cap of many days of speculation about whether the President would endorse the Democratic candidate for governor. And in a routine call with reporters to lay out details of this trip a White House spokeswoman said for the first time definitively the President would not endorse today.  Now Mr. Caprio is in a three-way race for governor of Rhode Island against Republican John Robataille but also running as an Independent the former Senator Lincoln Chafee. I gather that is where the plot thickens here. Mr.  Yes it does indeed. Link Chaffee was a Republican Senator from Rhode Island and bears a famous Rhode Island Republican name. He is one of these moderate New Englanders who split with the party. He was defeated for re-election as a Republican in 2006 became an Independent and then in 2008 he endorsed and campaigned for then-senator Obama.  Well the Democratic candidate Mr. Caprio says that his is all about two old friends to former U.S. Senators Lincoln Chafee and Barack Obama who are doing some old Washington business. Is there a close relationship there between Obama and Chafee? Mr.  Well I do not know that it was a terribly close relationship. They were colleagues. I think on Chafee's side he had been uncomfortable with President Bush and with the direction of his party for a long time before he became an Independent. And so it was not terribly surprising that he endorsed the president. What is been a little surprising about this Caprio imbroglio is that it took some days for the climax to arrive. There is been quite a bit to speculation in the local press here as to whether Mr. Caprio would be invited to these fundraisers. He was finally last week. Whether he would be endorsed not endorsed. And of course former senator Chafee is declaring this non-endorsement of his rival as a victory for Link Chafee.  This is a close race according to the polls? Mr. Mulligan Yes so we are told. And so a White House spokeswoman was asked last night and whether the fact that it is razor thin does the President consider that this could have an effect? And she simply said he is not going to endorse. She did not go at that question directly.  John Mulligan thank you. Mr.  Thank you Robert.  John Mulligan is Washington bureau chief of the Providence Journal. This afternoon a White House spokesman explained that President Obama decided to stay out of the Rhode Island governor's race quote out of respect for his friend Lincoln Chafee. 