 Commuters in the San Francisco Bay Area are taking their first drive across the new eastern span of the Bay Bridge. The old span which was built during the Depression partially collapsed in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. This new stretch took 24 years to build and cost more than 6 billion. As NPR's Richard Gonzales reports the project started as a seismic retrofit and morphed into what is been called the Big Dig of the West.   The new bridge is just over two miles long reaching from Oakland to Yerba Buena Island half way to San Francisco. It is the world's largest single tower self-anchored suspension span. An hour before its long anticipated opening last night hundreds of vehicles jammed onto on-ramps to be among the first to cross. Oaklander Joseph Duran was there.  It is history. I mean it is kind of something cool that I will be able to tell my grandchildren.  Indeed history will judge whether the new eastern span is an architectural marvel or a symbol of political paralysis. At first glance it is a stunning sight. Leaving Oakland there is a long viaduct with open and expansive views of the San Francisco Bay as if drivers are floating in the air. Bridge spokesman Andrew Gordon describes the signature tower design.  Drivers are just going to see this 525-foot gleaming white tower the gleaming white cable. And then as you drive under - since the tower is between the decks yet the cables on the outside - they are going to be driving under this white canopy of steel cables and it is just an amazing thing to see.  And it comes with a hefty price tag. Initially the cost retrofitting the old bridge was 250 million. A new bridge was estimated a little more than one billion dollars but that estimate ballooned and when all is said and done the price tag is 6.4 billion. Karen Frick assistant director of the UC Transportation Center says the cost grew because planners opened the process up and started asking some big questions.  When you provide an opportunity for conversation there is naturally friction. And that is what happened very publicly and also influenced cost in a huge way.  Should the new bridge be an aesthetic wonder and an engineering marvel? After debate the answer was yes. Would the new span have a pedestrian and bike path? Yes it does. Would it have a rail line? Nope that did not happen. Meanwhile the project was plagued with controversies like the poor quality of Chinese steel the discovery of bad welds and more recently the breaking of massive bolts in the seismic safety system. All of this chewed up time and you know what they say about time and money.   At the ceremonial opening yesterday afternoon there was a general acknowledgment that the project was expensive and had taken too long to accomplish. When Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom used a torch to cut the symbolic chain the cheer seemed part jubilation and part plain relief.   Either way CalTrans is claiming victory.  You know what? The bottom-line is the public got the beautiful bridge they wanted.  Brian Maroney is a CalTrans chief engineer. He says the project was always a race against the inevitable moment when the next devastating earthquake strikes.  We are competing against time. You do not know when the next earthquake will happen. We got people off the old Bay Bridge. And now as a community everybody involved won.  And everyone is paying for it. In 1997 it cost 1 to cross the Bay Bridge. Today it costs 6. Richard Gonzales NPR News San Francisco. 