 Before we leave tonight we are going to make another visit to the Momofuku Noodle Bar in New York City. If we were actually visiting Momofuku and its standing-room-only annex called Milk Bar we would find two eateries that are small and loud with not much in the way of decor and there is always a long line of customers out the door. And when those patrons finally step up to bark out their noodle orders most also ask for Momofuku's famous pork buns. David Chang is owner of Momofuku and author of the new cookbook with the same name. Chang says his pork bun works because of its complex mix of flavors and textures. Mr.  It is soft. It is unctuous. It has a burst of fat flavor from the salty pork belly and then it is got this cool crunchy texture from the pickled cucumbers and the sweetness in the hoisin sauce. So I did not anticipate it ever being as wildly successful as it is but they are sort of addictive. They just are salty sweet and sandwiched between a soft pillowy steamed bread.  You say you are surprised by their success. Mr.  Yeah. People do not believe me when I say they were 11th-hour addition. I had  in the book it describes me on the hunt of the recipe of making steamed buns. People do not think that bread is part of Asian culture or Asian food culture but it is quite prevalent in Northern China and you see it throughout Japan and as you go to Taiwan. And I had not seen it in this form until I went to a restaurant called Oriental Garden and that became an obsession. I would always ask the owner there  and I call him Uncle Choi - I was like you have to give me this recipe. And I essentially went there every day bothering him and badgering him until he told me that he does not even make these things.  You know I am wondering if maybe you should just read your description of the search for the bread because the description in the book is just so delicious if you have the book. Mr.  I do.  Mr.  This is sort of an esoteric reference to a movie I think that was produced by Quincy Jones. Mr.   Have you ever seen the blacksploitation martial arts movie The Last Dragon from the '80s where the dude is in constant search for some type of master who can provide some wisdom and in the end it turns out to be a hoax? The master's place is a fortune cookie factory. That is how I felt when the place I was sent to learned the secret of steamed bread turned out to be Mei Mei Foods a local company that supplied dozens of New York restaurants with pre-made dim sum items including the buns. Before it closed in 2007 the guy there John showed me the dead simple process a little mixing a little steaming and presto buns. It turns out they are made from a simple white-bread dough. Mantou the Chinese name is not so different from say Wonder Bread that is steamed instead of baked. So when we started making it ourselves we started to develop our own recipe and our own essentially white bread. And next time you make a loaf of bread do not bake it. Pop it in the steamer and  Like a bamboo steamer? Mr.  Yeah a bamboo steamer would work. Line it with a little oil on the bottom so the bread does not stick and see what happens.  Your book includes a recipe for the steamed buns. It is a huge recipe. It makes 50 buns. It seems like a lot. Mr.  Well it is not  it seems like a lot but I guarantee you if you make it for a party of six theyre going to be all gone.  Oh so maybe 50 is not enough?  Mr.  Well it is  I have seen people eat like eight. And if this was for a party it would be a perfect canape and especially if you make the bread you can make them into a smaller size so they are literally one-bite things like a White Castle burger almost.  Mmm. So you take the bun you slather on some hoisin sauce. Mr. Yeah.  You use some of the pickled cucumbers. Mr. Cucumbers. Yeah it is essentially a riff on the Peking duck. It is delicious it is fatty it is all the things that I think people  they do not want the calorie intake they do not want to know that stuff. But  I was going to ask is there a healthier alternative here? I mean if you tried to do steamed buns with whole wheat or something would that Mr. No no no you can make vegetable buns. We make shitake buns. The fillings are endless. But for me the biggest surprise why it became so popular was I did not anticipate New Yorkers embracing pork belly as much as they did because just a decade ago or even in the late 1990s restaurants could not sell a dish called pork belly. So people would change it to be called fresh bacon and I refuse to call it fresh bacon buns. I was like we are going to call it what is pork belly and to my surprise people embraced it.  David Chang. He is the chef and co-author of the cookbook Momofuku. It is named after his New York noodle restaurant. 