 Now to Zimbabwe where law enforcement has cracked down on thousands of street vendors. The government says in the capital of Harare vendors spill into the streets and make the downtown chaotic. They are being told to pack up their wares and move into designated zones before the end of the month. The traders say they are not selling on the street by choice but because they must make ends meet. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports.  The issue of Zimbabwe's street traders is not a debate being conducted on Twitter or Facebook at least not by the protagonists on the streets of once sedate and orderly Harare. But the twists and turns of the saga of sidewalk vendors is the talk of the town. Estimates put the number of street vendors as high as 20000 just in the capital. Traders say that is because there are no jobs in Zimbabwe and facing eviction from the streets their jobs are now at risk.  My name is Tobias Tobias Tsava. But I do not think they can move us since we do not have jobs and nowhere to go. Most of are qualified. Some have got degrees and diplomas. We are drivers mechanics but the industry's collapsed.  Vendors sell everything you can imagine from sweet potatoes to new and used footwear and pirated CDs with goods splayed across the sidewalks. It is a minefield for pedestrians in a hurry. Temptation Tekera sells an assortment of plastic toys and asks what is the alternative to street trading?  We are going to fight for our families - simple. That is where we get food. That is where we get rent. That is where we get everything. Where can I go now?  The chaos must stop warns Sithembiso Nyoni minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. Twenty-six June is the deadline set for street vendors to remove their makeshift pitches from the downtown central business district and register for one of the limited 6000 places in relocation sites around Harare. And they will have to pay rent says the minister when she was addressing representatives of the vendors recently.   We have been working to provide a lasting solution which is what I am announcing today. So please make sure your members comply with this OK?  .  .  .  Hundreds of street vendors wearing yellow reflective jackets gathered for a noisy meeting recently in a church hall in Harare. Charity Mandishona from the Zimbabwe Chamber of Informal Economy Associations says these people need a living wage.  The alternative is for the government to create employment as they had promised on the last elections that they are going to create 2 million jobs. And up to now there are no jobs. There is no shortcut to that.  After the hyperinflation of 2007-2008 and the economic collapse under President President Robert Mugabe in what was once the prosperous food basket of southern Africa the economy remains shaky. Street trader Gaudentia Makahamadze a widow and mother of two sells knitting wool.  My husband passed away. I have got two children to look after and I am paying school fees for them. They must have mercy for us.  Initially Zimbabwe's government played hardball warning vendors they would be moved by force. The defense minister stepped in and said he would not deploy soldiers onto the streets to intervene in the dispute. But Minister Sithembiso Nyoni says those who do not have the required papers to sell in designated vending areas before the end of this month will be stopped from selling. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Harare. 