 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.  NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro recently spent several weeks in this coastal Palestinian territory and today we hear her report on the impact of a partial easing of the blockade - or what Palestinians call the siege of Gaza.  Anwar Abu al-Qays's corner shop is bulging with Israeli goods not seen on the shelves here for three years. Items are stacked up to the roof some precariously like mini towers of Pisa made out of packages covered with Hebrew script. Chocolate diet soft drinks diapers - he says the goods coming in from Israel are cheap and good quality.   Before we only got very limited things from Israel. Now in terms of foodstuffs and household goods everything is coming in.  But he adds that the siege of Gaza by Israel is far from over.   Laborers are our main customers and no one has work or money. So however much I am selling it is still not as much as if people had jobs here.  Just a 45-minute drive from the city of Tel Aviv with its skyscrapers and resorts Gaza is a ramshackle collection of villages and cities embraced by the sea like a toothless smile. It is only 25 miles long about seven miles wide and it is really crowded.  Brightly packaged cookies are put together on this assembly line. This cavernous factory had been practically shuttered but now owner Iyad Telbani has actually hired more people.   During the siege it was about 150 employees and they were only working a few shifts a month. Now there are 250 workers.  He says he needs to be able to sell his goods outside of Gaza.   The fact is the situation in Gaza will not improve unless they allow factories to export. I used to export 60 percent of my products to the West Bank.  But this summer Israel came under heavy international pressure to ease the blockade after an Israeli military raid on a flotilla carrying humanitarian aid to Gaza left nine pro-Palestinian activists dead.  Actions like a flotilla certainly is trying to put Israel in a no-win situation.  Danny Ayalon is Israel's deputy foreign minister. He says Israel has to keep weapons and items that could be used for military fortifications out of Gaza which is why it retains such tight restrictions on the land and sea borders. But he acknowledged in an interview with NPR that the punishing three-year ban on most foodstuffs and other commodities was a mistake.  Denying different items or products into Gaza was not that effective. Hence now we have changed the policy altogether.  But people would say that you are - that what you are saying now is disingenuous that this is only in reaction to pressure put on you after the Turkish flotilla incident.  It certainly expedited this decision but I believe this decision would have come up anyway.  The partial opening up of the crossings between Israel and Gaza has also had some unanticipated consequences.  Is that it?  Aye.  Okay.   So I am slowly being lowered down into one of the smuggling tunnels that crisscross the border between the Gaza Strip and Egypt. I am sitting in a swing being winched all the way to the bottom. Stop.   It is very lonely at the bottom. Like some 60 percent of the tunnels this one has shut down.  cars food even animals.   Now we bring in cement paint flooring material - things to build with.  Many Gazans are still living amid the ruins like the Abed Rabbo family.    Her house was leveled in the fighting and only the floor remained. Now she and her family occupy what is left. Shelter and privacy come from a tent strung up over the house foundation. Soad says the fact that Israeli goods are coming into Gaza is irrelevant to her.   What they have brought into Gaza is luxury items. I cannot afford that. Ice cream? Chocolate? I do not need that.  But this summer he says he is finally decided he wants to leave Gaza for good and take his children somewhere else. Banging his hand on the table as he speaks he says despite the array of new foodstuffs on the shelves here the Israeli siege continues.  Why you deal with us like animals? I am in a prison regardless to the quality of the food you provide to me whether Movenpick or Sheraton provide me the food.  Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News. 