 If you were stuck on a desert island what five books would you bring with you? It is a fun parlor game question turned into reality right now. So with millions of people sheltering in place who better to answer that question than writers? Young adult author and professor Ben Philippe says he had a list of the books that he would bring with him but when the time arrived he ended up turning to a favorite childhood series for comfort.  An insight from this crisis we are in is that all of my previous desert island lists were complete BS apparently because I am not rereading The Virgin Suicides or Dostoyevsky or all the books I would normally say that ooh I get a lot of like comfort from the grim tones of Notes From The Underground. Nope. I am rereading Animorphs  the entirety of the series. And there is something sort of like kid-ish and fun about the concept of ooh what if you were an eagle? What if you were an alligator? And the Animorphs are actually an incredibly dark dystopia where there is already an alien invasion of Earth underway and five kids discover that basically the Earth is doomed but they are going to fight it off the best they can. Underneath it all there is such a looming sense of like despair. And I do not think I ever sort of latched onto that darkness when I was you know 14 15. But now I am like oh God this is so bad. And it is really soothing my brain because even though the world is so dark these kids keep going on. They still have crushes. They still go to dances. They have family gatherings. And part of them basically fighting off the aliens is that they have to keep pretending that the world is normal. They have to - they do not want people to suspect them of sort of being rebels. So they just have to keep pretending everything's fine. And sometimes they have personal breakdowns but then they have to just sort of put on a smile and then go back into the world which as a professor I resonate with  because when I get emails from students who are like does my screenplay matter - like the world is insane - it just feels overwhelming and you know every cell in my body wants to scream yeah I know. No you are totally right. Why did you not like major in immunosciences? That is what we need right now. But you know you have to fake it. You have to be like hey I know it is scary but the world has a way of enduring and this is just one more crisis and hard days make for good stories et cetera et cetera. But I think that that sort of element of like pretending and going on is very appealing to me right now.   That is Ben Philippe author of The Field Guide To The North American Teenager. He is reading the Animorphs series by K.A. Applegate.  