 In rural towns across the country there is a shortage of veterinarians for farm animals. The pay is low. The hours are long. And it can be hard to get vets to work in areas where there are more cows than people. This is a problem that could leave farmers and the U.S. food supply vulnerable. Harvest Public Media's Esther Honig has our report.  Inside a sun-soaked barn in Brush Colo. Dr. Karen Chandler visits with her first patient of the morning.   Well actually there is 38 of them. These newborn calves are here for their first checkup.   One by one the calves are restrained and lifted onto a metal table. First they are vaccinated. Then they are branded with a hot iron. Chandler a large animal vet castrates the bulls.   They are going to be fine. They will be a little sore. But they will be back with Mom and they will be nursing in 20 minutes. And they will be fine.  This is what preventative medicine for cows looks like. And it benefits more than just the animal and farmer.  Everything we do for our cattle is for the promotion of happy healthy cattle. And that ends up with happy healthy people.  Chandler is 30 and only four years into her career. She wears jeans with rhinestones on the pockets and tucks her long curly hair under a baseball cap. In this rural Colorado town she is the first line of defense against diseases like tuberculosis that can spread from animals to humans. If a herd shows signs of a potentially dangerous illness it is up to Chandler to diagnose and warn public health officials. But more and more young veterinarians are choosing to live in the city instead and chiefly treat dogs and cats. Jobs like Chandler's attract few applicants. First of all they require long days and odd hours.  Horses colic in the middle of the night. Pigs get born at 6 a.m. and you cannot get your kids to school on time.  And as someone who grew up in the city she says she is had to adjust to rural life. She misses great Italian restaurants. The biggest hurdle is paying off her student loans.  The major contributor to the shortages is student debt.  That is John de Jong who heads the American Veterinary Medical Association. He and other industry leaders say few veterinarians can now afford to work in rural areas. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics those in rural areas earn between 60 to 70000 a year about half of what they could make in a big city. While that may seem like a lot the average debt load from school tops 140000.  Which leaves them with not a lot of money for rent or mortgage or food or going out to a movie.  Karen Chandler could not have accepted this job if she had not been selected for a highly competitive loan forgiveness program by the USDA. After three years of serving this high-needs rural area her debt will be lowered by 75000. She sees her job as being a part of something bigger like when she inspects animals before they are sold for slaughter.  Every day that I am out here at the sale barn on Thursday mornings my thought is would I want my niece to eat this at school? And if I do not think I would want my niece to eat that at school it does not walk through our sale room.  So for her working as a large-animal veterinarian provides a sense of stewardship both for animals and for food safety. For NPR News I am Esther Honig in Greeley Colo.  And that story comes to us from Harvest Public Media a reporting collaboration focusing on agriculture and rural issues.  