 And I want to let you listen for a moment to a love song - a love song inspired by one of the darker chapters of American history.    Were all the things you wanted the same as anyone? Just to have and hold a living after all is said and done.  The song is Summer Of '42. It is about something beautiful - falling in love while living in a prison camp - one of the prison camps where Japanese Americans were sent after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. The song is from the new album by the Japanese American artist Kishi Bashi.    The first day that I met you I wrote down in my book I am in love with you.  Now his family was not sent to the camps. His parents immigrated to the U.S. from Japan after World War II. He was born in Seattle. He lives today in Athens Ga. But Kishi Bashi says today's political climate has got him thinking about American history. And just to note this interview contains a term some listeners may find offensive. Kishi Bashi welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Nice to be here.  So this album is your way of reckoning I guess with our country's internment of Japanese Americans during the Second World War. And I want to start by asking why is that a subject that you felt needed tackling now?  I think it is reckoning for a lot of reasons mainly myself because I really did not understand why I started feeling so insecure here in America. You know I am an American citizen and I love this country. And I love the ideals that it stands for but I really recently started to feel insecure and fearful of my own identity. And I think I started to look into this historical event in that it is a - it was a lesson you know?  And you actually went and visited a lot of these old camps. What is that like? What can you see when you go today?  Frankly they are - if you go in the summer they are really beautiful - some of them - on the West Coast. And it is really conflicting because there is places - they are very desolate. In the winter they are probably pretty miserable. So to kind of get that effect I went to Arkansas in the winter. And that was very bleak.  This is the Jerome War Relocation Center. This is the one in Southeast Arkansas. It was open I gather from 1942 to 1944. And you reference it in one of the songs on the album - Theme From Jerome.    After today you speak the new. With every word you walk from the comfort of my hand. There is a lot of Japanese culture in these camps that was largely suppressed you know internally and also externally. Like the camps would not allow you to have Japanese material - written material. And everybody was encouraged to assimilate. And to have to suppress or even forget or destroy your own culture in order to survive is something that really was heartbreaking for me. And then it became the song.  In the song it is talking about trying to communicate between generations and the language barrier but other barriers that can spring up.  The language barrier is very evident because you know if you are a grandfather and your native tongue is Japanese then you really cannot communicate with your grandchildren in the way that you would like to. And I have seen - you know my dad's English is kind of broken.  He is probably listening to this. But I think a lot of people may not be able to connect with their relatives like that because they have this barrier this language barrier. And I think that is really sad.  Do your kids speak Japanese?  My daughter - we tried for a while and it is really difficult you know? She understands a lot more Japanese than she speaks. But she tries with her grandmother. She is from Japan.    And while they would sleep she would sing this melody to her beloved sons - forgotten words from Japan.  So what resonated? I mean it sounds like the history and the stories and the just humanity of what was going on in these camps resonated for you. What connects that to this moment where we are today as you see it?  Well I think for me as an artist or a songwriter you connect it through stories and these emotions that are timeless and universal like love Loss desire. And you find these connections so that you can actually empathize with how they might have felt. And then I also look back at how hysterical it was back then - World War II. We know that they were not the enemy. They were civilians - just families - locked up. But if you look at a lot of the average people on the ground you know citizens - white Americans - they probably were afraid. And I think that is exactly where we stand today is that we have to be very careful to not fall into this hysteria so that this kind of thing does not happen again with new vulnerable minority groups.  You are talking about like the immigration debate playing out at the moment for example.  Immigration debate yeah - Islamophobia and just like - yeah like immigrants are coming to kill us and take our jobs. You know this is a fear tactic that was exactly the same as what happened 76 years ago. And then ultimately our leaders failed us you know by not protecting civilians.    Named of the leader who favored a nation after his own. Into the desert he pushed all the Nips he was not alone.  Talk about the song F Delano.  So F Delano is obviously - Delano is the middle name of FDR. And it is kind of interesting because FDR is really still considered one of the greatest presidents of all time you know? And he helped America out of the Great Depression and created all these social programs that we still depend on today yet he was a villain in this story about Japanese American incarceration because he just took away civil rights for a whole entire race of people.    Summer was sunny but history funny to settle with. Was he right? Innocence without a proper fight. Fight F. Delano. And I think the lesson here is that history is really complicated. You can have heroes and villains and that is easy for children to understand. But like for adults you know we have to look at the complexities of the situation and understand that you know there is a lot going on back there. But the more you understand you know the more you can grow as a person.  Listening to you I am realizing it is still really uncomfortable to talk about because I think a lot of Americans of your and my generation - we are both in our 40s - would like to think this was a bad chapter of American history but it is history. Lessons were learned. It sounds like among other things you intend this album to be a warning. You know be careful. We could go down that path again.  It is - yeah. I mean that is the simple message is that you know be careful. But also you know the good thing about history is that I see - you know the more I study it I see that humanity is actually progressing towards a more compassionate empathetic state. I see my daughter and she is - her classmates I see as a kind of hope for a new generation you know coming in and that we are headed in the right direction.   Kishi Bashi thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thanks so much for having me.  Kishi Bashi's new album is called Omoiyari.    The word that you had found for me a favorite sound of mine it swayed under a canopy to fill the end of time. 