 There is a contest underway in New Hampshire and no we are not just talking about the presidential primary - a five-week chess championship tournament in a prison. The winner who emerges in a few weeks will not get money or a prize or a trophy just a piece of paper saying they are the best chess player at the Northern New Hampshire Correctional Facility. It might not sound like much but as reporter Keith O'Brien found out for the inmates it is a big deal. O' The prison can be found deep in the woods down back roads warning drivers to be wary of moose - so far north actually so close to the Canadian border that some inmates in Berlin have never received a visitor behind these walls and locked doors. But every Wednesday evening almost without fail one man shows up right on time.  Albert French volunteer - chess volunteer. I teach chess. O' French is a big guy - stout and wide bald and wearing a bushy gray goatee. He is 60 years old and he has a day job.  I am a postal employee a clerk. I am the guy that sells you stamps over the counter when you come in. So my days are pretty long. I go in at 6 and I get out at 30. And then on Wednesday nights I come up here. O' In prisons across the country chess is a popular pastime an easy way to while away the hours when you have got hours to give. But French is an A-level chess player with a rating of 1921. That puts him in the 94th percentile in the nation in the top 20 players in the state. And from the moment he arrived at the prison eight years ago he set out to do things a bit differently - working with the inmates.  So the one lesson here is - I want you to try and walk away from this with is king safety. Your game was not that bad. I did not have a lot of moves to make. O' They would not just play. They would learn. And every winter the men in his chess club would square off to determine who was best. Twenty inmates five weeks one champion a title that each man hopes could be his.  Every beginning of the tournament everyone is so pumped to say I am going to win this time. I am going to win this time. O' Severine Wamala knows the feeling. The reigning champion nine years into a 20-to-40-year sentence for sexual assault has won the tournament seven years running. And he is kept his certificates laying them out on the table to prove it.  Why is it a big deal? Well you are a champion. It is as simple as that. It is the word champion. It is a big deal . Do not you see that? 2015 champion? That is it. That is all you get. Yeah you do not get anything else.  But he has lost and people remember. I have beaten him and I was only a 1600 player at the time. O' Inmate Michael Beverly.  People can lose. They can miss a chance. And if you take advantage of it you can win. And some people coming knowing that. O' On the night the tournament began Sue Young opened the door to the chess room a windowless space with cinderblock walls and concrete floors.  I have lots of keys today. O' She is the prison's director of programs. Without her blessing chess does not happen. But from the start she saw the value in making French's club and even his tournament available to inmates who stayed discipline-free.  Chess is all about rules right? And that is one of the big things that they learn while they are involved in this is how important it is to follow rules. O' The pieces can only move a certain way. And if you move one too quickly if you are rash you will lose it. The consequences for your decisions are immediate. But if you think focus take your time who knows? In chess like life anything can happen.  So let us do it. The boards are all numbered. First board will be Wamala white against Lique. OK. Pierce is board two against Lee. O' French called out the pairings for round one with the room abuzz the men anxious.  Keep it down. Keep it down until I am done. O' The inmates dressed in green uniforms took their seats one across from the other. In a few weeks one of them will be crowned the winner. They will get that certificate. But even they know it does not really matter who prevails. It is a privilege they say just to be in the room staring at a board in silence thinking. For NPR News I am Keith O'Brien in Berlin N.H. 