 The company that provides your Internet access is between you and everything that you do on the Internet. Whether you are visiting the website for your bank or accessing your health records or anything else your Internet service provider has a record of that trip that you took in cyberspace. And that company is likely selling your data to data brokers who in turn sell it to marketers and credit reporting agencies and so on. Well now the head of the Federal Communications Commission is proposing to give you a say in what data your provider can sell about you. Chairman Tom Wheeler joins us now from his office to talk about it.  Hello Robert how are you?  What exactly are you proposing in terms of Internet privacy?  All we are saying in our proposal is that you the consumer ought to have a say in whether they can repackage and use information which is your information not their information.  Now as I understand the proposal if what the Internet service provider is gathering is just information to see if I might want to buy a higher level of service for that I might have to check a box to opt out. But for anything else I have to check a box to opt in. Are you proposing that consumers should have to opt in for the provider - Verizon Comcast - to keep a record of their website visits or just to sell them?  Just to be able to turn around and sell them. The consumer ought to have the ability to say it is my information and whether I want that information to be sold or repurposed for commercial purposes by my network provider should be my decision as a consumer not the network's decision.  Internet service providers say that the Federal Trade Commission the FTC not the Federal Communications Commission - your body or the FCC - the FTC has a balanced set of regulations that address privacy and also the company's interest in new Internet business models. What is the problem with saying hey we are already regulated by this other commission?  Because they are not regulated by the FTC. The FTC's statute specifically precludes the FTC from regulating common carriers. And in our open Internet order these Internet service providers were made to be common carriers so the FTC has no jurisdiction.  But the Internet service providers are already in court challenging the FCC's authority over them. Are you in effect adding fuel to the fire here by making this proposal now when that issue is not fully settled?  Well I think we are going to find a decision coming out of the court in the next few weeks and we are confident of our authority in this matter.  If Internet service providers are selling our information then it is obviously something of value to them. If they are deprived of that value will they then charge more for the service?  Well the threshold question is we get to make the decision as consumers and I can think of reasons why I would want my Internet service provider to do this. So I do not think that this is going to end up shutting down their ability to monetize the information that they see going over their pathways. But it is going to give me a choice.  But can the difference be one of cost as well? That is would it qualify in your view as an opt in if in fact one option that is keep selling my information would be cheaper than the privacy option you cannot sell my information?  I understand your point. And what we are saying is that first you empower consumers to say do I want my information used? Then you empower consumers to say is there a value that I put on my information? And work some kind of a deal with the Internet service provider to reflect that value.  So you are saying the price in that case could be reduced if the Internet service provider were selling the information to third parties.  Yes. And the important thing is that consumers are the ones that make that choice because it is the consumer's information.  This is a proposed rule. Assuming that a majority of FCC commissioners vote for it at the end of the month what happens after that?  We will put it out for public notice and collect input from all parties on all sides of the issue. Then we will give everybody a chance to comment on everybody else's comments. And then we will sift through all of those and hopefully be making a decision later this year.  Just a question - before you became chairman of the FCC you represented some of these Internet service providers.  Yes.  If you were still on the other side what would you be saying about your proposed rule?  You know at that point in time I had as a client the Internet service providers. Today I have as a client the American people. They will go do their advocacy but my job right now is to say OK what should I do as an advocate for the American consumer? And I think the key to that is to say that the American consumer controls the information that they create.  Chairman Tom Wheeler of the Federal Communications Commission thanks for talking with us today.  Thanks Robert. 