 Our next guest climbed a bare rock that is taller than the tallest building in the world - 3000 feet - without ropes just some shoes and tiny backpack. That kind of climb without any gear is called free soloing. And on Saturday Alex Honnold became the first person to ever free solo El Capitan the towering vertical rock formation in Yosemite National Park. It is something that people have talked about and dreamed about doing for years. That includes Alex. And we have reached him actually on top of El Capitan. So you went back up?  Yeah.  Wow how is the view?  It is outrageous. The high country is really snowy this year because it was such a big winter in California.  OK so I just want to be totally clear here. What you did on Saturday - I am just going to say it again so people can understand the magnitude of it. You climbed a bare rock that is 3000 feet tall with no ropes. How long have you been planning on doing this?  I have been climbing for over 20 years I guess. This route on El Cap I have been sort of dreaming about on and off for maybe the last eight or nine years. I mean it is always been kind of a vague dream but then it just seems too daunting. And I mean it is pretty intimidating. Every time you drive into Yosemite and you see El Cap you are like whoa.  Yeah .  That is a big wall.  OK so how did you work on it? Like how does a person prepare for something like this?  So I mean specifically for the route that I soloed at I prepared by climbing the route many times to make sure that I could physically do it. And then I also spent a lot of time with ropes by myself rappelling down from the summit so I could work on individual sections or memorize certain moves or like mark certain holds with chalk so I could remember things. The bigger thing though was probably the psychological side of it like somehow feeling like you are ready to climb a wall like that. And that was sort of a longer process I suppose.  Yeah. How does that work? Like what do you do? Are you somebody who like meditates? Do you sleep a lot? Like what is the plan?   I do probably sleep a lot but that is just because I am tired all the time.  .  You know I have sort of built my tolerance up over time until it seems possible to do something this big.  So mental tolerance.  Yeah yeah exactly. It is like you know you have your little bubble like your comfort zone and you slowly expand it until it can accommodate something really huge.  The route you are talking about - it is called the Freerider route up the mountain. I understand there is a part along the route where you have to do a karate kick.   Yeah that is pretty much the crux of the route. It is probably the most difficult section on the entire 3000-foot wall. And it is maybe 10 moves total that are quite difficult and they culminate in sort of a karate kick to get your foot over to this other corner.  I just - that is something that I just cannot really find myself understanding.  I am sorry.  Yeah yeah yeah. It takes a little building up to.  But there has to be on some level at some point some fear. Like how would you describe what your relationship with fear is like?  I mean yeah there is a little bit. And certainly it was fear that has kept me from doing it for so long. I mean I have dreamt about this since 2009 and this is the first year I have actually felt ready. And that is because I would always look at the wall and you know be full of dread.   Right like the rest of us OK.  Yeah exactly exactly. I would always look at it and be like oh no. But then over the last few years that perspective started to shift a little bit. And then this last year I thought that I could do it. And then - and once you believe that it is possible and you start working towards it then it sort of becomes inevitable.  The question that has to be asked - like how did it feel when you got up there on Saturday?  I was - I do not even know how to say it. I was so elated. Actually even just thinking about it I just got the biggest smile again. I am sure I was babbling for like quite a while...  .  ....Because I am just so excited. I felt so good too physically like I - it is because I would gone quite quickly. And so you know I was like oh I could do this again. I feel great.  .  You know I was like let us do it - so psyched. But then by the time I got down I was like no actually I am kind of tired.  And we should be clear too like a thing that took you four hours usually takes other people days.  Yeah. I think the average party probably spends about three days on the wall.  Wow. You have set a new standard now right? You have like set the bar higher. Do you think about the fact that now more people are going to try to do it?  I do not know. People always ask if doing big free solos is going to encourage people to go soloing. And the reality is that it just does not. I mean the thing about soloing is you have to be very passionate about it. And you have to be you know self-driven. And it is just - it is quite scary if you are not doing it for the right reasons. So I mean if you decide that you want to go soloing because you think it is cool and you just want to be cool and you want to be the man you know basically once you get a little ways off the ground self-preservation kicks in. You are like I do not really want to go much higher.  Yeah.  But the thing with soloing is that you are making thousands of intentional movements 'ecause you know you are choosing to move higher over and over and over for hours. And so I mean you have to be pretty motivated. You cannot just like rush into that.  Alex Honnold is a mountain climber and the first person to free solo El Capitan in Yosemite National Park. He talked to us from the top of El Cap. Thank you so much.  Oh my pleasure.  