 Researchers have found a new way to regenerate nerves in the spinal cord. It is a drug that is allowed paralyzed rats to regain bladder control and even walk again. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports the origins of this drug can be traced to an unlikely decision made by a young scientist decades ago.  Back in the 1980s a researcher named Jerry Silver became a bit of a scientific rebel. Like a lot of his peers Silver was studying nerves.  Everybody else in the world was asking why nerves grow where they do. And I thought I would do something different and ask why they do not grow where they do not.  Silver who is now at Case Western Reserve University figured the body must have some way to keep nerves from growing where they are not supposed to. And after about five years of searching he found a substance in cartilage that could redirect a growing nerve.  We published our results. Nobody believed it.  That was in the early 1990s. It took another 10 years to convince the scientific world his finding was real. And even then it did not get much attention until Silver realized that the substance he had discovered played a big role in spinal injuries and paralysis. Eventually he and a scientist from Harvard showed that the substance interacts with severed nerve fibers in a way that glues the fibers to scar tissue. He says that leaves the fibers...  Stuck in the scar like stuck on flypaper.  And that got him thinking about people who are paralyzed because of damage to nerve fibers in the spinal cord.  You have got an untapped source of nerve fibers - thousands upon thousands of them you know sitting around just waiting to be released.  Silver thought if he could release these trapped fibers the spinal cord might be able to regenerate. So his team designed a drug that was able to free nerve fibers in a Petri dish. Then they tried the drug on rats with severe spinal injuries.  They cannot urinate properly. They cannot walk properly at all. They can wiggle their hind limbs but they cannot take a weight-bearing step very often. There is no coordination.  A grad student gave the animals daily injections under the skin. After seven weeks of treatment the rats were not any better and Silver's graduate student says the injections were annoying the rats.  He said Jerry I do not want to do this anymore. And I said fine we will quit and we put the rats aside. And about two to three weeks later we were still looking at the animals. They started to improve.  The injections really had freed the trapped nerve fibers and they had begun growing. But that did not fix the problem the way you might think. The severed nerve ends were not growing together again. Instead they were sprouting all over the place like kudzu. And all this new growth was flooding the spinal cord with the hormone serotonin. Silver says serotonin was helping the rats function by amplifying the signals carried by nerves that were still intact.  If you have lots of extra serotonin in the spinal cord those few nerve connections that are just a whisper will become a roar. And you can get function back really nicely.  And keep it long-term. All of the rats who got a high dose regained control of their bladders and a third were able to walk again. Lyn Jakeman is a program director at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke which helps fund Silver's research. She says the new drug matters in part because it can be injected under the skin rather than into an injured spinal cord. Other promising treatments she says risk causing more damage.  Some of these are implanting cells right into the injury site or injecting things right around the injury site or maybe even adding electrical stimulators right on top of the injury site. All of these are exciting and we are seeing some changes but they are all very invasive.  Jakeman says the new drug also was remarkably good at restoring bladder control. She says that could be a big deal for paralyzed people.  You know a small change in bladder function the ability to restore a small amount of sexual function - these are big changes for people whether they can get out of their wheelchair and walk or not.  Human trials of the drug are still years off. The new research appears in the journal Nature. Jon Hamilton NPR News.  This is NPR News. 