 Fuchsia Dunlop has a Found Recipe and before she shares it with us she wants you to free your mind when it comes to Chinese food. Do not think about takeout. Do not think about thick flavored sauces. Do not think about deep-fried meat.  Really the traditional diet is all about vegetables. In the past most people could not afford to eat much meat so they had to concentrate on making their everyday vegetarian produce taste sensational.   Fuchsia Dunlop is from Oxford England. She trained as a chef at the Sichuan Institute of Higher Cuisine and for the last two decades she is been traveling around China collecting recipes and writing about food. Her latest book is Every Grain of Rice Simple Chinese Home Cooking.  The dish I am going to talk to you about today is xue cai mao dou.  And of course Dunlop speaks Mandarin. No worries she will translate.  Xue cai that means literally snow vegetable. It is a kind of pickled mustard green. Mao dou means hairy beans.  What? Hairy beans?  Or green soybeans.  Aha.  They are mostly known in the West by their Japanese name edamame.   Soybeans are often dried and then made into tofu. But if they are harvested when they are very young and green then you can eat them as vegetable. And they just have a particularly pleasing flavor. They are a bit firmer than peas and I think they are rather more delicious.   They have had different versions of this dish in different parts of China but the one that really sticks in my mind was in the hills of southern Zhejian province. That is a bit inland from Shanghai. I would gone out with a restauranteur from Hangzhou picking up consignments of vegetables or pork from small peasant households.   So it was late morning on this sunny day and we have been wandering around with the chickens on the slopes above the farmhouse and seeing the cinnamon trees and the loquat trees. So we walked down to the house and we walked in through the door into the dining room. And in the light that was falling in through the door there was this table covered in dishes that the grandmother of the household Mao Sai-lan had cooked for our lunch. There were salted duck eggs in their shells winter melon chunks braised in soy sauce potato slivers with spring onion and slices of home-cured . And there at the center of the table was this beautiful dish of bright-green soybeans with a slightly darker green pickled vegetable.   We sat down and we ate this wonderful lunch. And then when I got home the one that I really wanted to recreate was the green soybeans with stir-fried mustard greens.   I sometimes cook it just with the snow vegetable and the green soybeans and sometimes I add a bit of chili and Sichuan pepper to give it a Sichuanese touch a little bit of spicy pizzazz. I just have it with a bit of steamed rice and it is very satisfying.   And this dish like many sort of Chinese supper dishes is so easy to make. You know it is just a couple of ingredients. It will take you a few minutes tastes delicious very healthy.   I think people are often very intimidated by Chinese food but you know the people in China they are busy. They are just trying to make something satisfying for their family at the end of the day. And this dish is just an example of how people rustle up a quick stir-fry for supper.   That is Fuchsia Dunlop and you can get the recipe for xue cai mao dou at the Found Recipes page at npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 