 Tomorrow President Obama flies to Puerto Rico. It will be the first official visit from a U.S. president to the island since John F. Kennedy visited San Juan in 1961.   It is a great experience to fly many hundreds of miles into the Atlantic Ocean to come to an island and be greeted in Spanish to come to an island which has an entirely different tradition and history.  President Obama is scheduled to spend just about four hours in Puerto Rico. And joining us from San Juan to talk about the brief visit is reporter Frances Robles of the Miami Herald. Frances welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me Melissa.  So the first official presidential visit in 50 years. What is the scene there in the capital?  Well you know first of all I do not even know that I am buying this first-official-visit-in-50-years thing because Johnson and Ford both came. I am calling it the first official visit where they actually bothered to talk to Puerto Ricans. I think that is what it actually is.  Uh-huh.  But there is a lot of excitement here. You see a lot of big welcome signs streets being paved and cleaned and plants being planted and all of that. So there is definitely a buzz in the air of a historic moment.  And why this trip? What are the issues?  So they put out a report in March that talked about everything from Internet access to public health issues and of course a 16 percent unemployment rate. Puerto Rico has a very high unemployment problem and it has a very high murder rate problem. It has a huge exodus of people leaving Puerto Rico for the mainland. So there is a lot to tackle in four and a half hours.  That exodus that you are talking about Frances has a lot to do with some really striking numbers here that there are more - many more Puerto Ricans now living in the United States on the mainland than in Puerto Rico itself. And that means that this visit has a whole lot to do with mainland politics.  And they are not necessarily Democratic shoo-ins and they are not Republican shoo-ins. These are votes that both parties are going to have to lure and are going to have to recruit. And really at the end of the day that is what this trip is about for President Obama.  So you are saying because Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens if they establish residency in the United States they can vote. And they become a huge huge political force.  That is exactly right. I mean remember you cannot win the presidency without winning Florida. And these are - Florida elections tend to be razor thin. So 100000 or 200000 Puerto Ricans could be the tipping point.  When you think about the Puerto Rican population in Florida now living in Florida what would the message be that President Obama could deliver that would be attractive to them that would appeal to them?  The new-arrived people they are very middle class they are very professional they tend to lean a little bit more towards statehood. So the statehood party message here is if Obama says Puerto Rico should become a state you know you have got those votes in the bag.  Well he will not have a lot of time on the island. What kind of reception do you think the president will get?  I do not know if they are being overly optimistic. I mean they are clearly googly eyed they are so excited about it - you know at least the government officials are. And let us see if the people are as well.  OK. Frances Robles of the Miami Herald who is in San Juan to cover President Obama's visit there tomorrow. Frances thanks so much.  Thank you.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 