 Never forget became a rallying cry after the attacks of September 11. Yet America's schools are now full of students who never knew a generation that is grown up in a post-911 world. Many teachers struggle with whether and how to teach students about the terrorist attacks. NPR's Eric Westervelt reports.  Ask students born after 2001 about the terror attacks and there are some big knowledge gaps gaps many students want filled in. Kaylah Eggsware and Josh Sylvester are seventh-graders at Greenfield Middle School in western Massachusetts.  It was a really big part of other people's lives. I wasnt born then. I do not know about it so I do not know how to feel about it.  Id like to know exactly - like everything that happened cause I do not know exactly how many planes there were. I know the two twin towers fell but I do not know if anything else happened.  Like a lot of middle schools Greenfield in the past did not teach much about that day let alone the anything else - maybe a moment of silence at anniversary time and a brief class discussion. Gary Tashjian is Greenfield's principal.  We have never really tackled this issue before.  But that is changing. This school year every fifth sixth and seventh-grader at Greenfield Middle School will read and discuss a new young adult novel called Towers Falling by Jewell Parker Rhodes. The protagonist is a resilient New York City fifth-grader named Deja. In her new school the towers were once visible from her classroom. Her family has hit hard times. Her father suffers a host of problems related to the attacks. The familys had to move into a homeless shelter. Deja knows the attacks have cast a shadow over her life but does not know much about 911 so she and her friends set out to discover more. Greenfield Principal Tashjian hopes the novel sparks discussion debate and further inquiry.  They can relate right off the bat to many of the things that this girl is going through. Maybe not exactly - maybe I do not have somebody that was affected directly by 911. But maybe I have a brother that was in Iraq. The whole conversation just gets a lot bigger by something as simple as a book.  While it is not clear how big that conversation will get at Greenfield it is something of an outlier nationally for trying. The majority of schools that do go there often focus mainly on the shock of the attack and the heroism of the first responders.  The narrative about 911 that students are getting is really ahistorical. It has no context. It is very thin.  Cheryl Duckworth surveyed more than 150 teachers and interviewed several dozen in depth for her work 911 And Collective Memory In U.S. Classrooms. The professor at Florida's Nova Southeastern University found that if 911 is tackled in classrooms too often teachers do not want to touch the complex ugly aftermath at home and globally - the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to the Patriot Act and civil liberties radical Islam and Islamophobia.  I think it is very disturbing especially during this presidential election cycle. Islamophobia is just sort of free-floating out there in the air.  If schools do not address 911 in all its complexity Duckworth says stereotypes and misinformation will continue on both sides. Eric Westervelt NPR News. 