 But as NPR's Sylvia Poggioli reports from Rome the pope's statement did not satisfy many victims.   In his long speech Pope Benedict spoke of the uniqueness of the role of the priesthood in the Catholic Church. But he also said that in this very year of joy the sins of priest came to light particularly the abuse of little ones.   We too consistently beg forgiveness from God and from the persons involved while promising to do everything possible to ensure that such abuse will never occur again.  Instead he said the crisis is a summons to purification. That statement fell short of many victims' hopes.  We find it very very disappointing.  Joelle Casteix is a spokesperson for the main U.S. clerical abuse victims' group Survivors Network for Those Abused by Priests.  While it is important to focus on the formation of new priests it is far more important to keep kids safe right now by instituting a zero- tolerance policy to make sure that any man who has hurt a child or any man who has covered up for someone who is hurt a child is immediately removed from the priesthood and turned over to secular authorities.  Casteix says victims are demanding accountability.  Unless he says This is exactly what I am going to do and this is exactly how I am going to involve law enforcement and this is exactly my own responsibility in the matter - then it is just little more than words. And we need concrete action.  Today's Mass had been preceded by a vigil service last night in St. Peter's Square in which the pope responded to pre-selected questions from five priests. In one query Benedict was asked about the beauty of celibacy.    One priest who was willing to speak on the sidelines of the ceremony was Father Jose Vasco of Mozambique.   The church first tried to resolve the cases on its own. But now that they have become so grave the church must seek the full truth. And to do that we need joint commissions with lay people civil society especially at a time when there is the appearance that the church has protected the guilty ones.  Sylvia Poggioli NPR News Rome.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 