 Now to a man in Shanghai who calls himself the Sole Man as in S-O-L-E and he is not selling fish. He is part of a group called the Barefooters people around the world who have sworn off footwear whatever the weather. NPR's Louisa Lim has his story.  I am now in a cafe in Shanghai and I am waiting here to meet a British man living in China who has made a very unusual some might say eccentric decision to spend a year without wearing shoes. Arthur Jones is just a couple of months into his barefoot mission. And I have decided to meet up with him to see how it is going. Mr.  Hey.  Hi Arthur. Cannot help looking at your feet. They are surprisingly clean. I thought... Mr.  Wait until you see the bottom of them.  Ooh. Mr.  Yeah.  Yeah that is filthy.   Ooh that is filthy.   Why on Earth did you come up with this plan? Mr.  I have always liked being barefoot from being a kid and I was looking for a project that was going to take about a year that I could turn into a film.  For me I still find it difficult to see the attraction. Mr.  What it is turned into is actually something that is made everyday life more exciting. You know it just opens your eyes. You are suddenly in touch with everything around. And it feels like you are kind of a little child discovering the world for the first time.  I hesitate to say this but I think we should try a barefoot walk together. Mr.  Get your shoes off I think is the answer.  Okay. So here we go. We are in the restaurant. I am going to take off my shoes. And it is a nice wooden parquet floor. I can do this. This is okay. But now... Mr.  This is good is not it?  This is good. Mr.  The wood feels good.  Now I am stepping onto the street and I am not quite sure this is so good.   I actually feel kind of naked without my shoes walking along the street.  Mr.  Immediately you walk outside and you look around then you see that there is small kind of paving stones here. And we look out over the road and there is slightly coarse tarmac. And you take it all in a lot more. I mean I suppose the downside is you could say you do not take anything else in. You just spend the entire time looking at the floor.  Everybody is now staring at us. I am kind of feeling self-conscious. We are at a zebra crossing so let us try and cross the road. Ooh it feels quite different this zebra crossing does not it? Mr.  Yeah it does. Yeah. And if this was the middle of the summer and it was a really really hot day you would be jumping across the white stripes and avoiding the black because the white stripes on a zebra crossing are significantly cooler than the tarmac of the road.  So how many times have you had blistered feet from the heat here? Mr.  Basically for about a month and a half something like that.   Now we have come into a little Shanghai park. And this park is unusual because it actually has a barefoot walking trail where sharp pebbles have been embedded in concrete and you are meant to take your shoes off and walk over them. Mr.  The idea in Chinese medical theory is connected to reflexology which is that there are certain pressure points in the bottom of the foot which if you press them or stimulate them they will help to restore balance in the rest of the body.  Oh it is really painful. Mr.  Well it is definitely - you can definitely feel it can you?  So I mean this whole ancient Chinese medical system that it actually believes in pressure points on feet and barefoot walking do you think that makes it easier to do this in China? Mr.  Certainly I find it in Shanghai that a lot of old people when they see me walking barefoot will say Oh look. He is doing it for his health.  After a year will it be difficult to put shoes back on again? Mr.  I think it is going to be difficult. When you put your foot back into a shoe having been barefoot it does not feel right anymore. If you can imagine somebody saying Okay from tomorrow you are going to wear gloves every day you could still do most of the things you do now if they were well-made gloves and - but it would just feel hot and it would feel wrong. And it would feel like a really strange way to experience the world. So what I am thinking is at the end of this year I will put shoes on when I need to put shoes on just like I put gloves on when my hands get cold.  Well I have to say I have quite enjoyed our barefoot walk. But I do not know if I am quite converted yet.   Arthur Jones thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you.  That was NPR's Louisa Lim in Shanghai. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 