 The dream of gene therapy took a big step forward today. A Food and Drug Administration advisory committee unanimously endorsed the first gene therapy for an inherited disorder. NPR health correspondent Rob Stein is with us now for the details. Hey Rob.  Oh hey there.  So let us start by talking about the disease that this gene therapy would be used to treat. Tell us about it.  Yeah it is called retinal dystrophy. And it is a genetic disorder that causes progressive damage to the retina in the eye often starting in childhood and slowly leading to blindness. It is a pretty rare disease. There are maybe about 6000 cases worldwide. A couple of thousand of those are in the United States.  And so these 6000 people could benefit from gene therapy. But what does that mean gene therapy? How does it work?  Yeah it is pretty interesting stuff Kelly. So what they did is scientists took a harmless virus and they genetically engineered it to make a - to make it into kind of like a delivery drone to ferry a healthy version of the gene that is defective in this disease into patients' eyes. And then doctors inject billions of these genetically modified viruses into the patients' eyes. That gets the healthy gene into the retina where it pumps out a healthy version of an enzyme that is needed for healthy vision.  How well does it work?  Well so far it looks like it is working really well you know? Now it is only been tested on a couple of dozen patients so far but it seemed like almost all of them benefited to some degree or at least most of them did. For some of them it was just kind of modest improvement. But for others their vision started to improve within days of getting these injections. And it improved pretty dramatically within a year. You know they went from being legally blind - you know they were unable to walk around without a cane or someone guiding them. And they were - a lot of them were totally trapped in their houses at night because they had terrible night vision. And then they suddenly could do things they could never do before. Like during today's hearings some kids got up and some teenagers described that they could for the first time do things like read ride a bike play sports play baseball see their parents' faces. You know and one young man got up and said for the first time he could go out at night look up at the sky and see the stars and the moon. It was pretty dramatic and it really opened up the world for a lot of these people.  Wow. So an FDA committee endorses it. So does that mean that it is safe? I mean are there side effects? And how long might those last?  Yeah yeah. So far it seems pretty safe. You know there sometimes were some complications that occurred from the procedure of injecting something into the eye the physical procedure. But so far there are no signs at all that the gene therapy itself was dangerous that injecting a gene into the eye caused any significant complications. Now so far it does seem to be lasting but that is a big question. How long will it continue to last? These patients have been followed for maybe three years and it is continuing to work. But they are going to have to follow these patients for longer to be sure.  Any idea of how much it would cost?  So that is a big question. There is a lot of speculations by analysts that it could be pretty expensive. You know any - some of the newer treatments that have been approved recently have cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. And so you can imagine if this costs you know 400000 or 500000 for each eye we are talking about potentially a million-dollar treatment. But the company has not said yet what it is going to charge for this product.  What does today's news say about where gene therapy stands overall?  You know scientists and doctors have been dreaming about doing gene therapy for decades but early on there were some real setbacks. Some patients died and people thought it was never going to happen. But recently there was another treatment approved and it looks pretty promising for a number of conditions. So it looks like we might be at a turning point here.  NPR health correspondent Rob Stein thanks a lot.  Oh sure. Nice to be here. 