 Now you cannot use a Google phone to drive a car at least yet but technology has arrived for things like wireless Internet in cars and iPhone apps that could control features on your dashboard. Those were unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week. Joel Johnson is there. He is an editor with Gizmodo.com. And Joel what are the trends you are seeing there in terms of you know in-car technology? Mr.  The big trend this year is car manufacturers starting to give up trying to build their own gadgets to put in cars and trying to figure out how to let you use your smartphone in your car and wire it all up into the existing system. Ford for instance announced some upgrades with a system they called SYNC.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  And for example one of the things they were showing was an Android phone that runs the Pandora streaming service...  Pandora we should point out is a music service. Mr.  Yeah exactly a music streaming service something that people normally would - originally listened to on their Web browser and then eventually on their phone. And now you can plug it into the car itself. And instead of having to look down and use the phone to control things you can just push a button on the steering wheel and it will talk back to the phone and allow everything to go through. So they are starting to realize that people want some of these services in their car. But you know if you only buy a car every five years that computer is going to be pretty old. But you buy a new cell phone every year or two so they are trying to figure out how to keep those all together.  Right. And you talked about this Ford system the SYNC. Ford this American car company has actually produced the gold standard for like what an in-car technology should be right? Mr.  Yeah it is pretty impressive I have to say. I have been looking at this story quite a bit over the last month or so and I talked to car companies from all over the world. And I think Ford has the best system out there right now. They are a couple generations ahead of probably where everybody else is at.  Hmm. Now you mentioned Pandora. This you know music streaming service that I use on my iPhone. You need an Internet connection to use it. Does this mean that they are making wireless Internet in cars that is going to be available any time soon? Mr.  So there is been a kind of trend over the last couple of years to try to get Internet in cars.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  And what Ford has done - and not to just get back to Ford - but again they are the ones kind of doing this right. They are going to allow you to just plug in a 3G USB stick right into the car and then use your existing cellular Internet in the car.  Like big Wi-Fi hubs. Mr.  Yeah exactly.  Drive in Wi-Fi hubs. I want to move on to another pretty cool thing that I read about Applications that they are designing for iPhones and for Blackberries that could control things inside of your car right? I mean tell us about what is out there. Mr.  It is going to be a long time before applications can actually control things that matter in the car that are going to be safety-related issues.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  You are not going to tune your car. You are not going to be able to input a lot of information into your car for a long time. But what is opening up a lot more is allowing your car's sensors and the information that it is gathering to talk back to the iPhone. What is going to happen - it is happening in phones it is happening in almost all of our technology. All of the things our gadgets and our technology can sense are starting to talk to each other. And we are trying to figure out how to use all that data to learn new things. So the idea of being able to open up your car door locks with your iPhone like yeah you know that might happen at some point when they can really get the security tightened. But I think a lot of the more interesting stuff is about what happens when your car can talk back to your phone and then on through to the Internet and what happens when cars become parts of the whole network together not just individual islands.  That is Joel Johnson. He is an editor for Gizmodo and he is at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Joel thanks very much for joining us. Mr.  It is a pleasure. 