 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am David Greene. In two weeks President Obama will appear at the first of five big rallies. The idea is to help Democrats recapture some of that excitement they had in 2008 so their voters will turn out this November 2nd. Organizing for America the grassroots movement that helped President Obama win the White House is also cranking back into gear. NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson reports on whether it can help Democrats hang on to their majorities in the House and the Senate.  Democrats always knew it would be hard to duplicate the amazing feat they pulled off two years ago when they brought in millions of first-time voters and created a mighty grassroots network of volunteers. But with the recovery lagging the Congress unpopular and the president himself off the ballot it is turning out to be even harder than they thought. Still Tim Kaine the chairman of the Democratic Party told a group of activists last week that he wants them to do it again.  In 2008 I know most of you went door to door or made phone calls or emails or arm twisted buddies at church and at the workplace. You did all you could. Some of you likely cast your first ballot. Do not let anybody tell you that the 2010 election is not as important or historic or as meaningful as 2008.  Kaine is planning to offer 50 million worth of assistance to Democratic candidates this year sending hundreds of paid organizers into the field and equipping grassroots volunteers with the latest technology.  I am using the incredible new Organizing for America iPhone app for canvassing. It is called GoCanvas.  That is Greg Myers data analyst for an insurance company by day and on nights and weekends ever since 2008 a die-hard Obama canvasser.  If you are used to clipboards this is so much easier to use.  The technology may be easier to use but now voters are a little harder to persuade.  It generally takes about a minute or two before we see that spark of enthusiasm. It used to be that enthusiasm was there when you walked up to the door.  With independent voters deserting the president's party in droves Organizing for America volunteers like Myers are left with no choice but to try to boost turnout among Democrats. Today Myers is going door to door in a working-class neighborhood in Norristown Pennsylvania.   Hi. Are you Takisha? Unidentified Woman No. What she win?   It comes in handy to have a sense of humor.  I just today - it is like prospecting. You know a lot of attempts and occasionally you find a diamond.  And sometimes you do not. Takisha was not home. Myers is part of a huge experiment. He and all the other OFA volunteers got their instructions in a video message emailed by the Obama organization's grassroots guru David Plouffe.  So by November 2nd we have a very audacious goal. And we are trying to reach through OFA 15 million voters in this country.  Fifteen million is just about the number of first-time voters in 2008. The lion's share of them voted for President Obama.  Really what this is all about is the composition of the electorate.  That is political strategist Tad Devine. He is handling the campaigns of some of the most vulnerable Democratic incumbents this year.  The electorate in 2008 was younger there were more minorities. We need to make sure that the electorate that shows up in 2010 gets as many of those people into it as possible.  But historically young people and minorities have not turned out in large numbers in midterm elections. Devine thinks the Democrats' field organization could change that.  The big difference here is that we have got people in 2006 and in 2008 who actually voted for Democrats who we know. You know we know who they are we know where they live we have their email address we have their cell phone number.  But they still have to persuade them to vote. And here's where former congressman Tom Reynolds is skeptical. Reynolds was the chairman of the Republicans' campaign committee in the House. He knows the power and the limits of a good field operation.  They I believe are making the mistake that they can use their lists - and some of what they have in high-tech - and say we are going to transfer that from the Obama operation to a midterm Democrat operation. But I think they are going to find it hard to achieve. And why do I say that? Based on their track record.  Reynolds points to the statewide races since 2008 in Virginia New Jersey and Massachusetts where the Democrats tried and failed to turn out the so-called Obama expansion voters.  And I am an old-fashioned pol from New York that does everything I can figure out - that is poll signs that is calls that is more calls that is door to door that is bullhorns if it is applicable that is computer message - anything I can do to help stimulate voters. So I respect that. But you still got to have an engaged base. And what I am hearing is the Democrats cannot get their base engaged. And I promise you the Republicans are engaged.  So the big question that will be answered on November 2nd is this Can a good ground game - and the Democrats had a great one in 2008 - turn out just enough of the newly minted Democratic voters to withstand the wave of enthusiasm on the Republican side? Back in Norristown it is easy to see what Democrats are up against. Two years ago Tammy James voted enthusiastically for Barack Obama.  Yes I did. Yes I did.  Now she is more ambivalent about voting in November - and about the president.  Time is going by and it is like hmm. Okay. He needs to know that if he wants to continue in office well he needs to make things happen you know? We are hearing about jobs but people are still saying where? Where are these jobs at?  In 2008 this block of row houses would have been plastered with Obama signs.   Hey puppy.   Today there is not a bit of evidence that there is an election going on.  Hi. How are you? Is Safrinia Good here?  Except for Greg Myers.  This is not very promising.  Not very promising but still the Democrats' best hope to minimize their losses in November.  So I need an iPhone app that'll make them be home.   Mara Liasson NPR News. 