 The sports world is full of athletes known by just one name - LeBron Serena Messi. We can now add to that list Jenga Flame and Pepe. They are among a team of superstar sled dogs preparing for their first Iditarod. The more than 900-mile race from Anchorage to Nome Alaska starts this weekend. The team's musher is Blair Braverman. This is her first Iditarod too. Braverman also maintains the team's Twitter feed full of photos which are devoured by tens of thousands of ultra-loyal followers known affectionately as ugly dogs. Blair Braverman welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Hi . I am so happy to be here.  Why ugly dogs?  So a Twitter troll actually told me go back to your ugly dogs Karen...  .  ...For no reason.  Wait. You are not named Karen. Why did he say Karen?  I am not named Karen. I am not. But I thought it was a beautiful sentence. I thought it was like the title of a Raymond Carver story.  Yeah .  So I kind of took to it. And then some fans of the team said we should be the ugly dogs because you will always come back to us.  That is so great.  So it took off.  The race begins this weekend. As we said it is your first time. So where are you and how are you preparing?  Oh my gosh. There are so many logistics I cannot even believe it. Today we got all our vet checks done. So all of the dogs have all their vaccinations. They all got EKGs to make sure their hearts are in top shape.  They are being treated like the top athletes in the NBA or the NFL.  They are. Right. So that was this morning. And then otherwise I am looking at weather conditions and snow conditions. But the preparations are next level 'ecause you are planning for a race but you also need to send out all of the equipment and dog food that you are going to need for a thousand miles. And it is not on the road system. So all this stuff has to be flown out in bush planes weeks in advance.  Tell me about how you view your role as a musher. Do you see yourself as an athlete a coach? A hybrid of the two?  It is interesting as a musher because you are an athlete but you are also not the athlete. I see myself as a coach a nutritionist a parent at times. A veterinary tech. I think the dogs are the runners and then mushers are workers. .  .  You know we are always carrying buckets of water and we are preparing their food and we are shoveling snow. And you know there is just so many different things that have to fall into place and it is like chess in the snow.  Tell us about one or two of the standout personalities on the team.  . Well my leader is named Pepe. She was named after Pepe Le Pew because she looked like a skunk when she was a baby. And she is way more mature than I am. I mean she keeps all of us in line. And then I have one yearling. His name is Wickson and he is only 1 year old. And he has some rivalries with a couple other younger boys. They are like the teenage boy club. So we have to make sure that we have more mature girls in between them to  supervise. And then I have my girl Flame. She is going to be on the team. And she is always with me . And she is the only dog who instead of looking forward she is always looking over her shoulder when she runs to make sure I am still there. If I think about the race it is terrifying. But if I think about being out there with my dogs who are my best friends and my family I just get so much strength from that. And it is something we are all going to do together which gives me all the courage I need.  The majority of mushers are men. Does being a woman on the trail make any difference do you think?  So mushing is one of the only sport where men and women compete together at elite levels. And this year I think we have the highest percentage of women ever in the Iditarod. It is like 31 percent or 32 percent of the teams have female mushers. So I am very excited to be part of that group. And I think there is a tremendous amount of respect for women in this sport because men lose to them . You know there is very few chances in this world for men to lose to women in sports. And so you have to have respect. I mean we are taken seriously as athletes because there is no chance for people to tell themselves that we are not on the same playing field.  Well Blair Braverman good luck in your first Iditarod and thanks for talking with us about it.  Thank you so much.  She is a musher who tweets at BlairBraverman and she competes in her first Iditarod starting this weekend. We hope to check in with her throughout the course of the race. 