 A major force in American popular music has died. Marvin Hamlisch wrote music for The Sting and A Chorus Line and for dozens of other movies TV specials and musicals. He was 68. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has this appreciation of a man who conquered the world of American entertainment winning an Oscar Grammy Emmy and a Tony.  Marvin Hamlisch won just about every award there is sometimes more than once.   For The Sting Hamlisch adopted Scott Joplin rags. That won him an Oscar and sparked a Joplin revival.   One Academy Award would have been a major victory for a composer who was just shy of his 30th birthday but in 1974 Marvin Hamlisch won two other Oscars for original song and original score for The Way We Were.   Three Oscars in one year and to think that was before Singular Sensation. Every song in A Chorus Line is considered a winner.   Marvin Hamlisch's music tells as much of a story as Edward Kleban's lyrics says Donna McKechnie who played Cassie in the original Broadway cast. McKechnie remembers when choreographer Michael Bennett sat the entire cast down to hear for the first time one of the songs from A Chorus Line.  And Marvin played at the piano At the Ballet. It was so stunning for all of us so I thought I knew immediately when I heard that that now we are into something good because that is the most beautiful song to convey the simple you know everyday feelings of a dancer.   Imagination energy and passion. Donna McKechnie says Marvin Hamlisch seemed to have an endless supply. She says they were even planning a concert together before he died. Marvin Hamlisch grew up playing music. His dad was an accordionist and a band leader. When he was seven he went to Julliard. In 1987 Marvin Hamlisch sat down at the piano with NPR's Scott Simon.    They said what else do you do? I go...   Between that and my Lord Fauntleroy suit I got in.  Why did not you want to play little league or something? Why was it so important that you - at the age of seven?  Oh you do not understand something. My fantasy was to be the guy say in center field and you hear he is going back. He is going back back back back. . And the people - you know I mean that is what I wanted to be. I wanted to be a baseball - I love baseball so - but that is not what I do. That is not my gift.  No. Marvin Hamlisch your gift was to knock it out of the ballpark with melodies that will make people cheer for a very long time. Marvin Hamlisch died Monday. He was 68. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  