 Federal authorities are looking into what happened in Boston today. The FBI has dispatched a counterterrorism team to investigate. Boston's local Joint Terrorism Task Force is also on the scene. NPR counterterrorism correspondent Dina Temple-Raston joins us now with more on that. And Dina it is very early but is there any indication of what law enforcement is looking at here?  Look when it is this early in an investigation they are open to lots of possibilities. They are looking at domestic terrorism as a start. There is not a sense that this is a core al-Qaida effort from overseas. Instead officials are looking for something much more local and domestic terrorism groups that might for example have timed this attack to coincide with Tax Day April 15th. Officials have not ruled out that this could be some sort of lone wolf attack - not an organized group but rather one disgruntled person working on his or her own.  And what evidence would they be looking at to try to figure out what happened?  Well we understand that they are looking for unexploded devices near the race course. You know there were hundreds of suspicious-package reports every day and the FBI and local police have to follow those up. And if there are unexploded devices that could provide a lot of leads because that is - the way the devices are built fingerprints could have been left on them or materials could be used to help investigators. But again they have not found anything else but they have got hundreds - actually thousands of backpacks that are all there by the finish line that belong to racers. And they need to go through each and every one of those with a dog - double-check that sort of thing. So that is going to be a long drawn-out process I think.  Not surprisingly after these explosions in Boston other cities have tightened security.  Yes. Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House has more security. I spoke with the New York Police Department. They said they were dispatching their counterterrorism teams to major landmarks in New York City. I asked if there was a particular threat that worry them. They said there were no threats but they do this as a matter of routine when there are these sorts of attacks or threats in the United States. So this is all out of an abundance of caution. But at the same time they are spreading out and beefing up security.  Let us talk about some of the things that have not happened. We do not know of anybody claiming responsibility for this. We do not know of any message somewhere on the Internet saying this was done for some particular reason.  Exactly. There is no one who is taking credit. I think also we should know that there were lots of cameras that were around the race course so there could be all kinds of clues that they are flipping through videotape now to try and see if they can see who might have placed these explosives either during the race or before the race. So there are a lot of clues for them to go through and it does not mean this is a dead end just because no one is taking responsibility or they have not pinned blame on someone.  And there would be in an area of a big city like this security cameras generally - well in days prior to the race we assume.  Yes. They call it sort of a wall of steel and it is supposed to be all these different cameras. But when you have something like a marathon it is even more so. They focus even more so on the race course.  Dina Temple-Raston thanks.  You are welcome. 