 When pop and RB producers step out to make their own records they typically put themselves front and center. Devonte Hynes who performs under the name Blood Orange does things differently.    Shine hit your eyes black history ruby ebony sides.  Hynes is one of the producers shaping pop music right now. He helped create acclaimed records by Solange Knowles and Carly Rae Jepsen. For his first few releases as Blood Orange the 32-year-old songwriter focused on Prince-like '80s RB. Reviewer Tom Moon says on his fourth album Negro Swan Hynes gets more experimental and more personal.    All that I know was taught to me young.  It could be a love song the way it starts.    Seen it all before.  That is the opening track on the new Blood Orange record. Dev Hynes sings it like he is sailing without much of a care.    After school sucker-punched down. Down and out first kiss was the floor.  Beneath that butterfly lightness he is talking about being bullied in high school. That is a thing to know about this sometimes daring Blood Orange record. Even when the music is pretty and the hooks are insanely grabby Hynes and his many collaborators are already in the deep end - exploring racial identity sexual identity and the experience of being an outsider.    No one wants to be the odd one out at times. No one wants to be the negro swan. Can you break sometimes? Can you break sometimes?  Hynes' outsiderness comes through in these songs which involve a large crew of singers and rappers. He grew up in East London as a queer skater and now lives in New York. He said that his goal with Negro Swan was to talk about difficult issues without dwelling in negativity. That is a tricky tone to sustain and he does it by varying the musical palate. Some tracks are lit up with outbreaks of dissonance from his guitar. Others have a lush '70s soul sweetness.    Is this the way that you want to pretend? Is this the way that you see me? Is this the way that you - way that you are?   Yeah bring hope when you come around. Yeah I still smile when you come around.   Is this the way that you - way that you are?   Yeah bring hope when you come around. Yeah I still smile when I come around.  The singer is Tei Shi and the rapper is none other than Sean - Puff Daddy - Combs. Hynes says he was surprised by what the hip-hop mogul added as the song ends.   Yeah gee I do not - sometimes I ask myself like you know what is it going to take for me not to be afraid to be loved the way like I really want to be loved?  It is a head-turner for sure - hearing the founder of Bad Boy Records talking earnestly about love and acceptance. At times the flow of the record is interrupted by these spoken word interludes. They hit listeners over the head with big takeaways. It is as though Dev Hynes wanted to make sure his message got through. He did not need to worry. These poised delicate songs have a way of saying it all.    Always feeling.  The latest from Blood Orange is called Negro Swan. Our reviewer is Tom Moon.    Feelings never had no ethics. Feelings never have been ethical. Feelings never had no ethics. 