 The opioid epidemic has forced doctors throughout the country to rethink how they treat pain. In Colorado a major health care provider is trying to teach patients about alternative treatments hoping they will stay away from addictive pills. Colorado Public Radio's John Daley reports.  Robert Kerley makes his living as a truck driver but seven years ago he was loading drywall when a gust of wind knocked him off the trailer. Kerley fell 14 feet and hurt his back. Doctors prescribed a variety of opioids - Vicodin Percocet Oxycontin.  I spent most of my time high laying on the couch not doing nothing sleeping dozing off falling asleep everywhere.  In less than a year the 45-year-old says he was hooked. He lost weight. He lost his job. His relationships with his wife and kids struggled. Kerley remembers when he hit rock bottom. He had three beers and...  I was taking so much morphine that I respiratory arrested because of it. I stopped breathing.  EMTs gave him the overdose reversal drug naloxone. As the father of a 12-year-old son he knew he needed to turn things around.  After seven years of being on narcotics and in a spiral downhill the only thing that pulled me out of it was going to this class working the program that they ask you to work.  That program as Kaiser Permanente Colorado's Integrated Pain Service. It is an eight-week course that costs patients 100. Will Gersch teaches high-risk opioid patients about pain management.  These two numbers - 50 and 100 - if you are over these two doses that is a risk factor.  Today's topic - the science behind prescription drugs.  The overarching message here is like the higher the dose of the opioids the higher the risk.  Upstairs his colleague Amanda Bye a clinical psychologist highlights a key element of the program - it is integrated.  We brought in all these specialists. We all know the up-to-date research of what is most effective in helping to manage pain. And that is how the program got started.  For patient care there is a doctor a clinical pharmacist two mental-health therapists a physical therapist and a nurse all on one floor so patients can meet with this team instead of dealing with a series of referrals. Kaiser tracked more than 80 patients over the course of a year. It found the group's ER visits decreased 25 percent. Inpatient admissions dropped 40 percent and patients' opioid use went way down.  We have had really good results getting those patients unstuck from the mud getting them moving and living the life they want to live.  Bye says the team helps patients use alternatives like exercise meditation acupuncture and mindfulness though some patients do need to go to the chemical dependency unit for medication-assisted treatment. Benjamin Miller is an expert on integrated care with the national foundation Well Being Trust. He says Kaiser is on the right track.  The future of health care is integrated. And unfortunately our history is very fragmented. And we are just now catching up to developing a system of care that meets the needs of people.  Similar programs in California showed a reduction in the number of prescriptions and pills per patient says Kelly Pfeifer with the California Health Care Foundation.  We have seen great success with these models that are integrating complementary therapy physical therapy behavioral health and medical care.  She says one challenge is scale - Big systems are the ones that can afford programs like this - another is insurance payment.  Frequently behavioral health and medical health are paid for by entirely different systems.  And some insurers will not pay for the kinds of alternative treatments that have really helped Robert Kerley. He now starts his morning with stretching and a version of tai chi. His advice to others suffering from pain or addiction?  Do whatever it takes to walk away from it like no matter what. Trust me. It gets better. It gets 100 percent better than where you are at right now.  Better for Kerley means he is back at work once again able to make a living as a truck driver. For NPR News I am John Daley.  