 When Lorely Rodriguez first shared her music with the world she did it anonymously. The East LA native uploaded snippets of experimental pop to YouTube under the name Empress Of. Those demos turned into a record deal and a debut album in 2015 titled Me. On her new record it is all about Us.   .  For her sophomore effort Rodriguez says she wanted to create a sense of community and pay homage to her Honduran roots. Reviewer Miguel Perez says the result is a straightforward take that says more with less.    Every time I think about you it is a summer haze tripping over the shadows of the mess we made. Now we are a little older. You are not the same. You are not the same. Oh you say that you love me. I want to know...  Empress Of says her last album was so personal so chaotic that it made performing it emotionally exhausting. This time around she wanted the music to be an equal exchange between her and us the listeners. Songs like Love For Me offer emotional drama. It is just not all about her.    Trust me baby.  Trust me baby. We could do each other more love than harm if you just - if you just trust me baby.  On Trust Me Baby Rodriguez is demanding respect and faith from a partner. It is a familiar scene that is framed by lush and glittering electropop fused with RB. The music oozes with muted spacey synths guiding her falsetto. But what makes the song special is not what Rodriguez is saying but how she is chosen to say it.    Oh why am I always the one to cry - one to cry. .  The song's bilingual lyrics are in service to one of her biggest influences her mom. Rodriguez says she wanted her to be able to understand the music. As a first-generation Honduran-American Rodriguez straddles two worlds. And she nods to that experience in the way she sways between languages. She does not present the Spanish verses as some big moment in the song. It is just part of who she is and the power is in the subtly.    I feel possessed. I cannot help but repress all of the signs telling me that I am not fine.  To call these simple love songs would be a disservice to the complicated experiences underneath the surface - self-doubt community trust identity. In delicate but skillful ways Rodriguez explores different matters of the heart telling her story and a little of ours in the process.    You found me lost. Love me like a desert rain.  The latest from Empress Of is called Us. Our reviewer Miguel Perez is a producer for KERA in Dallas.    I speak but cannot express. I lay in bed replaying life we once lived. 