 Of all the appointments the president makes none has more immediate effect on the administration's day-to-day success or failure than the White House chief of staff. And the choice of William Daley says a lot about what President Obama expects to be dealing with in the next two years. NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson has spent the day absorbing the atmosphere at the White House and she joins us now from there. Mara so what does tell us about what the president is expecting?  It tells us that he wants to move to the center. It tells us he wants to reach out to the business community. As you heard William Daley is an executive at JPMorgan Chase. That would make him one of those fat-cat investment bankers that the president once famously criticized. He is also fresh blood. He is an outsider. The president has decided he needs some new perspectives. He is reached out to somebody who has a lot of experience kind of a Howard Baker-type and a former Clinton hand not unlike his new choice for budget director Jack Lew. So it shows you that the president wants to get ready to deal with the new reality of divided government and run for re-election at the same time and he chose someone who is - can fit both of those needs.  An outsider with inside experience and there is an interesting symmetry here Mara the president's first chief of staff Rahm Emanuel left to run for mayor of Chicago. Now his successor's name is almost synonymous with that office at least his last name Daley. What is the meaning to be found in that?  Well Chicago is the president's political touchstone. It is also a pretty good training for the rough and tumble politics in Washington. But it also tells you that even though William Daley is not really in the inner sanctum of Obama advisers - that is a very tightly-held tiny little circle of people - he is in one of the inner most rings you could say of the Obama universe. He is very close with David Axelrod who is the president's top political adviser who is about to leave the White House to go back to Chicago to set up the re-election effort. And William Daley Bill Daley is going to be able to coordinate with David Axelrod very well as the White House does something that is pretty unusual which is run a re-election campaign not from Washington.  Hmm. It is clear that Rahm Emanuel really helped defined the first two years of this presidency with his leadership style. How will William Daley be different?  Well you know Rahm Emanuel's job was to legislate. I think Bill Daley's job will be to negotiate. Rahm Emanuel had deep strong ties to the Democratic House leadership. He was once part of it. His job was to get Democrats on board since no Republicans were going to help -or very few Republicans were going to help President Obama pass his agenda. Bill Daley's job is to reach across the aisle. He is also going to be a surrogate for the president. I think you are going to see him out in public a lot in a way that Rahm Emanuel was not. One of the striking things about this administration is how few high-level surrogates the White House has had. President Obama has had to do it almost all by himself. But I think you are going to see Bill Daley out more in public.  We have heard a lot of rumors about this appointment. Now that it is official what is been the reaction outside the White House?  Well as you could expect centrist Democratic groups have responded with praise. The Chamber of Commerce with which Bill Daley once worked who also was one of the president's most powerful opponents reacted with praise. Liberal groups have been disappointed and have criticized the decision. But Howard Dean who is really a hero to liberals in the Democratic Party thought it was a very smart move.  Beyond the chief of staff we have been hearing about other big changes expected and an overall staff shakeup. What kinds of changes are ahead? What are we expecting?  Well tomorrow you are likely to hear that Gene Sperling who is a Treasury Department official also a former Clinton aide is going to be made the head of the National Economic Council. He takes the place of Larry Summers who went back to Harvard. I think that you will also see David Plouffe. He is already been announced but he will arrive at the White House next week to fill the job that David Axelrod has been doing. As I said Axelrod will go back to Chicago. And then in one of the highest-profile decisions at some point in the next few weeks we should find out who is going to be the new press secretary. Robert Gibbs announced yesterday that he no longer is going to brief from the podium. He is going to the private sector to be a paid consultant to the Obama campaign. And they have not decided yet who the new press secretary will be. They have widened the search. It is not just inside the White House. They are looking outside. So this is all part of the president revamping his operation to deal with divided government and to get ready for re-election.  Always good to talk to you Mara.  Thank you Michele.  That is NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson. 