 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. More protests are expected this weekend in the Venezuelan capital. For nearly five weeks now demonstrators have taken to the streets. Protests were sparked by anger over a sexual assault and have grown to express a wide array of grievances. At times tens of thousands have joined in at others the turnout has been less impressive as the opposition struggles to attract broader support. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro reports from Caracas.  It is a blazingly hot noon and three prominent members of the political opposition in Venezuela are holding a news conference in one of the main shopping streets in the capital.    Legislator Maria Corina Machado says the Venezuelan people say to the world with pride Venezuela is awake. The people are on the streets and we will struggle until we win. But other than the gathered press and several dozen supporters passersby even if they nod their heads in agreement with what she is saying do not stop and listen.    Lo Canes is 50 and unemployed and he is strolling near the press conference with his daughter. When asked about the protests he shrugs. This is a conflict between political parties and it brings us regular people even more problems. The list of grievances here is long - record inflation deadly crime food shortages and unemployment. The government of President Nicolas Maduro who succeeded the late Hugo Chavez has struggled to contain them and has been cracking down. People have been killed on both sides 28 in total and there is no end in sight. Protests have been a regular feature of life in Venezuela since Chavez launched his self-styled revolution 15 years ago but he is no longer around and Maduro does not have his level of support. Still the opposition has a problem. Despite the fact that people from all walks of life have joined the demonstrations the protests are focused around the wealthier areas and tens of thousands at most - not hundreds of thousands - are participating. The Catia slum was a traditional bedrock of support for Hugo Chavez and many residents voted as well for his successor Maduro. We meet Saverio Vivas here a local opposition organizer. A former Chavista he is now allied with Enrique Capriles who almost won the presidency in the last elections. He says the protests have not resonated much here yet.    The message by the opposition he says has been leave now Maduro and that is a message that is not really attractive to the poor areas. There is a feeling he says that this is a political battle between the parties over power and not the real problems that people are facing.    He says there is still a lot of support for Maduro's socialist government too and even if the many problems have eroded that people are skeptical about the alternative. He says the government with its control over the media and public discourse has been able to capitalize on those fears.    As an opposition leader in the communities here he says and despite our great effort we still have not convinced people that we are just the opposition. We are a solution to the problems of this country. But it is not only mistrust that is keeping people from the streets. There is also fear in Venezuela. Where you fall on the political spectrum can affect your livelihood in very direct ways.    The young man I am speaking to is in his early 20s. He used to happily participate in pro-government marches under Chavez. He voted for Maduro he says because he believed that he would do what was best for the country.    But Maduro he says has shown he is not capable of dealing with the country's many problems. He goes on but I cannot speak about that publically. I have a government job and they do not allow dissent he says. You are obliged to be mute or you could lose your paycheck or worse he says. He says he feels many people like him are keeping their heads down because they want to survive. Back at the opposition press conference people are handing out fliers. Venezuelans it says whatever your political persuasion you also have problems with electricity scarcity water insecurity. This is everyone's fight. Come to the streets and protest. Whether people will actually heed that call may very well determine what happens here over the coming weeks and months. Lourdes Garcia-Navarro NPR News Caracas. 