 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. And we begin this hour with a big development in the fight against al-Qaida. A key member of the group's arm in Yemen American-born radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki has been killed in a U.S. drone strike. President Obama spoke earlier today. President  Make no mistake this is further proof that al-Qaida and its affiliates will find no safe haven anywhere in the world. Working with Yemen and our other allies and partners we will be determined we will be deliberate we will be relentless we will be resolute in our commitment to destroy terrorist networks that aim to kill Americans.  U.S. officials confirmed Awlaki was killed when a Hellfire missile hit his convoy. NPR's Dina Temple-Raston is here with more details. And Dina what else can you tell us about that strike?  Well U.S. officials tell NPR that the CIA and Special Operations were behind the attack and they have been working very closely with the Yemenis to get Awlaki particularly with regard to surveillance on him. The announcement came out of the Yemeni defense ministry but it is hard to tell right now exactly what role the Yemenis played in the attack itself. What we do know from our sources is that the Yemeni government has been really eager to show the U.S. that they are willing to help fight al-Qaida particularly with the instability that is raging in the country right now. And in recent months U.S. officials tell us that the flow of information coming to the U.S. from the Yemenis has been enormous. The Yemenis have allowed more drone flights. They have allowed Americans in to interrogations. So that is one of the reasons I think they have been given so much credit for having helped with this operation.  And in terms of the overall battle against al-Qaida why is the death of Awlaki so important?  Well remember he is an American. He studied in the U.S. He was an imam who preached in mosques both in San Diego and Virginia. And he spent enough time here to really understand how we tick what makes us tick. And that is a huge advantage for al-Qaida because they want Western recruits. They know they have to have people who are in a position to attack who do not need visas who can get pass our immigration status undetected and not attract suspicion. And Awlaki's followers were exactly those people that al-Qaida was hoping to attract. He had an amazing reach in the West because he has a huge Internet presence and he was very effective. If you ask intelligence officials they will tell you that Awlaki was linked in one way or another with nearly every plot that was leveled against the U.S. in the past two years.  And could you just remind us about the details of some of these plots?  Well here's just a sampling. Take the alleged Fort Hood shooter Major Nidal Hasan he had had email correspondence with Awlaki. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab the man who is now on trial in Michigan for the attempted bombing of the U.S. airliner outside Detroit two Christmases ago he told investigators that Awlaki had told him to wait until he was over U.S. soil to detonate this bomb he had in his underwear because it would mean more casualties. And then there is Faisal Shahzad the Pakistani-American who built the car bomb that was supposed to go off in Times Square but failed to go off he said Awlaki was a big inspiration.  Awlaki was not the only American caught in this attack. Apparently Samir Khan a North Carolina man who was editing al-Qaida's online magazine was also killed. Tell us a little bit about him.  Yes that is right. Samir Khan has been confirmed killed as well. He was the editor of this online webzine called Inspire and he started it a little over a year ago. And it was just like Awlaki's lectures and videos on the Internet clearly aimed at American or Western Muslims who are toying with the idea of violence. And the magazine had articles for example how to make a bomb in your mother's kitchen sink. And the seventh issue just came out last week and it was dedicated to 10 years of al-Qaida terrorist operations. And Khan signed some of the articles in the magazine. And in one issue recently he explained in his words why he felt he became a traitor and came to hate America.  Quickly what does this mean for al-Qaida?  Well al-Qaida's arm in Yemen is considered by the U.S. to be the most active and the most dangerous and Awlaki is just one person in the organization but he is a key person because he had this connection with the West and this English-language connection. And Khan as it turns out would have been probably the person who would have replaced him. So in one sort of blow they have taken out two generations.  And that is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. Dina thanks so much.  You are welcome. 