 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. There are some basic things we take for granted at least in the developed world that the air we breathe or the water that flows into our homes will not make us sick. So imagine you turn on your local TV news to this.   State of emergency in several counties tonight after a chemical spills into the water supply. Good evening. I am...  In Charleston West Virginia this was the news on Thursday January 9th. A one-inch hole had opened up in the side of a chemical storage tank and a substance known as crude MCHM was gushing out into the Elk River and the water supply of some 300000 people.   Do not drink use bathe with cook with or do laundry with water from West Virginia American Water. The only thing that you can use it for at this time is to flush your toilet or for fire protection.  That was more than a month ago. State and federal authorities have said that the water is now usable for all purposes. But in some areas the tap water still has a chemical odor leaving a lot of ordinary West Virginians and some health authorities wondering is the water really safe? That is our cover story today.   Despite assurances from government officials many people in West Virginia are still going to great lengths to avoid the tap water. NPR's Brian Naylor went to Charleston. And as he reports life there is anything but normal.  Nate May's Prius is loaded down with water. The back is filled with boxes each holding three one-gallon jugs that he is just bought at Wal-Mart. He and other volunteers are driving around Charleston dropping off jugs to people who have contacted his group the West Virginia Clean Water Hub. It is a citizen effort operating on donations.  There are a lot of people who this has put in a difficult bind. Some of them cannot get out some of them are elderly some of them it is just too much of a financial burden.  One of his first stops this morning the second floor apartment of Nakeysha Bennett.   Nakeysha. I am here to deliver some water. I am with the Clean Water Hub. Your dad told me about you.  I am sorry I was feeding my baby.  No problem.  Nakeysha's baby is 3-week-old Eli.  I actually was like in the middle of like eating dinner and drinking water yeah. And I was pregnant so I started freaking out.  What did the doctors tell you?  They just told me to drink the bottled water and stuff.  And so now with his formula you mix it with bottled water?  Yeah and that is kind of hard to do because we went through cases and cases and cases of water.  Nakeysha says she has no idea how long she will have to go on fixing Eli's formula and bathing him with bottled water. And she is pretty fed up.  I just feel like there are like a lot of people who like are not doing their jobs or something. I mean it is hard. I cannot live like this with the bottled water. It drives me crazy that I cannot just use regular water out of my sink.  Charleston is the state's population center the center of its government. And there are lawyers and lobbyists and other people here who know how to make themselves heard. Maya Nye who is president of People Concerned About Chemical Safety says maybe this leak will have an impact in a way that previous accidents in more isolated places in West Virginia have not.  I do believe it is a tipping point. Three hundred thousand people you hit them on sort of a basic human survival level and I mean this has been ongoing for a month now you know and I am still not drinking the water using it and a lot of people I know still are not.  West Virginia's members of Congress have called for laws to ensure testing of storage tanks like the one owned by Freedom Industries that leaked and for more oversight of West Virginia's many other chemical facilities. But University of Charleston professor Brad Deel is not optimistic that big changes are coming in the state's light-handed regulation of the coal and chemical industry.  What I predict will happen is that people are going to make a lot of noise. There will be some minor minor regulations passed. To the extent anything major is proposed people will say well let us not be too hasty. Let us not make any rash changes. Industry will open its wallets and its lobbying organizations to the politicians and very little will happen.  Meanwhile in St. Albans just outside Charleston's water system...  We came here and did a little pizza picnic and then now we are finishing with that.  Sounds like a great adventure.  It has been. Can you guys say hello? These are my children  OK?  Hi.  Hi.  Hi.    Joanne Kirby and her three lively kids are having a pizza picnic. Kirby lives in Charleston but along with three other families has rented a small apartment in St. Albans so they can bathe the kids and wash their clothes in clean water. The families use a Google calendar to keep track of whose turn it is to use the place. Kirby a lawyer says their family does not use the water in their home at all.  One day my daughter was brushing her teeth and she turned on the faucet by mistake and west her toothbrush and then just dropped it and burst into tears. And you know that is not a great feeling as a parent. You are doing the best to keep a routine and keep calm yet the kids pick up on the tension. They are aware.  Aurelia Kirby is 6.  And mommy said even if other kids are using the water we do not use the water.  Richard Katz is another lawyer whose family shares the unfurnished apartment.  It works out really well. It is worked out great so far. Unfortunately I am afraid we might have to have the place for another month at least.  Katz and the other families know they are fortunate to have the means to escape Charleston's water. Katz says unless it is resolved soon the water crisis may make some people escape the area for good.  I can tell you from talking with other professionals here other highly skilled workers that we are watching. And if there is no meaningful change there will be a brain drain here.  As these families leave their shared apartment the last thing they do is turn on the faucet and fill some jugs to take home.   That is NPR's Brian Naylor. 