 hip-hop. We have a review of an album from a rap music newbie called Drake. Drake's debut was released today and it is called Thank Me Later. Yohance Serrant gave it a listen.  Aubrey Drake Graham has been hailed as hip-hop's newest golden child. You may know him as Jimmy Brooks the basketball star from Degrassi High The Next Generation a popular Canadian teen drama.   Jimmy hey. How are you holding up post-Hazel I heard you guys broke up?   I do not know not to sound Dr. Phil or whatever but we grew apart.  Well goodbye Jimmy hello Drake the actor turned rapper. It usually works the other way. Think Will Smith Mos Def 50 Cent. But Drake's a different breed of MC. He is half Jewish half black and grew up in an upper middle class Toronto neighborhood.   If you listen to Top 40 radio you most definitely heard his blowout hit last year Best I Ever Had off the mixtape So Far Gone.    Know you got a roommate call me when there is no one there. Put the key under the mat and you know I will be over there. I will be over there shortly I will be over there. I will be hitting all the spots that you as not even know is there.  So Far Gone was rereleased as an EP and became the fifth-best-selling album of 2009 unheard of for a mixtape.   Drake instantly garnered a huge fan base and was signed to Lil Wayne's label Young Money Entertainment. His debut album Thank Me Later has been highly anticipated by hip-hop heads worldwide. So when it was leaked on the Internet a couple weeks ago there was a mad rush to download it.    Money just changed everything. I wonder how life without it would go. From the concrete who knew that a flower would grow. Looking down from the top and it is crowded below. My 15 minutes started an hour ago.  The album starts with Fireworks featuring Alicia Keys a bittersweet toast to Drake's rapid climb to fame. The whole album has a lot of dreamy melodies and electric synths and its down-tempo pace keeps up until the fourth track and current radio single Over.    All right bottle's on me long summer drinkin'...  Over is a braggadocios rap about living life without a care and making money and a few witty punch lines to boot.    Said it all said it all Jada Pinkett. I should not have drove tell me how I am getting home.  Drake rhymes with Jay-Z on Light Up. The two address the stresses of the music industry haters and yes the hard knock life of being famous.    Even when the sun goes down I will be making calls.  Ow  turning heads like ow from the man of the hour. Triple entendre do not even ask me how connected to flowing connected to a higher power.  And the album ends with Thank Me Now produced by Timbaland Drake's most insightful and lyrically consistent song. He raps about his music idols being rivals the harsh reality that fame can go at any time saying in case another chance never comes around...    You could thank me now. Go ahead go ahead. Thank me ladies yeah I know what I said.  Drake's Thank Me Later is a simple pop hip-hop album. For an MC whose buzz was so powerful for the last year and a half the overall product is well pretty weak. Everything is redundant musically and lyrically. Drake raps about what he knows - the pressures of celebrity life. But not convincingly enough for us to feel him or feel for him.   Drake's album Thank Me Later is out today. Our reviewer is Los Angeles-based writer Yohance Serrant. 