 Every week for the past quite a few years we have done a regular political chat on the show. Week In Politics we call it. And while quite a few voices from across the political spectrum have cycled through our stalwarts the original duo are David Brooks of The New York Times and E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and Georgetown's McCourt School. Well with politics in limbo along with just about everything else right now I was curious how they are keeping busy what is bringing them comfort right now. So David E.J. welcome back. We will call it Week In Comfort . How about that?  It is great to be with you. Thank you.  Thank you Mary Louise.  So good to hear your voices - David I am going to call on you first because I noticed you have been writing about mental health in the age of the coronavirus. What is the central tension as you see it?  Well I asked my readers my New York Times readers to send me little letters on how they are holding up. And I think I sort of expected a lot of cheerful coming together stories. But what I got shocked me. It was heart-rending and gutting frankly. I have gone through about 5000 of the letters now.  Five thousand wow.  Yeah. And they are - people are just open and vulnerable. A lot of people are crying a lot. And then those with existing mental health conditions - one of them wrote to me I used to be able to escape my unhappiness but now my unhappiness is chained to me.  Yeah. I underlined one line in your column that does not speak to quite that level of misery but I wrote yes in big letters next to it and it was you writing that you are mentally exhausted by 5 p.m. every day and that part of that is the unconscious stress that is flowing through all of us.  Yeah. And it is an invisible stress sort of pervasive. I do not have moments of panic or stress. But somehow it is just underlining everything and everybody. Obviously it is a time to be an aggressive friend but also to see that there is meaning in it. I am in love with this quote by Paul Tillich a 1950s theologian who says that moments of suffering interrupt your life and they remind you you are not the person you thought you were. They carve through the floor of the basement of your soul and reveal much deeper depths than you ever knew you had before.  That is beautiful. E.J. you have written in the past about the quality of resilience and about the importance of confronting doubt with faith and sadness with joy. How are you thinking about that with this crisis?  Well you know David's quoting Paul Tillich reminded me of Martin Luther King's famous line that unearned suffering is redemptive. And I would underscore what David said - all those folks who are in trouble because of the lack of social connection right now a sense of isolation with a critique of the term social distancing because I like those who want to replace it with physical distancing because we need more social connection right now. But the most resilient person I think I have ever met is my mother-in-law. She was one of those people who always says God never sends you something you cannot handle. She lost her husband when she was 38 left with little money. It was a blue-collar family and six kids aged 2 to 16. And the way she kept going was she focused on those hurting even more than she was hurting and she reached out to help them.  David what is keeping you going by the way?  I take the same run every day now and just watching the buds emerge on the trees - it gives you that 3000-year mind ...  Yeah.  ...That this is a long story. And frankly reading the book of Isaiah - the Bible teaches us whether you believe in God or not is that these are redemptive moments. These are moments that do come to define us.  Yeah. We just have a short moment left but I wonder if you two want to say anything straight to each other as friends and colleagues who have spent a lot of time over the years on this show debating the state of our country and our world - E.J.  Back in the day when David and I actually disagreed about politics even more than we do now one of the things that brought us together was a love of community and a belief that people - what people did for each other was much more important than some notion of radical individualism. And I want to salute David for pointing out that times of crisis like this are times when human beings get really inventive about new forms of social organization. And he is encouraging that and I appreciate that.  And David a parting shot from you to E.J.  Yeah. We have been doing this 25 years. I just calculated. Our ideological differences have never led to anything but emotional closeness. And I think E.J. and I are doppelgangers. And I do think I know I love you and I think you love me. And it helps that E.J.'s...  Yes sir.  ...Default setting is extreme cheerfulness. And that has kept us together .   That is lovely.  Thank you David.  Do you want to respond to that E.J.? I will give you another few seconds to respond.  Normally I have a pithy quick comeback to David on that and I have no pithy comeback at all except thank you.  Well I will offer a parting shot which is as we talk about friendship it is lovely to hear two old friends say I love you on the phone line. So thanks to you both.  Thank you.  Great to be with you Mary Louise.  That is David Brooks of The New York Times and E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and the Brookings Institution. 