 Policymakers do not have a lot of data on police brutality particularly deaths at the hands of officers. The same holds true for mass shootings and other kinds of gun violence. One main obstacle - congressional restrictions on funding such research. NPR's Alison Kodjak explains.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studies all kinds of violence. There is a program on child abuse and youth violence and the agency collects data on suicides and sexual assault. But there is some glaring gaps in its research. The CDC does not systematically collect data on deaths at the hands of law enforcement and there is actually a law that stops it from doing research on gun violence. Now scientists are looking to change that.  It is never a good idea to muzzle scientific investigations for political reasons.  Rush Holt is the CEO of the American Academy for the Advancement of Science. He is a physicist who was also a member of Congress until earlier this year. His group last week called for an end to the ban on gun research at the CDC.  All the debate for well several decades now here in the United States at least has been carried out on the basis of opinion and ideology and assertion and political stance rather than the evidence.  If the government could collect detailed data on gun violence researchers say they might see patterns and come up with interventions that could reduce the number of deaths. Nancy Krieger is an epidemiologist at Harvard. She wants to see the same data on deaths that involve police officers.  We have an official mystery in the United States as to the number of people who are killed by the police.  She says police departments sometimes resist reporting data to the Justice Department so official information is spotty.  Why are these being treated only as police data? These are our mortality records. We in public health count dead people. It is one of the things we do. And we count them in order to understand how to prevent preventable deaths.  Krieger says currently the best source of information on gun deaths is a website created by the British newspaper The Guardian.  It is shocking that we in the United States have to turn to a U.K. newspaper's website to get timely reporting on who is being killed. We have a better public health system than that.  So in a paper published today in the journal PLOS Medicine Krieger is calling for the CDC to declare law enforcement-related deaths quote a notifiable condition. That means public health workers not police would be required to report the death to a state or local agency. The current limit on CDC research and overall gun violence came about in 1997 after some agency officials suggested their goal was to reduce access to guns. The National Rifle Association seized on those statements and lobbied Congress to cut the funding. NRA spokesman Lars Dalseide says the organization does not want the CDC to advocate for gun bans.  The NRA is not and never has been opposed to research that promotes the safe and responsible use of firearms and work to reduce gun-related deaths.  Former Arkansas congressman Jay Dickey who sponsored the original bill restricting gun research now wants to see it restored. He spoke to NPR's Steve Inskeep in October.   It was not necessary that all research stop. It just could not be the collection of data so that they can advocate gun control. That is all we were talking about but for some reason it just stopped all together.  Dickey now wants his former colleagues to repeal the limits on CDC research. But that possibility looks remote. Earlier this year an amendment to do just that was defeated in a House committee with almost no debate.   On this vote the yays are 19. The nays are 32. The amendment is not agreed to.  Alison Kodjak NPR News Washington. 