 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Keep doing what you have been doing for years. That was the message yesterday from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. She was responding to newly revised guidelines for breast cancer screenings. On Monday a federally appointed advisory panel released a report recommending that most women under 50 do not need routine mammograms. The panel also dismissed the effectiveness of self breast examinations. Those reversals have caused considerable surprise confusion and disagreement among patients and doctors alike. We are going to get two doctors' views now first Therese Bevers. She is the medical director of the Cancer Prevention Center at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Welcome to the program Dr. Bevers.  Thank you. Glad to be here.  And also Barron Lerner an internist at Columbia University Medical Center in New York. He is also author of Breast Cancer Wars Hope Fear and the Pursuit of a Cure in Twentieth-Century America. Dr. Lerner welcome to you.  Hi Melissa.  And Dr. Lerner you pretty much agree with these new guidelines. Why is that?  Well the recommendations are basically pointing out that in order to save one life from women in their 40s you need to screen something like 1900 women for 10 years. So that is tens of thousands of mammograms to potentially save one life. And along the way you are going to be getting a lot of something that is called false positives. So women who have false alarms on their mammograms wind up getting biopsies and - that did not really need it. So there is a lot of potential harm along the way to potentially only save one life.  And Dr. Bevers though you are looking at those same numbers and coming to a different conclusion.  That is correct. I think we all will agree that there are benefits obtained with mammographic screening. There is also harms. We acknowledge that you have to screen more women in their 40s than you do in their 50s. Dr. Lerner quoted the number of 1900 and that is correct. But you have to screen about 1300 women in their 50s to prevent - to find one breast cancer so I am not sure why that line is drawn between the 1300 and the 1900. And then there seems to be an overemphasis on the harms of mammographic screening. In my opinion my colleagues other clinicians that see patients - breast cancer patients and screening patients for breast cancer we are willing to accept a number of false positives to be able to save one woman's life.  We have been getting a lot of email from listeners as you might imagine. And a number of people have stories of their own. And I want to read a couple of those letters. This is one from Wendy Hickey of Pittsburgh who says that three years ago when she was 45 a mammogram identified suspicious tissue in her breast. She had a needle biopsy excisional surgery and is now cancer-free taking daily tamoxifen.  I cannot imagine what would have happened if I had delayed my mammogram for five more years. But I feel safe in guessing that the outcome and treatment would not have been as positive. Dr. Lerner what would you say to Wendy Hickey about that?  If people can take away from this show the notion that what she is saying may be true but may not be true I think they would learn a lot. What the data is showing us is that this woman even though the mammogram found the suspicious cells early on the argument is that her overall prognosis would not have changed. She would have gotten treated then as aggressively or more aggressively as when it was found by mammogram and she would have done exactly the same. That is what the point is of this data. It is a hard conceptual leap for people to make even for a doctor but that is what the data show.  And you would assume though that the earlier you find something the better your results would be.  That has been the guiding principle of cancer research since the early 20th century but the data for some cancers shows that things are not that simple and that is what we are trying to deal with now.  Dr. Bevers what do you think?  Well I think it is right that the data is that way for some cancers but not for all. In fact a great many cancers by finding them early we can change the outcome. So I understand her viewpoint and that is why I am recommending annual mammographic screening for women beginning at age 40.  So doc should I get a mammogram or not? What is going to guide me in telling her if she should get a mammogram or not based on these current guidelines? We know in fact that the majority of breast cancers diagnosed in women in their 40s are in women who have no risk factors. So I cannot go solely based on risk factors. If I did I would miss a number of women who will develop a breast cancer and in fact may be caught at a larger possibly more advanced breast cancer.  And Dr. Lerner if you had that same woman in your office - no family history no special risk factors - say she is 40 41 years old she wants you to recommend whether she should get a mammogram what would you tell her?  Well I try to avoid making decisions for my patients but try to give them the best information that I can. And I would emphasize as we said before the pros and cons. This is what the advocates think of this test and this is why they think it is a good test. This is some of the downsides of this test. Are you the sort of person who would want to go ahead? Are you comfortable with a test that is not as good that might not pick up something? Or are you the sort of person who wants to avoid unnecessary biopsies at all costs? I tend to find that my patients segregate themselves into those two groups.  And if they absolutely insisted that you give them your clinical guidance on this what you would recommend? What would you do?  Well again part of that would reflect my knowledge of the patient herself. But if you are really trying to pin me down into a corner I think based on the current guidelines I would say that a mammogram is not necessary. But if she really wants it it is fine.  There was the other recommendation that we mentioned from this panel that women not examine their own breasts that the harms outweigh the benefits. And we got a lot of letters about that too.  I was shocked that doctors are no longer suggesting self-examinations. I lost my wife to inflammatory breast cancer a couple of years ago and if it had not been for her regular self-exams the cancer would not have been detected as soon as it was. She found both the original case and its reoccurrence before the doctors did. If it had not been for her diligence I would have lost her several years earlier. Dr. Bevers thoughts on that case?  Well actually this is a recommendation from the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force that I am in agreement with. But I want to clarify what the recommendation was. It was that women should not be taught how to do a breast self-examination. And this comes about from a large randomized trial that showed women who were taught how to do a breast self-examination and in fact also provided reminders to do it were no better at finding breast cancers than the women who had not been taught nor received any reminders. We do however recognize that women are the most likely person to find their own breast cancer. And for that reason you have been seeing a paradigm shift in recommendations from many agencies where now the recommendation is breast awareness. The concept is that there is no right or wrong way for a woman to find an abnormality. And in fact the vast majority of women when they find that problem were not doing a formal breast self-examination but in fact found it during showering or dressing and it was more of a chance detection. But yes they themselves found it.  And explain to me just a little further why it would not help a woman find a lump.  Well what it actually tells us is that people know their bodies. Maybe an analogy that I could give is say that you found a lump on the back of your calf. You were not doing a monthly self-examination of your calf when you found that lump. It was just something you came across by chance and you go oh what is that?  I guess I am still a little confused. What is the - what would be the harm in teaching women to examine their own breasts to make it more routine for them to do that?  So the harms are in fact false positives - the same thing that we see with mammographic screening. Why I feel that we should not be teaching women breast self-examination is because there is no benefit but there are associated harms. That actually differs from the mammographic argument where there are in fact benefits and harms and it is the balance of those benefits and harms.  Dr. Lerner this letter from Tim Hart the outcome for his wife was sadly still that she died from breast cancer but he said look this early detection through self-examination bought them some time together.  If you think about finding a cancer in your breast using your fingers especially one that is deep in the breast it is got to be at least a centimeter in size maybe even a little larger. We call that early detection but it is not early. Most of those cancers many of those cancers have been there growing for months or years and we now know in contrast to when early detection was invented that a lot of breast cancers spread early on in their course. So the notion that finding a lump in your breast is truly early and it is before the cancer has spread and therefore you are going to save a life doing that does not make the sense that it used to. And so in a case like this his wife absolutely did what she did and I totally applaud that and it is great that she was able to find that earlier and get informed but again it is not entirely clear from a story like this that she prolonged her life at all by doing it because what was done was done by the time she found it both at the original presentation and the recurrence.  You know - I am sorry.  And I think this case is actually a good illustration where waiting till the cancer presents clinically on self-exam or a clinical exam it may be too late.  You know these new recommendations have raised all sorts of questions about whether insurance companies are going to now stop covering early mammograms for women under 50. Do you think that is a real risk Dr. Bevers?  I do. I have concerns about it because I will be telling my patients that I am recommending annual mammograms beginning at age 40 and of course counseling them about the benefits and risk. After doing so many will want the mammogram but they may find they will not be able to access it because now payers may use this as the basis of the reimbursement and thus only women age 50 to 74 would be able to get a mammogram every two years and that will be unfortunate.  Dr. Lerner do you think you will see that as well?  Well it is certainly a possibility you know especially in a cost- cutting environment. The notion that you now have a test that is pretty expensive that leads to unnecessary biopsies and you can save a lot of money by not paying for it is going to be an appealing notion. I do hope that people separate the science from the politics though. I think that the current recommendations and the changes really reflect a bunch of scientists biostatisticians getting together and trying to do the right thing and make the right recommendations as far as what the data show. What we as a country and a society choose to do with that information is really a political issue.  Dr. Lerner and Dr. Bevers thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Dr. Barron Lerner is an internist at Columbia University Medical Center in New York and author of Breast Cancer Wars Hope Fear and the Pursuit of a Cure in Twentieth-Century America. And Dr. Therese Bevers is the medical director of the Cancer Prevention Center at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.  