 Psychological abuse is often called the wound no one can see. Because of that it tends to get less attention than physical abuse. We called on psychologist Steven Stosny who has written several books on the subject to help us understand what exactly is psychological abuse.  You have to distinguish between abusive acts and an abusive relationship. Psychological abusive behavior is just hurting the feelings of someone trying to make them feel inferior they are not as good as you. And that can happen in any relationship. You are upset you say the wrong thing you call a name you are insulting or demeaning. But then you apologize for it and you reconnect. An abusive relationship is where you do those behaviors systematically to control or dominate another person to get them to submit to what you want. And you do not apologize. You feel self-righteous. You made me do it or you had it coming or if you were a better person I would not have to do that.  How prevalent is that in relationships?  Well psychological abuse is very prevalent. It is probably - about one in four relationships go through some period where they will have psychological abuse.  One in four?  Yes. It is a precursor to violence about 40 percent of them will become domestic violence. But psychologically speaking it actually does more damage than physical abuse. The only time that is not true is if the physical abuse does some kind of crippling or maiming or disfigurement. Otherwise psychological abuse is more - has more psychological effects. You feel worse about yourself for longer.  What kind of toll does it take over time then?  It impairs your ability to sustain interest trust compassion and love. In another words you cannot love without hurt. We are actually programmed to believe what people we love say and how they treat us to be about us. I call it the mirror of love. The only way you know how lovable you are and how valuable your love is to other people is by interacting with people you love. So if somebody hits you it is a little bit easier to see that that person has a problem at least an impulse-control problem. But when they are demeaning you or making you feel inferior you are actually psychologically programmed to believe that is your problem.  Are there triggers?  Yes. There is an interesting gender distinction of whether a man is abusive or a woman is abusive. If a woman is abusive she will usually hit the male vulnerabilities of dread of failure as a provider protector lover or parent. So she will say you know I could have married somebody who made more money than you. I had better sex with my last boyfriend. You are a terrible parent and I do not feel secure with you. When a man is abusive he tends to hit fear vulnerabilities. He will make her afraid that he is going to hurt her or he will trigger her fear of isolation that nobody will love you nobody will care about you and her fear of deprivation She cannot have a nest she cannot buy anything for the house she cannot buy anything for herself.  If someone is listening to this and they recognize what you are describing in their own household what should they do?  It is really hard to stop on your own once it becomes habituated behavior. So they are going to need help to do it. If it is not too entrenched ordinary marriage counseling can help. If it becomes habituated though they need something more heroic. Like we do three-day boot camps where it is eight hours a day for three sometimes four days. It needs something that drastic to break through the habits. Once you are in the habit of hurting someone you love it is very hard to stop the habit.  Mr. Stosny thank you very much for talking to us.  Thank you.  Steven Stosny is an expert on psychological abuse. He is also the author of the book Love Without Hurt. 