 For the first time this year the number of migrants taken into custody after crossing the southwest border has dropped. In some ways this was expected. Migrant flows typically slow down in the hotter summer months. But the Trump administration also credits Mexico with doing more to secure its borders and stop migrants from crossing into the U.S. in June. NPR's John Burnett covers immigration and joins us from Austin Texas. Hi John.  Hi Ari.  So what are these numbers? How many migrants crossed in June?  Well Homeland Security sent out a release this afternoon that they have apprehended a little over 104000. That compares to 144000 - a bit over that - in May. So that is a 28 drop. They had told us there was going to be a sharp drop and sure enough there was. This - across the board this was in unaccompanied minors. These were family units single adults most of them from the Northern Triangle from you know Salvador Honduras and Guatemala most of them seeking asylum in this country. So you know the numbers are definitely measurable.  There is typically a seasonal drop this time of year as we mentioned. What other factors might be at play here?  Well clearly this agreement that Washington had with the new president of Mexico that they would dispatch new National Guard down to their southern border with Guatemala and apprehend migrants who were coming freely across the Suchiate River and were also - we had reporting this week and last week about the National Guard who were at Mexico's northern border right across - in say Ciudad Juarez across from El Paso stopping migrants from coming across. There is also the Remain in Mexico program where the U.S. is getting asylum-seekers and saying OK you can apply for asylum but you have to wait in Mexico. They are now sending thousands back into Mexico and they just recently announced that they will be sending them into Nuevo Laredo across from Laredo Texas very soon. And as you mentioned the weather the hot is really a big deal too.  In another part of the program we are going to hear from somebody - a reporter who is down there at Mexico's southern border with Guatemala. But does all of this mean the Trump administration can claim credit for this reduction in migrant crossings?  Well Ari I mean I think they can claim that there has been an impact but there is still a crisis situation. And this statement from DHS - they are not celebrating. They said the June apprehension numbers are still higher than last year's when we were already in a crisis. We are past the breaking point in a full-blown emergency this situation should not be acceptable to any of us. So I mean we are still hearing that there is more than a thousand people a day that are being apprehended just in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas.  That is NPR's John Burnett speaking with us from Austin Texas. Thanks a lot.  You bet. 