 With the Taliban in control many Afghans who worked with the U.S. are desperately trying to flee their homeland. And we have spoken with some of them including one we are identifying only as Mohammed. He was a colonel in the Afghan military. He did two training stints at a U.S. Air Force base. Now he and his family along with other military families are in hiding. NPR's Greg Myre has our story.  Mohammed his wife and their five children were part of the massive crush of people trying to make it into the Kabul airport last week. When Mohammed reached a Taliban checkpoint he presented his documents. They included his American Social Security card and a Texas driver's license acquired while he was training at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio. He hit a wall of hostility.  The Taliban stopped everybody including me. When they checked my document - when they see American documents they wanted to tear them all up. But my wife yelled at them. She did not allow them to tear the document.  That gutsy move by his wife saved the documents. But the Taliban ordered the family to sit on the side of the street. Hours later a suicide bomber blew up nearby killing 13 American troops and more than a hundred Afghans. Mohammed then decided it was too difficult and too dangerous to make it out through the Kabul airport.  When the Taliban captured Kabul we are really in a bad situation. And we left Kabul because we cannot stay there. We cannot live there. They are seeking us.  He is now part of a group of 20 families more than a hundred people altogether who quietly traveled by bus to northern Afghanistan in hopes of finding a way out. On the trip the men wore women's burqas so the Taliban would not stop and search them. All the families have members who were part of Afghanistan's collapsed military. Many like Mohammed were instructors at the military academy in Kabul. Another former instructor is a woman we are identifying only as Wazhma. She says the group is constantly changing locations for their safety.  One night we all stay in one place and another night we will stay in another place. It is dangerous for us.  The Taliban say they will not punish Afghans who worked with the Americans but many do not believe them. Mohammed says the Taliban came looking for him back in Kabul though he was not home.  The Taliban entered into my house checking my house. And my children they saw the Taliban. When they see the Taliban they were really really afraid.  Mohammed and Wazhma are both firmly rooted in Afghanistan. They had no plans to leave until the Taliban swept across the country in a matter of days. American Lark Escobar who lives in San Antonio is urgently trying to help these Afghan families get out. She is known many of them since she served as an advisor at the military academy in Kabul a decade ago.  So they are frightened. They are in hiding. They have no money. And the fear that is very legitimate is that the hotels and safe houses that they are currently hiding in will turn them over to the Taliban for nonpayment of bills.  She is contacted the State Department but says there is no clear plan to help. The U.S. airlift is over. There are no commercial flights for now. And neighboring countries are mostly closing their borders to Afghans.  It is so difficult. All the night we cannot even sleep. You know what will happen in the morning?  The families Wazhma says feel more vulnerable with each passing day. Greg Myre NPR News.  