 Brown bear brown bear what do you see?  I see a red bird a green frog and a new government program. Today President Obama unveiled an initiative aimed at getting more books to low-income children. From the NPR Ed team Cory Turner reports.  Let us start with the president earlier today telling kids at the Anacostia Library in Washington D.C. just how old he is.   There was something called The Hardy Boys back in the day. I know you guys do not read that probably anymore but...  Their response - a few laughs mostly crickets. After Obama professed his love for Treasure Island the student moderator took pity on him.   And to make you feel younger my best friend read Treasure Island.  Well that does make me feel better.  Yeah.  In addition to sharing his early reading list Obama also unveiled a plan to make over 250 million worth of e-books available to young low-income readers for free. The effort will work through a new app being developed by the New York Public Library that has the buy-in of major publishers.  Children should not be unable to get reading materials because their parents do not have money.  Carolyn Reidy is president and CEO of Simon  Schuster which has offered to make available all of its titles for kids from 4 to 14. Candlewick Press which publishes the popular Judy Moody series is also opening its catalog says CEO Karen Lotz.  We really really care about getting books to all kids kids who cannot afford them kids who are in rural areas and not near bookstores.  If there is a fly in the ointment here it is one little letter - E. Publishers are not giving kids a quarter of a billion dollars' worth of free books. They are free e-books which require two things - a good Internet connection - at least at school if not at home - and says Reidy of Simon  Schuster...  They do however need to get machines in all these schools which we cannot help them with.  According to the Census Bureau in 2013 nearly 40 percent of households that earned less than 25000 a year did not have a computer - 40 percent - and less than half had an Internet subscription. The Obama administration cannot simply give a computer or tablet to every kid who wants to read an e-book. But it has made it a priority to get broadband into just about every public school and library by 2018. Megan Smith the nation's chief technology officer says that is key.  Really leveraging the libraries as a third place if families do not have access to devices at home the children can get to the library and getting that habit.  To help make that happen the White House is also running a program in more than 30 cities and counties to give every student a library card. As for the e-book titles that'll be available through the new program it is a growing list that includes Dr. Seuss Twilight and of course Brown Bear Brown Bear What Do You See? I see a blue horse a purple cat and Cory Turner NPR News Washington. 