 And last week I was standing on a balcony overlooking this gorgeous vista of the east side of LA. Wait so first of all how many stone steps did I just climb up to get to you right now? .  A hundred and eight.  Are you serious 108?  Yes. Yeah.  I got my workout in already then.  Yeah.  We were at the home of musician Rodrigo Amarante. It is a bungalow perched on a lush green hillside. Wait so what happens when you forget something in your house and you have to go back up?  I work on my Brazilian butt.  . Amarante who is originally from Brazil has been known in the U.S. for his work with the band Little Joy. Today he is out with his second solo album called Drama which he finished right here at his home.   How long have you lived in LA?  I think 13 years now - something like that.  Thirteen years.  Yeah and in this house for nine.  I read that you felt LA allowed you to quote unquote start over. What did you mean by that? What were you starting over from?  So I did not really choose to come here. I had a career in Brazil as a musician. I had two bands very different from each other and they were both quite successful. So starting over in the sense that I was you know somewhat known in Brazil for my music - so when I am here no one knew who I was you know?  What did that feel like?  Still a lot of people do not know who I am.  What does that feel like as someone...  It feels wonderful.  ...Who feels known in Brazil?  It felt wonderful because it was...  You liked being anonymous.  Yeah but not only for the sake of like not being recognized or something like that - in terms of the challenge of writing you know?  Yeah.  I am not playing for my fans.  Yeah.  All of a sudden I have to conquer a room of strangers with my music right? And that is treasure. That is punk.  That was not daunting?  No that is - I mean that is what I wanted. It puts the music to test. And I am starting to write in this language that I am learning as I go you know? And so this is - the whole challenge is perfect you know? Performance is danger.   .  So then when you first moved here - I am just curious - if someone were to ask you what does LA represent to you?  Being a foreigner in that sense - it is a very valuable experience.  To be new to a place.  Yeah we all know the feeling you know? But when you actually move somewhere it is different than visiting. Visiting you get this like hypersensitivity right? But when you are actually living there you go through - especially if language is involved it can be very hard you know? When I first came my English was not very good and so I felt like I did not get the sense of humor that was presented to me. I felt like I could not transmit my sense of humor. Therefore I had the feeling that people thought I was dumb or not interesting. And that is a process that a foreigner lives through. And it is painful but I feel very rich and important. It was to me you know?  Well I am curious how perceptions of where you belong have evolved as you moved through life. Like you have called this latest album Drama. Tell me why you chose that name.  It was a name that came - I was writing this string arrangement. And I did not - at the time I was like why am I writing this thing? But it was just feeling right which ended up being the introduction of the record.   And I was sent to this memory of me being a kid. It was the moment where my dad - and I must have been 8 or 7 - where my dad who was a wonderful father but brought me outside. And it was the moment of ritual of turning from boy to man. So he shaved my head. But I was sent to that moment and understood that drama was what I was supposed to get rid of to become a man in this fallacy that is repeated and that my father was passing on to me.  When your father says it is time to cut your hair for you to become a man what were the thoughts that went through your head?  So I felt ashamed that I felt ugly.  You were ashamed that you felt ugly.  Because I understood that I was not supposed to...  Have vanity.  I could have had a certain type of vanity - you know maybe the vanity of muscles. But the truth is the next day I felt ugly. But that feeling - you know I knew I was not supposed to care about being pretty but I did. And so I think that is what stayed with me.  The concept of manliness that your father had as a person who is not concerned with being pretty - do you agree with that concept of masculinity today? Is there...  No of course not. That is why I wrote this record and called it Drama because I am responding to that. I am rejecting that idea.  You have told me that when you came here to the United States that you had to learn this whole new language. And sometimes when you are communicating with people some aspects of your emotion and your humor do not get transmitted to the people you are talking to. Does that happen when you are performing in front of an English-speaking crowd that there is a part of you that does not get transmitted?  I cannot remember who said that but someone said learning a new language is like having another personality. And it is an exaggeration but I can relate because language is - it is so fun to learn a new language but exposes so many things about the culture you know that you can see reflected. So yes if I am performing - but in a way it is not important because music lovers listen to music in all kinds of languages. And there is something beautiful about it too. If you do not understand the words you have more space in that mirror to project. You can invent something that is there you know? And you can occupy that space and make your own. Sometimes I ask like - and I will ask you do you want me to sing in Portuguese or in English? And I do not know if people feel uptight with the question but they keep saying it does not matter. I was like it must matter. And then I can say well my words do not matter?   But I know what they mean you know? There is something in each one of them you know?  And with that Amarante invited us into his living room. He sat us down picked up a well-worn white guitar named Butter ...  Butter - you know it has the marks of my labor. And it is the guitar...  ...And treated us to our first live music performance since the beginning of the pandemic. It was his first too.  Oh yeah. So because we talked about it what language do you want to hear?  How about Portuguese?  All right more room for imagination.  Exactly. Because I do not understand a word.  You know you understand it in a non-verbal way. So this song is called Tara.   . 