 Traveling can be scary depending on where youre going. It can also be fun. NPRs Frank Langfitt just met a couple of guys for whom its both. They are extreme travelers and their goal to see as much of the world as possible. Frank found them in Khartoum the capitol of Sudan. Mr.  My name is Bob Bonifas or Robert and Im from near Chicago -Aurora Illinois. And Don Parrish my friend were on this tour for MostTraveledPeople.com. Its a website. Its got 872 possible destinations in the world. And Im number five Don is number six in the world.  Im strolling around a museum with Bob and Don in Khartoum. Its a hot dusty city that doesnt get many tourists. But these two globetrotters have come to see the sights and tick one more place off their lists. Theyre among more than 9000 members on the extreme travel website. To advance members must prove theyve been someplace using everything from visas to ticket stubs. Bob is keeping a close tally. Mr.  I have visited 724 of those destinations. I have got 148 to go. And Don is about four behind me.  The drive to see the world takes them to some menacing places. Mr.  We had to go to Mogadishu. And of course Mogadishu is one of the worst places in the world. Mr.  They land the plane and they face it out towards the runway in case if something really happens they can get in the plane and go.  Bob stood under the plane's wing while his passport was stamped inside. Mr.  It is a quite nice building it looks from a distance but it is dangerous enough you do not even go into the terminal.  Part of the appeal of extreme travel is the sense of discovery. Don has seen so many obscure places he tends to start conversations with sentences like this... Mr.  When you visit Ashkhabad it is one of those great surprises. It is just filled with lots of interesting architecture a lot of beautiful domes a lot of golden domes.  Where is Ashkhabad? Mr.  It is the capital of Turkmenistan which is one of the five -stans the well-known -stans of Central Asia.  Don became interested in travel as a kid. Mr. PARRISH started collecting stamps when I was like six. Later I read Richard Halliburton's Book of Marvels and this man goes all over the world and he has all these adventures. He climbs the pyramids. He swims through the Suez Canal. So this really captured my imagination.  He is retired from a job with Lucent Technologies and travels as much as he can. Mr.  The last four and a half years I have traveled at least six months a year and sometimes more.  How much does this kind of an avocation run annually? Mr.  Just about every other hobby is less expensive.  Mr.  No I mean to give you an example let us say on one trip I counted we had 73 flights.  Now how much will this trip cost roughly? Mr.  Probably 35000.  Don who counts five passengers on the Mayflower among his ancestors says he managed to afford the trips in part because he has no children. Bob owns a burglar alarm company and is independently wealthy. They have traveled so many places together they struggle to recall how they first met. Mr.  We met on a tour. I do not know was it of Africa or Central Asia? Mr.  No I think it was the first Iraq tour was not it? Mr.  Oh was that the first? Okay.  Given the blistering pace of their trips you have to wonder - what do they learn? Mr.  You learn how the world works. You can see for example why some countries are rich and some countries are poor.  And what is the reason for that? Mr.  Societies that allow people to develop to their full potential are rich and those that put impediments in the way of doing that are poor.  Bob says he is also learned to appreciate something else. No matter how much he may criticize the U.S. government he says he prefers it to any government in one of the 187 other countries he is visited. Frank Langfitt NPR News. 