 The gravelly-voiced Tom Waits has made a career singing about characters who were down on their luck. His new album Bad As Me continues that tradition. And according to our critic Will Hermes it is especially resonant given the current state of the nation.  Tom Waits generally sings like a psychotic carnival barker or a drunken lounge crooner and I mean that as a compliment.   It is not everyone's cup of tea that voice. Pushed to extreme like the characters in his songs his voice is an exaggeration full of truth. A blues singer like Screamin' Jay Hawkins or Howlin' Wolf or Radiohead's Thom Yorke. And the songs on Bad As Me sound truer than ever to me partly because Waits' songwriting and arranging are still extremely potent and partly because his thematic desperation fits this particular moment in history like a ragged glove.   Tom Waits has a line in one song about bailing out millionaires and plenty of lyrics about money and jobs and the lack thereof. But his music draws on the sweep of American history early rock and roll old Mexican ballads Vaudeville-era pop. And you realize that these themes are depressingly eternal. Waits also sings about the power of love about Eisenhower and Elvis and Wolf Man Jack about unlucky bodies piled up at the morgue. And on a chilling song called Hell Broke Luce about a damaged soldier furiously trying to comprehend all he is lost and the reasons why.   At this point Tom Wait seems to be like Woody Allen so respected by his peers that the best of the best come out for his projects. That was Keith Richards of the Stones on that last song along with Marc Ribot an old Waits crony who might at this moment be America's greatest session guitarist. But Waits is also an auteur like Allen and all the players ultimately serve his vision. Here Waits is an old pro singing slightly freakish songs which after a couple of listens reveal themselves as not so freakish at all just very human.   Our reviewer is Will Hermes. The new album from Tom Waits is called Bad As Me and you can listen to it at NPRmusic.org.  