 Last month Zimbabwe's information minister tweeted what he called a triple challenge. He wrote we have workers without work we have lost the sense of labor value and we lack a strategy to create wealth. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton explored that bleak assessment through the eyes of a secondhand clothing vendor.  I am in the area of downtown Harare that is known as Copacabana and people are eking out a living literally on the sidewalks. They are selling everything you can imagine from piles of tomatoes to sugarcane to used clothes and shoes which are laid out on the sidewalks. Zimbabweans sigh. They lament that life is tough and everything is expensive in their U.S.-dollar economy. Fortunate Nyakupinda's livelihood fills and covers her parked hatchback. She sells used clothing from the car. And the first thing that strikes you is her big smile and a big laugh.  . I am earning a living. A little bit yes. We get profit - a little bit profit yeah so I can pay my rent. I can even buy food for my kids and I can even pay 5 for fuel to juice my car.  Nyakupinda a 30-year-old mother of two is clearly a born businesswoman.  No no no no talk to my customer this one this one big - a big man.  I am a 34.  Thirty-four yeah.  Next definitely I will buy from you. You will remember me I guess.  Oh I will not forget. This one - these plain shirts. Those ones - they go to church they need their plain clothes. Yeah and these checked - checked is for the farmers. And those ones they go to work they need the checked ones yes. Everyone every man can come and buy so it is - you can see stylish designs. Even - you can see this one. This one's an African attire.  It is a way to earn money with high unemployment and a stuttering economy says Nyakupinda. She specializes in men's clothes because she says women are too fussy and always haggle over prices.  They like clothes but they are stingy. . They are stingy.  So you are saying the women are stingy with their money?  Yes yes yes yes. They complain too much.   Fortunate Nyakupinda buys her used clothes by the bale from dealers in neighboring Mozambique for about 250 per bale. New clothes are pricey and many Zimbabweans cannot afford them in a country that used to produce quality cotton.  We find that if we sell these clothes at a very cheap price these people they will come and buy. It is affordable and they are cheap.  Zimbabwe jettisoned its own currency after the economic crash in the past decade. Today the country relies on the U.S. dollar. Nyakupinda says life is expensive and money for a family just disappears.  Every day you need 20 every day so that you can survive in Zimbabwe. If you do not have 20 - like you need bread. You need sugar for the tea. You need mealie meal so it is hard.  So says Nyakupinda her focus is firmly on selling and trying to boost your business.  I am doing good business but it is now very tough. Yeah I am proud of myself.  As we are chatting business is brisk. Mutonodza has come back to Nyakupinda's car trunk-store to change a pair of trousers she bought for her husband that do not fit.  Good trousers good shears and good qualities.  So are you a satisfied customer?  Yeah very satisfied.  Eyes twinkling Fortunate Nyakupinda smiles broadly as she listens to another satisfied customer. Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Harare. 