 One race that could determine which party will control the Senate next year is in Arkansas. The midterm there is on its way to becoming the most expensive race in the state's history. Democrat Mark Pryor is hoping to win the third term on his reputation as a down the middle guy. But since President Obama took off his Arkansas has grown even more Republican. NPR's Ailsa Chang traveled to Arkansas and has this profile of Senator Pryor.  The operating principle in Arkansas politics is that everything is personal. People here expect their politicians to work to get their vote to show up in their hometowns their festivals and their football games. And that is why Democratic senator Mark Pryor is not going to let the first home game of the season for the University of Arkansas Razorbacks go to waste.  Hey guys.  How are you sir?  Good to see you. M.  Yeah likewise. M.  Hey guys - Mark Pryor. Nice to meet you.  Good luck with it. M.  Thank you. I appreciate you all's vote this fall.  Pryor is fighting for survival in a state that is turned a lot redder since his last race. And while he is up against a fiercely conservative House Republican named Tom Cotton Pryor is still selling himself as he always has - the choice for the happy middle. The moderate who embraces bipartisanship. Arkansas has had a tradition of electing Centrists but the question now is are those days over? Lance Johnson thinks so. He is from nearby Springdale and is in the construction business.  He is a real middle of the road do not make waves do not do anything Senator.  What is wrong with being down the middle?  Well there is nothing wrong with being down the middle if you stand for something. I have met with Mark Pryor five or six times in 12 years. I do not know what he stands for.  So I asked Pryor - what does being a moderate stand for? M.  Well I think the most important thing a senator can do is listen. And when you listen to people you take their ideas their views into consideration. And I do not know if that makes me a moderate or not but it makes me a bridge-builder and someone who is trying to bring people together.  And that is led to a record Republicans are trying to connect to a deeply unpopular president. But Pryor's positions there are mixed. He backed Obama on the economic stimulus package and the health care law but he rejected measures to tighten gun control. His family and closest friends say walking that middle line listening to every viewpoint is a reflection of his fundamental personality. His father David who held Pryor's Senate seat for 18 years remembers how his son struggled to work a crowded room.  Especially when he started out in politics. He might be in a fundraiser and there might be 300 people in the room and one person would start asking him questions. He would stay there for 45 minutes answering questions you know with 299 people just hanging out and waiting to shake his hand.  His son is soft-spoken and does not make waves in or out of politics. Friends say Pryor's never even had a beer and all of the radio stations in his car are preset to gospel stations. His childhood friend Ford Overton calls him the perpetual peacemaker.  Whether it is a pickup game of trying to figure out who the five are going to be on the game and you might get a couple of them arguing about - no no no - Mark will try to steer it to where everybody's good.  Yet while Republicans insist Pryor's center-seeking shows lack of conviction many voters say they are turned off by the unwavering conservatism of his opponent Tom Cotton even on such issues as the Farm Bill. Dow Brantley runs a 10000 acre farm in the small town of England. As a combine chops down corn stalks a brown haze swirls around.  As he is pulling it down these leaves are dead. They just crumple up.  I am in a cloud of cornhusk?  . That is correct yup that is right.  . Cotton voted against the Farm Bill this year because he said the cuts were not deep enough. That seemed tone deaf to farmers like Brantley who depend heavily on the bill's subsidies. So he says Pryor's going to get his vote but he knows a lot of people who will never forgive Pryor for supporting Obamacare.  For that reason alone I think quite a few of my farmer friends are going to vote for Tom Cotton.  And that is how it goes for Pryor. In two months he will find out whether walking the middle these last 12 years has earned him more fans than critics. Ailsa Chang. NPR News Fayetteville Arkansas. 