 It is early days but so far so good for the NHL in the pandemic. Hockey players returned to the ice on Saturday. Twenty-four teams are hunkering down in two separate bubbles - one in Edmonton and the other in Toronto. And after more than 7000 COVID tests given the league says there have been no positive cases. Earlier I talked to NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman about the state of play and he first took us back to the start of hockey's shutdown.  We were about 89 through the regular season anticipating two months of playoff action when COVID-19 caused us and all sports to take a pause.  And from what I understand you kind of took over a couple of hotels and built fences around them and set up like basketball courts and like little cities almost.  Yes. We have created literally bubbles that included not just housing and dining - I mean each bubble I think has somewhere between eight and 10 restaurants - was in close proximity to the arena and we made sure there was plenty of outdoor space as well. And the feedback that we have gotten is a - everybody in the bubble has felt very good about how it is been set up. And actually a couple of players have been quoted as saying that this is the safest they have felt since the middle of March.  Is there anything unique about hockey that makes it either more challenging or less challenging to prevent an outbreak? I mean I am thinking of just all the gear that the players wear on ice possibly helping.  Well there is physical contact. But if you go through the phases of what we did starting in March first we had our players go home and isolate. Then phase two was we opened training facilities for small groups. Phase three was training camp with the training camps in the home cities of where our clubs play but we started testing regularly. The last full week of training camp I think we did 2500 tests and there were no player positives. So the belief was once we got to the bubble we would hope - and again there is nothing that is risk-free in this environment the COVID-19 environment - we believed that we would have as good a chance as possible of keeping everybody safe and healthy.  So how will playing right now potentially affect next year's season? Are you even thinking about next year's season?  We have to think about everything and that is been one of our mantras from the middle of March and making sure...  Your mantra is think about everything? .  To think about everything. And - but that was only the first part of the mantra. The second part is we have got to be agile enough to react to anything that might happen. We will finish the 2019-2020 season in early October which would have typically been when we started next season. But the calendar is now shifted. I could see us starting next season - and we are anticipating playing a full season - in late November December. We have learned part of that mantra to be as flexible as possible. So we will take some time off after we finish the playoffs crown the Stanley Cup champion and then we will start up again - November December - in that timeframe.  So are you planning to go up to Canada to watch the games in person or are you watching them from home?  Well actually right now as we are speaking I am watching a game between the New York Islanders and the Florida Panthers.  Really?  Yeah. I have it on in the background.  .  But yes at some point I will be up there. But I am not essential to what is going on right now and there are other things that need to be attended to that are not conducive to me being up there. And I am going to have to figure out how to deal with the quarantines like everybody else who is crossing the border.  How is the game going by the way?  It was 1-1 after two periods. And they are now in the second intermission. So you can see I can multitask.   Well thank you so much for joining us. This was such a pleasure.  Thank you. Thanks for having me. Be well and be safe.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman. That game by the way the Panthers beat the Islanders 3 to 2. 