 It is time now for your letters. On yesterday's program we brought you a remembrance of Washington D.C. educator Brian Betts. Mr.  Every child has a button every child has a switch and it is our job as educators to find it.  Brian Betts was the principal of Shaw Garnet-Patterson Middle School. He was deeply committed to helping improve one of the country's toughest urban school systems. Last week he was murdered at his home in suburban Washington. Well our remembrance moved many of you. Robin Hill of Farragut Tennessee writes Mr. Betts seemed to be a teacher principal friend and a fellow that I would like to have known. He was a patriot doing the job of teaching and inspiring students in an exemplary way. The loss of Mr. Betts is a loss for us all. And the piece struck a personal note with Eric Olson of Edwards Colorado. He writes As someone who will tomorrow hand in an application to be an assistant principal at a middle school I can only hope to carry on his inspired mission. Thank you for airing the story. Yesterday we also heard about the legacy of Fred Harvey the entrepreneur whose restaurants and hotels transformed the American service industry in the late 19th century. I talked with biographer Stephen Fried. Lila Wilhelm of Denver Colorado writes this My father is related to Fred Harvey so I have heard stories about the Harvey girls and the hotels restaurants but I still learned new information from this piece. Just wanted to let you know how much I enjoyed it. But Sandy Hague of Carefree Arizona thinks we skipped over a key piece of the Fred Harvey empire. She says this I loved the story but did not hear a word about the designer of the lovely Harvey House stops in the southwest particularly my state Arizona. She was Mary Colter and her designs beautifully reflected the southwest and Indian style. Well we should note that Stephen Fried's book does devote a lot of attention to Mary Colter. Please keep those letters coming. Go to NPR.org and click on Contact Us at the bottom of the page.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 