 Ellesmere Island in the far north Canadian territory of Nunavut is a frigid place - home to glaciers walrus polar bears. But Canadian scientists have now discovered that 3.5 million years ago that island in the high arctic was also home to giant camels. One-humped camels that were 9-feet tall and weighed almost 2000 pounds. Paleobiologist Natalia Rybczynski of the Canadian Museum of Nature found the camel's bone fragments. And she joins me now from Ottawa. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Melissa.  You know when we think about camels we are of course thinking about deserts and really hot climates and sand. How were they adapted to living way up in the Canadian Arctic?  Yeah so a lot of the traits that we see in camels today we think is suited for a very arid desert-like environment actually would do quite well in a boreal forest environment. So boreal forest I am talking about the northernmost forests that we see in Europe in North America so getting into the tree line. And in these areas you would have very harsh winters and with snow subfreezing temperatures. And so traits like wide flat feet that would work so well on sand would also work very well on snow. In addition when you look at the hump of the camel we think of this as great for getting across deserts to provide fuel and energy for that. But it is also very useful for an animal that is having to survive a long cold dark winter.  Was this a huge surprise when you realized what you had up there a camel?  Yeah. Absolutely it was a huge surprise because this is the first evidence we have of camels associated with a boreal type forest. Previously the fossil record has suggested that camels are associated with the Savannah type environment in North America mind you but a very open type environment. And of course today it is in semi arid and arid conditions. So finding them associated with a boreal type forest is completely new.  Now you first found these pieces of bones back in 2006. Did you know right away what you were looking at?  So initially I was not even sure that it was bone. I thought it might be wood because it was such a buggy season. I had to wear a bug net so it is a little bit hard to see. But on closer inspection it was clear it was a piece of bone.  What are the bigger lessons from this find the bigger picture that you think this helps explain?  Yeah so I think there is two things that are really important here. One is that it is showing how Earth history and changes in the arctic have patterned modern biodiversity. I mean I think it is really fascinating to think that the camels we see today with their specializations can actually be traced back to an animal thousands and thousands of kilometers away in a completely different environmental context. And in addition I think the times that the camel was living is also of interest because at that time it was the mid-Plaecene warm period so the dating shows that this animal lived at a time of global warming. And this is really important because we are interested in global warming right now evidently. And what the fossil evidence is showing is that the high arctic was actually much warmer than what the climate models are predicting. So the context the environment that the camel was living in was also of great interest.  So something was going on at that time that may be relevant to what we are experiencing now?  Yeah exactly. So based on previous work what we were able to show is that in the high arctic the climate was 14 to 22 degrees Celsius warmer than it is today. And this is really significant because at that time the global temperature is estimated to have been two to three degrees warmer than today. And of course that two to three degrees is of great interest to us because looking forward for the next hundred years it is been suggested that that might be where we are headed. So we really should get to know how high latitudes respond to global warming. And so the data that we are getting from the camel site and other sites are really important for ground-truthing our climate models. If we can hind caste properly we have got a shot at forecasting.  Ground-truthing?  Yeah. So the idea being that we have - there is climate models that predict what we should expect to see in terms of temperature but in the fossil record we can use things like tree rings and isotopes and various techniques to actually estimate what the actual air temperature was at that time. And so that can help validate models.  Natalia Rybczynski of the Canadian Museum of Nature. We were talking about the discovery of a giant camel in the Canadian high arctic 3.5 million years old. Natalia thank you so much.  Thank you. 