 In Pakistan a large protest march against the government was called off today. This after a dramatic reversal by the Pakistani leadership which made big concessions to the opposition. Key among them was the reinstatement of the former chief justice of the Pakistani Supreme Court Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry. He was removed from his post in 2007 by then President Pervez Musharraf which led to massive protests led by lawyers. The current president Asif Ali Zardari had refused to reinstate Chaudhry but he reversed course after a weekend of protests. I am joined now by Adil Najam a professor of international relations at Boston University. Welcome to the program. Dr.  Thank you.  And professor there have been worries of this protest. If it happened today could have led  to bloody confrontations with the authorities then this dramatic turnaround by the president. How do you explain his reversal? Dr.  I think what the - what happened here was that the government and particularly the President Asif Ali Zardari found themselves increasingly isolated. Isolated not only by the opposition which is the least important in the story but isolated by the people and isolated within their own party. Some of their own leaders were jumping ship and they found that they really did not have too many options out. Then in Lahore the provincial capital the police started refusing to act against the protesters. So things were really heating up for the government and the government had something to do about it. Very briefly also there has been a difference of opinion between the president and the prime minister. The prime minister had always wanted the judges to be restored or was more leaning towards that. And all of that collected in this decision.  Mm hmm. And do you think in the end this leaves President Zardari who is only been in power for less than a year does it leave him substantially weakened? Dr.  He - it leaves him very very weakened. It not only leaves him weakened it leaves him wounded. I think today has been a very very good day for Pakistan a country that has not seen very many good days. But tomorrow is going to be another day and the instability of the government is going to increase because of this not decrease. However the alternative had this not happened the instability would have been even more.  And what about the opposition movement? I mean does this satisfy their demands or will there be further demands to come? Dr.  I think there are further demands to come but the important distinction is this was not the opposition's movement - the opposition here meaning Nawaz Sharif tagged onto it leashed onto this movement but this was never really his movement. This was a movement that actually goes back two years to General Musharraf. General Musharraf is the one who had removed this particular chief justice. This was a truly grass root truly civil society truly democratic movement of the liberal educated progressive forces in the country. And what the opposition found was that it was not that they were leading the movement they were actually following that movement. And therefore part of the tension that is going to be seen now is is the opposition going to try to sort of latch onto this victory or is it going to remain a victory of civil society at large.  Yeah. And you mentioned the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif who had been exiled returned to Pakistan. He told supporters this weekend from here God willing the fate of this nation will change. From here a revolution will come. What kind of revolution do you think he is talking about there? Dr.  I think he is to - I think he is right. Revolution may come. It may not be a revolution he likes because remember that when he was prime minister he also removed judges. So this is an old tradition in Pakistan. But it really is a revolution. For two years now - this started in March of 2007 - for two years now people in Pakistan led by the lawyers but ordinary people have been running a movement that is peaceful that is democratic that is asking for the restoration of justice and institutions. For two years under very very difficult circumstances they have been beaten up they have been put into jails. People have disappeared and yet they have been persistent for two years. I think the revolution has happened. I would argue that had this happened anywhere else we would have been giving it a color you know it would be the Orange Revolution or the Green Revolution or the Velvet Revolution. But it is a movement that started against General Musharraf. It was highly influential in the removal of General Musharraf. Now it is highly influential in the reinstatement of the chief justice and it is not going to be Nawaz Sharif's movement or Asif Zardari's movement. In some ways it is amongst the very very very few good things happening in Pakistan.  The revolution in search of the title. Professor Najam thanks very much. Dr.  thank you.  Adil Najam is Professor of International Relations at Boston University. He also writes the blog All Things Pakistan at pakistania.com. 