 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Support for same-sex marriage has come from what seems an unlikely corner - the NFL. Two NFL players have been vocal in urging support for same-sex marriage in ballot initiatives this fall. Well that position - from linebacker Brendon Ayanbadejo of the Baltimore Ravens - drew the ire of a Maryland delegate Emmett Burns who urged the Ravens to silence their player. That in turn outraged another player - Chris Kluwe punter for the Minnesota Vikings. He wrote a long and profan open letter that went viral. In it Kluwe slammed the politician for what he called his vitriolic hatred and bigotry. We asked the two players - Kluwe and Ayanbadejo - to talk about their support for same-sex marriage and about NFL culture.  How is it going Brendon?  What is up bud? How you doing?  I started by asking what the reaction has been from their teammates and coaches. First Chris Kluwe.  It is been very supportive. You know they really appreciate the fact that you know I feel like I am able to speak out. And they have made it clear that you know they support my right to free speech and my right to be able to go out there and take a stand on an issue.  None of them disagree with you? None of them came up and said I am not quite comfortable with how public you are being about this?  Well you know there was - obviously - some concerns about it being a distraction to the team. But at the end of the day that is going to be judged by my performance on the field. And football's a business. If you do not perform they will cut you. And it is one of the risks that you have to take.  Brendon what kind of reaction are you hearing from your teammates and coaches?  Well to supersede my teammates the president - Dick Cass - and the owner - Steve Bisciotti - they told me just to keep doing what I am doing. Our team does not believe in discrimination. And then I would speak to my teammates and some of them you know they did not mind at all. And they said hey if two people love each other and they want to be married they should be granted the same rights as a heterosexual couple. And then other teammates they feel that a marriage is between a man and a woman. But they feel like if a same-sex couple wants to have a civil union then they agree with that just 'ecause you know they have some differences when it comes to religion and whatnot. But they did not want the law to dictate that. So I have had some encouraging conversations with my teammates and with people in the building. I am so glad it is come to light and so many people are supporting it - because you go back 24 months 12 months and it was a completely different feel and people were not so supportive. And I would hear some snickering and some comments. And so I am glad that in our football community we are changing. A sport that is known as a macho sport known for you know for making gay slurs and whatnot I am glad to see a changing of the guard and people starting to broaden their horizons and accept equality really.  Chris what about with the Vikings?  Yeah I have seen the same thing. When I came in the league in 2005 you know a lot of guys on the team that were veterans were guys that were raised kind of more in the '90s - mid-'90s late '80s. And you could tell their attitudes were a little more that kind of time frame. Whereas now guys are happy to let people live their own lives to let people - to be free you know free from oppression.  Chris you mentioned something earlier which is that there is - there was concern that this would be a distraction from the team. There is an expectation in professional sports to not make headlines to keep away from politics. You know your focus should be on the game and anything else really is a distraction for you and the team which has a whole lot of money invested. What do you think about that? And does that affect you in any way?  Well I think it is part of the nature of the business. The NFL is a business first and foremost. They are in it to make money. And as players our jobs are to go out on the field and play to the best of our ability. Now that being said we also have a very unique social platform in that we can reach a lot of people that normally you know this message might not reach. And I think if you know you are willing to take the risk that OK if you think you can deal with the distractions while maintaining the level of your play then - you know - for me personally it is worth it.  Brendon what about that question of whether you know becoming outspoken on a social issue - and a divisive social issue for many people - could be a distraction for the team or you as a player?  Yeah well I do not think it is a distraction. And I do not know how the team views it. I know that the team allows us to do many different types of philanthropical things and help the community. And players do it in many different ways whether they are going to schools and talking at schools or they are feeding people or doing different things to help society. I believe this is no different than that.  It is interesting 'ecause we are talking about - what you are describing is a cultural shift within the NFL. But there are no openly gay active NFL players. There are players who have come out as gay after they have retired. What do you think it would take for a gay player in the NFL to come out?  I think it just takes - it would just need to take more of us speaking out about the issue and showing that you know it is OK to come out. It is OK to be who you are because in the locker room you know we will have your back.  Brendon what do you think?  Yeah. I mean I believe it is going to take the right city the right organization and the right timing. That is why we are so adamant about this in speaking out so we can help whoever the next young person is that comes out so they can not only you know excel in what they are doing at work but also excel as an individual. And in turn they are going to make us a better place to live - and enhance everything.  Do you think realistically that we are at a point where teammates coaches fans would accept a gay NFL player?  I think so. I spoke to Dick Cass the president from the Ravens about this issue and you know right now what do we expect of our players? We expect you to be a good person we expect you to be a good player we expect you to get your job done. If you can get your job done and you are also a great player the type of person that is wanted in the organization then you are only going to enhance the organization. It does not matter what your sexual orientation is.  I do not know Chris. I have been reading some responses to your blog posts. And there is a lot of anger and disagreement out there...   Well those people are certainly...  ...to put it mildly.  They are certainly not coming on Twitter to say it because out of - I would say I probably got like 5- or 6000 replies to the letter I wrote. And I counted maybe seven angry responses. And I think it is one of those things where people they are going to say stuff on the Internet that they are not necessarily going to say in real life. And it will be tough at first for a guy to come out - you know just like it was tough for Jackie Robinson to be the first black player in baseball. I mean it was tough for Kenny Washington to be one of the first black football players. And it is unfortunate that people feel that way but if we make a stand if we make our voices heard then you know we make it that much easier for whoever who decided to take that next step.  Chris you are 30 - I believe. Right?  Yes that is correct.  And Brendon  you are 36?  Yeah. Chris is still wet behind the ears.   Yeah. You are ancient for football.  Oh my goodness I have so many gray hairs.   Well I am asking because I was wondering whether as older players in the league you have some standing you may be more comfortable to take the positions you have taken than a really young player might.  Yeah. I think you know being players that have had success in multiple years in the league does make it a bit easier because you know we have had some of those years where we have got money saved up. But at the same time I would like to think of us as kind of the veteran guys that when young guys come in you know they look at us and they are like OK - you know that is OK. These guys are talking about it. These guys are supporting it you know. We are OK with it - and just make the league a better place than when we came in.  Brendon?  Yeah. I mean we are just - we are trying to change the whole attitude that is in the locker room and I think we have done it. One of the biggest you know compliments that I get - I kind of do not like it but it is also a compliment - is oh you all would not expect a football player to be talking about marriage equality. But why not? We are no different than anybody else. We laugh we cry we have emotions. Just because we play football - it does not mean that we are these - you know - quote-unquote macho guys or whatever. I mean we want everyone to be treated equally within our organizations and within our sport and we are trying to get that done. And I think Chris has done a great job of just showing exactly what type of people we are. We are more than just football players.  Chris Kluwe and Brendon Ayanbadejo thank you so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having us.  Yeah thank you for having us.  That is Chris Kluweof the Minnesota Vikings and Brendon Ayanbadejo of the Baltimore Ravens.   You are listening to ALL PR News. 