 The Pentagon says it is executing the largest airlift in U.S. history as tens of thousands of Afghans flee their country's new Taliban rulers. Many are waiting to travel to the United States at the U.S. Air Base in Ramstein Germany. NPR's Rob Schmitz reports.  This hangar which can snugly fit some of the largest planes in the world was not meant to house people but it is today. Its nine stories tall ceiling looms above a series of rectangular enclosures constructed of 10-foot-tall wire fencing separating groups of Afghans dressed in colorful robes and tunics who are allowed to leave these massive cages when it is time for their flight to America.   A woman in a black hijab cradles her newborn. He is wrapped tightly in a linen cloth on the hangar's cold floor. The infant's name is Mustafa and his short life has been hectic. Two weeks ago he was born in a village outside Kabul. The next day his family whisked him to the frenzied gates of the Kabul airport where they slept outside for four days packed among throngs of others desperate to flee the Taliban. When he was five days old little Mustafa was rushed through the gates and carried onto an aircraft ending up here at Ramstein Air Base. Now he is waiting for a flight that in a few hours will take him to his new home America.   .  I planned to build a life for my son and his siblings in America says Mustafa's mother Worahmeena who only gives her first name for fear of reprisals by the Taliban on family back home. My husband worked with the Afghan army and we were in too much danger to stay in Afghanistan. There are nearly 15000 others here who left for the same reasons. Their first stop after they arrive is here a series of medical screening tents. Lieutenant Colonel Simon Alexander Ritchie is one of the first officers they meet. He says there have been so many evacuees arriving from Kabul that a few days ago his team ran out of space.  So we built the festival tent over to the side which holds about 1200 people. We ran out of space there built a fifth space out that held in about another 2000. So at one time one point in time here we had 7000 travelers approximately that were in this holding stage.  He says among the thousands who have come through here six babies have been born one of them on the plane ride over. The newborn girl's parents named her Reach after the call sign of the C-17 aircraft that flew them out of Kabul. Ritchie says he is never been a part of something this big.  You know I have been in the Air Force for a while and done you know hopefully some good things but nothing to this scale or magnitude.   Back at the departure hangar a bus carrying Afghan families leaves for an awaiting Delta Airlines aircraft that will take them to Dulles Airport in Virginia. Children hang out of the window smiling and waving goodbye to those who wait. Among them is Jamila who only gives her first name for fear of Taliban retaliation on her family back home.  .  She says at the Kabul airport Taliban guards tore up her family's documents and shot bullets over their heads but that they persisted and pushed through the checkpoint onto a plane. She says the Taliban beat up and arrested her husband and brother-in-law both who worked for the former government. She says she does not know what is happened to them and that she is worried sick. I ask her if she is scared and moving to America a place she is only heard about.  .  She says no. She says she is fought hard to get here. She is interested. And she is motivated to learn and to provide safe and normal lives for her children. And if someone has motivation she says they can do anything. Rob Schmitz NPR News Ramstein Air Base Germany. 