 Niccolo Machiavelli was a political philosopher whose keen insights into the human mind are on display in The Prince. It is a guide to seizing political power with tactics so ruthless that Machiavelli's name has become synonymous with unscrupulous leadership. Leonardo da Vinci was a genius and an artist whose inventions and studies in anatomy paved the way for modern engineering and medicine. The two men make an unlikely team of detectives on the trail of a serial killer in the new historical thriller The Malice of Fortune. NPR's Lynn Neary has the story behind the book.  About 12 years ago writer Michael Ennis had an idea for a book a mystery featuring Niccolo Machiavelli as a detective.  And the conceit was well he would use the precepts of The Prince to solve a crime.  Ennis wanted his work of fiction to be set against of backdrop of real events and historic figures. It takes place at the end of 1502 in a politically fractured Italy. The Borgias and a group of wealthy noblemen with their own private militias are in a struggle for control of the country. While researching these events Ennis discovered that Machiavelli and Leonardo da Vinci crossed paths in the same small Italian city at the same time these events were taking place.  And of course once you know here's this guy who famously dissected corpses I went oh he could be a Renaissance forensic pathologist.  With da Vinci's forensics expertise and Machiavelli's talents as a profiler Ennis now had a crime fighting team with a contemporary edge a kind of Renaissance CSI. But he still needed a crime.  Both met someone there who I believe I can establish was what we would describe today as a psychopathic serial killer.  Of course Ennis cannot say who that is without giving away whodunit but he can say this about the guy...  He was very fond of killing people routinely when he did not need to and he liked to make a game out of it. It often involved mutilation it often involved symbolic mutilation.  Just to make things a little more interesting Ennis added some romance to the drama in the character of the beautiful courtesan Damiata who would steal Machiavelli's heart.  I opened my eyes the next morning to find Damiata still sleeping beside me. I studied every detail of her face the down at her temple the few times freckles and moles that flawed the perfection of her skin the delicate scrolling of her moist upper lip. My new life had already begun.  Ennis thought he had a winner. But when he tried to get the book published no luck. His agent sent the book around once no takers. He made some changes and sent it out again. Still no interest. Finally with the help of an editor Ennis made drastic cuts in the book.  We would taken two bites at the apple. Now we had a manuscript that was half the length of the manuscript we would originally submitted but we are coming back for the third bite of the apple. Who is going to listen to us?  At this point Ennis' agent came up with an idea. They would self-publish the book and send out about 50 copies to independent booksellers to gauge their reaction. Holland Saltsman of Pudd'nhead Books just outside St. Louis was one of the first to get a copy.  For me I am going to try and get it in the hands of everyone I possibly can simply because I think it is such a beautiful story.  Saltsman was not alone. More than 20 booksellers wrote back praising the novel. Armed with their comments Ennis and his agent submitted the novel again and this time Doubleday bought it reportedly for six figures. Saltsman says she was fascinated by the Renaissance Italian world that Ennis brought to life.  The way that it talks about what the mission of man is or the motivation of man the whole book's theme also talks about fortune or what is your fate. Those two tied in with sort of the just the absolute power that people were trying to attain at the time that you start to see is the groundwork for The Prince was something really new to me and then caused me to go pick up The Prince.  Saltsman says she now has a completely different idea about who Machiavelli was. And that is exactly what Ennis is hoping for. Because he says if you read everything that Machiavelli has written...  You acquire a picture of a man who is anything but Machiavellian. He is a scrupulously honest public servant he is a loyal charismatic friend he is an incurable romantic.  Not to mention a great detective. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington.  