 California's legislature has passed a bill to make farm workers eligible for overtime pay if they work more than eight hours a day or more than 40 hours a week. That is the norm for workers in many other industries. But if California's governor signs the bill into law it would be a first for farm workers in the U.S. Capital Public Radio's Julia Mitric reports from Sacramento.  Twenty five miles west of Sacramento Maria Diaz sorts green bell peppers along an outdoor conveyor belt. She and a team discard leaves and stems as quickly as they can before peppers are swept away by a mini roller coaster onto a tractor trailer.  .  She says these peppers are not for eating. They are for seed. Diaz is a single parent of three. She is one of roughly 800000 farm workers in California. And she says the overtime will be very good for her.  .  She says growers should pay overtime after eight hours. The reason this new law is important is that two-thirds of U.S. fruits and nuts and one-third of vegetables come from California. Higher labor costs could mean higher food bills no matter where you live in the country. The new rules would also mean overtime pay for farm laborers who work more than 40 hours in a week. But alfalfa farmer Jeff Merwin says his employees will end up losing money.  They are not being told the story. What they are being fed is this utopian line of - it will be great. You will get all this overtime 'ecause they will pay it. You know they will pay it. How?  Right now Merwin's employees work about 60 hours at straight time. He says he cannot afford to pay overtime. So he will just have to cut their hours back or find a way to do the same work in less time.  And I am not the Grinch here. All I am saying is again it is economics 101. If the money's not there you cannot pay it. And the money is not there.  No one has the data on exactly who works how many hours.  Philip Martin is professor emeritus of agricultural economics at the University of California Davis. He says that is the big problem with predicting how new overtime rules will affect farm workers and their employers.  So in a sense we are making policy based on assumptions which may or may not be true.  Right now Martin says California is a crazy patchwork when it comes to regulating farm labor. Farm workers are excluded from certain rights. In other cases they receive special protections. Martin says the first step in coming up with a more comprehensive solution is updating the picture of farm workers from dustbowl-era The Grapes Of Wrath to the 21st century.  It is a different story than it - than many people have in their mind from the days when most farm workers were single men who lived on the farm where they worked and lived in dorms and things like that. That still exists. But it is very rare.  If the governor signs the bill the new overtime rules would be phased in over the next six years in California. For NPR News I am Julia Mitric in Sacramento. 