 Our next guest has been chasing what he calls zombie campaigns. He is a reporter for the Tampa Bay Times. Chris O'Donnell thank you for joining us. CHRIS O' Glad to be here Ailsa.  What are zombie campaigns? O' We started looking at the spending of lawmakers who have left office and what they are doing with their leftover campaign donations and were kind of surprised to find that there was actually a hundred campaigns that are still spending unused campaign donations.  We are talking about campaigns long dead? O' Yeah campaigns where the lawmaker has - it is been at least two years since they were either in a office or campaigning. And even though they have moved on to new careers or they are retired they are still spending from their campaign accounts - in some cases home items that would almost certainly be deemed personal use.  So what are some examples you have found? O' Well Ron Paul former presidential candidate for example was still paying his daughter five years after he left office. Mark Foley a former Florida Representative - he is paying for his opera membership and to dine in the Palm Beach social circuit. And perhaps our best example was Robin Tallon a former South Carolina representative who 25 years after he left office was paying for computers paying his son a salary and reimbursing himself for - to the tune of 31000 for something that he did not - you know did not explain or detail in these reports.  This is a man whose left office in 1993. O' That is right just the same year that Bill Clinton entered the White House. And that campaign account has been open all that time while he is been working as a lobbyist.  Was Robin Tallon - if all those allegations are true was Robin Tallon breaking the law? O' Well that really depends on who you ask and that is one of the things the investigation found. It is that there is almost no laws about what happens once you leave office. Basically the reports are treated the same way. So it is almost as if the FEC is not paying attention to who is in office or campaigning and who is as we call them a zombie.  What should a responsible former politician do with any extra money after a campaign's wrapped up? I mean you know if that person is not in office or never was able to win office where should that money go ideally? O' Well they have a lot of options that are legal and I do not think anyone would have a problem with. So for example Senator - former Senator Joe Lieberman and former Representative Charlie Norwood - they both donated more than 90 percent of their leftover campaign money and they had closed their accounts in less than a year you know terminated their campaign fund.  But are they the aberration or do they represent the norm? O' I think they are the aberration. We did not find too many like that.  So what is the problem here? Is it just that the rules are too murky? Is it that the Federal Elections Commission which is responsible for regulating campaign spending - is it the problem that they are not investigating enough they are not enforcing the rules enough? What is causing the problems? O' I think you are right on both counts. The FEC rules are vague. The only rule that candidates are told is that you should not spend on something that would be a cost even if you were not in office - so something like mortgage payments or you know groceries. But there are dozens of examples of candidates who when they are in office you know they could pay for their cell phone they could pay for their internet service. They had a campaign office and when they left office they just kept paying the same bills out of the same fund. And the other issue is the FEC itself. And to give you an example they have 34 analysts that are reviewing you know these quarterly reports that candidates have to file.  OK. O' The FEC told us that those 34 analysts in 2017 reviewed more than 26 million transactions. So...  Wow. And you also found out that the FEC cannot even figure out whether a candidate is alive or dead. O' Yeah. And amazing as that sounds that is something that the FEC admitted to us. So some of our zombie campaigns are genuine zombies in that the candidate has - is deceased but their campaigns are still spending money.  Wow. O' And the FEC admitted to us that when they reviewing spending their analysts might not even know that the candidate is dead.  Chris O'Donnell is a reporter for the Tampa Bay Times. Thank you Chris. O' You are welcome. 