 Nearly a week after the presidential election the Associated Press has now declared Hillary Clinton the winner in New Hampshire. Clinton beat Donald Trump by less than 3000 votes. This news does not change the outcome of the race. Donald Trump is still president-elect. Exit polls in New Hampshire show that one of the main reasons many people voted for Trump was that they did not trust the government. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang met some Trump voters in the Granite State. HANSI LO WANG  Jude Augusta will tell you he has trust issues with the government outside of his town of Hampton Falls N.H.  The town clerk is usually a pretty good egg around here but the feds - not at all zero.  And that is why he started a Facebook group about a year ago. It is called the New Hampshire Seacoast Rebel-utionaries. Their page describes them as quote defenders of our Constitution and culture.  It says  libertarians conservatives and still-conflicted Democrats. The reason I wrote still-conflicted is because these same people that voted - my mom my dad - for JFK voted for Donald J. Trump.  And so did Augusta. The day after the election he wore a navy blue Trump flag like a cape on his morning run. Though he admits his political hero is not perfect.  He is a flawed individual. None of us would disagree with that. I would say none of us would probably disagree with he is got a copious amount of flaws. However his heart's in the right place. We do not think Obama's heart is in the right place.  Augusta says one of his main fears is a porous U.S.-Mexico border that terrorists can cross. And he does not think Obama's policies have been protecting the country. There is a similar kind of distrust amongst other Trump supporters in New Hampshire according to Andrew Smith. He is the director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center.  There is anger for the inability of the government to deliver on a lot of the promises that were made during the last couple election cycles.  Smith says the economic recovery has not touched many Trump voters especially those without college degrees. Still that is not the whole story. New Hampshire has the country's lowest unemployment rate tied with South Dakota. But its population which is about 94 percent white is aging and the fishing industry along the Seacoast has seen better days. Smith says Trump supporters have been funneling their frustration through campaign phrases like drain the swamp as anger towards the Democrats in power and Hillary Clinton. And now Smith says expectations for the Trump administration are high.  That is the problem that voters are going to have because a phrase that is as nonspecific as drain the swamp can be interpreted in many many different ways.   Here at The Clay Dragon Tattoo Studio in Seabrook N.H. draining the swamp begins with replacing Obama with Trump. How long does a Donald Trump tattoo usually take?  Usually about 45 minutes.  Bob Holmes owns this studio. So far his shops have inked 76 tattoos of Trump's face or campaign slogans on his supporters for free. Holmes is 48 and says he gave his first-ever vote to Trump. He hopes Trump will get rid of Obama's health insurance mandate cut taxes so he can open up another tattoo shop more easily and start running the federal government like a business.  Yes when you are a businessman your word is everything. You do everything you possibly can for your employees for your business. I know that because I am the same exact way. So I like the fact that he is more like me.  And not a career politician like Obama or Clinton whom Holmes says he cannot trust.  I just hate the government thinking that we are just dumb sheep and that we are just going to allow them to keep doing this expletive. And our country stood up voted Donald Trump into office because we are not that stupid.  I voted for Obama in '08 because I was stupid.  Jake Fallas is 29 and a member of New Hampshire Seacoast Rebel-utionaries.  But I thought why not have a black president? Why not have someone different because Bush disappointed me.  Now Obama's disappointed him with an economy that he is not sure how to start a family in. He says that is why he voted for Trump. But he does not expect him to carry out all of his promises. Neither does Laura Soussan. She says she will be happy if Trump can accomplish just half of his 100-day plan. All Americans she says should give him a chance.  Now the shoe's on the other foot. We did not trust the Obama administration. They do not trust the Trump administration. For every action there is an equal-opposite reaction. It is a balance. But if anybody can straighten this mess out it is him.  And he will have the next four years to make his case. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 