 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. With summer in full swing we thought we would revisit a series we brought you last year around this time Summer Nights. We took you to places around the country and around the world that spring to life when the sun goes down. Well we have got some new summer night stories for you and our first one takes us to a pond in Tennessee in the middle of the night where outdoorsmen gather to hunt frogs. They call it gigging and it is peak season. Blake Farmer of member station WPLN in Nashville has more on this Southern pastime.  A very small group of folks who like spending their summer nights right here knee deep in the nastiest pond you have seen. Pond scum lilies reeds snakes and some pretty rowdy frogs.  That is a behemoth Bick like a monster.  Yeah that is a good one there.  Bick Boyte plops a 1-pound bullfrog in his aluminum canoe still half-alive. He resumes his kneeling position perched up front on the hunt for a big bellower.  Did you hear that - wom wom wom - that is what we want.  Boyte and Tommy Peebles have been gigging Tennessee ponds together since their daddies first taught them. Boyte now owns a truck dealership. Peebles is a real estate lawyer. But in the warm moonlight they revert to their boyhoods. Peebles does the paddling.  I was coming in as fast as I could.  The more deadly half of this duo is Boyte. Instead of a paddle he wields a 12-foot bamboo cane with four barbed tines on the end his homemade frog gig. On his head Boyte wears a miner's headlamp. The light freezes the frogs.  We are looking for their eyes. And you will see that white chest on them facing you.  With the target in his sights Peebles swings the boat toward the bank. And Boyte gets his gig about 6 inches from the dazed frog before it is lights out. Actually they do not die right away usually not until it is time to clean them for cooking. The legs are the only part worth eating. And for nearly 40 years Boyte and Peebles have held a frog leg fry at the end of the summer.  I guess you could buy 'em but we have never had to do that. We have always gigged 'em.  Boyte now feels an obligation to supply his annual get-together. But he also still loves staying out all night drinking beers and catching up with old buddies.  What are you doing?  Hey buddy. What are you doing?  This evening is slightly more organized than the typical gigging expedition. It is a competition with a 00 a.m. weigh-in.  Hey we got a couple of behemoths too.  Much like fishermen giggers share tales of the one that got away or sinking their boat. Billy Alexander is still trying to dry out.  Water's coming over the side. I was like - and I cannot turn around to see what is - I can just feel the water on my knees you know.  The stories go back three and four generations for some in the South. While frogs live just about anywhere there is standing water gigging is more popular in states like Arkansas and Louisiana. It is hardly a thriving activity but there is a new generation coming up. C.J.  It is a coincidence. Our first date was frog gigging.  Twenty-year-old C.J. Adams takes his girlfriend Melissa Perinne tromping through ponds with him.  Yeah. It was us here together like today probably.  We was just sitting around bored. And I said Have you ever been frog gigging? She said no. I said Tonight is a good night to learn.  And like that frog gigging lives on. For NPR News I am Blake Farmer in Nashville. 