 Thursday night is the first round of the NFL draft. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers have the first pick and they are widely expected to choose quarterback Jameis Winston. At 6-foot-4 Winston is the perfect build for a quarterback. He led his Florida State team to 26 wins and a national title. He went on to win the Heisman. But one phrase seems to dominate every discussion about his draft chances.   And Winston - the off the field issues kind of cloud the situation.  Because the off the field issues are there.  Off the field distraction...  I understand the off the field issues.  Now the question mark for Winston we know they are going to come off the field.  Sarah Spain is a columnist at ESPNW. I asked her to explain just what those issues are.  A couple lesser incidents involving allegedly stealing crab legs from a Publix supermarket. He is since said he was given them as a gift from one of the employees. Using a BB gun to hunt squirrels - he was stopped by police and then there was later reports of a BB gun battle that evening in an apartment. He jumped up on a table in the student cafeteria and yelled an expletive involving sexual acts with women. And then the biggest one is a sexual assault case - a classmate at Florida State alleges that he sexually assaulted her several years ago. Actually never went to trial - they said there was not enough to file criminal charges. Now it has gone on to a civil trial.  How has that been playing out in the sports media?  It is certainly been covered. You cannot complain of a lack of coverage when it comes to this. A lot of times off-the-field issues are sort of swept under the rug. But this has become a big enough story that it is impossible to discuss Winston and his draft chances and where he might go and what team might select him without addressing the issue. There is really a lot of people on either side who believe that he is innocent and that he will be successful on the pro-level and then people who say that all of these incidents adding up would really be a warning sign for anyone who is looking to give 15 - 20 million guarantee to this kid right out of college.  Now it goes without saying that violence against women is not just a problem for the NFL. You Sarah wrote a column last fall suggesting people boycott the fights of Floyd Mayweather. Can you first explain why - your thinking behind that?  You know with Mayweather he is been convicted five times on domestic battery and assault. He is pled guilty and served jail time. He is currently undergoing another case involving his former fiancee. It is an endless stream of legal issues relating to violence against women over the past 15-plus years and he is really never been punished for it. Even when he served jail time the judge pushed back the start of his jail appearance in order for him to have a fight that was already scheduled. And with Mayweather it is different than a team sport. That is not to say you should not hold teams or leagues accountable for team sports as well but in the case of Floyd Mayweather everyone who purchases his fight is putting money in his pocket. He could have over 180 million payday for this fight alone.  And Sarah even just beyond the media with this I mean we talked about the NFL and there was really a sense of fans being fed up and wanting to hold you know the organization's feet to the fire more. With the case of Mayweather and boxing do you get the sense that there is - is the outrage the same?  No. And I think part of that is there is no central figure to make a villain of. Roger Goodell is the face of the NFL and his decisions have long been criticized on a variety of things. The ability to go after him and the league makes it easy for people to sort of attach an opponent to their arguments. Boxing - there is not a person that everyone knows to go to. And unfortunately people just do not care as much about holding boxing's feet to the fire on issues as they do about paying their money and watching the fight with their friends.  That is Sarah Spain. You can watch here and read her work at ESPN.com. Sarah thank you.  Yeah thanks for having me. 