 The U.S. has been fighting in Afghanistan for almost two decades and now the Trump administration says it has reached a deal with the Taliban. It is preliminary and it is meant to reduce violence in Afghanistan and pave the way for eventual peace talks and the withdrawal of U.S. troops. NPR's Michele Kelemen joins us now in the studio. Welcome back.  Hi there Audie.  What do you know so far about I guess a diplomatic opening?  Right. So this is just a first step. It is a week-long reduction in violence. Administration officials have not said exactly when that is going to start and they are careful not to call it a cease-fire. But they say this reduction of violence agreement is detailed and specific that it covers all of Afghanistan and that the U.S. military and Afghans reserve the right to self-defense during this time. It is an agreement that U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad has been working on in his talks with the Taliban in Doha Qatar. He was in Munich today and joined Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in talks with Afghanistan's president - that is on the sidelines of a security conference there.  The conversation and chatter around this has been going for such a long time. I mean what are the chances that this moment will work out?  Well what I can say is that there are a lot of spoilers in Afghanistan - ISIS al-Qaida various factions of the Taliban. One official told reporters today that 20 of Taliban forces - that could be many thousands - could splinter off and keep fighting in Afghanistan. And another problem is that U.S. officials do not really have the footprint to monitor all of this. One official said there is kind of a channel that the U.S. has with the Taliban and that Afghans are going to join that channel and that will be the place where they can discuss issues as they arise during this so-called reduction in violence.  So that is why the language is so tentative.  Yeah. I mean officials say what happens if there is calm over the next seven-day period - again we do not know when it begins - but then they will be ready to sign a deal with the Taliban. And in that deal the Taliban would have to agree to enter talks with the Afghan government and with civic leaders. That is something that they have refused to do so far. And the U.S. is going to draw down troops and that is something President Trump has been promising to do. The U.S. is planning to draw down from over 12000 to about 8600 troops. Military officials have said that is a number they can work with to train Afghans and to continue their fight against terrorist groups. A further drawdown will be based on kind of conditions on the ground.  Now what happens in the weeks and months ahead if the Taliban continues to fight or does not come to any of the agreement with Afghans on how the country should be governed?  Well that is a big question mark hanging over all of this. Officials are really reluctant so far to talk about that at the moment. The military will only say that you know this withdrawal is going to be conditions-based. Again that gives them some flexibility. And when it comes to the peace talks I mean experts I have spoken with are really worried that Afghans are not ready for this. There are a lot of big topics at stake - the country's constitution the rights of women. All these hard-won rights it is not clear whether the Taliban will accept any of that or try to roll it back. One official today said that the U.S. is hoping that Afghans will rise to the occasion and see these intra-Afghan talks as an opportunity. There are countries that are willing to host. And the U.S. is going to be there on the ground expected to at least monitor all of this. But again lots of questions and no real guarantees on how or if this war America's longest war is really going to come to an end.  That is NPR diplomatic correspondent Michele Kelemen. Michele thanks so much.  Sure thing. 