 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. This week we have been talking about dropouts and how they are doing in this tough economy. The government has a name for schools that fail to graduate more than half their students dropout factories. And they are not just a big city problem. Small rural districts also have their fair share. So we are going to South Carolina today. It has more dropout factories than any other state - 50 in all. NPR's Claudio Sanchez traveled to rural Oconee County and found that lots of teenagers there do not just think they need a high school diploma.  Oconee County South Carolina sits in the far west fringes of the state just a few miles from the Georgia border. This is where Nick Dunn was born and where his father died in a car accident one day before Christmas. Nick was 11.  When he died everything went downhill. I did not know my wrongs and rights. I did not do anything. I was lazy. That is when my anger built. I was just Mr. Bad Person. I mean I really did not care about anything. Did not do my work at all. Thought about dropping out.  Just like his older brothers and sister. They all dropped out before 10th grade. Nick 16 is the youngest in the family. When he enrolled at Seneca Middle School Nick was the kid with a hair-triggered temper - always angry ready to clobber anybody who looked at him the wrong way. Muscular built like a wrestler Nick was chronically absent. When he was not in school he was getting high. Drugs were easy to get.  I as not going to name them but I have done some. And I done some crimes and I faced a judge a couple of times. I do not really want to talk about that. But I had a lot of problems going on.  This year Nick was suspended twice for throwing a chair at another student and disrespecting teachers at Seneca High. Everybody in town seemed to hear about it says Nick. In a community this small he says people know who the bad kids are - the ones who just do not fit in at school.  I know many friends that dropped out. Some stay home do drugs. Some do not even live with their parents. Some moved out left ran away.  Oconee County school officials admit they do not know exactly how many kids simply disappear. But every year Al Leroy the principal at Seneca Middle School gets a list with the names of in-coming seventh graders with a history of truancy and bad behavior. Leroy says Nick arrived with an especially tough group.  These young men were extremely angry very disrespectful. They were absent a lot and it was hard to track them. We did not know exactly where they were.  Leroy says these kids had no interest in school. They think they will do just fine. You see says Leroy for a long time in this old railroad town dropping out of school did not keep people from finding a job in the local textile mills or in farming. These jobs were passed from one generation to the next so it was no big deal if you did not have a high school diploma.  The same argument is still pervasive in our school community Well my parents dropped out they turned out OK. Our community struggles with that a good bit.  South Carolina ranks near the bottom nationally in high school graduation rates in part because so many rural schools here have trouble hanging on to their students. In Oconee County one out of four ninth graders does not graduate. Schools superintendent Mike Lucas says it was a lot worse when schools were legally segregated not just by race but by class.  Even the white culture there was a mill culture and there was a more affluent culture. And what is different now is we have to educate every child.  If not says Lucas one of three things happens  They end up in prison. They end up on drugs or alcohol.  And they end up jobless. The unemployment rate in Oconee County is more than 10 percent. It is at least twice that for 18- to 24-year-olds. Lucas says kids are slowly realizing that without a high school diploma their chances of getting a job that pays a living wage are zilch. But even if kids want to stay in school some face huge hurdles at home. Nick did not want me to visit his home. But his mother Deborah Gilmore Dunn said you are welcome anytime.   As for Nick Mrs. Dunn says he is a good son - stubborn but good. She says his troubles in middle school had little to do with problems at home and everything to do with uncaring teachers.  Nick would come home and he would tell me he would say Momma those teachers they expect me to respect them and they do not respect me at all.  At Seneca Middle School administrators say Mrs. Dunn means well but she is like many parents who for whatever reason have not provided a stable home. Tammy Brock one of Nick's former counselors says lots of kids like Nick are living in what she calls chaotic conditions.  When I look at these children they do not have a clue what it means to be on a regular schedule at home. And that is the difficult part because they cannot see beyond this next hour much less into the future to see what is going to happen to them in the future. They are crippled by the fact that they do not have any support at home. So if we do not do it who will do it?  If kids fall through the cracks Brock says it is because rural school systems like Oconee County have only a fraction of the resources that urban and suburban schools have. And when parents do not help it is almost impossible to rescue these kids. Although in Nick's case his mother's advice does not seem to matter to him. Despite her misgivings Nick is fixated on becoming a professional mixed martial arts fighter.  You can come in my room real quick.  Oh no.  It is a mess but I do not care.  Oh come on.  During my visit to his home Nick ignores his mother's objections and shows me his room piled high with all kinds of exercise gear.  Boxing equipment wrestling equipment weight equipment bench. I mean got the whole nine yards.  Nick says if his father were alive he would approve. But even if his mom is right and the martial arts thing does not work out...  I got a plan C D E. I got welding I got masonry carpentry maybe computers.  There is nothing I cannot do says Nick with or without a high school diploma. Claudio Sanchez NPR News.  For some kids just getting to school is a major hurdle.  In communities like East Baltimore every child in your class is at risk. You do not know what they had to go through to come to school every day.  Intervening early to keep kids from dropping out that is tomorrow on MORNING EDITION.  