 Raphael Saadiq is a contemporary soul musician who makes music that sounds like it came from the Motown era.    I met this girl named Radio. Said her signal was low. She was not getting my sound. She kept the volume down. I told her to turn up the bass bass. And then she kissed me in my face face face. I told her I had a girl.  Here's Will Hermes with our review.  I have been thinking a lot lately about pop music's obsession with the past since my two favorite records of the year so far both sound like they could have been made in the late '60s. One is Helplessness Blues by Fleet Floxes a young group that sounds like it was suckled on Crosby Stills  Nash records and the other is by a dude who wears cardigans and Malcolm X-style glasses and leads off his latest record with a song that Sly and the Family Stone might have played at Woodstock.    It gets you down to your knees. Got me screaming baby come on please. You giving me a heart attack. Girl I want you back. I just cannot stand it no more. You giving me a heart attack. Girl I want you back. I just cannot take it no more. Oh no.  Listen to the ghostly Motown-style vocals on a song called Go to Hell which also uses the Mellotron.    I can see my name written across the sky. Ravens started flying. I saw tears in their eyes. There was fires in the mountains and storms in the sea. Winds in the valley rushing into me. Knock and it will open...  And then there is a song called The Answer which begins with a guitar chord progression that sounds like Radiohead then morphs into orchestral soul music that sounds like mid-'70s Stevie Wonder.    Stop saying the game is sold and not be told. Try to help the child that is only 4 years old. Why why would you sit back and relax and watch them kids fall off the tracks? How how can we sit on the sideline and watch it go down? You you need to make someone feel really proud.  Like Sly Stone and Stevie Wonder back in the day Raphael Saadiq draws from styles and sounds that came before him which can trigger remembered emotions but also create new ones. He makes records that are like comfort food but reimagined by a very creative 21st-century chef.    Listen. Fat lady shaking backbone breaking. Come on.  Our reviewer is Will Hermes. The new album from Raphael Saadiq is called Stone Rollin' and you can hear the entire album at nprmusic.org.    Come on. This girl of mine. I was just a friend but she took me in said come on. This girl of mine. Everything was right. I felt like the light said come on. 