 For millions of low-income people a program called Title X covers the cost of things like birth control and STD screenings. Under the Trump administration clinics that provide abortions or abortion referrals were banned from the program and many dropped out. Now the Biden administration is taking steps to undo that policy. NPR national correspondent Sarah McCammon is here to explain. Hey Sarah.  Hi there.  Start with the backdrop. What has been happening with the Title X program and what does the Biden administration want to change?  Yeah a little background on Title X first. It pays for things like pregnancy tests HIV tests birth control at low or no cost for patients who are mostly at or below the federal poverty level. In 2019 the Trump administration changed the rules for Title X so that any health care provider that offers abortions or abortion referrals could not be part of it. That policy is still in effect and the Biden administration wants to reverse it.  What has been the impact of the Trump years on the program on its patients?  Well there is been a big contraction in Title X. Many providers said that the rule would interfere with their ability to counsel patients about a range of options. And as a result more than 1300 clinics nationwide including most notably Planned Parenthood pulled out of Title X. That is according to the National Family Planning  Reproductive Health Association. Now I spoke to Julie Rabinovitz. She is the president of Essential Access Health a group in California that receives those Title X funds and then distributes them to providers around the state.  Many of these programs have had to reduce hours and reduce the type of services reduce the number of staff that are providing family planning services at their clinics. And it also means that many patients have to drive much further to access these services.  Some organizations in other states that have pulled out of Title X have patched through with private funds or help from state governments but they say they could not do that forever.  Now the Trump administration policy was a victory for opponents of abortion rights which makes me curious how they are reacting to this move by the Biden team to overturn it.  Well they are disappointed but not surprised. I mean this is a move that Biden has been expected to make along with other steps to reverse Trump's abortion-related restrictions. Many of these groups oppose any public funding for organizations that are involved in any way in abortion although we should say that federal funding for abortion is illegal in most cases. Carol Tobias is president of the National Right to Life Committee and she worries that women will feel pressured to choose abortion if it is made available.  The agency that is getting the Title X funding can refer for abortion and tell them - oh and by the way you know we do abortions in this same facility if you want to you know set up the appointment.  And we should note Mary Louise that family planning providers tell me they are under an ethical obligation to counsel patients about all their options and not push in any direction.  And quickly what happens next? How long might it be before providers who lost funding get it back?  There is a rulemaking process to go through all of which could take several months. And some health care providers have told me they would like to see the Biden administration move more quickly to expedite the process. But so far there is no indication of that.  That is NPR's Sarah McCammon. Thank you.  Thank you. 