 The pace of troop withdrawal from Iraq and the transfer to Iraqi control continues to be a subject of debate. At the same time the U.S. military is just as deeply involved with the reconstruction of Iraq. That drawdown could be tricky too as NPR's Quil Lawrence reports.  North of Baghdad in the desert outside the city of Baqubah is a sprawling structure that locals have begun to label The Whale. It was meant to be a new maximum security prison built by the U.S. The only thing operational on the half-mile-wide unfinished construction site is a makeshift guardhouse. Over the shack an Iraqi flag waves in a steady breeze that feels like a hair dryer. Two guards from the nearby town of Khan Bani Saad say that the Iraqi government was never asked if they wanted a prison here. Unidentified Man   The American company came to build this prison. Who are we to prevent them asks one of the guards. Iraq is desperately short of modern prisons but that is beside the point. After paying 45 million to an American company called Parsons the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers canceled the project three years ago. The facility was so poorly built that it is only fit for demolition which would cost another few million dollars. A local resident who gave his name only as Abu Muhammad says that the project shaped his opinion of Americans. Mr.  You know Americans are human beings - some of them bad some of them good.  Walking around the half-built prison Abu Muhammad says that Americans seem to have taken to the local way of doing business. Mr.  I know a captain one of the Americans. When he come here to - he was put his hand in the subcontractor like this we need money. They learned from us.   You think they learned corruption from you? Mr.  Yes. Ms. GINGER CRUZ  Well Khan Bani Saad is an example that I think serves the 40 million lesson to the U.S. government in how not to do reconstruction.  Ginger Cruz is the U.S. deputy special inspector general for Iraqi reconstruction which has been releasing audits all summer on the mixed legacy of America's 50 billion reconstruction effort in Iraq. One good example are the Commander's Emergency Relief Programs CERP for short. The money was seen as a crucial weapon in counterinsurgency which was used for everything from health clinics to paying the salaries of former insurgents who agreed to join the Sons of Iraq program which is credited with neutralizing the sectarian war in Iraq. But now the government of Iraq is paying those salaries and U.S. soldiers have pulled out of the cities beginning a slow withdrawal from Iraq. The CERP program should shrink as well says Cruz. Ms.  Should CERP continue to get 500 million in 2010 at a time when the troops are drawing down there is a goal of having only 50000 U.S. troops in Iraq by August of 2010.  This year the military actually ran out of ways to spend CERP money and returned a surplus 247 million to the Treasury. Some of the more creative ways the money was spent may be harder to transfer to Iraqi control. For example the U.S. Army built a hotel and business center near the Baghdad airport. But when they turned the business center over to the Iraqi Transportation Ministry the leather chairs and flat screen TVs were looted by ministry officials. The Army is now reluctant to hand over the hotel which actually turns a profit. Which leaves them in the hospitality business says Ginger Cruz from the Inspector General's Office. Ms.  As a result the U.S. Army continues to have a management contract with a private firm that continues to run the hotel which provides rooms at 225 a day at the Baghdad International Airport.  Cruz says that many of the CERP projects were managed responsibly and will be of great benefit to the Iraqi people. Unfortunately commanders realized during the worst of the insurgency that American-funded police stations and hospitals were becoming targets for car bombs. In response they tried to conceal signs of American funding which means Iraqis will never know many of the things the Americans did build for them. Quil Lawrence NPR News Baghdad.  Another international story we are following today Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has urged the Iranian government to provide information on three missing Americans and return them as quickly as possible. The three are said to be tourists and were arrested after allegedly entering Iran according to Iran's state-run Al-Alam television network. Clinton told reporters we want this matter brought to a resolution as soon as possible. Because the U.S. does not have diplomatic ties with Iran Secretary Clinton said she has asked Switzerland to seek information from Tehran about the missing U.S. citizens. 