 A contentious primary race a party divided - for a long time those were the kinds of things being said about the Republican presidential race. Now it is where the Democratic race stands even as Hillary Clinton is set to clinch the nomination after the next big set of primaries June 7.  We are going to turn to a person who has a unique point of view of this election - Howard Dean. He was once an insurgent Democratic presidential candidate. His supporters were so intense they were called Deaniacs. From 2005 to 2009 he led the party as chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Now he is backing Hillary Clinton. And we will hear from Bernie Sanders' campaign manager Jeff Weaver tomorrow. But earlier this afternoon I started my conversation with Howard Dean by asking about the Nevada Democratic Party convention last weekend. And I asked him to respond to Sanders' supporters who say their candidate has not been treated fairly.  Bernie Sanders has gotten about 2 million votes or a million and a half votes - less than Hillary Clinton has. By any measure of how you measure this process is not unfair. So you have got to stop with that. And I had - look I had the same issue. I was furious. I was the front-runner after about six months on the campaign trail and I had - four out of the five candidates who were running against me were actually colluding to take me down. Well that is - you know that is the way politics is. It is a tough sport. You know Al Gore was one that set me straight. I was ranting and raving. Why should I be a Democrat after the way I have been treated? And he said look this is not about you. Its about the country. And I actually think Bernie knows that in his heart of hearts. He is worked incredibly hard. He is had an amazingly successful campaign. He is not going to win and he knows it so the question is - what can he do?  My next question is about what can be done for Clinton supporters such as yourself because unlike Clinton with Barack Obama you know Senator Sanders is not a part of the party apparatus right? I mean what can you even offer him that would convince him he should step aside if he feels like he has - if he should go forward?  Well first of all I do not think he has to step aside. I think he is more than earned the right to go to the convention to give a speech about the things he thinks that are important. But I also think he is got to support the nominee and I think he will. He has said that he is not going to do anything to help Donald Trump become president of the United States. I absolutely believe that. It is consistent with him running as a Democrat. I mean he has publicly said he is not a Democrat. I am glad he chose to run as a Democrat because if he was running as an independent we would not win.  As you talked about your campaign obviously you have experience with people who think they are part of a movement. And when you look at what is going on now how does a nominee like Hillary Clinton - if she becomes the nominee - not lose these voters right? These demographics that he is won are voters that were key to the Obama coalition and key to the Obama wins.  Well I actually think you have already seen a tremendous influence of these voters on the nominee. When I ran I was the only major person who was running who was against the war. By the time I was out of the race every Democratic candidate had renounced their own position on the war - who had voted for it. So Bernie's already had the effect of pulling the noose tight around the misbehavior of Wall Street asking for real reforms demanding health care changes. That is part now of the Democratic Party fabric and that would not have happened if Bernie had not won if he had not gotten those millions of votes.  We mentioned earlier you are a backer of Hillary Clinton. And I have to admit the generosity of your language now sounds as though it is a little bit of an olive branch - not one that Sanders is extending to her. He is still using pretty tough language.  He is going to have to get through that. Or he can do this if he wants to do the tough stuff all the way to the end but if he does it could very well cost us the presidency and make Donald Trump the president. And he does not want to do that. I know - I have known this guy for 40 years. At the end of the day he is going to stand up for the working people he believes in. And he knows that working people in this country are going to be a whole lot better off under Hillary Clinton than they will under Donald Trump.  So does this - what you have seen from him - line up with his tone and approach over the years?  Eventually yes but he is a incredibly competitive human being and I have seen him lose races before. He is - it is very hard for him to do gracefully. And that is what he is struggling with right now. At the end of the day I am betting the Bernie Sanders I know is graceful but it is very hard. He is come very close to not only winning the nomination but possibly being president of the United States so I can understand the struggle he is going through.  A few months ago people assumed it was going to be the Republican convention that would be contested. Now that question's being talked about when it comes to Democrats. How surprised are you to be here?  I am not surprised. As soon as he got in I called up Hillary's folks and said you better take this guy seriously because he knows what he is doing. He is a great politician. The convention is not going to be contested. What the convention may do is turn into a test of wills. I think that is unnecessary. I can - think we can work out enough of a bunch of reasonable stuff both on process and on platform that there should not be a test of wills at the convention.  Howard Dean thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for having me on.  Howard Dean former Vermont governor former DNC chair and former presidential candidate. 