 By now cybercrime is a routine danger. But as ordinary as it seems it is still really bad for businesses. A company can lose thousands even millions to a single deceptive email to an employee. And as NPR's Martin Kaste reports business has never been better for the scammers.   This latest wave of cybercrime against American businesses really got rolling about two years ago and this is one of the earliest victims. It is a real estate company in Seattle. One of the owners here is named Mark. He would rather we do not give his last name.  We are somewhat experienced businesspeople. The idea that we have been duped makes you feel pretty stupid.  That reluctance to talk about this? More about that in a minute. But first the scam. Mark had been wrapping up a project and emailing with an investment partner. What they did not realize was someone had hacked into their email traffic.  It was clear that they had studied our conversation.  Because the scammers knew just the right moment to insert themselves into that conversation.  The cadence and the timing and the email was so normal that it was not suspicious at all. It was just like we were continuing to have a conversation but I just was not having it with the person I thought I was.  That person had picked up on the fact that Mark was about to send his partner some money. So pretending to be the partner the scammers sent him wiring instructions to a different account at his usual bank. Mark did not think twice. A little later he texted his partner to see if he would got the money.  And there was an immediate reaction and response from him you know question mark what wire? And oh it was a cold sweat.  The 50000 he would wired was gone already rewired from the American bank to an account overseas. Mark was a victim of a growing category of cybercrime that is called business email compromise or BEC. But do not let that bland name fool you.  What we have seen in 2019 is that the wave that is breaking is primarily focused around social engineering.  Patrick Peterson is CEO of Agari a company that specializes in protecting corporate email systems. And he sees a lot of these scams up close. When he says social engineering what he means is hacks that are based not so much on breaking into software but rather on fooling people.  It is not so much having the most sophisticated evil technology it is using our own trust and desire to communicate with others against us.  He says these schemes are usually run by international networks - you know those Nigerian prince emails in the early days of the Internet. It is still similar groups but now they are more focused on researching their victims. When they break into a company's email they are patient. They just lurk there for a while.  And then they can sit there and watch the email go back and forth. And they can see this person pays a lot of invoices or sends a lot of accounts payable. And at the right time we will send one that has our payable instructions.  And given the sums that businesses move around on a daily basis the payoff can be enormous.  In 2016 we had business email compromise schemes at 361 million.  This is James Abbott. He is a supervisory special agent with the FBI specializing in BEC fraud.  2017 that number jumped to 676 million. In 2018 we are at nearly 1.2 billion. But the thing to keep in mind with these statistics is this is just what we are aware of.  Millions of dollars in fraud goes unreported because embarrassed businesses prefer to keep their losses quiet. Investigators say this kind of secrecy helps the scammers because it keeps their tricks less visible. The FBI's Abbott says businesses are also too quick to assume that the culprits are all overseas and untouchable.  That is absolutely not the case. There are many times where the victim is sending their money to what we consider a money mule located right in their backyard or another part of the United States.  Money mules are people here in the country who set up bank accounts to receive the diverted funds. The foreign scammers need these American accounts because overseas bank accounts would raise suspicions. Nayib Hassan is the friend and lawyer of one of these money mules a man named Alfredo Veloso.  Alfredo's just your run-of-the-mill individual that you see anywhere else. I mean he is not going to be your Nigerian. He is not going to be your - from anywhere else. He is just trying to make it trying to survive here in Miami.  Veloso is serving a federal sentence and did not want to talk to NPR but Hassan says his friend is basically a decent guy who was offered easy money to sort of lend his bank account to people who needed some help moving their money.  In his mind when it first got presented to him it sounded possibly legitimate because they do not want their loved one or they do not want this individual stealing this money. But then at some point you understand that it is fraudulent and he understood it.  It is people like this who are most likely to get caught. Just in September the FBI announced the arrest of 74 people here in the U.S. connected to business email compromise alleged money mules and other enablers for overseas scammers. Meanwhile this sort of scam is spreading and it is not targeting just businesses anymore. Nick Selby is director of cyber intelligence and investigations for the New York Police Department.  In New York we have seen over the past year a notable increase in the number of individuals who are receiving these kinds of emails because they fall for it too.  Selby says you have to keep in mind that these business scams are all about researching certain people at companies to figure out what might fool them.  And if you think about that it does not take much to imagine how this could work on individuals.  So the question is as this more sophisticated research-based cybercrime spreads can American law enforcement keep up? When Mark in Seattle was conned out of his 50000 he says talking to the FBI just left him feeling hopeless.  They basically said we are really sorry but we are going after this same fraud but in the millions and millions and millions of dollars. And so you know it is not enough to go after.  The banks were not much help either. Since he was the one who gave the scammers the account number they saw this as his responsibility. He has learned one thing - never again trust wiring instructions that are sent by email. He says people in his business now insist on voice calls before sending money. And some colleagues actually put account numbers down on paper to be delivered by hand. Martin Kaste NPR News. 