 New financial reports are in for the Democratic and Republican national committees. And those reports show the party committees girding for a big money battle. NPR's Peter Overby reports.  The new reports cover the month of March when the two parties were fighting over health care. Democrats managed to pass the bill and to do better with donors than in the public opinion polls. At the University of Maryland political scientist Paul Herrnson explains why this party money matters to candidates. Professor  The parties use this money to set the campaign agenda to target individual races which not only helps the races directly but indirectly in terms of their fundraising. And in the last election cycle the Republicans came up short in terms of cash and had to move money out of one close race into another on a number of occasions and that clearly hurt them.  So some details. The Democratic National Committee is being outraised by the Republican National Committee 114 million to 121 million but it has just as much cash on hand about 11 million. An analysis by NPR News shows that the RNC has more small donors the grassroots of a fundraising base but it spent 11 million twice as much as the DNC on the mail and telemarketing to get those donors. On the House side of Capitol Hill the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has raised 38 percent more than its GOP counterpart. The DCCC as it is called has a cash reserve that is nearly triple what the Republicans have. It is on the Senate side where the battle for dollars is the most hard-fought. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee chairman Robert Menendez of New Jersey has this video message to motivate donors.  Senator  Everything is at stake. Everything we fought for is at risk. We must work together to fight for Democratic values.  And the National Republican Senatorial Committee takes the sardonic whimsy approach.   Unidentified People Barack Obama keeps spending our money which raises the national debt ceiling to the point that Americans may soon bow down to their Chinese overlord.   The Republican Committee is upbeat about its chances of whacking away the Democrats' Senate majority. Its fundraising reflects that It is up 25 percent from last election cycle. Democrats see that too. Mr.  We all know there is sort of a fierce wind blowing in our face and not at our back in this election.  But Eric Schulz with the Democratic Senatorial Committee says they got a fundraising boost after the health care bill passed. And he is willing to predict more good news for his party. Mr.  Well I think you are seeing as we sort of get into the election season an acceleration more engagement more attention paid.  Of course it is not just Democrats who are paying attention. Fundraising is up across the board not like the flood of money in the 2008 presidential campaign but nothing like the old days either. Peter Overby NPR News Washington. 