 From the rebel-held city of Benghazi NPR's Martin Kaste reports on what this nascent rebel government is doing to bolster its legitimacy.   It is the rebels' weekly pep rally in Benghazi and this time they have some special guests.    On stage the emcee introduces delegates from areas of western Libya that are still under Gadhafi's control. The delegates are here to take their places in a 30-seat National Transitional Council a kind of proto-parliament.   Eastern Libyans like Mansour Makhlouf say they are glad to see them.   Gadhafi's people were spreading rumors that we are all divided. But we are not divided. We are all brothers.  Some of the western delegates took a gamble getting here. The council's press liaison Shamsiddin Abdulmolah says the delegate appointed by rebels in the western city of Misrata was targeted by Gadhafi forces.  And they arrested him. Nobody knows where he is right now. So Misrata had to reappoint somebody else and did not name him until he made it to Benghazi.  Jilal Mobruk Bessiouni grew up in Benghazi but now lives in Dallas where he raised funds to bring to the rebels.  I gave the money to the council to pass it to the needy people that could use it.  What do you make of the council? What is your impression of that organization?  Well the jury is still out on that. So you know Libya was Gadhafi and nothing else. So it left a huge gap in the thought and the process of governing a state. So I give them a lot of credit. They are crawling and hopefully they are going to be walking soon.  Bessiouni says he is troubled by the rebel government's lack of transparency. Meetings are often held in secret and it is sometimes hard to find out who is in charge of what.  You are not talking about the New England City Council.  Zahi Bashir Mogherbi is a political science professor at the local university. He says day-to-day decision making was traditionally a closed-door process in Libya.  Only the officials who are responsible for the different sectors - sectors of the services the economy - meet and they decide about the issue that are facing them.  Martin Kaste NPR News Benghazi Libya. 