 Parents have always shelled out cash to pay for their kids to be better at the things they enjoy - piano soccer baseball dance karate. And now we can add to that list Fortnite. The Wall Street Journal reports a growing trend of parents hiring gaming coaches to hone their kids' skills at Fortnite an online game that has drawn 125 million players worldwide. The game is free but coaches typically charge between 10 and 25 an hour depending on their level of expertise. Joining us to discuss the how and why of this is Sarah Needleman. She is a tech reporter with The Wall Street Journal who is written about the phenomenon. Welcome to the program Sarah.  Thanks for having me.  So first tell us a little bit about Fortnite. What is the overall objective of this game which is basically a shoot'em-up?  Fortnite is a bit of a combination between Minecraft and Call of Duty. You are building things and you are shooting enemies. And the mode that most children are playing is called Battle Royale because it is free. And in it about a hundred players are dropped onto a map. And they fight each other until there is only one player or one team left standing.  Here's the thing. You wrote that for many children Fortnite has become a social proving ground and that there is a lot of pressure to be good right?  Correct. With this game you want to be that last person standing. And so what a lot of children do is they brag about it - how many times they have gotten to that point. So they say I have won this many times or that many times. It is really exciting for them to be able to brag and share that number.  So is this when the parent decides OK I am going to get you a coach?  Like how does this conversation happen?  Well in some cases parents said that the kids were complaining that they were not getting any wins. And they felt left out on the playground because all their friends were boasting and they were not able to do the same.  With that comes some pressure and parents are succumbing to the idea of paying for lessons. Do you have any idea the scale of this? How popular is it to find these coaches?  It is hard to get a good number on it but Bidvine has told me that they have contracted out more than 1400 Fortnite coaches since March.  Did you just say 1400?  Correct.  OK go on .  And I asked them how many coaches they have contracted out for other games and the numbers were not as high. And some of those games they have had coaches for much longer. I mean bear in mind Fortnite has only been around for about a year.  Right. But just like other games there are tournaments and you know even colleges - right? - that are willing to pay scholarships for Fortnite players. Is that factoring into all of this?  Well Epic Games the company that makes Fortnite did announce recently that they are giving out a hundred million dollars in tournament prize money over the next year. So they are going to be arranging a bunch of competitions and I believe a couple of them already kicked off. And then there have been some schools that have offered to - have offered scholarships for Fortnite but those are very far and few between. There are plenty of other scholarships out there for other games that have been on the competitive circuit for a lot longer such as League of Legends or Counter-Strike GO for example.  Now I know there is some handwringing about the state of the world when people talk about videogames but is this all that different from you know dad and son playing catch? Like why are parents...   ...Willing to jump on this?  I think that people are a little surprised by it because you know videogames do sometimes have a negative reputation as being a real time-suck. And they are very very immersive. And they can last indefinitely so it is not like you know watching a movie that has a beginning and an end. You could be at it for quite some time. So I think people are a little bit surprised by it. But just like anything else the parents told me that they bought their kids swim lessons parkour lessons. They go to the gym. They play on different teams. This is just one of many activities that their children do.  That is Sarah Needleman. She reports on technology for The Wall Street Journal. Sarah thanks for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  My pleasure. 