 Now to Syria where fighting and airstrikes continue today topping a week of some of the most intense bombing attacks in the nearly six-year war targeting the eastern part of Aleppo. Airstrikes and bombs by both sides have led to an appalling milestone this weekend. Nearly 100 children have been killed since Friday that according to the United Nations Children's Fund or UNICEF. We reached UNICEF Deputy Executive Director Justin Forsyth in New York to talk more about this. Hello Mr. Forsyth.  Hello.  Now you have said that the suffering and the shock among children is definitely the worst that we have seen. How has it gotten so bad?  Well the violence in Aleppo is just horrific. I mean not only 100 children being killed but over 200 have been injured. Children huddle in cellars every night fearful for their lives with their families. I just heard this morning that the water is being cut off again for the whole of Aleppo. The fighting around two of the pumping stations has led to both the east and the west being without water again which leads to water-borne diseases. So the attacks the bombing the mortar fire the shelling actually from both sides has led to this devastating situation.  The governments of Russia and Syria say that they are only targeting rebel forces in Aleppo and not civilians. Do these images that we are seeing suggest something else?  Well we have seen attacks on hospitals and we have seen water pumping stations being attacked. Whether it is deliberate or inadvertent by dropping such bombs on these areas you are going to have huge casualties. This is a very built-up area. And we have seen also the rebels fire rockets and mortars. Children were killed yesterday in western Aleppo from rebel attacks. So nobody is without blame in this situation. And what we are saying is we need a cease-fire. I mean we have got to a state where this is like a medieval siege. Water is turned off food is running out and the medical facilities have been attacked. Eight convoys have been bombed and eight workers killed. So we are having a catastrophic situation. This is a living nightmare for the children living in Aleppo.  In a war which this is I think most people would expect to see - and I am not celebrating this but I am simply saying that in a war one might expect to see a larger population of adult males being killed. Why is it that children seem to be bearing the brunt of this? Why are there so many children in this area?  There is a lot of children in Aleppo. Some of them have been displaced from other parts of Syria. Also the types of explosives that are being used in these built-up areas - and we have seen this in other conflicts - hurt and kill children particularly because they are more vulnerable. We are also seeing the psychological impact on these children. I mean many are so frightened that they shake physically. And also their moms and dads are feeling that fear. We have seen a big rise in suicide rates. So the combination of all of these factors - of malnutrition of the bombing of the mortar attacks of the shelling - particularly hurt children. But they also hurt moms who are weak from malnutrition.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Wednesday warned that the United States would stop talking to Moscow about ending the civil war unless Moscow stops the airstrikes in Aleppo. Does UNICEF have other recommendations about how the U.S. should be responding right now?  Well we are a humanitarian actor on the ground working in Aleppo so we have to be very careful not to take sides. We are to say to all the different sides of this conflict is to firstly allow the evacuation of these very injured children - hundreds of them in eastern Aleppo. They need emergency help. Ultimately we need an end to the war. But even in the midst of this conflict we can stop murdering children. And we should be honest - this is murdering children. Children are being bombed. They are being mortared. And on both sides of this conflict children are being killed so we need to stop firing these mortars or dropping these bombs in built-up areas.  Justin Forsyth is the deputy executive director of ited Nations Children's Fund. As he described it is a humanitarian organization which provides aid to children and their mothers in developing nations. He was kind enough to join us from New York. Mr. Forsyth thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 