 Marathon swimming is a recent entry at the Summer Olympics. It debuted in 2008. The race is 10 kilometers in open water. That is 6.2 miles. It takes about two exhausting hours. NPR's Melissa Block brings us this profile of marathon swimmer Haley Anderson who will compete for the USA in Rio.  Leave on the top here we go. Haley you are going to go first.  I catch up with Haley Anderson at early morning swim practice. She is training in a pool at USC in Los Angeles. She is lean and sculpted with vivid blue eyes that match the water she is slicing through. Catherine Vogt watches Anderson swim with a careful eye. She is the U.S. open-water head coach for the Rio Games. She also coached her at the last Olympics and here at USC where Haley set three school records in freestyle.  I like that she is like the middle child. She is  you know - she is really tough. And she is really competitive. And she is very observant. She notices everything around her which I think helps make her be really good.  And that all paid off at the 2012 London Olympics where Haley Anderson won the silver medal. She missed gold by a mind-boggling four tenths of a second just a fraction of a second after two hours in the water. After hours of practice Haley grabs a quick bite.  Eggs chicken and avocado.  And sits down poolside to talk about her sport. Racing for two hours straight in murky choppy open water with dozens of other swimmers bunched up all around you that takes...  A certain kind of crazy. You had to be a little weird to want to put yourself through two hours or more of pain.  And for those two hours Anderson says even at her elite level she is constantly fighting self-doubt asking herself can I do this?  You have to push yourself past what you think you can do push past the barriers like in your mind 'ecause in every race you do not think you can do it.  And it can get really physical out there.  I have been grabbed by my ankles and been pulled back. That takes a lot of effort you know? You do not just happen to close your hand around somebody's ankle and pull back you know? That takes conscious effort.  Is that allowed to grab somebody's ankle?  No it is not allowed. But if the officials do not see it then it is OK.  So what occupies her mind for those long hours in the water besides self-doubt? Well she will sing songs in her head. But that can backfire.  There is a few races where every time I had Justin Bieber Baby stuck in my head and I was like I do not think I can do another 10K with this song stuck in my head.  For two hours?  Yes for two hours.    Baby baby baby oh. Like baby.  So that is one hazard. And in open-water swimming with wind and waves there is no way around this.  I do take in a lot of water as I am swimming. I do not know how much but I do choke on water quite a bit. You know it gets in your mouth.  Which given Rio's notoriously polluted waters is a scary thought. Anderson says she will take probiotics and antibiotics before the race. And she will try not to think about what is in the water off Copacabana Beach. She tells herself do not worry about things you cannot control. Instead as she swims maybe she will keep an eye on her left wrist.  My mom said it is the only tattoo I can get so I got it.  On her wrist is a tattoo of the five Olympic rings. She got it after she won silver in London four years ago.  I just think about how much time how much effort I have dedicated to this sport you know? And it is just a constant reminder of the sport I love and everything I have gotten from it.  Haley Anderson marathon swimmer is bringing her certain kind of crazy to Rio. She races on August 15. Melissa Block NPR News. 