 Your summer vacation may seem like a distant memory at this point. But wait. We can help you hang onto a sense of adventure or get your mind on the next vacation with one final roundup of reading recommendations.  Heather Hansman is a correspondent for Outside magazine and she is here with some book suggestions. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  I want to talk about the first book that you brought us Lands Of Lost Borders. This is by a woman who used to be at MIT right?  Yeah. She had been an academic. She would been at Oxford. She was kind of really getting deep into the world of microbiology and she kind of had this itch where she did not want to be in the lab. And she wanted to be outside and she would always been fascinated by Marco Polo an explorer. So she ends up dropping out of grad school and going to bike across the Silk Road with her best friend from growing up.  So the author Kate Harris is telling the story of this trip. And I think a lot of times we think of women going into the wilderness and it is because they are running from their demons. This is like my read of the last few years.  .  Is that right and is this different?  Yeah this feels - and that is actually something that I think is really interesting and is also really lacking in a lot of books about outdoor adventures and the wilderness - is that the narrator is often a white dude who gets to go have adventures. She really kind of digs into who gets to be outside and also the idea of the recent narrative about - that when women are going outside it is 'ecause they are running for something or they are trying to figure out their lives. And she is just out there 'ecause she wants to have an adventure.  Now because it is the end of summer you brought us two books set on the water. I thank you very much. And they are set back here in the U.S. The first is called Chesapeake Requiem. Tell us about it.  This is Earl Swift who is a journalist - spent a lot of time on Tangier Island which is off the coast of Virginia. I sort of love this book because it is not necessarily something that I would have picked up off the shelf on its face. It is this...  How come?  ...Big - you know it is a 400-page book about...  Oh all right.  Yeah it is this like big chunky climate change book. But he does such a good interesting job of telling the stories of the people who live on this island. You know there is a shipwreck and there is weddings. And there is all these kind of day-to-day stories. And by getting into those he really gets into kind of these hard questions about the reality of climate change and who is going to be sacrificed and how we make decisions as a country and as a community about what we value.  Right. That is Chesapeake Requiem A Year With The Watermen Of Vanishing Tangier Island by Earl Swift. A Song For The River is by Philip Connors - very different.  Yeah. It is sort of a memoir and it is kind of one of those like Thoreauvian stories about a place. Philip Connors was a fire lookout in New Mexico. There was sort of a tragic accident that happened there. He is able to kind of talk about how climate change and fire and drought has changed that landscape and not make it heavy handed and boring and weaves a lot of disparate things together.  At this point when you are traveling or you are going to spend some time outdoors do you actually bring a book? And if you do how do you think about what to bring?   I definitely do. I always  - I always bring a book. When I am out in the back country or I am gone for a while that is like one of the only times I get to read and not have my phone beeping at me or not be distracted by other things. So it is like almost kind of like the best place to be reading .  Heather Hansman - she is a correspondent for Outside magazine. The books she brought to us included Chesapeake Requiem by Earl Swift A Song For The River by Philip Connors and Lands Of Lost Borders by Kate Harris. Thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you. 