 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  As NPR's Pam Fessler reports San Diego is now joining dozens of other cities in a new effort to move tens of thousands of chronically homeless people into permanent housing.  Let us start with a skeptic and there are several who doubt that a new campaign to end homelessness is San Diego will succeed. That counting and interviewing the city's homeless will get them off the streets as promised.  Why are we counting homeless people? We have counted them for the last 25 years that I have been doing this. Count them for what?  Bob McElroy heads the Alpha Project a nonprofit that helps the city's homeless. He says he is seen this movie before. The ending's always the same.  You are not going to allow us to build the housing for them and the treatment programs and the supportive housing programs. What are we counting them again for? There is a whole bunch of people out there.  Unidentified Woman Everybody take your seats please.   The first difference is who is involved. Just about everyone in San Diego who has anything to do with homelessness is at the table.  Rick Schnell I am the sergeant on the San Diego Police Department. I supervise the homeless outreach team.  Unidentified Woman   office of the .  The police housing commission hospitals nonprofits businesses even the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. And they have joined 70 other cities such as Phoenix Seattle and Nashville in a campaign to house the nation's long-term homeless. It is led by a New York group called Common Ground. The strategy is - work together cut red tape no more business as usual.  So we are not operating in silos anymore.  Robin Munro is among those leading the effort. She is with the Downtown San Diego Partnership a business group. She is driving me around a park in the heart of the city to show why even the business community is now on board. She points to a makeshift camp made out of five black umbrellas with several shopping carts nearby.  You can see there is people who live in there on the other side too.  She says this park is supposed to be the gateway to the commercial district. But instead it is a barrier scaring off customers and retailers alike. She says it is a humanitarian issue.  But it is also an economic issue. Your business is not going to do as well if people have to crawl over somebody sleeping in your doorstep.  And people are sleeping all over this downtown - on corners sidewalks under bridges. I visited one camp site beneath the interstate where almost 100 people spend the night.   And many here clearly need help. One woman screams in the darkness that there are snakes crawling all over her. A longtime homeless veteran named Brian Whitworth nervously pulls me away.  You never know what is going to happen from one second to the next. Imagine how can you try and sleep at night when you got people walking around. They are going to try and threaten your life at every second of your life. It is scary.  The situation is pretty dire. But those running the new campaign say it costs more if they do nothing. That it is about 25000 a year to house a chronically homeless person even with services like medical care. But that it can be four or five times that amount if someone stays on the streets repeatedly using things like the emergency room.   Hello?  Hi.  Hi. Would you like us to take our shoes off?  No. Oh no that is OK.  Philip Doud is among the first to be housed under the campaign. Volunteers went out last fall to interview the city's homeless and create profiles so they could house the most serious cases first. They found the 53- year-old veteran and his girlfriend sleeping under a bridge and offered him a 5 fast-food coupon if he would answer some questions.  I did not really think anything would happen really - it would come to anything really.  Doud is soft-spoken and his hair and mustache are neatly trimmed. But he is a former drug addict who is been homeless on and off for 20 years also in and out of jail usually for what he calls stupid offenses like stealing a flashlight.  You got to have a flashlight when you are homeless you know to see stuff. You know see the medicine bottles or whatever.  He says it is hard to take medication when you are on the streets. But it is a vicious cycle. Doud suffers from anxiety depression high blood pressure. If he does not take his medicine he gets stressed even violent ending up in the emergency room or jail. But now in his new one-bedroom apartment...  All my medicine right there that I got to take you know.  He shows me dozens of pills neatly organized in a plastic container.  That is you know AMPM. But see I take like 30 pills a day.  Living on the streets is not good for your health.  Clay King is chief of social work at the VA in San Diego. His agency is providing housing vouchers to the campaign and services such as health care and counseling. The idea is to make sure that people like Philip Doud stay housed and hopefully lead more productive lives.  Our case managers help the veteran with all those steps. We go to used furniture stores to get furniture for the veteran when he finds the apartment or she finds the apartment. And we help the veteran move in.  But he says lots of people are pitching in which makes this campaign so promising. The county is paying for case managers the city wants to build a permanent homeless shelter local businesses and nonprofits funded the survey. Still it is slow going. Only 13 of the more than 700 homeless people surveyed last fall have been permanently housed so far. Organizers say they are on track to house more than 100 but future budget cuts could hinder the plan.  Hi good morning I was wondering if we could leave a message for a veteran?  Caleb Ra is with a team of VA case workers. They have stopped at a day center where many of San Diego's homeless hang out. They are trying to follow up with one of the veterans they found on the streets last fall. They do not see him but they do run into Patrick Sean Williamson who is also on their list. Williamson is surprised to find himself suddenly surrounded by case workers.  So what is it all about here?  So we are pretty much trying to follow back up from the initiative back in September where we did a survey and we are looking for a certain number of veterans from that survey.  Ra tells Williamson they might be able to help him. He looks like a good candidate. He cannot afford a place to live. He is been homeless for three years. And he is in bad health. His legs are red and swollen.  My diabetes is what caused me to have a problem getting a job and now it is gotten to the point where I have been out of work so long I do not think I can get a job around here.  Organizers hope that with each success they will build momentum and convince the skeptics that things have indeed changed.  Thank you.  OK and we will see you tomorrow.  Oh I am glad I finally got to talk to somebody.  Pam Fessler NPR News. 