 Mexico swears in a new president tomorrow Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. For nearly a century Mexican presidents have come from one of two main political parties. Not Lopez Obrador. He rode to victory as a third-party candidate promising to be different. So how different and what might his arrival mean for U.S.-Mexico relations - questions we are going to put next to NPR's Carrie Kahn in Mexico City. Hi Carrie.  Hi.  So what is the vibe there like ahead of the inauguration? I know here in Washington the day before a swearing-in there is all kinds of security all kinds of excitement.  Oh I think there is a lot of excitement here. Dignitaries from all over the world are coming. Vice President Pence and Ivanka Trump will be here. Lopez Obrador has a loyal following and they have been waiting a long time for this. So I think there is going to be a lot of people out celebrating. A poll out today shows his popularity is sky-high. So are expectations for him. And in his typical populist style he says he is not going to live at the presidential residence Los Pinos. It is too opulent and far removed from the people. And he is turning it into a museum. And tomorrow for the first time the gates are swinging open and the public is invited in. There'll be big-screen TVs up to broadcast his swearing-in ceremony. So we are looking at a long day of partying here.  Oh and where is he going to live? Does he just keep his house?  He might stay put there. Or he is talking about taking up residence in the presidential palace where all the government business is run out of. He says he does not need the whole palace. He is not a monarch. He just needs a bed and a room to rest because he is going to be so hard-working every day.  All right you are starting to give me some insight into what might make him so different besides the fact that he is not from either of the two big traditional parties. What else?  Well he is a leftist here. He is a nationalist a populist. He is seen as a pragmatist a defender of the poor. He lives a very humble life. He shunned bodyguards. He travels on commercial airlines. And he is vowed to sell the presidential plane. The concerns for him though are many as he comes into office too. He has an authoritarian streak and he is made recent moves to consolidate presidential power. He is upset markets by canceling a huge 13 billion airport infrastructure project here that was already under way. And besides saying he is going to you know stamp out corruption and rule by example to do it he has not really given a lot of details on how he is going to fight that corruption or Mexico's rising violence and powerful drug cartels. And he recently angered supporters by reversing a promise to remove the military from crime fighting. The army has been implicated in terrible human rights abuses over the past decade. So his plan is just no different than his predecessor.  Well speaking of his predecessor what kind of legacy what kind of situation is he inheriting from the outgoing president Pena Nieto?  Well on the positive side he is going to inherit a stable economy. It is a pretty lackluster economy but it is stable. And just today the newly renegotiated NAFTA agreement was signed on the sidelines of the G-20 summit. So that is really good for foreign investor confidence in Mexico. But overall I do not think Mary Louise I can overstate this. This country is in shambles with regard to corruption impunity violence you name it - human rights abuses. This past government has left Mexico's democratic institutions - the police the courts - they were weak to begin with but they are in even more dire straits. And you know that is why Lopez Obrador's mandate - he was brought in on a landslide electoral victory because Mexicans were so fed up with the violence and corruption. His party has a majority in both houses of Congress too so he has this huge mandate and huge expectations and a lot to do in the next six years.  And what about the border which is of course the issue that we here in the States hear about every day in connection with Mexico? Where is that on his list of priorities?  Well I think that is going to be problem number one he is going to have to deal with. He has to deal with President Trump. You know Trump is threatening to close the border over this caravan of migrants that are camped out there waiting to apply for asylum into the U.S. It will be very interesting to see how these two very unique unconventional presidents interact.  NPR's Carrie Kahn reporting from Mexico City - thank you Carrie.  You are welcome. 