 A trial underway in San Francisco is offering a rare look into the world of venture capital and allegations of sex discrimination. Ellen Pao is seeking 16 million in lost wages and future earnings from her former employer. She took the witness stand last week and said she was passed over for a promotion because she is a woman and was later fired for complaining. Closing arguments are expected in the next week or two. From member station KALW Audrey Dilling reports.  Ellen Pao worked for Kleiner Perkins the venture firm that funded Google and Amazon. Pao was fired in 2012. The company says it let her go because she did not have what it takes. In court Pao's attorneys have presented performance reviews that describe Pao as too quiet too aggressive and lacking people skills. They have also shown the jury reviews of male colleagues who received similar feedback but the male colleagues were promoted.  What Ellen Pao is saying is that she got caught between being seen as too masculine to be likable or too feminine to be competent.  Joan Williams is a professor at University of California Hastings College of the Law. She specializes in women's issues in the workplace.  So you know I do not know Ellen Pao - maybe she is impossible. But yes this does track a common pattern of gender bias.  Williams says this is especially common in two industries.  Tech and finance and that is the particular microclimate we are dealing with here.  It is a microclimate where Ellen Pao says women at her Silicon Valley venture firm were treated differently. They were excluded from all-male events she says in court filings and denied seats on company boards. And she says the company failed to do anything about the retaliation of a male coworker she had an affair with. As for that behavior Williams says...  That is old-fashioned stuff. Now they - again they deny it.  Kleiner Perkins actually has more female partners than the average venture firm. Kleiner executive John Doerr testified in court that he thinks companies with women make better decisions. No representative of the company would speak for this story. Phil Sanderson chairs the Western Association of Venture Capitalists. He says a successful investor is good at two things.  Bringing in leads investing in them and making money. And the second is working well in a collaborative environment with your partners.  The venture firm claims Ellen Pao could not do that.  These are really top people - men and women.  Kay Lucas is an employment attorney in San Francisco.  I know - I have known some of them. I think this particular industry is such a highly competitive industry. Frankly I think a whole bunch of them are probably difficult people.  Lucas has represented women with discrimination claims like Ellen Pao's.  But I have to say it is very often that the women are then forced to leave once they raise the issue. And this is my frankly great beef with Sheryl Samberg's Lean In because when they lean in they get retaliated against and they often are forced out of the company - maybe not terminated but you are not a good fit or whatever.  Before Pao left Kleiner Perkins she filed a formal gender discrimination complaint that alleged much of what she is suing the company for now. The firm hired an independent investigator to look into it. That investigator found no bias. If the jury disagrees Pao stands to win 16 million in damages. The trial is expected to continue until late March. For NPR News I am Audrey Dilling. 