 The latest National Geographic magazine tackles one subject in depth. The issue is called The Gender Revolution. True to the magazine's form it explores what cultures around the world think about being male female or something in between and what science has to say about it. The journalist Robin Marantz Henig wrote one of these articles called Rethinking Gender. Welcome to the program.  Thanks Ari.  So the issue was about the gender revolution. And I think some listeners might be asking what gender revolution?   Well do not you get a feeling that we are aware of it kind of? I mean there is suddenly headlines everywhere about you know Caitlyn Jenner coming out as transgender about bathroom issues. We are reading much more than we did even five years ago about transgender rights and all sorts of things about being a non-binary gender identity.  I want to get into that word non-binary because your article explores specifically whether gender is categorical - you are male or you are female - or whether gender is a spectrum with points in between male and female. Is the answer to that question a cultural answer or a scientific answer?   Well it is a little bit of both because it is more complicated than just feeling like a male when you are identified at birth as a female. There is a lot of people who somehow identify at different points along that spectrum. And it is not one identity or the other.  Right. So I think many people are familiar with for example Caitlyn Jenner who publicly said I was born with the anatomy of a male but I have always felt myself to be female. But what you are exploring here is something in between there not - I was born with this biology but I feel myself to be a different gender. Can you give us an example of what non-binary gender identity looks like?  The teenager who I follow all the way through is somebody I call E who was identified at birth as a girl and was still calling herself female and using female pronouns when I met her when she was 14. And over the course of just a few months she managed to transform what was feeling right. You know when I first met her she still pictured herself as an adult with a beard and who did not menstruate and who did not have breasts and who looked kind of like a guy. And she looked like a guy but a childish kind of guy. By the time I was finished talking to E it turned out that E was now using the pronoun they. And they were pretty sure that they were going to start taking testosterone and actually continue a transition into a male even though when I first met E they were feeling like male was not exactly right either.  You do write about cultures where people who are neither male nor female have long been accepted. Generally it is not a huge spectrum that is accepted but a specific category that is neither male nor female. Can you give me one example?  Right. Well I went out to Samoa where there is this third gender category known as fa'afafine. These are people who are born with male anatomy. And yet pretty early on generally they are identified as something that is not really exactly male or exactly female. And so they are allowed this third gender where they grow up to continue to have their male anatomy. And yet they behave socially culturally and sexually as females. It is this interesting intermediate category that does seem to exist in pockets around the world.  What did you learn about the scientific basis for understanding gender as a spectrum?  That was tricky. They do not actually know why it is that some people end up having a gender identity that does not conform with their physiology and their anatomy or their chromosomes.  I could imagine somebody listening to this conversation saying oh that is just somebody's whims their feelings on any given day. They do not actually have any biological scientific difference. They just are impetuous and impulsive and decide one day they want to be a boy and one day they want to be a girl. Having spent so much time with people who do not identify strictly as one gender or the other did you have that sense at all?  Well I did talk to some people who had that criticism and who thought that if you did not sort of allow children who say I feel like a girl - if you did not like them to live like a girl they would turn out to just be boys who were variant in their gender expression. But there are also people who are very careful about who they say really is gender variant in one way or another. And these are people who are consistent and persistent and insistent - those are the three words they use - in saying that yes I really am not the gender you have identified me as. I mean this is a really essential part of who they are. And if you fight them you will end up with a great deal of damage to that child.  Robin Marantz Henig thanks so much.  Thank you Ari.  Robin Marantz Henig wrote the article Rethinking Gender for the special issue of National Geographic that explores the gender revolution.  