 If you take a stroll through the mall you are bound to past stores that make you think huh I wonder how they stay in business. Well here's a story about how one chain does it. Radio Shack reported a drop in sales this week but it consistently posts profits even in these hard times. And it does so facing stiff competition from the likes of Best Buy and Target as NPR's Wade Goodwyn reports.  In a spoof article written a couple of years ago for America's finest fake news source The Onion Radio Shack CEO Julian Day professed bewilderment at how his company was making a profit. You would not think that people still buy enough strobe lights and extension cords to support an entire nationwide chain Day supposedly said. But I guess they must or I would not have this desk to sit behind all day. Back in the real world Julian Day has done anything but sit behind his desk since taking over the company three years ago. Instead he has cut and cut some more slashing cost paring away underperforming stores getting Radio Shack prepared for a recession nobody seemed to know was coming. Mr.  There is no doubt that they have done a good job in mind of lowering their expenses. So yeah I think Julian Day has done a very commendable job.  Michael Baker is an analyst with Deutsche Bank. Baker says the Radio Shacks CEO went so far as to sell all the green plants to employees for 5 each so the company would not have to spend any more money on maintenance. With good cash flow Radio Shack has accumulated nearly 900 million and that is allowing some home improvement of the non-vegetative variety. Mr.  They are also spending some money in trying to spruce up their existing stores. They are certainly spending a little bit more money to try to make them more attractive.  Radio Shack has gotten the big profit bump from the sale of digital converter boxes for analog televisions. But that market is drying up. GPS unit sales are also in decline. Radio Shack has shown nimbleness in moving from one hot gadget to the next catching a sales wave for a quick profitable ride. Unidentified Woman Okay. And sir just enter your telephone number on this device.  On a rainy weekday the Radio Shack in east Dallas has only a few customers after lunch. A family pops in to buy a digital converter box and are out the door in under five minutes. Unidentified Woman Okay. And just verify your information right here.  Instead of row after row of flat screen TVs there are five on display. Radio Shack has some other qualities of your local auto parts store or perhaps an Ace Hardware. If you need something and do not necessarily know exactly what you should buy a sales associate will tell you and go get it for you. Mita Sujan is a professor of marketing and consumer behavior at Tulane University. Professor  The stores are relatively small and so again it is not an overwhelming environment to be in. And I think there is still enough people who are not that tech savvy the older consumer.  And Radio Shack sells merchandise that has relatively high profit margins. Batteries accessories chargers high end cables the list goes on. Last week the company signaled it intends to Livestrong by announcing it would sponsor Lance Armstrong's team next year. The idea is that in 2010 the great Texas cyclist will be standing on the top of the Tour de France podium with Radio Shack executives nearby clapping cheering and telling each other he is our man. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas 