 One of the places Trump has focused on is Indianapolis. He took credit for preventing a Carrier plant there from moving some jobs to Mexico.  Just over a mile away from Carrier workers at the Rexnord plant make ball bearings. That company announced in October that it too is moving operations to Mexico. They did not get Trump's intervention. John Feltner is a machinist at the Rexnord plant. He is one of many who will soon be out of a job.  Roughly we have got 350 people - union and nonunion. They are all scheduled to leave except for I think a few clerical jobs will stay.  As I understand it you make 25 an hour.  Yes sir.  And according to the Indianapolis Star newspaper which told your story the workers in Mexico doing this job are going to make 3 an hour. When you have got that dramatic difference in pay can you blame Rexnord for trying to save money by relocating to Mexico?  Well I look at it like this. Rexnord was very profitable here. When we make a great product here and our product is sought after because it is made here. These people are highly skilled. To chase cheap labor that is the bottom line. That is the bottom line - is what they are doing.  Do you think there are steps the president can take to stop companies like Rexnord from doing this?  Yeah you mean - he is talked about taxes and border taxes and tariffs.  I understand you voted for President Trump. Are you still a supporter of his policies on the whole?  On the whole yeah. I mean do I agree with everything he is doing? No but I do not know anybody that does agree with - wholeheartedly with a single politician.  He recently described the Republican Party as the party of the American worker. Is that how you see it as well?  You know as a whole no but I do not see any party being for the American worker. You have got to understand that Trump - he was the only one really talking about jobs and that resonated with the working man.  Do you think that this administration's policies will make it easier for you to find a new job in the future?  Right now the new job and a future plan - you know what needs to make a good living wage - you know the prospects are not great. I drive an hour from my home to get here and the prospect of making even close to this money is not feasible.  So how are you thinking about what lies ahead for you?  I do not know what lies ahead for me. That is probably the most scariest part.  You are in your 40s?  I am 47.  You have got a lot of good working years left in you. What would your dream be?  My dream's pretty simple. I mean I just want to be able to pay my bills and live what I think is comfortably. I have got two kids in college and just recently become a grandfather and I just want to be able to support my family.  Well John Feltner thank you for the time and good luck to you.  Thank you.  John Feltner is a machinist who is preparing to be laid off from his job at the Rexnord plant in Indianapolis. 