 NPR's Tamara Keith takes us back to St. Louis for an update.  Randy Howland was the first one to return to work.  I have got an entry-level customer-service position working 3 to midnight at just a little bit above minimum wage. It is certainly nowhere near where I want to be and need to be. But I am fully employed so there is a good thing there.  I asked each of the six to answer the same question.  Am I fully employed?  This is Brian Barfield.  Yes but right now seasonal which means that I go in at half rate. And I work the same hours do the same job as everyone else for half the money. And if I prove myself then I get hired as a permanent employee.  And his wife Jennifer Barfield.  Am I fully employed? Yes but I am a contractor. So I am working full-time hours but things are very iffy because contract job's nature is you know get rid of them easily.  Hi this is Annica Trotter it is August 13th. I am now fully employed as a contractor with an aerospace company. I work full time. This is a permanent position. This is for real.  Ray Meyer started working for a temp agency in March.  Am I fully employed? No. I am still doing contract work. They have me going to a job right now. And the job I am told is going to last now until the end of October but I think we are going to be done much sooner.  And finally Casaundra Bronner who got a permanent position in July.  I work for an event planner. And I am like a marketing coordinator PR coordinator and slash everything else.   It is about half of what I was making before but it is more than I had been making when I was unemployed. So we are fine.  That is three people in temporary positions. The other three are in permanent jobs but only two of them are happy. One person is making more than she used to. The rest are earning much less. Casaundra Bronner is a single mother with two daughters. She worked at Anheuser-Busch and went from an entry-level position to become a marketing manager with the company. She was laid off in March 2010 as the company downsized after a merger. And the first thing she wanted to do was be with her girls.  I think I was told probably around 10 of the clock in the morning. After I left the company I called my mother to tell her that she did not have to pick the girls up. When it was time for them to get out of school I was there and they were like what is going on? Why are you here? But they were excited. And I just told them that Mommy has to find another job. I am going to get a new job or something. I do not work at that job anymore.  For a long time Bronner tried to get her old life back. She applied almost exclusively to large companies because she saw herself as a large-company person. She was looking for a job just like the one she lost. But slowly that changed.  This is Casaundra. It is February 5th 2011 and I was talking to my mother and she said you know I was thinking that you should look into starting your business making cupcakes. And I said what? That just sounds a little bit too much for me. I have never had any desires to open my own business or work for myself.  But she kept thinking about it.  I started getting excited about it. And I have not been excited about anything in a really long time - a really really long time.  Casaundra Bronner started to see herself differently.  Today is Monday March 21st 2011. Today I have an interview. It is a marketing assistant for an event-planning company called Events Above the Rest.  Evens Above the Rest is a tiny company that plans parties and weddings the kind of place that had not even been on Bronner's radar for most of her year-long search.  I just received a called from Ms. Ellis at Events Above the Rest and she informed me that I have the job.  Bronner is taking a real pay cut and she does not get health insurance. But there are upsides too. She goes to work at a place where she feels like she is an important part of the team.  Good morning.  Hey. How are you?  Good. How are you?  Good.  Her boss is sending baking business her way with some of the events. And she is out of the 8-to-5 rat race which means she can walk her girls to the bus in the morning.  There is my bus.  Here comes the bus. Give me a kiss.  Give me my key.  Have a great day.  Bye mom.  Put it in this...  You make more money in the corporate setting and there is more I guess perks on paper as you would say. But your quality of life I think is - my quality of life I cannot speak for everybody - my quality of life is much better.  It is March 31st. This is Randy.  For Randy Howland the road back to work did not lead to a better place.  Our mortgage was due today. And my wife's mother came up with a couple hundred bucks to help us meet that. I have got a job but it is not enough at this point.  There was a time when Randy and his wife Lisa would buy things for her mom. That was back when Randy earned six figures. They had season tickets to St. Louis Rams football games and went to 30 Cardinals games a year. That was back when they did not have to borrow money from Lisa's mom.  Asking her for money kills me. It kills Randy too. But - well thank God we have somebody that can help us.  The Howlands had hoped that Randy's new job combined with Lisa's work from home as a hairdresser would be enough to cover their bills.  It is Memorial Day. We had to borrow another 300 from my mother-in-law. My wife's hair salon business is not doing very well. She could really use some new clients - I mean really use some new clients.  Shortly after this was recorded Lisa decided she would try to get a second job. The store where she buys beauty supplies is hiring.  It is Monday the 18th and a little mixed feelings today as I make my wife a bit of breakfast because my wife is starting a job. I am happy for her but at the same time I should be the one that is got the good job. Here you go. Are you nervous on your first day hon?  Lisa is uneasy.  I am nervous. I am very nervous today. I was not when I got up but I am now. Last time I worked for somebody else was when I met you which was 24 years ago.  Twenty-five years ago?  Twenty-four years ago. Get today under my belt and I am sure tomorrow will be better.  Two weeks later Randy Howland is still stewing. He feels guilty that Lisa has to work.  I work from 3 to 12 and my wife works during the day so we do not see each other. But that is no big deal. No big deal. She is helping make ends meet and at least this month we do not have to borrow from any relatives or friends to do that. Excuse me while I drink my coffee.  And Randy continues to search for something better - a job that will pay more than 10 an hour a job that will allow him to be the breadwinner again. Ray Meyer is still searching for something better too. He was laid off from his job as a regional bank manager almost three years ago now. And he finally gave in and started working with a temp agency. On the road back to work a new job is not the final destination. It is just a stopping point along the way.  Good morning this is Ray. I am on break from the temporary job that I have. I am outside. It is just good to be out and about and it is certainly good to be in the morning traffic with everybody else.  Meyer is sitting in his purple Dodge Caravan. There is a rust spot on the door and it needs repairs more often than it used to. When Meyer bought it 14 years ago he never imagined he would still have it today. But he also never imagined he would be working for a temp agency making 15 an hour.  I think it is difficult for me working for a place - and I have been saying working with a place - but working for a place because I just am finding that these temporary jobs that I am working on tend to treat their temporary employees differently and I guess because we are disposable.  Meyer is still searching for a job in banking. He knows he will not make what he did before likely would not even be in management. But it would still be so much better than this temp work.  It is Monday and I have not recorded anything for a while. My job just dismissed out last Thursday night. But the job did not tell me until I got home. Then Manpower the people I am working through called me and let me know that I did not need to go back.  Meyer is disappointed but there is something more. The uncertainty of temp work is gnawing away at him. It is like every few months he relives his layoff.  I guess I am a little gun-shy. I am afraid everything I do is going to end up with me losing my job you know. Where I am at right now you know I could make the boss mad. You are taking all of your stuff home at the end of the day because you do not know if your key is going to work to get back in the door the next day. And I think we all feel that way. You never know for sure if you are going to have a job from one day to the next.  He would never say it this way but you can tell Meyer is still traumatized by the loss of his banking job back in 2008. He was working on a teller machine when his boss called him into the office. He had no idea what was coming.  I do not know that I will ever feel safe again. Before I felt like I was doing a good job and they pulled the rug right out from under me and I just did not see it coming.  Tamara Keith NPR News.  You can learn more about the people we are following On the Road Back to Work at our website. And you will also find all of the stories in our series so far photos and additional excerpts from their audio diaries. That is at NPR.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 