 Sometimes the battle over immigration policy gets personal. Immigrant advocates claim they have been targeted for retaliation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement because of their activism. Now they are looking to the Biden administration to do something about it. NPR's Joel Rose reports.  For years activist Maru Mora-Villalpando has organized hunger strikes to protest conditions at an immigrant detention center in Tacoma Wash.   So repeat with me. Freedom is non-negotiable.  Freedom is non-negotiable.  That was in 2017. A few months later ICE placed more of Mora-Villalpando in deportation proceedings. Mora-Villalpando is an undocumented immigrant. She is been living in Washington State for more than 20 years with no criminal record. To her this was all about intimidation.  It was very clear ICE did not like my work and they believed that putting me in deportation proceedings would impact negatively our image.  If ICE was trying to silence Mora-Villalpando it did not work. She went to court and obtained internal documents and emails from ICE. In one of those emails a high-ranking ICE officer describes Mora-Villalpando as an instigator. Another officer suggests that trying to deport her might quote take away some of her clout.  I even had to look up that word. I did not know that word in English. Honestly I was like what are they talking about?  For immigrants' rights advocates those emails are vindication of what they have been saying for years that ICE is deliberately retaliating against them for their work. ICE consistently denies this charge but advocates say there is a growing body of evidence that cannot be ignored. And they want the Biden administration to put an end to the practice.  This report exposes how ICE has targeted organizers and leaders of each group.  Sejal Zota is the legal director of Just Futures Law. It is one of several organizations behind a new report documenting allegations of retaliation from across the country - Texas North Carolina Illinois and Vermont - where immigrant advocates say they have been spied on intimidated and even deported for their activism.  Some of the stories of activist retaliation have previously been told piecemeal but documenting the accounts of groups from around the country I think it becomes clear that this is a broad and national problem.  ICE denies retaliating against anyone. The agency says it is simply enforcing immigration law against people who are living in the country illegally. But sometimes activists come to the agency's attention because of their work. Advocates say Mora-Villalpando's case and others documented in the report are textbook examples of retaliation. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas was asked about similar allegations during an interview in April.   That is unacceptable retaliation in response to the constitutionally protected right of free speech. That is just unacceptable.  Immigrant advocates were glad to hear Mayorkas say that but they want the administration to back those words up with action. They are calling on Mayorkas to take a formal stand against retaliation in the official ICE enforcement guidelines he is expected to issue in the next few months. Otherwise activist Maru Mora-Villalpando worries the practice will continue.  I have always believed that when we get attacked it is because they are afraid of us.  Since ICE started trying to deport her activists in Washington succeeded in pushing the state to prohibit for profit jails. They hope to shut down the ICE detention center in Tacoma by 2025. Mora-Villalpando says the agency's attempt to deport her backfired.  They gave us a larger microphone you know a larger bullhorn to say this is wrong and this is why we are going to continue fighting.  Mora-Villalpando is still fighting her own deportation case and using whatever clout she has to help immigrants in detention. Joel Rose NPR News. 