 Further north people around the Great Lakes are also hoping for rain or a lot of snow this winter. Because of the drought water levels have fallen to alarming lows with near-record lows on Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. For communities along the lakes that means a financial squeeze if it creates trouble for boats and keeps tourists away. Russell Dzuba is seeing this firsthand. He is the harbormaster in Leland Michigan and he joins me from his office looking out over the harbor. Mr. Dzuba welcome to the program. Thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And let us place you there. If Michigan looks like a mitten right you are up where the top of the pinky would be right in the northwest near Traverse City right on Lake Michigan?  That is correct.  Well if you look out your window right now looking out at the harbor tell us what you see. What does it look like?  There is a strand of sand that would allow me to walk around the entire inside of the harbor and that ordinarily is not a good thing in a harbor. At this point I am looking at cormorants and seagulls and ducks lulling about on a beach inside of my harbor so it is not a pleasant sight.  Mm. So you have got some beachfront where there should not be beachfront.  Absolutely.  Have you ever seen the lake this low before?  I remember back in 1964 I lived over on the Lake Huron side in that time and it was low but this is drastic. West Grand Traverse Bay is low. Folks who live along that shoreline now have an extra 100 or 150 feet of beach and believe me it is not sand. It is rock and it is not a very attractive asset to lake-front property.  Well what does it mean for Leland when water levels drop like this? What is the effect?  Well for us you know the one thing that we learned right away that word travels across the water much faster than it does through the air. And if folks get an idea that there is a problem navigating a channel at Leland they will just go by us. And if we miss out on two or 10 or 20 boats a day it hurts us. It hurts the grocery stores. It hurts the restaurants. It hurts the shops. It hurts the harbor. And so we need to keep the channel dredged and we need to have navigable space to accommodate our guests.  And what about dredging? Is there a hang-up there?  Well dredging is the issue. That is what gets people in and out. A brief history is the harbor is a federal harbor of refuge and along with that came maintenance dredging every year till about 1999 and the corps no longer dredged recreational shoal draft harbors.  This is the Army Corps of Engineers.  The Army Corps. And then - we then had to ask our legislatures for an earmark an appropriation each and every year and that worked until 2007 when Congress abolished the earmarks.  Aha.  Since then '07 we had to pay for it. We had a fundraiser and collected and then we had to pay again last year and it amounts to 175000. And so we are you know plodding along - fundraising and you know trying to cook up ideas on how to keep the channel open.  Well you have got to be hoping for a lot of snow this winter to bring those water levels up.  Absolutely. We had an incredibly warm season - warm winter season last year and we lost a lot of water to evaporation and that takes place during the whole winter as well as the summer. And if we can get some snowpack up on Lake Superior and then of course freezing. Traditionally we do not freeze as we did in the old days. It used to freeze all the way across the channel 11 miles out to North Manitou Island. That has not happened here in a number of years. It is an uphill battle but you know who thought we would be praying for snow and ice-cold temperatures.  Well Mr. Dzuba best of luck to you. Thanks for talking with us.  Well thank you so much.  Russell Dzuba is the harbormaster in Leland Michigan right on Lake Michigan. 