 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Barbara Bradley Hagerty reports that the idea of the hearing has created a fierce debate here in Washington and around the country.  The good news Congressman Pete King says is that al-Qaida has been thwarted from flying any more planes into buildings or attacking the U.S. from overseas. The bad news he told Fox News is that some Muslims in the U.S. are picking up the slack.  We are under siege by Muslim terrorists and yet there are Muslim leaders in this country who do not cooperate with law enforcement. We have the reality that al-Qaida is trying to recruit Muslim Americans and yet we have people in the Muslim community who refuse to face up to this.  And so King the Republican chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee is investigating homegrown terrorism. That might be a valid topic says Corey Saylor at the Council on American-Islamic Relations except that he believes King has an agenda.  So he said things like there are too many mosques in America. He is alleged that 80 percent of American Muslim leadership is extremist and yet he is never produced a single bit of evidence to back that up. That is the kind of thing that leads you to the Salem witch trials the Inquisition and frankly McCarthyistic hearings.  Saylor says King is stacking the deck against Muslims by calling witnesses who do not represent most Muslims in this country. Just look at the primary witness he says - Zuhdi Jasser a doctor in Phoenix who founded what Saylor calls an obscure group named the American Islamic Forum for Democracy. Jasser says of course Muslims have been radicalized. There have been 60 terror plots in the past two years.  Just look at the arrests - from Portland to Baltimore the Time Square bomber - so this is not just pie-in-the-sky discussion. This is a reality that we are going to have to deal with.  Jasser whose group claims about 2000 members says America needs to understand the root cause of this violence which he says is political Islam.  That has as a goal to create Islamic states that want to put into place Shariah law that give women third-class status that give other faiths secondary status that give moderate Muslims or critics of imams no voice.  Dr. Jasser is fear-mongering.  Corey Saylor of CAIR.  The vast majority of American Muslims are completely opposed to anything that would change the fundamental nature of the United States. The Constitution is the law of the land and we like it that way.  Still even Saylor acknowledges that some Muslims are swayed by radical ideas from abroad. Case in point Anwar al-Awlaki. Since he moved to Yemen in 2004 the American-born cleric has been calling on Muslims to wage war against America.  Jihad against America is binding upon myself just as it is binding on every other able Muslim.  Especially here at Dar Al-Hijrah Islamic Center in Northern Virginia. Awlaki was an imam here before he left the country. Worshippers disavow Awlaki's views. Still many feel there is been a surge of hostility toward their faith. Maura Yasin says Muslims are being singled out because of a few bad actors.  These instances represent a minority of the Muslim population here. Just as the Unabomber or Eric Robert Rudolph or Timothy McVeigh these represent a minority of whichever group you want to pigeonhole them in.  And Muslims are not only being smeared says Hussein Goal. They are being targeted as well.  It is no news. You know it is no-brainer to our community here that we are under surveillance and we are being watched - our emails our phones and everything - you know basically that is what it is.  And yet police have to do something to prevent attacks says another member Tariq Nelson - even if that means keeping a close eye on his mosque.  We applaud it when it is white supremacists neo-Nazis the militia groups and all these kind of people. You know I mean it is good for the goose but not good for the gander.  Johari Abdul Malik who is an imam here agrees. But he says Muslims are often the key to stopping terrorism. Just in the D.C. area he says it was Muslims who thwarted two recent plots.  The guy on the Metro it was somebody in our community who tipped off law enforcement. The five boys who went to Pakistan it was their mothers and fathers that went to the imam and said Imam something is going on. The imam called one of our national Islamic organizations. That group said We have to call the FBI right now.  Barbara Bradley Hagerty NPR News. 