 Now Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. Welcome to the program once again. Secretary  Thank you Robert.  As we have heard the banks are saying that this is about politics not economics that banks who have paid back their TARP or never took any TARP money are going to be taxed along with the other banks. What do you say to that? Sec.  We are doing the - what is fair and what is just what is economically sensible and what we have a legal obligation to do which is to make sure that we hold the American people harmless from the cost of the financial crisis and that we collect back from the financial industry - that benefited from the financial rescue - the ultimate costs of what it took to solve this crisis. That is a sensible fair thing to do.  What do you say then to a bank which says we never took any TARP money so we have not benefited from this? Sec.  Well you know this is designed to apply to the largest financial institutions in the country that benefited most directly from the rescue. And that to us seemed the sensible way to do it. You know we are doing it in a way that effectively puts a tax on leverage so that it will help disincent some of the risky practices that caused the crisis. And we have designed it carefully to reduce the risk that it has any impact on lending. And we think that is the best way to do it.  There is one reading of this which is that it is an effort - this tax is an effort to blunt the impression that the administration has been too close to Wall Street too soft on Wall Street. Is that part of what is happening? Sec.  No it is not. I mean again the law that was passed to authorize the financial rescue put an obligation on the president to propose a way to recoup the cost of the crisis and that is what we are doing.  Now 90 billion say over 10 years is a lot of money. But this year three big banks are expected to spend almost 50 billion in bonuses. So that makes it sound perhaps like no more than a nuisance tax for these banks. Sec.  No this is a very substantial fee. But again the size is determined by what the conservative estimate of total losses might be. That is what decides the ultimate costs. So we are you know Robert we are just trying to meet that basic obligation in a way that is fair makes sense is good economic policy and is basically just.  What about bonuses though? If this fee is imposed and come next January we see bank bonuses just as big as this year would that suggest to you that this has not done the job or could that happen and could the fee still be working? Sec.  This fee is not designed to address that problem. And as you know our financial system has got a lot of problems in the basic design of the rules. And we are going to have to fix that. And that is why it is so important that we pass financial reform that puts in place much stronger constraints on banks taking risks that protects the consumers and investors from the kind of behavior that cause so much damage and you know reduces the risk we ever again face a crisis like this...  But are not you at all concerned about at least the appearances of bonuses that seem to show that the banks that received help from the federal government do not get it? Sec.  Look I think what is happening on the bonus front is deeply troubling. And I think it is causing enormous damage to basic trust and confidence in the people running our financial institutions. And I think it is very important as part of financial reform creating a more stable system is that these institutions are forced to change those practices. And we are going to work very hard to do that. But our basic obligations again is to make sure we pass strong reforms put cops back on the street enforcing those rules so that we never again put the country in the position of facing something this damaging.  You are satisfied that the bill that is moving through the Senate... Secretary  I think we are actually...  ...qualifies as a strong reform? Sec.  I think that we - what passed I think is a very strong set of reforms and I know Chairman Dodd is working very hard to build on that progress. And I think we have a very good chance at getting strong reforms in place and we are going to fight very hard to make that happen. You know again this is a just war. It is a necessary war for the American people.  Now there is another matter I want to ask you about that goes back to your time as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and that is been in the news quite a bit lately. It is about AIG. AIG received a huge bailout from the Federal Reserve. Financial institutions that it owed money to were getting a hundred cents on the dollar instead of having to settle for much less than that as if AIG were in bankruptcy. So two questions. First Was the Fed standing up AIG so as to spare Goldman Sachs  Deutsche Bank the consequences of very risky decisions they have made? And second Did the New York Fed and did you have anything to do with telling AIG to keep details of those transactions secret? Sec.  No on the first. If the government had not stepped in to act to prevent the failure of AIG this crisis would have been much more damaging. And I believe we did it in a way that ultimately will cost the government much less money than the alternatives. And I think we made the basic test of doing it in a way that was going to provide the best basic return for the American people. In fact on the specific transaction the Fed was involved in it is almost certain the Fed will actually make money in that transaction.  Then why was not the word to  Go ahead and be as public about it as you would in any other filing? Sec.  No I understand that. So in your second question I had no involvement because I had already been appointed or at least my appointment to this job had been announced. I had no involvement in that basic decision.  You are saying you had recused yourself from dealing with AIG at that point? Sec.  I was recused from dealing with AIG and had no involvement in the decision about what to disclose when. But the Fed has disclosed all the information about what counterparties get I think appropriately. And of course I will work very closely with the Congress to make sure they have the information necessary that people can look and evaluate the judgments we made with the benefit of hindsight but these are consequences . But I think overall it is important for people to recognize that what we did was necessary even though it was offensive. I think we did it in a way that was least cost to the taxpayer.  But with the benefit of hindsight would you look back at AIG why not say that AIG a huge insurance company was as imprudent with risk as General Motors was bad at making and selling cars? So if they... Secretary  More imprudent.  ...owed you money - more imprudent - if they owed you money Sorry guys but you will have to settle for something less than a hundred cents on the dollar. We will keep . Sec.  Oh Robert if that had been possible of course we would have done that but the basic - you know this is the tragic failure of our system. The basic problem is for a financial institution like AIG bankruptcy was untenable.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner thanks a lot for talking with us once again. Sec.  Thank you Robert. 