 So OK. It is still winter and it is pretty cold in most of the country. California sorry we do not want to hear any of it. For the rest of you we have a distraction a little thing we are calling Hot Stuff. Cue the montage.  Hot stuff. Steamy.  Hot. Sizzle.  Sizzle sizzle pop.    It is getting hot in here. So take off all your clothes.  We decided one way to warm you up today would not just be this montage but a playlist of hot songs for your walk to work while you are shoveling the car you know whatever - for that personal dance party you might be having later with yourself. We are not going to judge. Helping us out with this is Jason King. He is the host and curator of I will Take You There. It is a 247 RB channel from NPR Music. How is winter treating you Jason?  Hey Kelly. Well I am originally from northwestern Canada so I guess I should be used to winter brutality. But I do not think you can ever really get used to it.  Right. Do you have any special gear or anything like that? Are you just - like do Canadians know things that we do not know?  No I do not think we do. But I am into fashionable discomfort. I would rather look fashionable and I will just be cold.  Really?  Yeah.  Right we do not need coats. We need songs. That is how we are going to be warmed. How should we get this started here?  Why do not we start with the first song that you might play secretly in your apartment alone when it is too cold outside to do anything else?  I do that.  I do too.  OK good.   Looking for some hot stuff baby this evening. I need some hot stuff baby tonight. I want some hot stuff baby this evening. Got to have some hot stuff. Got to have some loving tonight.  The song you will probably know because it came out in 1979 - Donna Summer's Hot Stuff. It is from her Bad Girls album.  Right.  But this is done Brazilian bossa nova style by a group called Groove da Praia. It is slowed down. It is seductive. It is incandescent.   I need your hot stuff.  Yeah a little tropical goodness there. But what if I want - you know I am kind of like slowly starting to move around. What if I want to like really dance?  OK. Then let us start the dance.   This next track is from an artist named Bohannon. He was actually Stevie Wonder's drummer back in the '60s and then he backed up a lot of Motown acts. So this track is a lot of hot polyrhythmic syncopated percussion.    Everybody.  This is like disco-tastic.    Get on up and dance.  The song's from 1976. It was a huge underground dance classic. Larry Levan classic DJ loved to play this song. And it features Carolyn Crawford on those incredible lead vocals.    Get on up and dance now.  Hey wait a second.  So you probably recognize that melody. Get on up and dance now.  Yeah.  Get on up and dance now.  Yeah.  That sounds kind of familiar.  Because a decade later CC Music Factory would borrow that melody for their classic.    Everybody dance now.  Everybody dance now - going to make you sweat.    Everybody dance now.  That is another song that'll make you get up and dance.  Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. There is a  - I think the lights just went down in the studio. OK. Did it spawn other songs besides CC Music Factory?  I think it just got a lot of people really interested in house music 'ecause it really was part of the movement from disco in the 1970s into house music into a harder kind of aggressive beat.  Nice.  And so yeah.  All right so you know so things are happening here. Everybody's moving around not sweating quite yet. Can you feel where I am going with this?  I think I know where you are going.   Prince. Duh. I mean - I mean you know.   You do not have to be beautiful to turn me on.  OK right. Am I super lame to have to have this song on my playlist? Am I you know acting my age my and not my shoe size?  Oh no. Kiss is never going to get old. I mean you could be 85. You could be 25. You could be 15. That is just a hot track to the core. So you are totally forgiven.  OK good.    Do not have to be rich to be my girl. You do not have to be cool to rule my world. As not no particular sign I am more compatible with. I just want your extra time and your kiss.  All right. Now I am set. Like my dance party is fine. What about you? Like what is that one song that you have to have on this playlist that like gets you going in the dead of winter?  All right. So I am going to move out of the '80s. I am going to move into the current moment. I am going to go with the song 212 by Azealia Banks.    I was in the 212 on the uptown A. Expletive you know what is up or do not you? Word to who made you. I am a rude expletive. What are you made up of?  OK. So this track came out a couple of years ago. Azealia Banks is a New York born and bred rapper. She is mostly known for getting into these online battles on social media and Twitter. But she released an album last year called Broke With Expensive Taste. For me it is one of the best records of the year. This song has been the highlight of her career so far. What I love about it is that get-to-the-dance-floor beat. I mean it is incredible. But on top of that her voice is fascinating. She moves between three different voices. First you hear that super nimble rap voice that we just heard. And then you hear this kind of mellow singing voice.    Ayo ayo. I heard you are riding with the same tall - tall tale telling them you made some.  And then it goes into this anthemic shouted chant.    What you going to do when I appear when I premier?   the end of lives are near. This  is mine - mine. What you going to do when I appear?  Oh I like it. In the 212 - so she is from New York?  Yeah. She is definitely New York born and bred.  Nice.    Mine mine.  Nice. All right I think we have time for one more song Jason. What is it going to be?  All right. Let us go back to the '80s again. Let us time travel.  Yeah.  Michael Jackson P.Y.T. from 1983 his blockbuster album Thriller.  Oh yes. God it is such a good song.    I want to love you pretty young thing. You need some loving. Tender loving care. And I will take you there. Yes I will.  One-song dance party for sure.  Yeah yeah. I think - I think we are totally warmed up now. I am actually sweating .  Well if that song does not make you get up and dance like the coldness of winter has really gotten into your bones your joints or something. So you have to go to a doctor because something's wrong.   OK cool. Well thanks so much Jason for sharing your Hot Stuff music picks.  Thanks Kelly. Stay warm everyone.  Yep. That is Jason King. He is host of NPR Music's RB channel. 