 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. And now we continue our conversation from yesterday about the new book The Digital Age. It is co-authored by Google Chief Executive Eric Schmidt and former State Department official Jared Cohen. He is now head of Google's Ideas think tank. Their view of the future of an increasingly connected world was shaped by visits to countries run by stable and emerging democracies. They also visited countries run by autocratic regimes and they predict a danger in those countries that autocratic rulers will apply the same oppressive laws they use against their citizens to control the Internet. Eric Schmidt begins by explaining what he saw on their trip.  Well we were just in Burma. Burma of course is magically coming out of a very very tight dictatorship and police state. As the lid of security lifts off the underlying religious tensions are becoming well-known. There have been attacks between Muslims and other groups and so forth and the Buddhists. So when all of that happens the instinct is to go shut down everything shut down the conversation shut down the Internet. So what will the Internet in Burma look like? We hope it is an open Internet. But you can imagine if the conflict got much worse the powers that be might say this Internet thing is too dangerous. We are going to shut that down. You can see it in their faces as you discuss the challenges ahead.  And one interesting observation - this is Jared - about our trip what we realized is that in a lot of these societies that are beginning to connect to the Internet this whole concept of cyberspace has come to serve in some respects a global version of the American dream. They think it is going to make them economically better off. They think it is going to make them more free. And the notion of the Internet as an idea that populations that are not even connected are trying to pursue is in fact a very powerful one.  It sounds very powerful but it also does sound as though when you describe the limits that an autocratic regime would be able to put on its citizens in the Digital Age that it essentially undermines your arguments about what people are able to do in those situations.  Well - this is Eric - I would say that the power of information is underrated. When we went to North Korea we felt that if there was any way we could help get that country on the right track would be to get a little bit of Internet into the country. In many countries the Internet is the only way to get an alternative point of view in and the Internet's arrival could destabilize some of these autocratic regimes who we believe will fight it. They cannot completely shut it off because the Internet is too important for their business and their other goals. So a little bit of Internet in there will bring some openness and some ideas to every single country.  To follow up on that Mr. Schmidt what did the North Koreans say to you though? I mean this is a trip that the State Department called frankly unhelpful. And I want to know what you think you got out of it in the end. What did the North Koreans say to you?  The North Koreans when you meet with them are very opaque. They spend five to 10 minutes giving a speech which references the respected leader many many times. We would then give our report and they would write it all down and then they would not comment on it. It was impossible for us to determine whether they are really going to act on our input or not but we tried.  In the end what did you walk away with? Was there any kind of agreement or conversation that you felt you walked away with something concrete?  Well we know they heard our arguments for the benefit of an open Internet. And we described in great detail how they should build out their Internet. And all they had to do was to turn on the 3G signal in their mobile network which is already in place and the world would be a better place in our view. We know they heard that. We have no sense of whether they are going to act on it. For example after we left they turned on 3G roaming for international visitors and then two weeks ago they turned it back off again. So we do not know what they are up to. And I would caution against speculating against a country that is very very hard to read.  So when you say that what does it mean for your argument that technology empowers all parties and allows smaller actors to have outsized impact? I mean this seems naive thinking about people fighting oppressive regimes.  Countries that have the Internet already are not going to turn it off. And so the power of freedom the power of ideas will spread and it will change those societies in very dramatic ways. North Korea is the last stop. It is the one country that is never had the Internet where it is been blocked - in my view very harshly - by the government. All they have to do is turn it on a little bit and they cannot turn it back. Once the ideas are in you cannot kick them out of the country.  Jared Cohen let us look at another area of the world the Arab Spring in the Middle East. This is an area where people have talked a lot about the impact of social networking or the Internet in helping people to sustain their opposition. But even you write that even in the Digital Age revolutions will be easy to start hard to finish.  Yes and there are several reasons for that. One is the accelerated pace of movement-making may actually stifle leadership development. So if you think about the old model you know a leader you know took several decades. If you look at the Mandelas and the Lech Walesas of the world they became a leader first and eventually emerged as a public figure. These revolutions now happen so fast that they are producing an abundance of celebrities. But those individuals while well-known do not necessarily have the leadership training. They are not necessarily able to run for office win and then deliver. And I guess our argument is technology can be useful for getting into the street which is a tactic but at the end of the day no revolution can succeed without having new leaders new faces and institutions that can deliver in a way that is better than the previous government. Our prediction is that 10 years from now a new generation of leaders will emerge in the Arab Spring countries and people will actually go back through the footage to the days of the Arab Spring and compare and contrast which leaders have emerged and what their Arab Spring credentials look like. And that will actually become part of the campaign platform.  Another country I want to talk about is China because obviously Google and China have a rocky relationship to say the least. And Eric Schmidt when we last spoke to you on ALL id that it was better to be engaged rather than estranged with China. But has it been?  Well what happened with China was that the censorship regime became too hot for us to handle. What happened was that the moment anything happened in their country we would get a phone call delete it delete it delete it without telling anyone. And it became just too much. We in fact moved over to Hong Kong and the Chinese have built a censorship thing called the Great Firewall which controls what access gets into China. Google as a company cannot be in the middle of that kind of dynamic censorship and that was the right decision for Google.  Jared you once worked for the State Department and now you work for Google Ideas which I have seen described as the company think tank. Given what you have written in this book is it fair to say that the Digital Age is going to bring more power to companies companies like Google over nation-states?  Well if you think about the next 5 billion people connecting to the Internet the vast majority of those populations live in parts of the world where there is conflict instability and where the governance model is autocracy. So the challenge is that the next 5 billion users we will encounter in a lot of respects look different from that of the first 2 billion users. We write in the book that there is a dangerous gap that exists between the technical world and the geopolitical world. And ultimately over time we want to see that gap closed.  Let me add that in - with this empowerment that we talk about in the book you have sort of a race. And you have a race of a new generation of people who will be heard from who want to be famous who want to be driving. The same race occurs for companies. There will be huge new platforms created on top of this global Internet that we talk about. And there will be a new generation of companies like Google Twitter Facebook and so forth all of which will be competing and they will be competing very fast. It is true that governments always have the security trump card eventually but the movement of the people in the company is so fast-forward we will change the governments faster than they expect. And in many cases they will be caught flat-footed. And in countries where there is not a sense of democracy it is not an elected government there is a serious danger of overreaction by autocrats as a result of this.  Eric Schmidt and Jared Cohen thank you so much for speaking with us.  OK. Well thank you so much Audie.  Thank you very much. 