 The Office of Congressional Ethics will remain as is. That would not be notable except that late last night House Republicans voted among themselves to strip the office of its independence and much of its power. Then early this afternoon after outrage from Democrats and a tweet of disappointment from President-elect Donald Trump they reversed that plan. The Office of Congressional Ethics is the body responsible for investigating allegations of misconduct against members of the House of Representatives. It is faced criticism from members of both parties since it was founded in 2008 not long after a series of ethics violations including a corruption scandal around former lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Leo Wise served as the first head of the office which operates independently of Congress. He left in 2010. When I spoke to him earlier Wise said that before the creation of the OCE ethics investigations in the House were opaque.  It was you know a time when the ethics process was really a black box where allegations about both Jack Abramoff and the members that ultimately - some of whom went to jail over their corrupt dealings with him - were being talked about in the press and in some case in the courts but there was no sense of what was happening within the institution itself. And I think this was in part an effort to open that up and shine sunlight into it.  So there is a formal committee the House Ethics Committee that exists. How does investigation by this independent office work?  Sure. So there is a board that governs the office. And they have to take a vote to begin an investigation. And then the investigators present their findings to the board. And if there is enough evidence the board will authorize the investigation to continue. And then if even more evidence is developed the board can vote to refer the case to the House Ethics Committee to do whatever in their judgment is the best course for the House and for the member.  Does the House Ethics Committee tend to pick up those investigations where you leave off?  They do not. And I think that speaks volumes about why the OCE was needed.  So all the power comes in I guess the end of the process which is making those records those fact findings public.  I think that is right. That is what brings to light what happened so that the public can know what their elected officials are doing or not doing.  The OCE though has been criticized for being overly aggressive. It investigates based on anonymous tips. And as you said investigations are made public even if the accusations are ultimately dismissed. And then you have members who you know are saddled with legal fees or just do not win re-election even though they have not been convicted of any kind of crime. I mean what is your response to that?  Well the - sort of the facts are the facts. The OCE does not decide if people broke the law. It collects the evidence and then it presents it so...  But the implication is quite the cloud.  Well you know I think when members' conduct is exposed to the public and to their fellow lawmakers you know the consequences flow from the conduct. Whereas focusing on the fact the conduct is now known seems to me misplacing where the agency should be.  Why do you think this essentially independent ethics panel has had a target on its back ever since it was created right? Like Congress made it and then seemed to like regret it almost immediately.  I mean I think that is a testament to the fact that it was effective. It did shine light on practices that were in some cases wrong in some cases resulted in referrals for criminal enforcement actions. And that is not a popular thing. But it was never...  But why were they surprised by that right? Like is not that kind of the whole point of creating it?  Well that is a good question. We decided to do the job we were given and to follow the facts wherever they led. And at the end of the day I think that that is precisely why the OCE has been targeted this way because it was not just you know a place where ethics complaints went to die or a mail stop where people could vent their frustration and then that would be sort of tucked away on a shelf somewhere never to see the light of day.  Leo Wise former head of the Office of Congressional Ethics. Thank you for speaking with us.  My pleasure. 