 You may not know the name Aziz Ansari but you have probably laughed at him or with him. He is a stand-up comedian and actor who is appeared on some of TV's funniest shows - Scrubs Reno 911! Flight of the Conchords - and also on the big screen in Judd Apatow's latest movie Funny People. Now Aziz Ansari has a steady day job. He plays Tom Haverford public servant on the NBC sitcom Parks and Recreation. It is a mockumentary created by the people who brought The Office to America. And in this scene Tom is talking to his colleague played by the star of the show Saturday Night Live veteran Amy Poehler.  Ms.   You are not from here right? Mr.   No I am from South Carolina. Ms.   But you moved to South Carolina from where? Mr.   My mother's uterus. Ms.   But you were conceived in Libya right? Mr.   Wow no. I was conceived in America. My parents are Indian. Ms.   Where does the name Haverford come from? Mr.   My birth name is Darwish Sabir Ishmael Ghani and I changed it to Tom Haverford because you know brown guys with funny-sounding Muslim names do not make it really far in politics.   Aziz Ansari welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Mr.  Hello thank you for having me.  So did you actually make up a lot of that make up that character? Mr.  I am really from South Carolina. That is my cousin's name Darwish Ghani. And so I just did that so he would get teased at school.   Your cousin Darwish? Mr.  Yeah.  Well OK let us get back to you and your character. You play a character Tom Haverford on Parks and Recreation who - well describe him for us. Mr.  Amy Poehler plays Leslie Knope who is the deputy director of the Parks and Recreation Department and Tom is basically her right-hand man basically like an administrative assistant. So you know my character I think is a little bit savvier and yeah I am just usually with her for all these hijinks that we go through in the show.  And you are kind of - well you are kind of a jerk.  Mr.  Yeah. I am really sleazy. I hit on women a lot. It is a fun attitude to play. It is always fun to play a dude who is kind of a sleazebag.   And then in that clip we just heard she thinks that you are from Libya. I mean do you play off the ethnic humor a lot? Mr.  No not really. I think it is a point of pride for the show that my character could be played by a white guy but they ended up just hiring me.   So tell me a little bit about how you got this role and what you want to make out of it. Mr.  I had just finished two seasons of the sketch comedy show I did on MTV called Human Giant. Greg Daniels and Mike Scheer the guys who created this show knew who I was from that show. They met with me and basically said you know we are working on this new show. It is going to be like The Office documentary style. We are not even sure what it is going to be and we would like you to be a part of it. As far as my goal - I was just thinking about this - is to eventually like after a few seasons for some reason get fired and then have to be replaced by another Indian guy with a beard. Like do you remember like on sitcoms every now and then like - it will be like the next season then there would be like what happened to the mom? That is a different actor.   So to make way... Mr.  I just want that - it has not happened in a while and I want that to happen. I want to be replaced by another Indian guy who looks kind of like me.  Have you ever worked in an office situation like that? Mr.  I - the only similar job I had was I worked for NYU heating ventilation and air conditioning. I guess that is the closest thing I have had to a parks and recreation job - which is not very close at all.  Was this when you were a student? Mr.  Yeah. You know I am actually - that is really my passion. I am going to try to save up some money from acting and then go back to working at NYU heating ventilation and air conditioning. It is - Parks and Recreation is kind of like temping so I can go back to my real love. When you walk through the Bobst Library and you feel that cool air you know there is a sense of pride you know? It' I did that. I am the reason why people are not sweating.   You were in school. You were not studying comedy. I mean I do not think you can get a degree at NYU . What were you studying? Mr.  No I went to business school thinking oh that'ill be like a bunch of laid-back kids who are not sure what they want to do like me. And instead it was like really intense kids that were like very focused on finance and you know I have got to work at Goldman Sachs you know etc. and I was doing stand-up the whole time while I was in school. And like you know by - like my second or third year of doing stand-up I was like well I feel like I could at least make a career out of just touring as a stand-up. So I did that and I just you know finished my marketing - I did not drop out of school or anything. I just did not want to do that. I did not feel like it was necessary.  So you have a degree in marketing from NYU. Mr.  I do.  You have also been in feature films. Mr.  Sure yeah.  Most recently Funny People Judd Apatow movie. Mr.  I was in Funny People Judd's movie. It was very fun.  And you played Randy. Mr.  I played a very obnoxious loud silly comedian named Randy who is basically - a lot of people thought it was like oh this is a take on Dane Cook or whoever and it was more the notion of like what if Soulja Boy was a stand-up comedian instead of a rapper? I do not know if the NPR audience is hip to Soulja Boy. Soulja Boy is on FRESH AIR this week right?   Right. Mr.  He hosts t he? Soulja Boy Tell Em?  He fills in for Terry. Mr.  Terry does odd weeks Soulja Boy even weeks. That could be the news segment. All right now it is time for our news segment. Let us see what is going on in the Middle East Soulja Boy Tell Em.  Mr.  And then Soulja Boy breaks it down.  Aziz Ansari thank you very much. Mr.  Oh thanks so much for having me. That is so fun.    Soulja Boy Tell Em. Hopped up out the bed turn my swag on.  You can watch comedian Aziz Ansari tonight on NBC's sitcom Parks and Recreation.    I am getting money oh. Hopped up out the bed turn my swag on.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 