 Season six of the HBO show Game Of Thrones just wrapped up last night and one of the things people are talking about is how the show portrays women. For a while it seemed like some female characters were dutiful mothers or sex objects or victims. But this latest season has shown some of the women taking charge and taking power.    Your reign is over.   My reign has just begun.  To talk about this we have got Glen Weldon in the studio from NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. Hey there.  Hey there.  And Greta Johnsen. She hosts the Nerdette podcast from WBEZ. Hi.  Hey.  OK so two things I need to say up front - for people who are not caught up with the show this is a major spoiler alert right now. We are going to talk about stuff so beware. And second I do not actually watch Game Of Thrones so you two are going to have to help me out here and make sure I know what is going on. But let us start with the show is reputation so far especially in these early years and the way it portrayed women.  Well yeah I think especially initially in the first couple of seasons women were essentially the heads of household. Kind of when you mentioned - as you mentioned in that intro - right? - they were dutiful wives. They were strong mothers but that was essentially it you know? They were as powerful as they could be in relation to the men who they were either married to or who they were mothers to. And you know I think that was not the most interesting thing to watch right? Things have definitely developed especially over the last season or two.  So yeah. We are in season six now and tell us what is different Glen in terms of women and how they are treated.  Well you know Ian McShane was a guest star on a recent episode and he got into some trouble for spoiling something to the press. And then he came out with another interview where he said well what do you care about this show? Game Of Thrones is nothing but - I am going to paraphrase here - boobs and dragons. And for most of this show is existence he is not wrong especially in the first few seasons. But what has happened is that some of those very same women the owners of those very same boobs have grown to power.   And what is happening is they are all now becoming major characters in ways that they were peripheral in the beginning. Sometimes they have to go through very heinous trials to get to that to achieve that. But I think - I say something changed in the show around the introduction of Olenna Tyrell.    Shut up Dear - anything from you - no - good. Let the grown women speak.  Olenna Tyrell is a character played by Diana Rigg who is an older woman. There is not a lot of old people in this world because people get killed. And there is certainly not a lot of women - at least in the beginning there were not a lot of women in a position of power who were funny and who knew what was going on who were playing the game the way the game of thrones is supposed to be played. This is a scene between Dany Targaryen who is a queen who is been dithering around in a faraway land for far too long and Yara Greyjoy who is the leader of what are essentially Vikings. And they are coming to an alliance.    Our fathers were evil men all of us here. They left the world worse than they found it. We are not going to do that. We are going to leave the world better than we found it.  So Greta what do you think about this? I mean do you feel like there is been a real change here that women are getting more powerful in this season?  Oh absolutely. And I think you know you see it in two different ways right? There are still women manipulating the men in their lives but there are also women who are over the men entirely. I mean Daenerys Targaryen who was just speaking in that scene is a great example of that right? She used to be married to this guy and she kind of used him to help bring her power out. He died and then she was like all right fine I am just going to take it over myself. I am the mother of dragons. You know forget the rest of you people. And I think you are seeing more and more of that and you are seeing alliances between these strong women which that scene also so beautifully shows you. And you know there is so little room at the top for these women in power so to see them actually realizing like oh maybe we should team up is just so much fun to watch.  OK is Game Of Thrones now a feminist show? Is that where we are at?  Greta?    I mean I do not know Man. That is such a tough question. It is really difficult to actually ask yourself if things are feminist. You know you have to just kind of enjoy them. I think it is really important to put a feminist lens on things...  Yeah.  ...And you know to have these kinds of conversations. Is it feminist? I mean I would definitely rather live in the United States of America in 2016 than I would in Westeros any day.   Despite whatever your alliances may be in Westeros.  Exactly.  Cool. That is Greta Johnsen of the Nerdette podcast at WBEZ and Glen Weldon of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour. Thanks guys.  Thank you.  Thanks. 