 Last weekend  a July 4th movie extravaganza in a theater near you.   A blast from TV past this new film version of The Lone Ranger stars Johnny Depp. It was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and directed by Gore Verbinski the team behind three of the hugely successful Pirates of the Caribbean movies. But despite big expectations and an even bigger 225 million budget The Lone Ranger proved to be no silver bullet. It was a box office flop. Over its first five days it earned 48 million and it was panned by critics. This week Hollywood is looking at The Lone Ranger train wreck as a cautionary tale for any aspiring blockbuster. To talk to us about what went wrong and what it means for the future of this kind of big budget summer film joining us is Steven Zeitchik of the Los Angeles Times. Welcome once again.  Good to be here.  And first what were the expectations going into a remake of an old TV show that most younger audiences do not even know which was in itself a remake of an older radio show?  That is right. It is not exactly a spanking new or fresh idea or brand. On the other hand you had Johnny Depp and Gore Verbinski who as you note are responsible for three of the four Pirates films grossing well over several billion dollars for the Walt Disney Company which also released this film. So all of that contributed to the sense that this could be a very profitable blockbuster film. And in the days leading up to the release we saw that it was going to go in a very different direction.  But is not the idea behind these big action films that - is that once they are dubbed into Chinese once they go global they make back their losses because the audiences are vast and nobody cares how dumb the script is?  Well that pretty much does sum up Hollywood circa 2013. And certainly for a lot of films that is the case. And the ratio between foreign box office and domestic box office is increasing or rather the balance is shifting. All that said I think Lone Ranger has its work cut out for it in part because the budget is extremely high and it is a very costly film. But more important I think Westerns traditionally do not do well overseas. You know yes Johnny Depp is something of a star. It is already you know done a little bit of business in some of the major markets but not enough to make a difference.  Recently Steven Spielberg and George Lucas predicted the implosion of the current Hollywood studio system and they predict the inevitable failure of enough of these 200-million movies will change the studio system in a fundamental way. Do people see The Lone Ranger experience as a landmark along that road to dissolution?  I think they do. And I think landmark is a great word to use because this is obviously not the first film of significant means to flop as it did and it is probably not the last. But it kind of epitomizes everything that is happening with Hollywood now that I think Spielberg was trying to sum up there which is that you have movies whose budgets have just gotten really out of control and returns that are not justified. Nor for that matter as you point out are these films necessarily very good. Not that that is always the relevant factor but certainly it can be. And I think kind of as we move forward and as studios reevaluate what they want to do they will be sort of one of the if not the only certainly one of the biggest signs of how things need to change. And this summer we are seeing that in spades.  Yes. There is an alternative theory to all of this voiced 200 years ago by Samuel Johnson when he was writing of some low-quality Shakespeare.  from mere inferiority nothing can be inferred.  make a bad movie it will do badly. Make a good blockbuster maybe it will succeed.  Yeah. And look there is - no one went broke underestimating how movies of a certain middle-brow quality can do with an audience this coming week. We have a movie named Grown-Ups 2 which probably not going to be a critic's favorite but is going to win the box office easily probably make more than Lone Ranger did. So I think that is certainly true. That said you need at least a certain commercial formula. Lone Ranger After Earth the Will Smith film earlier in the season - these are movies that do not even seem to have that going for them.  John Carter?  Another big bomb Disney film from last year. And that is sort of the thing - I think when you talk about the landmark on this road there are a lot more landmarks in the last year or two. You have got that film. You have got Mars Needs Moms another sci-fi movie did not do well.  Mars Needs Moms?  The title says it all does not it? But we are in a period of a lot of movies that seem good in some studio executive office does not do that well at the box office.  Steven Zeitchik of the Los Angeles Times. Thank you for talking with us.  Thanks Robert. I appreciate it. 