   Tradition. Tradition.  If you know any musicals at all then you probably know the beloved Fiddler On The Roof the story of Tevye the dairyman and his family set in the town of Anatevka during Czarist Russia. Now you might remember that right as the musical ends second-eldest daughter Hodel makes the bold decision to leave her family and everything she knows to find her fiance Perchik who is been sent to a labor camp in Siberia. As she boards the train Hodel says to her father...    God alone knows when we shall see each other again.   Then we leave it in his hands.  And that is how you had to leave it until now. Alexandra Silber who you just heard playing Hodel in London's West End decided she could not leave it at that. And she decided to write a sequel to Fiddler On The Roof called After Anatevka. And she joins us now from our studios in New York City. Alexandra Silber thank you so much for being here.  Thank you so much for having me Michel.  Now I want to mention that in addition to Hodel you have also played Hodel's older sister...  Yes.  ...Tzeitel...  Yes.  ..On Broadway. So you know this musical as well as anyone. What I was wondering is if you grew up loving it? I mean I cannot think of an elementary school recital where...  I know.  ...Somebody was not singing something from Fiddler On The Roof. I mean it just seems to be - it is like the sun and the moon. You cannot remember a time when it did not exist. So I just wondered did you always love it?  Yeah. In fact my journey with Fiddler began as a sophomore in high school when I gave the world my Golde who is the mother of the family. So I have always always loved this story. And of course I am a Jewish woman myself descended from people from the Pale of Settlement. So it is always been a very personal story but also a very universal one.  The musical is based on stories from the 1800s by the famous Yiddish writer Sholem Aleichem. Tell me how this project came to take root in your mind and...  Yeah.  ...That you thought you could actually do this.  It actually was a very very personal project that I never really had an intention of sharing with the wider world. For me the process of being with Hodel in that London production really happened over the course of two and a half years. And when it was over I felt like a very very close friend of mine suddenly stopped calling me. And I was bereft without her. It is this 18-year-old girl that boldly goes off toward adventure and danger and we as an audience do not know what happens to her. And I think for me I needed to see it through. I needed to know. And so I very privately started writing this story for myself not telling anybody about it as a very personal project.  When did you decide that this could actually be a book like you could actually take it beyond a personal project? I do want to mention in fact the forward which is written by the lyricist for...  Yeah.  ...Fiddler On The Roof Sheldon Harnick he says that actors often write a pre-story for themselves. They kind of settle for themselves what has happened up to the point that they step on stage but that is for them. That is a...  Yeah.  ...Very private exercise. When did you say to yourself you know what this is actually something I can share?  I think when I started to recognize that the specificity of Hodel's journey was illuminating something that was universal something that could resonate with all people not just women not just Jews not just people that love Fiddler or love history and you know recognizing that oppressed people everywhere and courageous and tenacious people everywhere needed a new heroine.  Now let us go to the story. And as we said in the musical when we last see Hodel she is at a train station leaving her father to go try to find the love of her life. The book opens - I have to say it is a brutal experience. I mean she is being abused by guards - by prison guards in Siberia. What made you decide to open the book this way? It is a jolt. I mean for those who think of Fiddler On The Roof as a very kind of a pleasant experience to take your you know elementary school kids this comes as a bit of a shock.  Yeah. I think one of the things that is sort of surprising about Fiddler On The Roof itself is that it is - it is incredibly human an incredible sort of aperture into history and surprising that it is a musical. But this is one of the most brutal and tumultuous periods in European history. And I wanted to show the reality of what it was like to be processed in a Siberian work camp.  Well to that end I understand that you did quite a bit of research.  It is interesting. I realized at a certain point in my writing of this that one needs to actually make a physical journey to replicate a journey that is happening within you. And for me that really was about sort of making a pilgrimage if you will to Siberia itself and immersing myself in the culture and you know really digging my fingernails into the soil.  Do you mind if I note that you lost your own dad...  Yeah.  ...To cancer when you were 18?  Yes.  And I do find myself wondering when I found that out whether that did inform the way you played Hodel knowing that she was a teenager...  Of course.  ...And she had to say goodbye to her dad for different reasons. But I just wondered was that a part of the story for you? Yeah.  So my father passed away of a very long battle with cancer when I was just 18. And it is a very odd time to lose a parent. And I felt like I was presented with a decision that is not dissimilar to Hodel's. Sort of option one was all right well I can curl up and die too. And I do not think anyone would have blamed me. And option 2 was OK in the face of this tragedy I could really really live. I could go on a great adventure. And I think losing someone you love is the thing we all fear the most. And I faced it and I survived. So what could ever possibly be difficult again? And I responded to that by getting on a plane and moving to Scotland. It is sort of crazy now. And you sort of go oh how brave. But just like Hodel it did not feel brave. It felt necessary. And only now as an adult do I see that there is a direct parallel to a woman at 18 a young woman who says goodbye to her father and gets on a plane to Scotland and - pardon me for my emotion - but an 18-year-old woman who says goodbye to her father and gets on a train to Siberia both of whom are then to fulfill their destinies. And for me the reason it is so personal is I did not realize that in finishing Hodel's story and making sure that she was all right I was taking care of myself. And so I feel like After Anatevka has really given me an opportunity to see something through that is more deeply personal than anything I have ever created or offered the world. And I just you know I hope other people can say me too to it.  That is Alexandra Silber. She is the author of After Anatevka which will be published on July Fourth. It is a novel inspired by Fiddler On The Roof. Alexandra Silber thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me. 