 In his novel Crazy Rich Asians Kevin Kwan introduced us to the new Asian jet set - the elite elite - who live in a world of opulence so extreme it is ridiculous. The book became an international best-seller and there is a movie in the works. Now those crazy rich Asians are back in Kwan's new novel China Rich Girlfriend. It reflects the ascendance of an even newer elite the product of the booming economy of mainland China a fresh crop of billionaires Kwan calls the China Rich.  This is the very new money that is sort of flowed out of China in the past 10 years I would say - you know people making overnight fortunes billions of dollars.  And you are talking about people that before the billions of dollars really were coming from pretty modest backgrounds.  For the most part yeah. I mean you know you have families that were you know farmers. You have families that were factory workers you know but they were all sort of card-carrying members of the Communist Party and they sort of were elevated over the years you know as the party sort of rose to power.  Now the characters that we have in China Rich Girlfriend - you introduced many of these characters in Crazy Rich Asians. And there are a lot of characters and plot points. But I was hoping you could give us a sketch of Nick and Rachel - the young couple their backgrounds and what is complicated about their relationship.  Well Nick is the descendant of one of the most powerful families in Asia and you know he is a very pedigreed well-bred person that is sort of lived this sort of secret life in New York where he is a college professor. And he falls in love with a lovely American-born Chinese girl named Rachel Chu and decides to take her to Singapore to attend a family wedding and to meet his family. And she has no idea what she is getting into. You know she sort of arrives and discovers that he lives in a place like Downton Abbey.  There is a scene early on in the book where you know when Nick is talking about how he is willing to give up everything for Rachel. He has a scene with his aunt and she is warning him he does not really realize what he is giving you. Can you explain what she is talking about?  Yeah I mean this is actually one of the - my favorite chapters in the book. It was really fun to write. You know she is actually an old family friend. And she is trying to just you know sort of really explain the true repercussions of what would happen if he married Rachel and if he gave up his share of the family fortune - not just the money part but I think the doors were always open to him his entire life - the doors that he would never really were aware existed will be shut you know? Club memberships being invited to family occasions and how he is treated in Singapore and throughout Asia you know without the backing of his family and without this huge fortune and this huge property behind him - because you know in Asia face is till so important.  And apparently blood lines are as important as ever.  Especially to the old-money families because I think that is really what they have to go with these days you know as all these new fortunes are encroaching. They have to retreat into this much-snobbish you know very snobbish elite world where bloodlines and who you are married to and how many generations your family's been wealthy - you know these new levels of snobbery really come into play in the new Asia.  From what I have read Kevin some of these character are based on real people. I have seen people identify well this is actually this heiress this is actually this actress. How much of this was inspired by real people or by the headlines?  I would say probably 150 percent.   You know look - I have always said I see all this through direct observation you know? They are inspired by what I read on the news by people I meet by my travels in Asia. And you could not make this stuff up - the outrageousness the spending the drama the scandals. It is all ripe for parity.  What are they buying? I mean I cannot even get my head - wrap my head around spending that many millions of dollars in a weekend or a day. How do they do it?  Well if you consider that the average you know Paris designer dress is you know anywhere in the range of 25000 up you know and then they go on these sprees and they buy you know whole new wardrobes that adds up pretty quickly you know? But from outfits to jewels to shoes you name it to exotic sports cars you know - you have the sort of the young generation of playboys running around Europe buying up Porsche and Ferraris and things like that and shipping them back to China. So you know there are many ways they are spending their filthy lucre.  You know there was a critique of Crazy Rich Asians that appeared in The Guardian - basically that - saying that you would replaced one bad stereotype of Asians for another.   I suppose you could say there is certain truth to that. But you know I think I am hopefully opening up the range of stereotypes so they are not just the old stereotypes.  Well I mean do you think that there are people that are reading these works un-ironically?  I would sincerely hope not.   You know I think especially for Asians living outside of Asia - I have met so many Asian-Americans and Canadian-Asians for example who have really told me that this is the first time they have seen modern contemporary Asians portrayed in a non-stereotypical way. Seeing them in power positions seeing them as attractive multi-dimensional characters has been sort of you know a really great boost for them so I take comfort in that.  Kevin Kwan's new novel China Rich Girlfriend comes out on Tuesday. Kevin thanks very much.  Thank you so much. 