 Among insects and spiders it is not uncommon for a female to gobble up her mate. That is how the black widow spider got her name. It is a grim fate for the guys but a new study suggests that some male spiders at least get to choose the lady who will devour them. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce has more.  A female spider needs sperm to fertilize her eggs.  But after copulation she has no use for the male. There is no reason not to eat him really. He is a nice calorie-rich meal for her.  Eric Yip is a biologist who currently works at Penn State University. Recently he was in Israel studying an orb-weaving spider that lives in big colonies.  And these can be very large groups of spiders containing hundreds or even thousands of spiders.  Yip and some colleagues wondered if so many spiders together might lead to something unusual. Typically in nature it is the females who are picky when it comes to selecting a mate. But here the males were surrounded by females and as soon as they mated with one they would become dinner. So the scientists did some experiments to find out if this state of affairs made the males the choosy ones. And it turns out that yeah the males did a lot of rejecting.  We had a lot of males that just sat in the females' webs for days and days and days and never copulated.  They were waiting for the one. It looks like their ideal female spider is a young fat virgin. Yip says that is because she is likely to be fertile and not full of any other spiders' sperm.  The best thing they can do is to pick the very best female that they can find. I mean you could sort of see it as making the best of a bad situation.  The researchers described their findings at a scientific journal called PLOS One.  I thought this paper was really interesting because there are only a few people who studied cannibalism and choice in the context of a social spider.  Maydianne Andrade is an evolutionary ecologist at the University of Toronto Scarborough. She studied red-back spiders. Males of this species have no real choice. They are solitary and struggle to find even a single female to mate with. They are so desperate that during mating they do a somersault to throw themselves into the female's open jaws.  It is fascinating because it is so different from what we usually think of in mating or in general about the evolution of traits. Like do not people - do not individuals evolve to try to survive?  But self-sacrifice can work to a male's advantage. Becoming food could help his mate produce more of his babies.  If these males have been selected to do this over time I would actually predict that they enjoy it.  If of course spiders are capable of contemplating sex and death and the meaning of it all which they probably are not. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 