  Hello friend. It is Lane. Maybe I should give you a name. But that is a slippery slope. You are only in my head. We have to remember that.  Meet Elliot - cyber security engineer by day vigilante hacker by night. He is the unlikely hero at the center of the new TV show Mr. Robot. Sam Esmail is the show is creator and executive producer.  Elliot is sort of an internal isolated guy who cannot really interact with people socially in real life but online he can hack them and knows all the intimate private details of them.    Hacking her was simple. Her password - dylan2791 - favorite artist and the year in which she was born backwards. Although she is a psychologist she is really bad at reading people. But I am good at reading people. My secret - I look for the worst in them.  Elliot played by actor Rami Malek stumbles across a secret society run by a man called Mr. Robot. Think of a cross between Wikileaks Anonymous and the Weather Underground. Elliot is pulled into a web of anarchy and danger where all the moral lines are blurred.  Who is good and who is bad in the show? I do not know. I mean you really cannot pinpoint the clear-cut morality here - who is the person I should be rooting for and not. I think it is more interesting when it is messier 'ecause I just think that is more true to life.  You take us inside Elliot's head with this really intense inner narration. It reminds me a little bit of Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver because it is also  of loneliness - just this one voice.  Well that would not be an accident  as Taxi Driver was a huge inspiration.    Loneliness has followed me my whole life everywhere.  One of the things about Taxi Driver that is so great is it is just a pure character piece. Obviously there is a plot and there is a story but just you are purely inside this guy's brain. And when I went to write Mr. Robot I just knew in order to really pull off this really tricky thing to see the world through this guy's point of view I needed just to immerse the audience.    I never want to be right about my hacks but people always find a way to disappoint.  Voice-over gets a bad rep a lot of times in screenwriting because people think it is lazy whatever it is but when it is done really well it just adds this other dimension. It creates this sort of intimate relationship with the audience that you really cannot do just with dialogue and scene.  You know the alienated young techie is almost - it is kind of a type now when you think of people like Edward Snowden Chelsea Manning. Was that in your mind at all as you were coming up with this character?  No I would say - I would say - look teen angst I think has been around since you know Holden Caulfield. I mean it is something that I think was there the whole time. I think it is kind of interesting that now it is associated with techies. I think it is a lot older than that but it is cool the association has become more popularized with technology.  So do you think if Rebel Without A Cause came out today the James Dean character would be a hacker?  Yeah absolutely.   You know it is weird it is like the nerds are having their moment I would have to say right about now.  I love that my kids are growing up in that world.  Yeah look I endorse it.  You know I feel like since the cyber world or whatever you call it has been with us filmmakers have struggled with how you portray it. You know whether it is documentary or fiction it is kind of hard to sustain interest around people typing on keyboards. But you do that while maintaining the drama. Can you tell us how you approach that as a film maker?  Yeah you know look I will say I - so I was a nerd growing up and I was a big techie. And I watched all those terrible movies and all those terrible television shows. And it was actually I think more work to portray it as poorly as they did because they forced all these CGI graphics and all this ridiculous stuff to force the drama there. One of the rules I have on my show is that we do not green screen anything. So everything that you see that we filmed is real. And so the actors I really wanted them to react to what is actually going on on-screen. But I gotta be honest I am not some genius over here. I am just actually going through what a programmer or coder or cybersecurity engineer would do in a certain hack. And the funny thing is even though people do not completely understand it they get it. And it is almost like when you watch a medical drama or a legal drama or whatever it is not - I do not necessarily understand all the terminology but I get - I get what is going on emotionally. I get what the stakes are.  I have seen a little bit on Twitter. It seems like you have been getting some good reaction from the hacker community.  Which is huge - I mean you know how much of a risk that is to not only do a show about technology and about hackers but then to kind of sort of reference hacker groups. There is a popular Twitter feed for Anonymous and it is all you know unofficial but when they gave us kudos I was in heaven. I mean that is a real huge endorsement. And you know look if it went the other way it would have been totally bad you know what I mean?   It is definitely better to have Anonymous like you than not like you.  Exactly. Yeah exactly.  Sam Esmail is the creator and executive producer of the exciting new show Mr. Robot which premieres this Wednesday on USA. Sam great speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you. This was fun.  