 The buzz for the movie Boys State at this year's Sundance Film Festival was strong - strong enough that Apple paid 10 million for streaming rights. That is a lot of cash for a documentary but critic Bob Mondello says it is a smart buy in an election year.  The bus driver knows his audience - Texas teenagers fueled by testosterone and ready for some kind of action.   They told you all we are going to Austin but we are actually going to Cozumel Mexico. So you all...   What they are headed for is Boys State in Austin the week-long leadership conference the American Legion started in 1935 and now holds in every state but Hawaii - sort of summer camp for political junkies. Some 1200 Texas teens will divide into made-up parties. They will write platforms hold elections and they are pumped.   .  As with reality TV it is all about the contestants. Filmmakers Jessie Moss and Amanda McBaine concentrated on four young men - Steven who sports a Beto O'Rourke T-shirt.   Could I talk to you for a second? I do not want to ask you for your signature unless you actually want me to win. So ask me any question.  What do you think is the objective of ?  Public service - serve others not himself.  Steven is thoughtful serious sincere as opposed to Robert a jock who challenges rivals to pushups and is trying out his campaign speech on anyone who will listen.   I will skip the part where I brag for three minutes about how great and cool I am seeing as we are all qualified young men of skill and character. People like that stuff.  Sounds good yeah.  People like that stuff a lot.  Yeah.  Then there is Rene a Chicago transplant who wants to run the campaign not run for office so he is selling his resume.   I lobbied. I went to state council meetings just so a man in prison can have his rights. So can you just imagine what I am capable of for every single one of us out here...  Rene's opposite number is Ben a double amputee who also does not want to be a candidate. He is shopping for candidates and kind of hates his options.   What do you believe in?  My views will most likely align with the party for the majority of them. I want to hear open debates.  So in other words you are waiting for the party to come up with an opinion and then you are going to go with the party. What do you stand for though?  I stand for freedom.  You stand for freedom. That is a bold policy.  Ben's the conference Machiavelli and has sussed out how things work at these gatherings. The previous year's attendees got all the wrong kinds of headlines by voting for Texas to secede from the union.   I think when you put a bunch of 17-year-old boys in a room together they are all tired because talking about taxes is boring. You get crazy stuff like the Lone Star Defense platform.  Recognizing the looming threat of alien invasion this necessary defense infrastructure will cost around 15 billion to build.  I think last year's secession happening on as wide a scale as it did was like hey let us do this. It will be cool. It will be funny.  What happens this year would also be funny except it is sometimes so true to life it kind of hurts. With Boys State alumni including Bill Clinton Dick Cheney Cory Booker and at Girls State Texas Gov. Ann Richards what parents likely imagine is a Mr. Smith Goes to Washington-style civics lesson. In practice things are not quite Lord Of The Flies but these kids have internalized our own era's politics.   I am playing this like a game. My stance on abortion would not line up well with the guys out there at all so I chose to pick a new stance. That is politics I think. It is a morally questionable thing to lie in politics but getting here certainly gave me a new appreciation for why politicians lie to get into office.  Lessons learned let the dirty tricks begin. No disrespect to professional pundits in an election year but this documentary is American politics distilled. It is nuanced entertaining seriously clear-eyed. If you are looking for analysis...   I think he is a fantastic politician but I do not think a fantastic politician is a compliment.  Boys State is just the ticket. I am Bob Mondello. 