 Now we turn to a Civil War saga that you may have never heard of. It is the story of Newton Knight a confederate deserter from Mississippi who helped lead a ragtag army of poor farmers and escaped slaves to revolt against the collapsing Confederacy. A new film builds on the historical records that do remain casting Knight not only as a tough and crafty guerrilla fighter but as a compassionate and politically progressive leader as well. He is played with a kind of sinewy intensity by Matthew McConaughey.    We declare the land north of Pascagoula swamp south of Enterprise and east of the Pearl River to the Alabama border to be a free state of Jones.   Yeah.  The movie is called Free State Of Jones. It was written and directed by Gary Ross. He also wrote and directed Seabiscuit and the first Hunger Games film. Gary Ross joins me now from NPR West. Welcome to the program.  Thank you so much. Nice to be here.  So to begin with who was Newton Knight?  Well he was a poor farmer from southeast Mississippi a yeoman farmer. He owned no slaves even though his grandfather did so he eschewed slavery in that respect. And when the Confederacy instituted a law where non-slaveholders could be drafted but slaveholders could not it was sort of a breaking point for a lot of poor yeoman farmers in the area. So Newt deserted as many did. But when he got back to Mississippi he found the Confederate Conscription Calvary confiscating tremendous amount of goods and produce and textiles in the - what they called the tax-in-kind program but it was an abuse of taxation. And he began to lead a revolt in that area of Mississippi against the onerous taxation. But the amazing thing about Newt is that once he glimpsed one kind of freedom and was willing to fight for it he could not put a limit on that and he ended up fighting for the rights of African-Americans all the way through Reconstruction with some very very surprising and committed behavior on the part of fighting for racial justice in a way that very few white Southerners did at the time. So he is really a remarkable figure.  Let us play a clip from the film. This is a scene where Newton Knight played by Matthew McConaughey declares that Jones is a free state and here he explains the underlying principles behind it.    No man ought to stay poor so another man can get rich. No man ought to tell another man what he is got to live for or what he is got to die for. What you put in the ground is yours to tend and harvest and as not no man ought to be able to take that away from you.   Yeah.   Every man is a man. If you walk on two legs you are a man.   Right.   It is as simple as that.  Gary Ross did you have to resist the temptation to make Newton Knight a 21st-century man? I mean when you listen to that statement there is tax rebellion in there the politics of wealth and poverty. It almost sounds like a Libertarian Party convention. Did you have to keep it clear that this was 1863?  Well it is so funny because you know I wrote that stuff just based on what was going on at the time with Newt in that area of Mississippi after years of research. The fact that it resonates today I think says a lot more about today than my writing process. You know I think that there are certain things that are not resolved and there are certain issues that have unfortunately lingered. But I think one of the interesting things about that is you say it is Libertarian but you really see an alliance or a coalition that can apply easily to the fight for racial justice in the same way that you could apply it to poor white farmers. And this was the coalition that was being built and that ultimately proved unfortunately very fragile which is that when he says what you put in the ground is yours to tend and harvest and no man should take that away from you. Well Sherman issued a thing called Field Order 15 at the end of the war that promised 40 acres and a mule to every freedman and their families in Georgia and the Carolinas. And this was something that all freedmen were hungry for needed and demanded because it spoke to self-sufficiency after emancipation. So it sounds completely Libertarian. It also sounds what - exactly what every African-American in the south needed demanded and wanted and was promised. But that was sadly denied them so it is a very interesting combination of things.  And it ends up being a critical part of this story because you do not roll credits with the end of the Civil War. Instead you go on to chronicle the difficulties of Reconstruction when the former Confederate elites continue to hold power and land and control the courts and they are able to command and enforce labor under a different name. It is not slavery anymore but takes other more diabolical forms. That is a less-told part of American history is not it?  Oh very much so. I mean you know I think we are the first movie to deal with the post-war era since Gone With The Wind or D.W. Griffith's Birth Of A Nation both of which are pretty horrendous depictions of that period - I mean Gone With The Wind and it is sort of romanticism of this culture. And really Birth Of A Nation is just a really horrible racist tract that engages in such revisionism that it is almost unwatchable in some ways. So I was really glad to have the opportunity to set the record straight about the post-war era about Reconstruction to catch up to the scholarship which now looks at it in a much more objective and open way. And this is where the fight for freedom really occurred this is the beating heart of the Civil War era happens immediately after the war is over when those issues of what freedom is going to mean are really enjoined. Sadly it ends in defeat in 1876 in the beginning of the Jim Crow era. But for a time these issues were fought and engaged. And I think it is one of the most fascinating periods of American history.  You take us forward 80 years to Newton Knight's own descendants and a miscegenation a racial intermarriage case in Mississippi that seeks to void a marriage and jail Newton Knight's grandson. Did it feel like you were putting too much in there? Why - it was terrific and it provoked a very interesting conversation between my teenage daughter and I after the movie. But are you giving us a lot to work with in this movie?  Well I mean obviously not if it provoked a great conversation between your teenage daughter and you. I mean the intention of this movie is to provoke conversation. And it is to do something that is comprehensive. Look I have done a lot of like tidy Hollywood narratives in my life. I certainly know how to do that. I began by writing big. I made the Hunger Games I made Seabiscuit. You know but I felt this thing deserved a comprehensive full and complete look. And I felt that it was my responsibility - you know having been a student of it first and then a filmmaker involved in it later. I did nothing but study this material for two years before I ever even started to write the script. I could not imagine doing a version of this movie that ignored Reconstruction for example. I could have done one. You know Newton Knight stages a rebellion he goes into Ellisville he beats the Confederates and he raises a flag over the courthouse. Look that happened and I could have left everybody with a wonderful feeling as they walked out of the theater. But it would not have been true because right after that war was over and Andrew Johnson started to repatriate Confederates and give them their land and their power back - and the minute they began to pass onerous forms of legislation that were actually a form of re-enslavement - these issues just continued. And I was not going to tie it up in kind of a pretty Hollywood bow. So if it is sprawling if it is big if it is epic well that was intentional but that was really the product of a lot of rigorous work. And I thought that the material demanded it. So we need to turn on the lights and educate ourselves about this period of history not simply rely on the myths.  Gary Ross is a director and screenwriter. His latest film Free State Of Jones opened yesterday and he spoke to us from our studios in Culver City. Gary Ross thanks so much for joining us.  It was a pleasure. Thank you. 