 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. Hollywood is many things. But this summer original is not one of them.  Unidentified Man 1   Oh it is good to be back.  We have seen Iron Man 2 and Sex and the City 2 both sequels of movies already based on a comic and a TV show there was The A-Team also based on a TV show Eclipse the latest film from the Twilight book series and then there is Predators a sequel to a sequel and that is assuming you do not count the Predator's side projects with Aliens. To be fair a highlight of the summer is Toy Story 3.   New toys!   A very good sequel - but no surprises. What was surprising was the performance of one movie last weekend that was not based on anything other than a very good idea.  Mr.  There is something you should know about me.  subconscious security.  Inception made more than 60 million. Coupled with the runaway success of Avatar last year  Is Hollywood getting back in the business of original ideas? To help us answer that question I am joined by Bill Mechanic the former chairman and CEO of 20th Century Fox Filmed Entertainment. During his tenure Fox produced some very big and unoriginal films - including Titanic and X-Men - but also The Full Monty and Boys Do not Cry. Mr. Mechanic welcome to the program. Mr.  Well thank you for having me.  We are glad you are here. First things first  One or two films does this make a trend? Mr.  No. I think it will take more failures to get the business off of this current trend of the last few years of copies of copies.  Help us understand what happens in one of these meetings where films are green-lighted. When someone brings in a script that sounds wonderful - it titillates the mind you can see it you can feel it you understand who might star in it - but it is an original idea it does not follow a beaten path. What kind of reception does it get? Mr.  Well it is really prior to the green-light. Usually when you are starting development you start with - if somebody brings in an idea or a piece of talent pitches an idea then the doubts start to seed in of well who is the audience? When it does not have a easy hook to it or it is like Inception which is hard to describe what it is then it will take a superior piece of talent like a Chris Nolan to get that picture put through.  And Chris Nolan of course is the director of that film. Mr.  Yeah.  Probably helped also by the star Leonardo DiCaprio. Mr.  Yeah. I think in the case of Chris Nolan after The Dark Knight probably could have done anything with anybody. And in fact stars like Leo - Leonardo DiCaprio and the others you know a lot of really talented people in the picture want to work with him. But I think Warner's in that case probably would have made the picture without a big star.  You know in many ways Hollywood feels like a parallel universe. It is almost like visiting outer space without leaving the galaxy. But in terms of the business model it really is wholly different. I mean most businesses are constantly on the lookout for something new something fresh something original - not Hollywood. Mr.  Well let me argue that. I think most businesses the thing that I always thought was unique about Hollywood or about the movie business is that if you do iPad something like that you are Apple you create one new product every few years. Once you have iPad all you are doing is making improvements of the iPad. But you are making essentially the iPad for the next four or five years. When you are making a movie you are making a new movie every week and they all have to be different. So the fact that Inception works does not help whatever the next movie is that Warner's has on the release schedule.  Now I appreciate you speaking with candor about your own experiences. You ended up leaving Fox in part because you championed a film based on a book that seemed at the time a risky choice not to mention a choice that was somewhat controversial. I am talking about the film Fight Club which has turned into a huge cult hit - still quite popular though it did not initially do really well at the box office. Do you remember a conversation at the time with the people that you had to answer to in which you had to defend your decision to make that movie? Mr.  No. I had to fight to get it made. So - but that was true of a lot of pictures. You know Braveheart was - I basically had to almost resign to get made. Same thing with Fight Club. So there were you know...  You almost - you were willing to walk away from the studio in order to get that made? Mr.  Yeah. I mean I think running a studio I have always equated it to managing a sports team. You know if you are - in some ways you are hired to be fired. So better to be fired with some dignity and be fired for things that you believe in than fired for making copies of copies.  To go down with honor if you have to. Mr.  That is okay. It is not the worst way to go down. You go down anyways.  Bill Mechanic it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thank so much. Mr.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  That is Bill Mechanic. He is the former chairman and CEO of 20th Century Fox Filmed Entertainment. 