 Superheroes by definition are extraordinary individuals - not exactly the type to blend in with a crowd - but what about Ant-Man?    The world sure seems different from down here does not it Scott?  In a piece that first aired on Morning Edition NPR's Neda Ulaby trains a magnifying glass on the superhero based on one of the least individual most collective creatures on the planet.   Ant-Man begins as a burglar stumbles on a suit with superpowers and gets recruited by the scientist who created it.    You have learned about the suit but you have yet to learn about your greatest allies the ants - loyal brave and your partners on this job.  Ant-Man befriends the armies of ants who swarm to help whenever he is in trouble.  We want the ants to be a character in the movie in the sense that we want people to feel for them be rooting for them.  Jake Morrison is Ant-Man's visual effects supervisor. Two years ago he threw himself into researching ants - how to make them in the movie both scientifically accurate and relatable.  Well first and foremost it is hair.  Ants are covered with hairy spikes. Morrison and his team found a kind of ant with beautiful hair - Hollywood hair silver and downy. They adapted it for the friendly ants in the movie.    Paratrechina longicornis commonly known as crazy ants. They are lightning fast and can conduct electricity which makes them useful to fry out enemy electronics.   Oh you are not so crazy. You are cute.  And the visual effects jiggered with ants move - less like an insect...  A bit more like say a puppy. So we give them this sort of springy bouncy aspect to them and it is really hard not to get attached to them over the course of a project.  Jake Morrison did not want the ants of Ant-Man to be anything like a retro giant ant thriller.    Get the antennae. Get the antennae.  Instead of the mutant ants of Them! Ant-Man features different kinds of real ants and their real almost super ant powers.    Paraponera clavata.   I know. Bullet ants right? Number one on the Schmidt Pain Index.  Bullet ants really do sting their enemies painfully. And crazy ants can short out electrical systems though probably not on purpose as they do in the movie. And fire ants actually build bridges and rafts with their bodies.    .  I took two real ant scientists to an early screening of Ant-Man. Ana Jesovnik and Sean Brady work at the ant lab at the National Museum of Natural History. Their official job titles are myrmecologists not film critics but here's their review of Ant-Man as scientists.  I thought it was a great movie.  I thought it was fantastic. It shows some respect for the actual biology of the ants.  Brady and Jesovnik have out of professional curiosity checked out earlier depictions of ants on film - Ant-Man's antecedents.  You see other ant movies and the ants do not even look like ants and they are not acting like ants. And here they clearly took the time to figure out what ants actually do what they look like.    Camponotus pennsylvanicus.   Alternatively known as a carpenter ant - ideal for ground and air transport.   Wait a minute. I know this guy. I am going to call him Antony.   That is good. That is very good because this time you are really going to have to learn how to control him.  Ana Jesovnik approves of this movie's ant messaging.  Ants are the good guys. I like that.  Good girls though.  .  Wait - good girls? The two scientists say this is Ant-Man's only flaw. Hollywood says Jesovnik always assigns ants the wrong gender.  It is always boys and girls or boys and ants really are only girls mostly.  OK Ant-Man is a fictional character in the Marvel universe. Jesovnik has no quibbles with his gender but real ants crawling out in the world are pretty much all female. Male ants have short little lives. They live in the colony mate with the queen guard her and die. Sean Brady says females are the farmers workers soldiers and flying around like in the movie.  They got the gender wrong but other than that they did a pretty good job. Yeah.  So Hollywood.   So it should have been Antoinette really then.  Jake Morrison Ant-Man's visual effects supervisor was nice about getting called out.  It is certainly not a deliberate bit of ant sexism. Absolutely not  - absolutely not planned that way at all and duly noted.  Duly noted?  Well we will get that right on the next one.  The sequel - Bride Of Ant-Man  Fury Road maybe even Ant-Woman. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 