 The rock opera Annette got this year's Cannes Film Festival off to a boisterous start. The crowd gave a full five-minute ovation for stars Adam Driver and Marion Cotillard also for the band Sparks which composed the music. Our critic Bob Mondello says that the festival audience going crazy kind of makes sense because the film itself is kind of deranged.  Before there is anything to look at on screen - and there will be astonishing things to look at - we hear the voice of director Leos Carax telling us that he intends what we are about to see to be literally breathtaking.    Breathing will not be tolerated during the show. So please take a deep last breath right now.    Thank you.  And then he gathers his cast.    So may we start?  And they sing their way out of the recording studio...    So may we start?  ...And into the streets of Los Angeles...    May we now start?  ...To start a story of odd couple Henry and Ann entertainers of radically different temperaments. Henry calls himself the ape of God and stalks the comedy club stage...    I am here to make you laugh tonight.  ...In a green hooded bathrobe scowling and muttering at his audience.    Yes laugh laugh laugh.    Well I am not sure I can do it tonight.   Aww .   I am not sure I should even try.   Ooh .   Making people laugh is disgusting.  He means that. Alienating paying customers is his shtick. And as played almost psychotically by Adam Driver Henry's good enough at insulting patrons it is amazing he still has any. But on this night his rant includes the confession that he is gotten engaged to a far classier celebrity who is played by Marion Cotillard.    No this as not a joke so far. Yes Ann Defrasnoux...   Oh no.   ...The opera  star.    What is wrong lady? Ann and me - you disagree? Why is she too perfect?   Yes yes yes.   And I some loathsome insect?   Yes yes yes.   OK I will accept that.    But Ann the soprano has changed me.  At this point it may occur to you that Russell and Ron Mael of the band Sparks who wrote the script and the songs are after a phantom of the comedy club vibe - innocent soprano adored by creepy misfit. And it does play that way for a bit. There is even a potential savior - Ann's lovestruck accompanist played by Simon Helberg.    Ann's the one with the genius the grace. I am the one with the technical expertise. Oh the Ts .  But the plot heads out on its own when Ann gives birth to...    Annette.  ...Who is mostly played not by an infant but by a puppet. I wondered for a moment if there was a meta joke there about Marion Cotillard giving birth to a marionette but I am pretty sure that is not intended. The fact that it occurred to me though suggests how strange the film was starting to seem. Director Carax likes to match stunning images to befuddling plot lines. His film Holy Motors is at once exquisite and impenetrable. But in Annette he is telling a pretty straightforward story about careers egos and temperaments crashing into each other.    Are you drunk Henry?   I am not that drunk.   But I will kill my voice out here .  He is just heightening it until it looks and feels like grand opera. It sounds more down to earth because the score is pop and the stars while pleasant singers are not trained vocalists. They act the songs while the director whips up hallucinations behind them.    We love each other so much.  And they are off on a motorcycle odyssey to a fantastical mansion in the woods. The movie Annette theater-besotted less concerned with logic than with guilt and self-loathing is a directorial fever dream - the sort that mainstream audiences do not usually embrace. But who knows? As Sparks might say they may now start. I am Bob Mondello. 