 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. It is that time again when the big broadcast TV networks role out their new fall shows. Brave soul Andrew Wallenstein has seen every one of these so-called pilots and his favorite debuts this Thursday.  There may be no better single hour among the new shows than the ABC series Last Resort. It is a gripping tale of a nuclear sub gone rogue.   Lower seven minutes. I am closing.  All crew accounted for except two which are Brannan and Cortez.  Find them. Prepare to dive.   Belay that. We are not leaving crew behind.  And here' do not watch Last Resort. And while you are at it do not watch another pilot I enjoyed NBC's Revolution.  what would happen if society lost all electricity?    It is going to turn off and it will never ever turn back on.   What is going to turn off?   Everything. Everything is going to turn off.  The problem with these shows is they fit the same mold of a string of shows going back years that suck you in only to end up getting cancelled prematurely. You have no doubt seen this type of show - ordinary citizens have their world turned upside down by cataclysmic sometimes supernatural events. Mystery unfolds wrapped in layer upon layer of mesmerizing mythology.    It is happening is not it?  Last Resort follows in that tradition as does Revolution. And do not be fooled by the healthy ratings that show is gotten so far because these kind of programs nearly always start strong but then the audience dwindles every passing week. And therein lies the problem with serialized storylines that are not wrapped up at the end of every episode. If a viewer was not there from the beginning of the show he cannot just jump in midseason and understand what is going on. So why do the networks even bother with shows like Revolution or Last Resort? I have got one word for you - Lost.    You might find this difficult to understand Benjamin. Every decision I have made has been about protecting this island.   Is killing this baby what Jacob wants?  When Lost was created they must have broken the proverbial mold because no one has successfully been able to copy it. Just ask The Event or Flash Forward or Threshold Daybreak Jericho V. So why do the networks even bother trying these shows given the failure rate? Well that is because in success a show like Lost is a beautiful thing because it drives not just ratings but also a coveted industry buzzword - engagement. Fans do not just watch these shows they obsess over them.    Look I do not even know what these papers mean.  ABC is willing to take a risk on a show like Last Resort because advertisers are willing to pay a premium to reach hyperactive super-fans. And as much as I would like to be one of those for Last Resort I have been burned too many times before. Sorry but I cannot fall in love if you are just going to end up leaving me.  Andrew Wallenstein is TV editor for Variety. 