 In the new movie The Martian some pretty horrible things happen to the main character Mark Watney.    30 a.m. our satellites detected a storm approaching the Aries 3 mission site on Mars.    The storm had escalated to severe and we had no choice but to abort the mission. But during the evacuation astronaut Mark Watney was killed.  But Watney played by Matt Damon survived and he has use whatever supplies he can find to keep himself alive. The Martian is the brainchild of the author Andy Weir who had always longed for some science fiction that was a little stronger on the science.  So I was sitting around thinking about how a manned mission to Mars could actually work using today's technology. And I started thinking about all the things that could go wrong and I realized there was kind of a story there that might be interesting. So I created an unfortunate protagonist and subjected him to all of it.  Weir started writing the story in serial form posting installments on his personal website. When he finished readers begged him to put out an e-book version on Amazon. The self-published version became a runaway bestseller and caught the eyes of both Crown Publishing and 20th Century Fox.  The print deal and the movie deal were being negotiated simultaneously and ultimately the two deals were agreed to four days apart. That was an eventful week for me. By the way at the time I was a computer programmer. And so I was like in my cubicle fixing bugs then I would sneak off to take a phone call about my movie deal then back to my cubicle to fix bugs. It was pretty surreal.   Well obviously science is important to you. It is important to this story. How though would you typically rate the treatment of science in Hollywood science fiction?  Well the purpose of Hollywood is to make something that is fun to watch and they will happily sacrifice scientific accuracy for entertainment. And I do not think there is anything wrong with that.  Does not bug you?  No not at all. It does not bug me that they do that. It - sometimes it bugs me when there are - when they kind of perpetrate scientific myths. That one bugs me a little bit kind of like...  Like what?  What was recent the recent one? Lucy where they said well you know humans only use 10 percent of their brain. That is one of those science myths that drives me crazy. I want to beat my head up against the wall whenever I hear that. It is one thing to say like oh our ship has a warp drive and we can travel hundreds of times the speed of light. But it is another thing to actually kind of reinforce a public misconception about science. You know what I mean?  So you have seen the movie now. How did they do?  Oh they did a great job.   It is fantastic. Matt Damon just completely nails the character of Watney. He is exactly the way I imagined him. Watney's the protagonist. One thing that Ridley Scott is actually kind of famous for - in a lot of his movies there are these grand sweeping panoramic vistas of the setting. And The Martian's no different. There is beautiful shots of just Mars and Martian scenery and terrain. And that is something that is really hard to convey in a book right? There is only so long you can describe scenery and landscape before the reader throws the book over his shoulder.  .  So it was really nice to see that. You get to see the beauty and majesty of this like alien planet on the big screen. It is just great.  What is the - and without spoilers - what is the biggest inaccuracy in the movie science-wise?  Well in the prolonged graphic sex scene with the Martian queen...  .  Oh you said no spoilers. Sorry . The biggest inaccuracy in the movie is straight from the book so it is also a big inaccuracy in the book - is right at the beginning - the sandstorm that strands him there. In reality Mars' atmosphere is one-200th the density of Earth's. So while they do get 150-kilometer-an-hour sandstorms the inertia behind them - because the air is so thin it would feel like a gentle breeze on Earth.  .  A Martian sandstorm cannot do any damage and that - I knew that at the time I wrote it. I had an alternate beginning in mind where they are doing an engine test on their ascent vehicle and there is an explosion and that causes all the problems. But it just was not as interesting and it was not as cool. And it is a man-versus-nature story. I wanted nature to get the first punch. So I went ahead and made that deliberate concession to reality figuring not many people will know it. And then now that the movie's come out all the experts are saying hey everyone should be aware that the sandstorm thing does not really work and Mars is not like that. So I have inadvertently educated the public about the force of Martian sandstorms. You know I feel pretty good about that.   That is Andy Weir. His book is called The Martian and the movie adaptation is out on Friday. It is been great speaking with you Andy. Thank you.  Thanks for having me. 