 Film critics and audiences have called the new film Hereditary traumatizing and terrifying. It is a supernatural horror movie with plenty lurking just out of sight. NPR's Mallory Yu says part of what makes it so scary is that it is rooted in something real - a family's grief and trauma.  Hereditary starts with a funeral.    It is heartening to see so many strange new faces here today. I know my mom would be very touched.  That is Toni Collette who plays Annie Graham. She is delivering the eulogy at her mother's funeral. And during a grief counseling session a few days later it becomes clear that Annie has some complicated feelings about the woman.    She is completely manipulative. I did not let her anywhere near me when I had my first my son which is why I gave her my daughter who she immediately stabbed her hooks into. And I just - I felt guilty again. I felt guilty again.  For the first 30 minutes Hereditary feels mostly like a tense family drama.    I just do not want to put any more stress on my family.  In the wake of her mother's death Annie isolates herself from her husband working long hours on highly detailed dioramas depicting scenes from her own life. Peter her teenage son is surly and gets high under the school bleachers with his friends. And her youngest daughter Charlie is taciturn and strange until...   ...Something unspeakably awful happens.  Something happens that is our Janet Leigh stepping into the shower scene.  That is Ari Aster. He wrote and directed Hereditary and he says that scene...  It is designed to be a left turn that changes the course of the rest of the movie. But I guess it is really also designed to operate more like a chute that opens up under the audience and kind of drops them into hell.  It throws the Graham family into hell too. Tensions that were already simmering under the surface begin to boil between Annie and her son Peter.    I mean why would I want to say something so I can watch you sneer at me?   Sneer at you - I do not ever sneer at you.   Oh sweetie you do not have to. You get your point across.   OK so fine - then say what you want to say then.   Peter...   I do not want to say anything. I have tried saying things.   OK so try again. Release yourself.   Oh release you you mean.   Yeah fine release me. Just say it.  I really wanted the film to function first as a vivid family drama.  This is director Ari Aster's first feature-length movie and he says when he was pitching it to studios he was careful not to call it a horror film.  And the film is a horror film and it is unabashedly one. But as I was pitching it I was describing it as a family tragedy that curdles into a nightmare.    What is happening?  There is a seance...    You are scaring me.  ...Demons and an innocuous noise that by the end of the film because downright terrifying.   But even as a supernatural conspiracy slots into place the film stays rooted in that family's dysfunction. Caetlin Benson-Allott is a professor of film and media studies at Georgetown University.  They already had these minor dysfunctions right? The tinder had been set so that when grief came for this family they were not equipped to deal with it. And that is a theme that a lot of us I think can identify with.  Benson-Allott says that is part of what makes Hereditary so disturbing.  It is dealing with deeper and more lasting themes in horror - when life is not perfect when you are out of control and when maybe the people who are supposed to be protecting you are the ones who are doing the damage.  Hereditary takes those themes and twists them into something deeply unsettling and director Ari Aster knows it.  I always knew that I was making a film that was potentially very alienating you know? And it is a film whose primary aim is to upset the audience on a deep level.  Which was apparently what a lot of people wanted this weekend. Hereditary made over 13 million well above most box office predictions.   Mallory Yu NPR News. 