 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Im Madeleine Brand.  And Im Robert Siegel. The imaginary Greendale Community College is the setting for a new sitcom this season. NPRs education correspondent Larry Abramson reports that real community college students and staff hope that nobody will laugh  too much.  Okay true story. A comedy writer walks into this community college. Hes hoping to save his relationship with his girlfriend by taking a class with her. He finds himself sitting next to a fascinating cast of characters. Mr. A teenage pregnant girl whos studying biology. On the other side of me there is you know like a Vietnam vet. There is any number of reasons you might be at this place which of course is TV dynamite.  Writer Dan Harmon has turned that dynamite into Community the tale of life at a fictitious two-year college.  Unidentified Man 1    cheaters never prosper? Mr.  No and if I wanted to learn something I wouldnt have come to community college.   That last voice belongs to Joel McHale who plays a fast-talking lawyer sent to the purgatory of Greendale Community College because his fake law degree was unmasked. Do not ask how he expects to get a law degree at a two-year college. Remember this is network TV. Writer Dan Harmon says these people share the feeling that they are better than this second-chance school. Mr. Many of them are ungrateful to be there consider themselves being there as the result of some kind of broken path. But they are all lucky to be there and to find each other and this is a good healthy place for them to be.  You could call community college as a goldmine for irreverent jokes and smart-as-a-whip dialogue or you could call it an easy attack on students who already suffer their share of cruel jokes.  Mr.  Thats what I do. I make things up and I got paid a lot of money to do it before I came to this school-shaped toilet. I was a lawyer. Ms. They have to be funny and that was their attempt at it. I did not think it worked so well.  Thats Norma Kent of the American Association of Community Colleges. The group has been girding its loins preparing for a lot of snarky humor at the expense of two-year students. Ms. But we are using it as a teachable moment and we think that it is an opportunity to say a lot of good things about community colleges and their students regardless of what the show portrays.  I sat down to watch the first show at Montgomery College a well-respected community school in the Maryland suburbs of Washington D.C. Three students all in their second year giggled but did not guffaw through the pilot. But the show is deepest digs threw them off. Business student Ksenia Prokunina Ms. I heard that a lot of people call a community college a high school with an ashtray.  But these students are used to a sitcom world where nothing is sacred. So Prokunina says she is not offended. Ms. I think humor is a good thing. And I think as long as you do not take it too seriously it might actually be a good thing for a community college that they make a show about it.  The characters in Community face the same existential dilemma that community colleges themselves face. They have to rise above their own low self-esteem.  Unidentified Man 2   The tools you acquire to survive out there will not help you here in Greendale. What you have my friend is a second chance at an honest life. Unidentified Man 3   Why are people trying to teach me things at a school that has an express-tuition aisle?  Writer Dan Harmon says the school amounts to a kind of test these people have to pass. Mr. The campus is a character. The community college itself is a character. Its like what do you do when you are not handed everything on a silver platter? The answer is absolutely different for every character.  Harmons expectations for this sitcom are actually pretty grand. He wants to get laughs and teach meaningful life lessons. Community college students and advocates are mostly hoping to avoid another slap in the face. Larry Abramson NPR News. 