 How much cash do you have in your wallet right now - 50 100? How about 4200? That is not a random number. Actually 4200 is the average amount of cash in circulation for every man woman and child in the United States. So why is your wallet so light? Well here's another number that comes from economist Kenneth Rogoff's new book. Eighty percent - nearly 80 percent of the cash in circulation is in 100-dollar bills. And maybe those 42 Benjamins are in the wall safe or under your mattress. Is this a problem? Well considering that Kenneth Rogoff's book is called The Curse Of Cash he obviously thinks it is. His book is an argument for phasing out cash or at least most of it. And Ken Rogoff joins us now. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you Robert.  Your book documents that this huge share of cash being in high-denomination bills is not just an American phenomenon. It is true of the euro the pound the Swiss franc. What does all this tell you?  Well I think that a lot of the money - these big bills - is used to facilitate tax evasion and crime. We all use cash in our everyday life but we do not use hundred-dollar bills. We are not using 500-euro notes. And yet these account for mountains of cash out there. I think they are being used in tax evasion and by criminals of all types.  Tax evasion as in hiding the receipts from the business but also perhaps paying the household helper without paying Social Security tax on it?  Exactly. I mean the Internal Revenue Service thinks that they are losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year from cash and businesses hiding the receipts exactly as you say. And a lot of people pay their household help without paying Social Security - that sort of thing. And it adds up.  People paying immigrants who enter the country illegally?  Well that too. I mean you know if you did not have employers able to pay off the books and off the record safely in cash you would not have illegal immigration on nearly the scale that we do.  So if this is a problem describe your solution to it.  So what I propose is very slowly phasing out the larger bills - the hundreds the 50s eventually even the 20s - over say 10 to 20 years and leaving you know 10 and below so that people who do every day transactions - and lots of surveys and studies show that most legal tax-compliant transactions are pretty small. And yet making it difficult to run a wholesale business with cash. Cash is very easy to hide. It is easy to hoard. It is easy to move especially these large bills. And so I am trying to find a middle ground.  What about poor people - people who do not have bank accounts?  That is one of the most important things to take into account. And so my proposal not only calls for leaving around the 10 bills but in providing for financial inclusion by giving free debit accounts to low-income individuals. The Nordic countries have done this. A lot of countries have. It does not cost much but that is something absolutely you have to pay attention to.  You argue that if we phased out the big bills there would presumably be more tax compliance in the U.S. and the government would realize more revenue. The government also loses money in that case if it does not make money as you describe. Creating cash is a profitable activity for the government.  It is. So central banks do make a lot of money printing money. You know it ranges depending on how you calculate it from 30 to say 70 billion a year but tax evasion is on the order of 500 billion for the federal government. So if you could cut tax evasion by 10 percent you know you would get the high end of those estimates and at the same time you know be putting a blow against crime.  You know in the book as you enumerate the various illicit or tax-evading activities in which cash makes them possible I thought yeah we should be getting taxes on those things or they should not be done. You do though eventually find at least in me of some latent libertarian nerve that says wait a minute. Then must every transaction that we do - must it be somewhere digitally on the record for the government to examine and check? It is a tough sell.  Fair enough but I am leaving around the 10 bill so what kind of transactions are we talking about? If you want to do one to 2000 that is really no problem. Should you be able to buy a million-dollar apartment a 100000 house? And you will still be able to. You can use gold coins uncut diamonds other things. But should the government facilitate it? Where is the balance? That is really what the question is. I do not think it is time yet to eliminate cash but I propose having a less-cash society not a cashless one.  Kenneth Rogoff thanks for talking with us about it.  My pleasure.  Professor Kenneth Rogoff's new book is called The Curse Of Cash. 