 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And to kick it off we asked our correspondent John Burnett who is based in Austin Texas to go west to Marfa Texas. That is the site of the 1956 epic Giant and two modern-day Oscar winners No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood.  The drive-in movie critic Joe Bob Briggs says filmmakers like to set movies in Texas because evil thrives in Texas. Filmmakers especially like West Texas a landscape of limitless desolation and possibilities onto which they can project greed lust and violence.  I am Chip Love. I am the president of the Marfa National Bank. And the reason you are interviewing me today is because of a small part I had in the film No Country for Old Men.  Love sits in the conference room of his bank. He is affable direct and self-deprecating just like a West Texan. His character in No Country is a salesman driving along a lonesome highway when he gets pulled over by a police car driven by a psychopathic hitman played by Javier Bardem.  Frankly at this point I have decided I carried that film because of my - all of the lines that I had which is what is this about?   It is challenging. It is a lot to remember and I was able to remember it. What is this about?    Howdy. What is this about?   Step out of the car please sir.   What is that?   I need you to step out of the car sir.    What is that for?   Would you - would you hold still please sir?  Bardem smiles and fires a cattle bolt gun into the banker's forehead.     Definitely evil. But why Marfa?  Yeah it is a good question. The artists would tell you that Marfa has great light. I do not know how to quantify the light other than I know we have some beautiful sunsets. There are still plenty of places you can get and not see anything manmade. Maybe the camera likes that.   The tiny town is a pinprick on the great Trans-Pecos region of far West Texas. The odd name Marfa bestowed by a railroad man's wife comes from a character in a Dostoevsky novel. The town is surrounded on all sides by immense cattle ranches the edge of vision bounded by blue mountains.  We still are some of the wide- open just pretty country that you do not really get to see anywhere else. You can see for you know those mountains we are looking at over there are 20 miles away.  The fourth-generation cattleman spent the morning separating yearlings from mama cows. Williams has come to like movie people. He says they are fun and they help the declining ranch economy. He even earned an executive producer credit on There Will Be Blood. His duties included helping to erect a turn- of-the-century drilling derrick.   It was a great big old huge thing and they ended up burning it down in the movie. You know I was kind of sad seeing it burn down after they have spent several months building it.    In the movie the actor Daniel Day-Lewis plays a ruthless California oilman who hits a gusher.     What are you looking so miserable about? There is a whole ocean of oil under our feet. No one can get at it except for me.   Two double iced lattes please.   Thank you Eal.  On the edge of town there is a new hotel called El Cosmico where you can stay in a vintage trailer a yurt or a tipi.  I am Liz Lambert. I own El Cosmico. I also come from a ranching family that is been out in the Big Bend region far West Texas for decades.  Liz Lambert is a successful hotelier in Austin but she says her heart is in the Trans-Pecos.  My grandfather would always say you can see clear into next week and I think that probably translates magically onto film.  There have been other movies shot out here over the years - Andromeda Strain Fandango and The Good Old Boys - but Marfa's place in movie history begins in 1955 with Giant.   The three-and-a-half-hour epic about the clash between a rancher and an oilman starred Elizabeth Taylor Rock Hudson and James Dean. Dean played Jett Rink the ranch hand turned oil tycoon.    I am gonna have more money than you ever thought you could have - you and all the rest of you stinking sons of Benedicts.   Leslie you go out in the house. Take the women with you.  Allyson Feeney is a 26-year-old Californian teaching art classes in town.  Now I saw the movie when we came into town. It was hard to watch.   It was just - it was long you know? It is not the same pace as contemporary movies and that is the problem.  Ranch owner Clay Evans now 75 years old was 19 when the crew and cast arrived on his family's ranch. All the cowboys gawked at 23-year-old Liz Taylor.  Oh I remember Elizabeth Taylor. She came out here and we all looked at her and she cussed a lot. And we thought she was good looking but we did not pay much attention to her.  George Stevens who won the Oscar for Best Director paid 20000 to use the Ryan ranch cattle and horses included. Today the skeleton of the towering giant mansion still stands. Last month Mr. Evans put his ranch up for sale.  I cannot get around. I cannot tend to it. Nobody else to tend to it. So I got to sell it.  John Burnett NPR News.  At npr.org you can watch scenes from There Will Be Blood and see photos of the mansion from Giant what it looked like then and what it looks like now. 