 The low-budget movie A Ghost Story stars Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara. The film shot for a hundred thousand dollars was made quickly and in secret just days after Director David Lowery finished the Disney film Pete's Dragon. Critic Bob Mondello says it is hard to imagine more different films coming from the same director.  The two leads in A Ghost Story a married couple are known only as C and M. Casey Affleck's C is quiet a composer who is better at expressing himself in music than in words. Rooney Mara's M seems more comfortable saying what she is feeling.    When I was little and we used to move all the time I would write these notes. And I would fold them up really small and I would hide them.   What did they say?   They were just like things I wanted to remember so that if I ever wanted to go back there would be a piece of me there waiting.  She loves him and he her but their relationship is difficult. She wants to move. He is dragging his feet.    I do not want what you want.   'ecause you want to stay here.   Mm-hm .   Why?  Shortly after this conversation C is killed in an auto accident. At the hospital morgue M says her goodbyes and leaves the body on its slab in stillness. When no one's around C leaves too. He sits up on the slab still covered by a sheet looking for all the world like a child's Halloween costume with black holes for eyes. He is a ghost in ghost's clothing who begins to wander the crowded halls of the hospital unnoticed. A portal opens a chance to move toward the light. Instead C returns to the house he did not want to leave to be with his grieving wife. M does grieve - sorting through their possessions with eyes brimming stress-eating an entire pie in one harrowing uninterrupted take listening to C's music all with the ghost of C unseen but ever in a corner of the frame.    Are you running late? Did you sleep too much? All the awful dreams felt real enough.  And then as she must M moves on. C's ghost cannot. He is bound to this spot through years through other residents even when the home is torn down gradually slipping away from this world until he is entirely unmoored in time but still stuck. Director David Lowery started out as a film editor. And you could make the case that A Ghost Story proves what good editing can do on its own. After three years spent making the effects-heavy Pete's Dragon this almost amounts to a cinematic cleanse - microbudget tiny cast finished in a couple of weeks with no effects almost no dialogue except for one scene where some partying grad students take up residence in C's house and are stoned enough to articulate what you imagine a ghost might be thinking.    Maybe the whole world will remember you or maybe just a couple of people. But you do what you can to make sure you are still around after you are gone.  I should mention that the film is virtually without plot so it requires some patience. Major stars and that title notwithstanding A Ghost Story is not a Saturday-night date movie more a provocative art film in the European sense. Though barely 87 minutes it unfolds in long static shots most of them without faces to hang on to. It is almost a film without genre and by the end it is become a story untethered from time itself. Still it manages to be achingly intimate and somehow optimistic a meditation on loss but also on legacy on our enduring need to endure. We all hope to leave something behind - children memories. Filmmaker David Lowery will leave A Ghost Story. And if my own experience is any indication it will linger. I am Bob Mondello. 