 And now a mental break from summer for those of you who may need it. In parts of the Southwest in Texas and in Mississippi today it was hot - at least 100 degrees. That is hot enough to make you kiss your air conditioning because without it you would be sweltering and dreaming up inventive ways to cool off just like Marilyn Monroe did in the 1950s movie The Seven Year Itch.    Maybe if I took the little fan put it in the icebox left the icebox door open then left the bedroom door open and soak the sheets and pillow case in ice water - no that is too wicked.  Well wicked or not Marilyn has gotten our film critic Bob Mondello thinking about more movie moments that might help us all chill out a bit.  I remember a blue and white sign that used to tempt me every summer when I was a kid. It dangled from the marquee of our neighborhood movie theater - painted penguins and three irresistible snow-covered words - It is Cool Inside - and it was. They kept the AC cranked so low that my mom made us take sweaters when we went to see midsummer movies.    Follow the collie.  Movies like 101 Dalmatians where Pongo and his gazillion pups fought their way across an icy river through wind and huge snowdrifts to get to a nice warm barn where some friendly cows welcomed them with fresh milk.    Just look Queenie. Have you ever seen so many puppies? They are completely worn out and half-frozen.  I do not know whether filmmakers deliberately released movies with scenes of snow in the summer back then but they sure should have. Air conditioning was not common in homes yet so it was a big movie theater draw in those days. And while I was watching kid flicks my folks were watching the grown-up equivalent - Omar Sharif's Doctor Zhivago his beard and eyebrows crusted with icicles mistaking half-frozen refugees...    Hey.  ...On a frozen tundra for his wife and child.    Tonya Tonya.  Or breaking into a long-neglected ice palace that could have doubled as a frosted wedding cake its interior a white-on-white maze of drifting snow frozen furniture and glistening icicles that rivaled the chandeliers.   It is not as if any of this was new or happened only in summer movies. Charlie Chaplin had made audiences feel a chill in his silent comedy The Gold Rush by whipping up a blizzard that left a prospector's house perched precariously on the edge of a glacier. And that was just a few years after D.W. Griffith had put a poor coatless Lillian Gish on an ice floe in Way Down East and sent her hurtling downstream towards a waterfall. But technology's made it possible for more recent filmmakers to give audiences not just the chill but a bad case of frostbite. Jack Nicholson freezing solid at the end of The Shining for instance or that Uruguayan rugby team stranded high in the Andes after a plane crash in Alive. John Carpenter's The Thing had scientists battling its title critter in Antarctica. And the hardy crime-solvers in Fargo plunged through slush into North Dakota snowdrifts...    Woo what you got there?  ...Armed only with a coffee thermos.    I thought you might need a little warm-up.   Thanks a bunch.  There have also been documentaries about climbing Everest and explorers going to the South Pole even animated films - Happy Feet with dancing penguins Ice Age with mastodons and of course Frozen.    Do you want to build a snowman?  And all of this barely qualifies as nippy next to the deep deep-freeze in the climate-change epic The Day After Tomorrow which depicted the sudden arrival of a new ice age...    Satellite readings are showing a temperature drop of 10 degrees per second.  ...With digital effects that sent frost streaking down the spire on Empire State Building and froze New York harbor solid enough that the stars could hike over to the Statue of Liberty. Not that water has to get that cold to make audiences shiver. Witness Leonardo DiCaprio at the end of Titanic all but submerged in the frigid Atlantic teeth chattering lips turning blue as he tries to buck-up Kate Winslet us spirits while clinging to a makeshift raft he cannot climb onto.    I do not know about you but I intend to write a strongly worded letter to the White Star Line about all this.   I am so cold. I cannot feel my body.  Quit your complaining. Titanic-cold is merely brisk as moviegoers would learn a few years later from the documentary March Of The Penguins in which tens of thousands of those stoic flightless birds huddled together and Morgan Freeman's voice provided practically the only warmth.   The temperature is now 80 degrees below zero. That is without taking into account the wind which can blow a hundred miles an hour.  See that is cold.   The males are totally docile a united and cooperative team. They brace against the storm by merging their bodies into a single mass. They will take turns each of them getting to spend some time near the center of their huddle where it is warmer.  No matter how hot it is outside you are going to be hoping for a thaw by the end of March Of The Penguins which is true of a lot of these pictures even Zhivago or perhaps especially Zhivago since it spends the better part of three hours feeling downright Siberian. Whether the good doctor is battling wintery winds outside or cooped up in a country house with his wife fingers cramped as he tries to write.    Yuri why do not you go to Yuriatin?   No I do not think so. Anyway the roads are blocked.  And the snow's drifted high enough that they cannot open doors. Windows are a latticework of frost crystals so thick they cannot see out but with overcast skies what is to see? Until Zhivago spots a glint in one spot and realizes the sun's peeking out from behind the clouds for the first time in months. Then the sun hits the window full on and the crystals glisten and in a dissolve that could only happen in a David Lean film the frost melts away to reveal in 70-millimeter what look to be 40-foot high daffodils.   For a moment at least you will welcome a little warmth. I am Bob Mondello. 