 Edan Lepucki's debut novel California officially comes out tomorrow. But pre-orders have been skyrocketing. Our critic wonders if the hype is deserved. Here's what happened. After Amazon stopped pre-orders and delayed shipments on many books from the publisher Hachette including TV host Stephen Colbert's he decided to take a stand.  So I did this not just for me but for first-time novelist like Edan Lepucki whose Hachette book California could not be pre-ordered on Amazon - death sentence to a new book. So I asked you to go to Colbertnation.com pre-order California from Powell's Books. And Nation I am proud to say you pre-ordered just as I pre-ordered you to do.  A critic Ellah Allfrey says while supporting young writers is admirable the book is not worthy of the attention.  In most post-apocalypse novels the end of civilization is brought about by disaster a terrorist attack alien invasion zombies a plague - take your pick. But this book is about a gradual decline - freak weather a shortage of gas a depressed economy and a failing federal government. All of these things combined to wear down the U.S. And society ends not with a bang but with a whimper. We are in California. Frida and her husband Calvin have escaped the dangers of Los Angeles and are now living a frugal but content existence isolated in the wilderness. Frida names this the after-life. Days spent foraging gardening and hunting - surviving but only just. The struggle to make a life in a drastically altered world is at the heart of any post-apocalypse story. It allows the writer to focus on important themes tackle issues in a way that feels fresh and new. Unfortunately Frida and Cal are so emotionally immature that their trivial domestic spats and misunderstandings do little to endear them to the reader. In the early pages of the book Frida discovers she is pregnant. She persuades Cal that they will have to make changes for the sake of their baby. So they leave the little patch of Eden and walk for two days until they reach the Land. It is a settlement built around what was once a Wild West heritage village. For a time it seems they may have found a home in this community. But of course it is not to be. Things are not stable on the Land and the young couple find themselves tied up in a ideological battle that may well tear the community apart. My trouble with this book was not its failure to live up to the conventions of the genre. Any good story can get away with breaking the rules. But I was disappointed that the characters remained thin and there are disclosures that are just too inconvenient. There is a resurrection of sorts and the revelation of several secrets including what seemed to me a wildly incoherent master plan. The genre of fiction can be a powerful prism that allows us to examine society. But while many of the elements were here for me California never felt like a believable future.  The book by Edan Lepucki is called California. It was reviewed by critic Ellah Allfrey. This is NPR News. 