 Finally today we want to spend a few minutes with a multi-talented performer whose versatility is continuing to astonish. His name is Donald Glover. Fans of the hit NBC sitcom Community came to love him as the goofy Troy Barnes.    Class blows. What I need to know about the universe is that I am at the center of it. Oh bing bong sing along.  Then in 2011 Glover hit the stage as his rap alter ego Childish Gambino.    Now when they see us in the streets all they want to do is take pics and I am like OK yeah OK. Now when they hear us in the beat all they want to do is make hits and I am like OK yeah OK.  His rap career was no gimmick. He picked up Grammy nominations for Best Rap Album and Best Rap Performance. Now Glover is generating yet more acclaim for his latest project Atlanta on the FX cable channel. The series tells the story of a young father trying to support his child and realize his own dreams by managing his cousin an up and coming rapper. The series which Donald Glover co-writes executive produces and in which he stars is not only getting raves from critics FX says the series is breaking records for its comic yet often raw take on urban realities.    I know I have a daughter and I know she deserves the best. I do not think that I have to compromise what I want out of life to do that especially if I think it is going to provide for her.  Glover joined us from our studios in Culver City Calif. And I started by asking him what his team was hoping for with the tone of the series.  We always kind of just talk about like the surreal nature of just the human experience and it is a really strange thing. Like most of the time I think people forget that like life is hard and also really strange. Like most things lie in the gray area but I think because of the Internet and like social media things get cut into zeros and ones really quickly. So we were like let us just play around in the gray areas. And the thing is about like my personal experience I guess being who I am like in this body like is specific but also it translates to everybody's weird time being alive.  Do you mean by that being you being what? Being...  Oh me being like a black man in my like early 30s. Like it is a very specific thing. Like there is a million types of other people but I felt like my specific experience was the best type of experience I could probably like write about.  You know it is interesting because in your role in Community and in some of your previous roles you are - this is not meant to be diminishing or mean - but you are the black friend right? You are like the black friend guy.  Yeah yeah. They call it like the token. Yeah like the token black guy.  Yeah. And your character in Community was kind of goofy and not much edge.  Yeah.  But here you are still a very gentle soul I think but there is definitely edge to the circumstance. I mean the circumstances are very recognizable I think to a lot of people. I am interested in kind of how you got that pitch.  I think we kind of realized it was all about tone and we were like well let us make you believe in all this stuff. Like that is what kind of gives things stakes that that is what makes it like funny or like - like you really feel like he is like stuck in jail when it happened. Like it is not like you know oh these like - these guys are hilarious. It is like sometimes they are just not hilarious. Sometimes it is really scary or sad or like the weirdness of the situation should speak to you at the end of the day like that is what makes me stick around - is something that is going to capture the funniness. I felt like my specific circumstance kind of dictated that on this show.  I have seen reviews in places like - well of course NPR and then of course The New York Times and then even like a Christian magazine aimed at millennials.   What?  Yes.  Really?  Yes. They just gave it really rave reviews and they are all saying something about like how it feels different. How does that sound to you? Does that sound right? What do you think people are responding to?  I think they are responding to that it is a feeling and not like an algorithm. I feel a lot of things are being siphoned down now to like really speak to certain people. Like we kind of hacked ourselves in a weird way where we kind of figured out you know that and we wanted to make a punk show which meant it had to give people a feeling and that they cannot really siphon and make into something else where it is just like I cannot put my finger on that. And - but also like we are letting people just find the show. I think that was a big deal too with FX. I did not want people to feel like we were just like slamming it down their face. Like I really wanted people to feel like oh they had ownership because it felt personal to us.  You know a lot of the ideas though that you are playing with here are very uncomfortable. It seems like a lot of black-oriented art particularly entertainment. It is like the guy with the regular middle-class job is always the clown like he is always the one who takes the pie in the face.  Right.  And I just - I am interested in your thoughts about that.  I am less interested in showing what should be and more interested in showing what is from my perspective. One thing that like I hate in TV shows that I think is really whack is when I am like being preached to. It does not feel authentic. With my stuff specifically it is like I am trying to get you to do the work for yourself a little bit. I think one thing that people resonated with that was cool like we were like talking to like friends of ours. People were laughing for different reasons. I would rather have people kind of wonder why they are laughing or why that made them feel uncomfortable rather than tell them like why they are a bad person or a good person for feeling that way. I would - I think like that is kind of what we are going through. Even as like a country kind of - what is really sacred to us like you have to figure that out yourself. And the show kind of I think changes a lot. It is be - it will be interesting to see how people feel like and how people relate in different ways because like it does kind of grow up pretty fast after the next like two episodes.  OK. Well you are teasing us now because we have not seen them yet. So we will look forward to seeing it. That was Donald Glover talking to us about his new series Atlanta. It airs Tuesdays on FX. He was nice enough to talk to us from NPR West which is in Culver City Calif. Donald Glover thank you so much for speaking with us.  No thank you. 