 Another voice from the past now. A new novel from a great American writer who is been dead for more than 30 years. The writer is the master of noir James M. Cain. He gave us the classic books behind the classic films Mildred Pierce The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity.    Mr. Neff why don'30? He will be in then.   Who?   My husband. You were anxious to talk to him were not you?   Yeah. I was but I am sort of getting over the idea if you know what I mean.   There is a speed limit in this state Mr. Neff. Forty-five miles an hour.   How fast was I going officer?   I would say around 90.   Suppose you get down off your motorcycle and give me a ticket?   Suppose I let you off with a warning this time?   Suppose it does not take?   Suppose I have to whack you over the knuckles.  The new novel from James M. Cain called The Cocktail Waitress is of course not new at all but was recently unearthed by Charles Ardai the founder and editor of Hard Case Crime a publisher of hardboiled fiction and he joins me now. So good to have you with us.  It is great to be here. Thank you.  Well first we want to know about the story. Who is this cocktail waitress?  And you can guess which one she falls in love with and which one she marries.  All the ingredients are there for a great great crime story it sounds like.  Absolutely.  Now you have compared finding this novel to discovering a lost manuscript by Hemingway or a score by Gershwin. Why do you think James Cain is comparable to those two great artists?  Well the progenitors of noir the great three were Raymond Chandler Dashiell Hammett and James M. Cain. And this book has been out there now for 30 years unpublished and it is the last remnant of this terrific mid-century movement which defined American popular literature.  How did you first learn of its existence?  And I jumped on that and I said do you think there is anything in his papers that might point in the direction of The Cocktail Waitress? And a week later a package arrived in the mail and it had the manuscript of The Cocktail Waitress in it. So it was one of those great moments.  Yeah. I wanted to ask you what was it like when you finally had your hands on this manuscript you would been so interested in finding?  Well you know your hands tremble and shake because you do not want to get sweat stains on the paper and so on but it really was mostly desire to sit down and read it. I would read every book Cain had ever written and I was just hoping that this would be up there with the good ones and sure enough it really is. It is sort of a classic Cain story that takes a little bit of The Postman Always Rings Twice and a little bit of Mildred Pierce and mixes them up and brews something very new and different.  Now the guy that sent you this package had he read it himself or...  As far as I know he had not. And in fact the agency that represents the Cain estate did not have a copy until I sent it to them. So as far as I know I was probably the first one to read it since Cain's death.  Well as we have already mentioned some really great movies have been made from Cain's novels so do you think we might see a movie made from this one?  I would be surprised if we did not. I do not think there is a Cain novel that has not been filmed. No producers in Hollywood have read the thing yet. It is sitting on my desk. In fact this makes me think of another murder mystery plot. If I got murdered and the manuscript vanishes you will know what happened.  Charles Ardai is the founder and editor of the publishing company Hard Case Crime. It was great talking with you.  Thanks. It was a pleasure. 