 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Madeleine Brand. You either really love The Mighty Boosh. Or you just do not get it. Or more likely you have never heard of them. Here's a taste.  Mr.   That is just making me feel physically sick. What is that gloomy racket? Mr.   That is The Human League. Mr.   That is electro-nonsense. Mr.   They are electro pioneers. They invented music. Mr.   Invented music? Mr.   Yeah. Mr.   What happened before then then? Mr.   It was just tuning up before then. Mr.   Are you aware of the music known as jazz? Are you aware of jazz music the movement of jazz? Mr.   Why do you keep going on about jazz for? Mr.   Because it is the most important art form in the 20th century. Mr.   No one listens to jazz. Science teachers and the mentally ill that is all jazz is for. Mr.   You better take that back you electro-ponce.  The Mighty Boosh is a British TV comedy. Imagine a cross between Monty Python H.R. Pufnstuf and Flight of the Conchords. It stars two comedians and a small cast of characters some of whom are not human. They have traveled to the Arctic to find a magic egg and carried on an existentialist debate with coconuts on a desert island. Oh and they do it all while making up silly little songs they call crimps.  Mr. BARRATT and Mr.    Ooh ooh ooh I did a twisty Ooh ooh ooh a tiny twisty. Twist them up twist them down. Twist them all around like the cobra dancing to the music of the pipe the pipe the pipe the pipe of life.  The TV show is a cult hit in Britain and the Boosh just wrapped up a short tour here in the States where you can catch their show on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. Julian Barratt and Noel Fielding are the stars and creators of The Mighty Boosh. They join us from the BBC Studios in London. Welcome to the show. Mr.  Hi. Mr.  Hey.  I kind of did a lengthy description of your show. Mr.  I liked it yeah. Mr.  That was a saucy intro.  How would you describe your show? Mr.  Oh I cannot do that very well. So Mr.  I draw pictures of it. I am drawing a picture of the show now. Mr.  Yeah this is radio though.  Radio. This does not quite work. Mr.   un haday ha. How is that?   How did you two come up with your characters? Mr.  They are not only characters. They are just us.  Is it you? Mr.  They are not very far away. They are about 12 centimeters away from our actual characters.  So you really are into jazz and you really are into The Human League? Mr.  It is just a documentary The Boosh. We started writing together and we just - I am into jazz and Noel's into pop and we sort of just accentuated those aspects of our self and Mr.  You cannot lie about this stuff. You cannot invent it. It has to come from somewhere otherwise it feels fake. Mr.  Means we do not have to do as much research. Mr.  Mm yeah.  One of my favorite episodes is The Nightmare of Milky Joe. Can you set that up for us? Mr.  That is our favorite I think because it is just sort of about -we are washed up on a desert island and I would seen Castaway with Tom Hanks and thought that would be a good thing to happen to me and Noel but I thought it would be interesting if you know I was speaking to something and making friends with an inanimate object. And then you know Vince turns up and goes what are you doing? I am here. And he goes well I want a decent conversation you know.  Mr.  So he is got a coconut. Mr.  So he is got a coconut which he dresses up. And then of course  Mr.   I met a woman. Mr.   Who is this? Mr.   None of your business. Mr.   Are you going to introduce me? Mr.   This is Ruby. Mr.   Ruby? It is a lovely name. Very pleased to meet you Howard Moon. Do not get up. Mr.   Nice is not she? Can I help you in any way? Mr.   Yeah. I was just wondering if you would both would care to join me and Milky Joe this evening for a night cap. Mr.   No we are fine thanks. Mr.   I spruced up the hut a little bit actually given it a bit of makeover you might interested in having a look see. Both of you. Mr.   That sounds electric but we will take a rain check.  Mr.  Well it is quite interesting is to play it very seriously because it is almost like a quiet sort of dramatic tragic sort of storyline and - but if you play it really seriously but it is got coconuts in it it just becomes sort of funny without having to do much. Mr.  Also we used the puppet company who make puppets and they were making the coconuts very animated and very Mr.  Bit Disney-ish. Mr.  Really brought them to life. And we said we think we just need to have faces sort of almost drawn or you know eyes -  coconuts and have them very deadpan and still. They did not talk or do anything because it was funnier for some reason. Mr.  I think we were talking to Matt Stone and Trey Parker recently when we came to the States. And they were saying they have a similar thing with their characters this sort of deadness to them that they will need.  The creators of South Park. Mr.  Yeah. Mr.  Yeah a stillness that they want from - to make something funny you know. Mr.  Or deadpan.  Did - so how do you actually make the props and design effects? Mr.  We used to do yeah when we toured it was just me driving and because of course Noel does not drive so I would drive us. And then we would build all the props  the music and we would turn up and we would do everything you know Mr.  Everything. Mr.  So everything we made from gaffer tape Mr.  Love gaffer tape. You can make anything out of gaffer tape. Mr.  We became a bit of a look and so we tried to maintain that even though we could afford not to make things from gaffer anymore. But we sort of wanted to maintain that look.  So you started in - started doing standup before live audiences and created The Mighty Boosh as a theater piece and then took it to TV? Mr.  We got paid to write a TV show and then when we gave it to them they did not really understand it because there is a lot of dialogue on the page and it was just pages of dialogue. And they sort of did not really understand it. So we thought oh let us do it live and then show them how it works you know. And then they sort of said it is great live but how it would work on TV? We are just going around and around in circles so Mr.  We built a TV and got inside it and showed them.  Mr.  And it worked like that. Mr.  Yeah shrunk ourselves down and used puppets to demonstrate how we would work on TV. I think we initially wanted to - we said initially that we wanted to do like Python and that was sort of like everyone I mean we all grew up on Python but we sort of rather than just a stream of consciousness type show we wanted a sort of adventure and a sort of team of people within that sort of to go through the madness. Mr.  We never really did sketches either. Mr.  No. Mr.  We were always interested in narratives for some reason little stories or adventures.  It sounds like 'ecause you - all of this was so just handmade and just the two of you doing everything at the beginning and now your show has become this cult hit in the U.K. and you are trying to conquer the U.S. Are you surprised by your popularity? Mr.  We are not trying to conquer the U.S.  Mr.  Always so violent. They just you know we are just coming over and going to Mr.  Just breezing in. Mr.  Breezing about. Mr.  Caressing people. Mr.  Running a hot bath and you know get in if you want.   Can you help Americans out and tell us what The Mighty Boosh means. What does Boosh mean? Mr.  You do not need to know it is fine.   I do I do. Now I really want to know. MR.  Actually where it came from was my little brother had big curly hair when he was a kid and his little friend was Portuguese or something and he used to say oh you got a mighty boosh. I used to think that was absolutely hilarious. So probably just jotted it down and we just came across it one day and Julian went we should call our show The Mighty Boosh. But I do not know really. It does not really mean anything. It could mean whatever you want. But people call us the Boosh anyway now so it is a bit more like a band rather than lawyers. Barratt and Fielding sounds really dull does not it? Mr.  The Barratt-Fielding show.  Mr.  Here they come. Mr.  Their wry observation.  Mr.  Would not be the same show would it? Mr.  Little Barratt and Barratt. Mr.  We would have suits on.  Mr.  This is Fielding. What have you been up to? Tough day at the office? Mr.  Oh yes. That is why we are not called Barratt and Fielding. Just - it does not work.  Does not work. No it does not work. Thank you both very much. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you.   That is Julian Barratt and Noel Fielding the stars and creators of the BBC comedy show The Mighty Boosh. All three seasons of the Boosh have just been released on DVD here in the States. And you can find video clips of The Mighty Boosh in the Art and Life section at the new npr.org. 