 For more than 20 years the Magic Tree House series by Mary Pope Osborne has given millions of young readers their first exposure to chapter books. Osborne has written more than 50 of the stories. They follow the adventures of siblings Jack and Annie. Their tree house is a jumping off point for magical missions around the world and through time and space. In recent years Osborne has been donating books to schools in need. NPR's Lynn Neary recently went with Osborne on a visit to a school in Massachusetts.  When Mary Pope Osborne wrote the first set of stories in the Magic Tree House series in 1992 she had a contract for four books. She figured that would be it. But then she began getting letters from teachers parents and kids.  Those letters are priceless. I have memorized so many of them - like dear Mrs. Osborne your books almost made me smart or dear Mrs. Osborne I am working on my own novel. A second grader wrote me it is not finished yet it is scary it is called The Septic System.  I cannot explain that.  None of the 20 books Osborne had written before had gotten that kind of reaction.  I was stunned and I realized that I was reaching an audience I would never reached before and that there was something about these rather simple books that was catching fire with young readers.  Now millions of copies of the books have been sold all over the world. They use simple language to introduce kids to literature history and science with fanciful stories like Dinosaurs Before Dark or Abe Lincoln At Last. A companion series the Magic Tree House Fact Trackers provides a nonfiction version of these stories. The series has been so successful that about two years ago Osborne decided it was time to start giving back. The excitement was palpable in the library at the Old Mill Pond School on the day Osborne visited.  Boys and girls we have a very special guest today.  Hi.   Wow this is so great.  The author read to the kids from her latest book and asked for ideas for future books. Then she gave them some good news.  And guess what? Every one of you is going to get one of these books today. Yeah.  Osborne says after many years traveling around the country meeting her fans she learned that kids in schools with a high poverty rate often did not have access to her books. So she created a program for Title I schools which have a high percentage of disadvantaged students. Teachers apply for the program and if the school qualifies Osbourne donates the books.  I see this series as - it is been proven I think as a gateway into reading - that children start with Magic Tree House and then they move on to harder books and they take a leap. So I see myself as just a launch pad and I wanted all kids to have that opportunity.  When Osborne visits a school she puts a book right in the hands of the children.  OK why do not you just stay where you are and we are just going to hand out the books to you.  Kids crowd around Osborne as she starts to hand out her latest book which is about soccer. Third grader Brady Stahelski has read all but one of the Magic Tree House books and is eager to talk with her about his favorite.  Winter Of The Ice Wizard - I loved that one so much.  Did you really? See I did too but I think it was a little odd for some people.  Yeah that is why I liked it.  A little off the wall.  Brady I got to swipe you and Aiden. You guys got to go back to class OK?  I miss you guys already. Bye-bye. Great to talk to you.  From the library Osborne moves on to classrooms where she talks to kids about projects they have created based on the stories in her books.  Oh these are great.  This one's mine right here.  Look at that. Now that is Jack and Annie and the moon person right?  Yeah the moon man.  Mary Beaulieu is a reading specialist for third and fourth graders. She says many of the kids in her classes do not have access to books at home.  It means everything for our kids. It starts this lifelong love of reading. We get kids who really do not read much at home so giving them that book it is their own it is their possession.  Third grade teacher Christine Lavallee says the Magic Tree House books are perfect for kids who are just starting to read or struggling with reading.  They have the same two characters they have the tree house there is always some magic involved there is an adventure that they have to go on a mystery to be solved - so as a reader who is just starting out they can follow it a little bit better. And they do not have to build the structure of the story in their minds like you might with a text that you have never read before. So it just gets them ripping through books.  Well congratulations. Thank you for sharing these. Keep up the good work everyone.  After leaving the classroom Osborne said she never set out to be a reading specialist. But once she fell into this world she realized she had found a new calling.  I promise you my first 20 books were what I wanted to write I was not even thinking about children. It is just that what I wrote happened to be for children. But then now it - suddenly I feel I have this huge group I am responsible to so it is changed. My life has changed around this series.  For the good.  Definitely for the good. It feels a little heavier the burden but it is a good burden.  Since she started the program Mary Pope Osborne has traveled around the country from New Jersey to Alaska and given hundreds of thousands of books to 1800 schools. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 