 Onto another story. Before Lin-Manuel Miranda created the hit musical Hamilton he wrote another Broadway show that ran for years - In The Heights. Instead of a founding father it celebrates a New York neighborhood. Well the movie version arrives this weekend and Bob Mondello says it has made the leap from stage to screen with exuberance to spare.  Neuva York is awakening to the hottest day of the summer. People spilling out of brownstone apartment buildings in upper Manhattan every sound syncopated - water from a hose the clank of a gate a manhole cover spun by a young bodega owner as if he is DJ'ing the shaking-off of the city's slumber.    Lights up on Washington Heights up at the break of day. I wake up and I got this little punk I got to chase away. Pop the grate at the crack of dawn. Sing while I wipe down the awning. Hey you all. Good morning.  This is Usnavi who is about to introduce us to enough pals that you will think you have met half the barrio - Vanessa the girl he is afraid to ask for a date her co-workers at the beauty shop Benny the cab dispatcher Nina who got into Stanford teen cousin Sonny and Abuela Claudia who gets through days with patience and faith.    Every day - .  Director Jon M. Chu has each of them pop in and out and then has Usnavi look out the bodega window.    So we cannot stop. This is our block.  What had been an empty street is now teeming with people hundreds spinning and leaping in unison. It is a sight that might have been cool pre-pandemic in an old movie musical way but after a year of social distancing it is flat-out electrifying. How on earth will the director follow it you wonder? It turns out by doing it again and again and again with occasional timeouts for those characters we just met. Each has a dream usually of heading somewhere else - Benny to business school Vanessa to a career in fashion Usnavi to his native Dominican Republic with his cousin Sonny and Abuela Claudia who is grandmother to the whole community    Oh Usnavi.  - workaholic. You think it would be different in the Dominican Republic?   Here I work to survive.  - will be a labor of love. The plan was always to go back. You me and Sonny?   The tropical air will keep you young girl.   Caramba. Buy me a bikini.  On Broadway in 2008 Lin-Manuel Miranda made multiculturalism this show is watch-cry just as he would to more telling effect when he created Hamilton a few years later. Here characters hail from Cuba Puerto Rico the D.R. And more than a decade later that still feels like a breath of fresh tropical air as Usnavi - budding superstar Anthony Ramos - lights up the screen even as he hides his light under a bushel when Vanessa bats her lashes.    You owe me a bottle of cold champagne.   Are you moving?   Just a little credit check and I am on that downtown train.   Well your coffee's on the house.   OK.   Usnavi ask her out.   No way.   I will see you later so...  And she is out the door and he did not ask her out again.    Yo smooth operator...  What ties all this together is not so much a plot as a string of vignettes about gentrification power outages beauty parlor gossip. There are intimate songs about dreams and dreamers but generally when a moment threatens to become dramatic someone yells something like...    Can we make a little noise tonight?  And we are into another splashy dance number in one case with actual splashing other times with visual fantasies director Chu has cooked up to illustrate character fantasies - bolts of fabric soaring off rooftops chain-link fences that morph into subway maps a gravity-defying dance on a fire escape all lovely and upbeat and summery which should make In The Heights in summary just the ticket for a pandemic-weary crowd that wants to head back to the multiplex. I am Bob Mondello. 