 Coal miners and gay activists - these are two groups you might have figured would steer clear of each other at least in the past. But in 1980s England they worked closely together. And that real-life story is now a film comedy called Pride. Bob Mondello says Pride is proof of the old adage that politics does make strange bedfellows but not in a literal sense.  Maggie Thatcher's England - struggling coal miners are four months into a bitter strike. And a young Londoner named Mark feels a kind of kinship as he watches them on TV being harassed by the police.    In the face of unprecedented violence...  Just like him and his gay buddies he thinks. So while making plans for a gay pride march he urges his fellow activists to form a minor support league.    What we need is cash.   Yeah because the miners have always come to our aid have not they?   Does not matter. It is the right thing to do.  The right thing and it seems an easy thing. Mark's little group manages to raise quite a bit of money. But then they cannot get the union to accept it. As soon as they say who they are the union reps hang up on them. So they pick a Welsh mining town at random and call the union just using initials - L.G.S.M. lesbians and gays support the miners. And a rep who ends up being slightly startled comes to meet them.    I thought the L was for London - London something. This money you have raised that is all from gays and lesbians?   Mostly.   Well I am not going to pretend I am not surprised. You can see that. Truth told you are the first gays I have ever met in my life.   As far as you are aware.   That is true.   And you are the first miner I have ever met.  It is one thing to talk to a union organizer of course another to work with the workers themselves. When Mark and his buddies head to the Welsh town everybody's weary.    I think I am starting to freak out slightly.   Guy your gays have arrived.  And while the organizer figures things will be better when they get to know one another nobody's mingling at first.    Get out there and find a gay or a lesbian right now.   I do not want to give them the wrong impression.   Oh right because you are so bloody irresistible.  I went to Pride expecting a straight-up culture-clash comedy but it morphs into something a smidge more complicated. Britain has a history of social comedies - Brassed Off Billy Elliot The Full Monty- and Pride is angling for pride of place among them. Its labor union storyline conjures up memories of Norma Rae but here they are blended with sillier stuff. Director Matthew Warchus cut his teeth in the theater and you can feel the rhythms of musical comedy sneaking into his staging here. One scene is pretty much a full-on dance number with wallflower wives and disco queens finding common cause at a union social that gets unexpectedly boisterous.   The filmmakers are not naive. Some bigots remain bigots in the film. Some do-gooders stay annoyingly self-righteous. But the film's high spirits are genuinely infectious. And it says something that 30 years after the events it depicts Pride should feel so unexpectedly rousing. I mean people cooperating across ideological lines finding common cause with folks they do not 100 percent agree with? What a concept. I am Bob Mondello. 