 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. Touch is the provocative title of a new novel for young adults. It refers to something that is happened at the back of a school bus to the narrator a ninth grader named Maisie.  It is weirdly hard to sort them out the story and the truth even though I was physically there. The only thing I understand now which I did not know before is how confusing it can be. I mean the whole question of what is true what is a lie what you think what you say and what you start to believe.  The author of Touch is Francine Prose. She is written 18 novels. This is her third for young adults. She says she found the voice for Maisie by thinking about how she was at that age. Ms.  Independent tough I mean she is a little smarter I think than I was but a real spirit a real little girl spirit. And what happens is what happens of course to little girls which is she suddenly grows up. I mean the book is as much about as it is about anything the kind of shock of finding yourself suddenly a different person even though you think of yourself as the same person but how startling it is to realize that you are living in a different body than you had six months before.  And in her case the physical transformation happens very quickly. It happens in a year when she has gone away. Her parents are divorced and she is gone to live with her mother. It turns out to be a bad idea and she comes back home and she is completely different. She looks completely different. Ms.  Well she is grown breasts in the interim which again somehow you know you grow up and you kind of take it for granted that that is what happened to you that is what happens it is the natural process but you look different people treat you differently. And what happens to her is the shock of being treated differently by boys who were just her pals and her buddies. And suddenly because she has this new more womanly body and has gone through these changes suddenly they are boys and girls instead of all just being kids together.  This all reaches a turning point on a school bus ride. And why do not you talk about as much as you feel comfortable talking about without giving too much away why do not you talk about what happens on the bus that is the essence of this story? Ms.  Well something happens. That is sort of the mystery of the story which gets resolved. There is an incident involving as I think it is called inappropriate touching Maisie and these boys with whom she is friends they grope her I suppose you could say. And because there is such an element of betrayal and personal history and because they have been friends as I said just kids and then suddenly it becomes more and more fraught with rumor with innuendo with gossip. It goes through the school. Maisie has a stepmother who wants to make a legal case out of this. So and I looked into it in fact I mean the whole issue of peer sexual harassment which is an issue in schools comes into play and there is a lawsuit and so forth. So all these things are a result of kids playing around in the back of the school bus which has suddenly taken on new meaning.  For Maisie this becomes a case where she - there are many versions of what happened on the bus including several versions that she is told herself. And she is trying to sort through at some point what she really believes. How did you come to that as thinking that this is really one of the central questions in this book for her? Ms.  I was thinking about the way in which if you tell a story that is not exactly true or sort of how you remember something or has some relation to the truth that lie or half truth takes on a life of its own until eventually after years or after months or after weeks it is hard to tell the difference. I mean it is - in a way people have that all the time. I mean that is you hear some story about your childhood or you remember it and you start to tell that story and your telling of the story eventually becomes more real than the thing that actually happened. Well that is what happens to Maisie kind of in a more concentrated version. I mean she tells a story of what happens then her stepmother kind of wants to believe something else happened then it turns out that the boys have said that something completely else happened. And she tells yet another version in response to her hurt and betrayal at what the boys have said.  Throughout this story Maisie is - she is tough she is also really vulnerable. She is funny in a lot of places. She is got a wry sense of humor. Would you find yourself as you write having her say things that you would then realize that you know a 13-year-old just would not say that - that would not be part of her vocabulary she would not phrase things the way I might have if this were an adult character? Ms.  That is something that people say and that I hear but my own experience of having kids and being around kids is that I was always being shocked. I mean sometimes your 13-year-old would sound like a three-year-old. And sometimes your 13-year-old would sound like a 43-year-old. And I was never sure what was going to come out of their mouths because it never sounded to me exactly like oh that is how a 13-year-old sounds. There is such a range.  And she Maisie seems sort of world weary in her own way.   She talks about her stepmother and there is just no love lost there - her stepmother Joan. and she says Joan is constantly auditioning for a TV series being filmed inside her own head. She calls it the Joan channel. Ms.  Yeah yeah well 13-year-olds are smart. That is certainly what I remember and that is what I have been observing. It is just how quick and observant they are. And again for me was the interest in writing this story and writing about that age that is you reach an age especially if you are a girl at which your intelligence is no longer valued as much as your body you know your physical attribute but that is kind of what happens.  You know there was something that disturbed me by the end of this book which is that it seems to be that at the end Maisie has lost something irrevocably. She is lost her best friends. She is learned what it means to grow up. She is learned something about the truth but to me she ends up losing a lot of things along with that. Is that how you see ? Ms.  That is how I see it.  You do. Ms.  That is how I see it. And that is in a way again how I remember it. I mean I remember when I was a little kid you know I was good at sports and I could jump off the high board and I was kind of - because I was the oldest kind of the boss of my block in a certain way. And then puberty hit and suddenly I was like looking to boys for direction. And I remember that as a great loss. I still have to work my way back to where I was at 13. So I remember that as having happened.  Did you struggle with that? Did you think about you know do I need to have something more affirmative here to give Maisie a more positive picture as this book ends?  Ms.  Well she will have one. She will have one. I mean it does not you know it does not project that far in the future I mean my own experience again is you do get over it. But again I wanted to be true to the characters and true to the experience. And I think that when you are that age I think you are confronted with what you have lost before you can realize what you have gained.  That is a painful thing to think about. Ms.  Mm-hmm.  Ms.  Yeah.  As a mother of a young daughter. Ms.  Well sure I have a granddaughter now so I am about to go through it all over again with her so you know she has a while yet but I can see it coming in the future.  Francine Prose thanks so much. Ms.  Thank you Melissa.  Francine Prose is the author of Touch. You can read an excerpt at npr.org.  Ms.   I got to be strong just keep pushing on.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 