 Young adult literature is big business right now. Bookstores and movie theaters are full of titles like The Hunger Games and The Fault in Our Stars. So what better time to look at the original golden age of young adult literature. Author and occasional NPR reviewer Lizzie Skurnick has written for and about teens. She is now she is venturing into publishing with a new imprint dedicated to beloved and forgotten books from the 1930s through the 1980s. NPR Books editor Petra Mayer visited Skurnick and got a tour of her bookshelf.  The Pistachio Prescription?  Yeah.  I thought everyone had forgotten that.  No and we are actually - I am trying to reprint it.  OK so admittedly that is me but it is still the reaction that Lizzie Skurnick's aiming for with her new imprint Lizzie Skurnick Books.  Nobody remembers that one that maybe should be on my gravestone.  Her apartment is piled with books.  Triple stacked triple shelved and stacked.   Paula Danziger M.E. Kerr and Sandra Scoppetone not to mention Lois Duncan and Ellen Conford. If you grew up in the '80s you probably remember checking these beat-up paperbacks out of the library by the armful. But Skurnick says there is much more to classic YA than just '80s-baby nostalgia.  These were really books about America about England about China about wherever they were set. And they were about political movements and emotional movements. So they were a way that I think many of us learned about something like World War II or someone like Betty Grable or the feminist movement.  These books she says represent a moment in literature that needs to be recognized and preserved.  As much as I love nostalgia and I like to eat Lucky Charms I would never work and reissue a series of books for nostalgia. It is to make sure that this enormous and vibrant body of work and bunch of authors does not get forgotten.  And they are almost entirely forgotten except by a few people like me who remember those long still afternoons in the library. Skurnick says that is because most of these books were written by women for teenaged girls and written off by everyone else.  I have never met anybody who did not know this period of literature who does not immediately assume that it is cutesy and that it is about romance.  Some of the books are romances and what is wrong with that? But Skurnick is also publishing things like Sydney Taylor's All-of-a-Kind Family stories about a Jewish family on the Lower East Side before the First World War and A Long Day in November Ernest J. Gaines' novel about a young boy on a Southern sugarcane plantation. Skurnick herself is a teen author. She is written several books in the Sweet Valley High series. And a few years ago she started a column for Jezebel devoted to discussing the books she remembered reading as a girl. That column became a book called  The Teen Classics We Never Stopped Reading. And it attracted attention from publishers.  I had followed her columns and remembered these books that I loved from the past.  That is Elizabeth Clementson who runs Ig Publishing with her husband Robert Lasner.  We have done reprints but we said hey would a classic YA be a good idea. And Elizabeth said...  I thought it was actually a fabulous idea.  Lasner and Clementson approached Skurnick. Why not start reprinting the books she loved and wrote about? And while they are hoping a new generation will pick up these books they are aiming higher.  YA has never had its own literary canon and I think Lizzie is trying to establish that.  Lasner and Clementson recognize that out-of-print YA can be a hard sell. Lasner says some booksellers have been reluctant to embrace the imprint. But some of them are ecstatic. There seems to be no in-between. Danielle DuBois Dimond is the head bookseller at Brazos Bookstore in Houston Texas. She says she is excited about Lizzie Skurnick Books even though she is too young to have read them the first time around.  It is really nice to have that part of the canon kind of brought back in 'ecause I think it is really been sort of underserved and under-printed. And I am really excited that we are taking these books a little bit more seriously.  Skurnick will be releasing one title a month beginning this month with Lois Duncan's 1958 novel Debutante Hill and in conclusion oh my god All of a Kind Family - I cannot wait. Petra Mayer NPR News. 