 All right. Let us be honest. There is a reason I picked that last song. Let It Be plays a central role in the book we are talking about today. It is set in 1970 which was one bummer of a year. The '60s were definitely over the violence at Altamont Speedway and the shootings at Kent State saw to that. College campuses were exploding sometimes literally. Radical groups like the Weather Underground were on the move all across the country. It was an anxious uncertain time. And when people flipped on the radio they wanted something soothing something like Simon  Garfunkel or James Taylor.    Oh I have seen fire and I have seen rain.  Fire and Rain was Taylor's first big hit. It is also the title of David Browne's new book  The Beatles Simon and Garfunkel James Taylor CSNY and the Lost Story of 1970. Browne says he is always been haunted by the idea that he missed out on the '60s.  Which were like the greatest period ever in mankind. And you know you missed out on the Beatles and the Kennedys and flower power and on and on.  Do not you wish you were born five or 10 years earlier?  Exactly. And here you are in the era of Watergate and gas rationing and Seals  Crofts and you know and - so it is always haunted me to some degree since then well what did happen? What changed there? When did that decade turn into this you know gloom year '70s? So basically I wanted to tell a story of kind of the end of one era and one decade and one sensibility really and another. And these four acts really kind of fit that bill. Here you have three of the most iconic groups of the '60 Simon  Garfunkel The Beatles and Crosby Stills Nash  Young releasing these landmark albums that year Let It Be and Bridge Over Troubled Water and Dj Vu and then imploding. And then rising out of those ashes is this guy named James Taylor who was really an obscure almost cult figure at the beginning of 1970 yet by the end of the year emerged as the rising new star of the year and ushering in that kind of singer-songwriter more introspective far less political sensibility.  If 1970 was this important year - and you have talked about there being this generation gap in music fans in some way - and there was a new generation of listeners coming up why does James Taylor sound sort of catch on and those other icons sort of fall by the wayside?  I think with James Taylor he really was sort of the right guy at the right time. I think by the end of 1970 which is when the song Fire and Rain really finally clicked in and became a hit after being a word-of-mouth song all year people were just really exhausted after three years '68 '69 and '70 of political assassinations and anti-war protests and the Democratic convention in '68 the Manson murders Altamont Kent State. I mean it was just this laundry list of horrors and...  And anger just boiling over everywhere.  ...anger boiling over. And it was just an exhausting time. And I think by the end of 1970 it was just one of those convergences of cultural mood and music. And so a song like Fire and Rain and a guy like James Taylor who was very upfront at the time in talking about what he would been through those last couple of years - and he talked about it with me for the book as well - his own you know drug problems and his stay in mental hospitals. I mean he was very - he would allude to these things in his stage . And I think a lot of people really connected with that.  You have arranged your book chronologically and you started on January 3 1970 with what I really think might be the most important story in the book and that was the beginning of the end of The Beatles. What happened?  Right. That was the very last recording session they did together before Paul kind of announced to the world in April that he was going off on his own.  You talk about a letter that John Lennon and George Harrison wrote to Paul McCartney which if there was anything it sort of showed that the Beatles were falling apart just sort of sent that message home. Could you read that letter?  Oh sure.  How it was addressed to  and everything.  Yes. Well a set up which is that in early 1970 Paul McCartney went off on his own to make his own record. So Paul says OK. I have done this record. I want to put it out on this day in April and the other guys in the band are concerned because they want to put out the Let It Be album then. And you know in their mind you cannot glut the market. So on March 30th John and George drafted a letter and had Ringo hand deliver it to Paul at his house in St. Johns Wood right near the Abbey Road studio.  It is addressed to you from us - simple very simple.  Dear Paul. We thought a lot about yours and The Beatles' LPs and decided it is stupid for Apple to put out two big albums within seven days of each other. So we sent a letter to EMI telling them to hold your release date until June 4th. There is a big Apple Capital convention in Hawaii then. We thought you would come around when you realized that The Beatles album was coming out on April 24th. We are sorry it turned out like this. It is nothing personal. Love John and George. And then George put a little postscript at the end a little like you know  Harikrishna. A mantra a day keeps Amaya away. I hope my friend gets joy from that. I read this letter to someone who worked with Paul back then and he just said yeah George had a way of making Harikrishna sound like F-U you know? And I think that really - that was a perfect example of that you know?  And however it was intended Paul McCartney did not take the letter well.  He did not. Ringo went back to the other guys and said you know look why do not we just stay with that date and we will move Let It Be and we will work it out and which is what they did.  SIMON    When you are weary feeling small when tears are in your eyes I will dry them all...  I am speaking to David Browne who is the author of  The Beatles Simon and Garfunkel James Taylor CSNY and the Lost Story of 1970. And we cannot neglect the story of Simon  Garfunkel in 1970. I mean here they are about to score one of their biggest hits Bridge Over Troubled Water which you know the name in itself sort of seems to capture a lot of what the country was trying to find in that year but they suddenly just disappear. What happened to them?  They had known each other at that point for a long time about 15 years. They were you know school friends in Queens New York and you know they would always had a kind of edgy relationship. And I think by the time of the Bridge album - the making of the Bridge album in '69 and into early '70 these were guys who were basically - were growing apart as people and as musicians. And it is so fascinating that you do not hear any of that on the Bridge album.   You name the book Fire and Rain. I mean if there is a soundtrack to the very troubled year of 1970 should that be the song we sort of put at the top of our list as representing that period?  Well I think it probably would be. You know as songs go I mean Let It Be you know it would be a good soundtrack song maybe even The Long and Winding Road maybe even Bridge Over Troubled Water. But something about - yeah I think something about Fire and Rain and the way that that song talks about one guy's journey through you know his own psychic problems and a death of a friend by a drug overdose and career problems up to that point. And I think that it really does - the song does really capture that moment in time.  That is the voice of author David Browne. His new book is called  The Beatles Simon  Garfunkel James Taylor CSNY and the Lost Story of 1970. David keep enjoying the music. Thanks for joining us.  Thanks for having me David.   ...see you again. Will not you look down upon me Jesus you gotta help me make a stand. Just got to see me through another day. My body...  And for Saturday that is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am David Greene. Remember you can hear the best of this program on our podcast. Subscribe or listen at iTunes or at npr.orgweekendatc. We post a new episode Sunday nights. We are back with a whole new hour of radio tomorrow. Until then thanks for listening and have a great night. 