 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It is looking like superhero summer at the movies. First The Avengers set box office records with a six-pack of heroes in spandex. In two weeks those records are expected to fall to the final chapter in Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy The Dark Knight Rises. And today marks the reboot of the most popular comic book movie series ever The Amazing Spider-Man. Critic Bob Mondello suspects that moviegoers will find themselves caught in its web all over again.  I know you are skeptical. Broadway's Spider-Man started singing about webs less than two years ago. Tobey Maguire's Spider-Man was last slinging webs just five years ago and here comes another spider dude already? This Andrew Garfield guy had better be really something right? Well as it happens he is.   Garfield's no younger than Maguire was when he first played Peter Parker the slightly stir-crazy kid who gets bitten by a radio-active spider and starts climbing the walls more literally than most high schoolers. But Garfield is a lot more appealing and is also one thing that Maguire kind of was not. He is convincing as a teenager skinny and lanky as if he is just shot up three inches and is still growing into the extra height Garfield's web-crawler is also a skateboarder so suddenly having sticky fingers and toes definitely comes in handy. Super strength too though you get the sense that he would trade it for a little super confidence around the girl he has a crush on.   Of course super shyness has its appeal too.   Garfield and Emma Stone are terrific together and they are surrounded by performers with the acting chops to root a comic book narrative in the real world. Sally Field and Martin Sheen as Aunt May and Uncle Ben Rhys Ifans as a one-armed doctor who has good reason to wonder about the ability of geckos to regrow a missing tail.   Grand plans to go with a new back story about Peter's scientist dad new gadgetry for web slinging new subtext about abandonment issues all of which means director Marc Webb - and yes that is his real name - is not just reweaving the origin tale spun by Sam Raimi 10 years ago. Webb's only previous feature a quirky little Indie romance called 500 Days of Summer hardly seems to qualify him to make a special effects blockbuster but a youthfully quirky vibe turns out to be just right for the story's romance.   And it does not hurt when Webb is say imagining the kinship that crane operators might feel for a guy who swings from tall buildings. It is only when the rules of the genre require that our hero meet a giant lizard atop a skyscraper that The Amazing Spider-Man gets a little less amazing. There are only so many ways to bring the characters back down without bringing the audience down. Still this origin story has had enough nice surprises by that point that even those who like their genre plotlines very taut will be inclined to cut The Amazing Spider-Man a little slack. I am Bob Mondello. 