 Author Susan Choi did not set out to write an erotic novel. She recently told NPR that she wanted her new book to be about being young and making mistakes. The book she ended up with is about an affair between a student and her professor's wife. Meg Wolitzer has our review.  As soon as I hear that a novel is set in a college or university I am in. I love that warm intense cozy but cerebral feeling you get from reading about a campus where you know the whole cast of characters from the beginning and where the drama will play out. Of course the flip side is that academic novels can be treacherous too. Professors try to undermine each other's bid for tenure. There is gossip and sabotage and occasionally think Donna Tartt murder. Susan Choi's fantastic new novel My Education is one of these books. It is set in and around the university but she pushes the form. There is barely any classroom action. This book is not cozy. It is thrilling. Choi's narrator is Regina Gottlieb. She is just started grad school and her mentor is Professor Nicholas Brodeur. He is of course gorgeous with a reputation as a student-seducer one of those cool people who walk among us. But cooler still is Nicholas' wife Martha. She is blond and pregnant and naturally even more gorgeous than her husband. Regina is instantly attracted to her. By the time these two finally do begin an affair Martha is a new mother with a difficult marriage a big house and a hostile nanny. Regina sets the whole delicate thing on fire. Writing about sex can be a trap for a novelist. If you are not actually writing to excite or to jump onto the Fifty Shades Of Grey zillion-dollar bandwagon why do it unless you have got a good reason? There is a limited vocabulary of body parts and what is left to say about them really? But Susan Choi has a very good reason. She uses these scenes to show us something essential about Regina how she is willing to trash everything for this relationship. It becomes so consuming that she forgets to hide it. Everyone on campus knows. She even drops out of grad school because she is interested only in Martha. My Education is an academic novel married to a novel of obsession. It is almost too pleasurable to contemplate. If it has one flaw it comes in the last act. The story has jumped about 15 years into the future and it partly concerns a friend of Regina's from grad school. But even in this relatively weaker section of the book the writing never falters and I was never bored. This book's language is masterful but it did something to me too. I felt like I was in an obsessive relationship with it. I wanted to read it all the time. And at the end of that relationship I found myself a little bit lost. And it was not only the story the characters or their passion. It was the excitement of reading work that reminds you actually educates you about the power of a really good novel.  The book is called My Education by Susan Choi. Our reviewer is Meg Wolitzer. Her latest novel is The Interestings. And for updates on books and authors throughout the day you can like NPR Books on Facebook and follow us on Twitter at NPRBooks. 