 The new series Unbelievable on Netflix tells the true story of a woman named Marie. And I want to warn you - her story is upsetting.    Can you tell me what happened?   I was raped.  She was raped when she was 18.    He said if I screamed he would kill me.  Instead of investigating the rape...    I am pretty positive that it happened.   Pretty positive or positive?  ...The police investigated her.    Were you raped? That is it. And if your answer turns out to be a lie I have no choice but to arrest you and put you in jail.   Wait. Why?  The man who assaulted Marie went on to rape several more women. This story was the subject of a blockbuster investigation from ProPublica and The Marshall Project. It won a Pulitzer in 2016. In the Netflix version Marie is played by actress Kaitlyn Dever. Dever took a star turn in the high school romp Booksmart earlier this year. In Unbelievable she puts away comedy in favor of an understated raw performance - not a lot of dialogue tons of emotion. I asked Kaitlyn Dever how she prepared to take on this role.  What was so important for me in the process of creating her - I read in all of these little clippings I was able to read...  News coverage from the time.  Yeah news coverage. Yeah. And she referenced this on and off switch that she would use when she was in her lowest lowest point. She could just almost turn it off like a switch. Knowing that I knew OK this is a very very very brave and strong woman that I am playing.  It is an incredibly challenging role and - just hearing you describe that off switch - how you capture someone who is shut down because they have to out of self-preservation - but how you do that in a way that is sympathetic and compelling to those of us watching.  Yeah it is something that I really thought of during and after you know 'ecause this kind of thing never leaves a person. And while it was very difficult for me to do shooting-wise - you know playing this character every day - it does not even compare to what these women have gone through in real life.  I wondered - was there something in your life as a very young woman - you know a time where you felt dismissed or not taken seriously - something that was important and central to you that you drew on to lend authenticity to the way you played her?  Yeah. I think as a woman - as a young woman I think we all have those small moments - not feeling hurt or not feeling like you have a voice. But I have never experienced anything to the degree that Marie has experienced. And I think that also being a woman if you have not had that experience yourself you probably also know someone who has had that experience or someone that is close to you or someone that you love. I was sort of just taking all of that with me.  She was raped and the investigation unfolded in 2008.  Yes.  Do you think it would play out differently today - 2019?  Oh gosh. I hope so and that is honestly our hope in making this show. Our hope is that it moves the needle forward so that these cases can go differently and that we are listening properly and we do not just treat these survivors as one whole group. You know they are very very specific and people react very differently. So our hope is that it just - it starts the conversation in that way.  So I am going to change gears and ask about a completely different - could not be more different - project that you starred in also this year. You played Amy one of the main...  Yes.  ...Characters in the movie Booksmart. We have actually got a lot - a little bit of this one so let us listen.    We have not done anything. We have not broken any rules.   OK. We have broken a lot of rules. One we have fake IDs.   Fake college IDs so we can get into their 24-hour library.   Name one person whose life was so much better because they broke a couple of rules.   Picasso.   Yes. He broke art rules. Name a person who broke a real rule.   Rosa Parks.   Name another one.   Susan B. Anthony.    damn it.   We should explain...  So well-written .  So you were playing Kaitlyn Dever the rule-following good girl arguing we should not go to this party tonight.  Yes.  That is your best friend who is trying to talk you into going to a party on the last day of school and it turns into the craziest night ever. And it is funny as we heard.   Yeah.  What drew you to this?  Still makes me laugh.  Yeah.  I fell in love with it. I fell in love with these two girls. I fell in love with a story that I had never really seen on-screen before - two girls that are just so smart. And they know they are so smart and they are not afraid to tell people that and show people. But they are also funny and gross and weird and silly together and so honest and open with each other. So that was like so exciting to me. Also getting to lead a film in a comedy - I think that for young women that does not come around too often which I am just so happy to be a part of something so special like it.  So to your point about how the girls in Booksmart are really smart - they have bright futures they are going off to great colleges they have great support systems - totally totally different character than Marie who you are playing in Unbelievable who is coming from a very different place.  Yeah.  Is there a similarity in that you are trying to get at some universal experience for women and girls in both of these? I wonder if that was something that attracts you to a script or to a project.  Totally. I feel like as I have gotten older I do want to really be a part of projects that I know are going to be really important and inspiring for young women. You know already the response that I have been getting from Booksmart has just been so inspiring and honestly just reminds me of why I wanted to be an actress in the first place - and the same thing with Unbelievable.  Which was - why? Why did you want to be an actress in the first place?  I realized this just the other - a couple weeks ago that I really cannot sit still. And I - if I were to be myself for the rest of my life I do not think I could handle it.  .  I love - that is true. I love being myself in my day-to-day life. But if I had to do it forever I do not know if I could. I just have this itch to play different people and say other people's words and shedding light on stories that were never heard or - you know like with Booksmart you know I am playing a queer girl in the leading role of this movie Booksmart. And the reactions I got playing that role was so inspiring to me you know? I had girls coming up to me saying being a queer woman growing up I had to seek out representation at small small indie theaters. And now I got to play a girl like Amy and that role was seen on many screens all across the world. So it is - that to me is really really inspiring and I want to continue to be a part of projects that really move the needle forward in that way.  Kaitlyn Dever thank you so much for your time today and for stopping by NPR West.  Thank you so much for having me.  Kaitlyn Dever stars in Booksmart and also in the new Netflix miniseries Unbelievable.  