 Of course police officers - past and present - have been part of the conversation this week. For some questions about the relationships between the police and the public they serve have been part of their conversations for quite some time. Norm Stamper was chief of the Seattle Police Department for six years. Last month he put out a book on this very issue. It is called  How To Fix America's Police. And Norm Stamper is with us now. Thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me.  You know your book has actually been out for a couple of weeks now but there is a very prescient inscription. It is inscribed to the survivors those who have lost loved ones through wrongful acts of law enforcement and those who have lost police officers to on-the-job violence - kind of remarkable after that week that we have had.  Well I - when I was inspired to write that dedication I had in mind nothing like what is happened this week.  What is going through your mind after the events of this week?  It is mostly an emotion as opposed to a thought and it is pain. This hurts so much. The effort to achieve an authentic partnership between community and police and particularly in those communities that historically have had the toughest time with law enforcement is always on my mind. It is critical it seems to me that we find a way to find common ground. And we are not very close to that moment at this point.  Why did you put both of those in the inscription? Some people just do not think those are morally equivalent if you want to call it that.  Well for me the moral equivalence boils down to the very basic principle of the sanctity of human life. And whether you are wearing a blue or a tan or a khaki uniform or you are an 18 or 19-year-old young African-American man  and very precious. And it seems to me that one possible silver lining to the horrific week that we have had is that police officers will come to appreciate what families have lost at the hands of police officers. And the more we can develop a mutual appreciation for the value of human life for the aspirations that all human beings have that we can begin to see what is in it for all of us.  Let us talk about your book. The subtitle as I said is How To Fix America's Police. So I have to assume that you believe that America's policing system is in fact broken. What is broken?  The system itself. Policing is broken. Tragically it has been broken from the very beginning of the institution. It has evolved as a paramilitary bureaucratic organizational arrangement that distances police officers from the communities they have been sworn to protect and serve.  What underlies your view about the fact that the system itself is what is broken?  Well it starts from the very basic premise that the police in America belong to the people not the other way around. And if we are ever to achieve that kind of partnership we have got to find a way to build trust. And that is not going to happen as a result of some cosmetic public relations approach. It requires very very hard work. It is human beings all playing different roles recognizing their common ground and working to establish the quality and the nature of the relationship that is necessary to reach that common ground. And for me that means we need to adopt true community policing. And I do not believe that that exists to the extent that it should.  That suggests that this is an issue of a few people as opposed to a systemic problem. So what is the system problem that leads to these poor outcomes?  The system problem I think is that police officers in the United States believe that they must maintain control from beginning to end of every single contact they make. They are taught that by their culture. In some cases they are taught that in the police academy. When you create this one-up one-down situation in which the police officer says I am the cop. You are not. This is what you are going to do and why you are going to do it how you are going to do it if you are going to do it. That kind of control leads to an abuse of power. We have also militarized American law enforcement beyond all measure. The drug work has contributed dramatically to the militarization of policing. If you are engaged in a war you have to have an enemy. You also have to have propaganda. You do not fight wars without enemies and propaganda. And so we have taught our cops that they are on the front lines of an occupational force and their job is to maintain control of every situation. And I would argue that they lose control when they embrace that attitude and take it into every contact. Look there are dangerous situations in police work and police officers need to be ready to use force. The law entitles them to use only that amount of force necessary to overcome whatever resistance they are facing. And if in fact you are confronting as the police officers in Dallas did an armed and very very dangerous man they are authorized to use lethal force. Most people I think get that. It is when you get into these discretionary marginal contacts that we find police officers abusing their power. And it is true that if one officer out of the million police officers we have in this country shoot somebody without authorization without legal standing and we can say that is the exception. Let us go ahead and deal with that individual. But when we have shooting after shooting after shooting that most people would define as at least questionable it is time to look not just at a few bad apples but the barrel. And I am convinced that it is the barrel that is rotted.  You say in the book  a scared cop is a dangerous cop. What do you mean by that?  A scared cop is an impulsive cop. A scared cop is somebody who literally does not see straight. Perception is affected by fear sometimes profoundly. Every officer who is been involved in a shooting - and I have been - will tell you that tunnel vision is absolutely real. Everything else disappears from view but the threat to the safety of the officer or to the safety of any other person. And so it is vital I think that we all understand that when a police officer is frightened is inclined toward impulsive behavior or rash behavior we need to be asking ourselves did we anticipate this? Is not it in the nature of police where the cops are going to find themselves 3 oclock in the morning down a darkened alley confronting somebody? How do we train them educate them such that they know what their bodies are going to do? They have an understanding of elevated blood pressure of rapid heart rate. They know what their bodies are telling them namely I am afraid. And then they have a way not to override it but to channel it. And the cops I hear screaming at people pulling their guns firing those lethal weapons are out of control and that comes from fear.  Do you think anything good is going to come of this week?  You know I do. Many officers who are hurting and grieving will go through various stages and they will come out the other side not having forgotten this - it is an unforgettable week - but returning to their work and attempting to get the job done as they know how to do it. And some officers will open themselves up. They have been supported enormously in Dallas and across the country. Citizens saw that and maybe just maybe some would say look you know me - I think maybe I need to take a look at my attitude about what we expect of our police officers and what kind of support we are giving them to be able to get this job done competently and compassionately. So it could very well be that critics will begin to sort of lean into whatever discomfort they may have about doing this and work with their cops. And then police officers experiencing the very raw emotions associated with human vulnerability associated with human grief will become more human themselves. And they will say look this insanity has got to stop.  That is Norm Stamper. He began his law enforcement career as a beat cop in San Diego in 1966 and he eventually became chief of the Seattle Police Department. He is the author of the new book  How To Fix America's Police and he was kind enough to join us from member station KPLU in Seattle. Chief Stamper thank you so much for speaking with us.  My pleasure. Thank you. 