 There is no Sheriff Grimes. There is no Daryl. In fact the streets are not yet overrun with the dirty glassy-eyed hungry walking dead people but something weird is happening.    They do not know if it is a virus or a microbe. They do not know but it is spreading.   You need to...   No. People are killing.   You need to spend less time online OK?  That is the setup for tonight's premiere of Fear The Walking Dead on AMC a spinoff of the hit show The Walking Dead which finished its fifth season back in March. Dave Erickson is the show runner for the prequel which moves the action from post-apocalyptic Atlanta to pre- or current apocalyptic Los Angeles because Dave Erickson Los Angeles does not have enough threats to worry about?  .  Figured you throw zombies at us as well? .  I blame Robert Kirkman for that.  This is Robert Kirkman the creator.  Robert Kirkman the creator of the comic book - you know creator of The Walking Dead. When he and I first sat down he had already decided on Los Angeles. It was somewhat predetermined by the master of this universe.  And give us a sense of where we are in time when Fear The Walking Dead comes to life tonight.  We are starting where - our season one going into season two takes place in the time in which Rick Grimes was in a coma. So Rick is shot in the comic and in the pilot of the original show. And our story would start about the same time because Rick was asleep through the fall of civilization. You know it was a chance to see what Rick had missed.  The risk of course with a prequel or a sequel for that matter especially for a cultural touchstone that draws some 20 million viewers a week is that you have expectations to live up to.  Sure.  What are some of the specific challenges that writers faced in creating what is a familiar yet a very different world? And how much of The Walking Dead can and will we recognize if any?  Both shows live under the same mythological umbrella so the rules of the walkers - our infected - are the same - you know the way the walkers turn how you kill them - head shots. What we did have an opportunity to do was show the steps by which people adjust to the apocalypse. You know something is not right and yeah you are trying to tear out my throat.  .  You know you - typically you are not - you want to help and you assume the person is sick. You assume the person is on something and that is part of the process - the process of discovery. It is really an apocalyptic education for our characters. And our core group of characters are the first to witness you know firsthand the turning. It is really a process in the pilot of them coming to understand something unnatural is taking place. It is something otherworldly.  Your main protagonists are a blended family with the parents working at a high school. This is a far cry from a sheriff. What are some of the unique decisions that crop up because of that? What was behind that decision?  That was - it was - the goal was to have - and obviously on The Walking Dead with Rick and Shane you have two police officers. In some respects they are - they are sort of primed for something apocalyptic. And we wanted to start with characters who were completely ill-prepared for anything that was to come. So we have a guidance counselor. We have an English literature teacher at a local high school. And the goal was to essentially take the group - elements of the group that we first meet outside of Atlanta at the end of the pilot of the original show and begin to demonstrate and dramatize the process by which they become you know zombie savvy. You know and I think it became you know essentially...  .  And I think it is a - it is interesting 'ecause I think when you have characters that are that vulnerable for me it puts me that much more on edge.  Well the high school is set in El Sereno a smallish community east of downtown Los Angeles with a name that by the way means the serene one. What drew you there versus say where we are here in Culver City or even Beverly Hills?  We wanted the cast to reflect the makeup of Los Angeles. And so you know we wanted to avoid any landmarks that people - we did not want to see the Capitol Records Building. We did not want to see the Hollywood sign. What happened was we landed on Woodrow Wilson High School which is in El Sereno and really sort of stretched out from that location because El Sereno is east side of LA in the shadow of downtown. And it is incredibly dense and incredibly vibrant as a place. It is surrounded by freeways which is something we tried to you know capture as another icon of Los Angeles. There is a process of trying to find pockets in areas that had not been shot before and also to try to draw out a community that is not typically filmed.  Dave Erickson is the show runner for Fear The Walking Dead which premieres tonight on AMC. Thank you for coming in and for the zombie savvy.  Thank you for having me. It is been great.  And for Sunday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Tess Vigeland. You can follow us on Twitter - NPRWATC. And I am TessVigeland. That is V-I-G-E-L-A-N-D. Arun Rath is back next weekend. Until then thanks for listening and stay safe out there. 