 Finally this hour a bit of movie history from the 1970s. Picture a Brooklyn bank a crowd cops and a charismatic bank robber played by Al Pacino.    He wants to kill me so bad he can taste it. Attica! Attica! Attica!  Sidney Lumet's Dog Day Afternoon was based on a true story. And now comes the story behind that true story a  documentary called The Dog. Our critic Bob Mondello says it had him laughing and amazed.  Pretty quickly after The Dog's filmmakers introduce John Wojtowicz a talkative fireplug who does sort of resemble Al Pacino it will occur to you that he is kind of full of himself.   Nobody would ever did what I did. Nobody would ever rob a bank to cut off a guy's  to give him a sex change operation. That is why they made a movie about it.  It will also occur to you that he has virtually no filter. He calls himself a pervert because he likes sex talks about his four wives - one female as he somewhat ungallantly puts it his 23 girlfriends his many hookups with men his enthusiasm for Barry Goldwater his service in Vietnam and his involvement in the Stonewall-era gay liberation movement - something I would never heard about. But there he is in footage shot in 1971 as the gay activists alliance planned and carried out a protest at Manhattan's wedding bureau.   We have two leaflets. One is an invitation. The honorable Herman Katz city clerk invites you to an engagement reception for Mrs. John Basso  and John C. Bohn . When I was in the gay movement I did not use the name Wojtowicz. I coined the phrase little John Basso  OK? Little is because my  is little.  Like I said no filter.   So that is where I got the nickname little John and then I used the name Basso so people would know I was Italian. UNIDENTIFIED MAN   Are any people going to try to get marriage licenses? John fine.  All of this before he met Ernie the lover whose need for a sex change operation prompted that bank robbery. And that turns out to be story-and-a-half also told with archival footage including a T.V. station's call to John while he was still in the bank.   What is going on now?  We are waiting to negotiate the release of the people so we can get out here.  What are your terms for release?  Well I want them to deliver my wife here from  county hospital. His name is Ernest Aron. It is a guy. I am gay.  His first wife Carmen remembers how startling this all seemed and not just to the general public.   Put the news on - I was watching it and I hear there is another bulletin out now. He wants to see his wife. And this is his wife. And they put the picture on the television of Ernie in the bride outfit which I never saw before. And my relatives never knew Johnny was gay. And then I get the phone calls. We told you not to marry him you see? You see what you did? I was getting the blame for the robbery.  Filmmakers Allison Berg and Frank Keraudren spent years unearthing evidence that substantiated - or in some cases refuted - John's stories ending up with an oddly affecting tale populated by a rogues gallery that Dog Day Afternoon barely hinted at - another male wife John met in prison a mentally challenged older brother he clearly the woman who is arguably the real love of John's life - his mom Terri - and the man himself John Wojtowicz who says what he thinks - everything he thinks even when it is distinctly not to his advantage.   I said do not you love your wife? He goes yeah. I said well imagine your wife is dying of cancer and you needed 10000 and you could not get it. You tried everything to get it. You tried to borrow it tried to make deals - nothing worked out. Would not you do something illegal to get the 10000 to save your wife? He said no. I said then you do not  love your wife because if you loved your wife you would do anything for her to save her. You do not even know what the  love is all about. And then he sentenced me.  The filmmakers have been telling interviews they have sufficient additional material for a whole other movie and The Dog is eye-opening enough to make you kind of hope that is true. I am Bob Mondello. 