 We have talked a lot about good books this summer but our books editor Petra Mayer has been thinking about the bad like villains in literature who get away with being bad.  If we are going to talk about villains let us talk about the biggest of the big bads the granddaddy of ghouls the imperator of iniquity Satan himself. Specifically the version of Satan set down by John Milton in Paradise Lost.  Page 218 book one line...  That is my high school English teacher Rhoda Trooboff. Like a lot of kids I first encountered Milton's Satan and the idea that the villain could be more interesting than the hero in high school English class. And luckily Ms. Trooboff still lives near me and was happy to read me some Milton.   What matter where if I be still the same and what I should be all but less than he whom sunder has made great. Here at last we shall be free. And then a bit later  better to reign in hell than serve in heaven.  So he is kind of the ultimate getting-away-with-it guy.  Yes and not just getting away with it he brings his buddies into it. And together they form a community that sounds as they describe it really exciting.  Sure he is been cast out of heaven but Satan pretty much has it made in hell. Milton's Satan is the ancestor of our modern antiheroes the kinds of guys who flip the fire of damnation into a blaze of glory. But the more reading I did for this story the more I noticed another kind of unpunished villain the kind who embodies an unbeatable system.    If you want a vision of the future Winston imagine a boot stamping on a human face forever.  That is O'Brien the terrifyingly calm Inner Party member in George Orwell's 1984. And that is the scene in the movie adaptation where he finally breaks protagonist Winston Smith torturing him with a cage of rats until Smith betrays his lover Julia.    I do not care what you do to her but do it to her. Tear her face off and do it to Julia not to me.  Like death and taxes O'Brien is inescapable. And like many successful villains he truly believes in his cause.  Those are the ones that tend to get away with it 'ecause they do not get distracted.  That is fantasy author Victoria Schwab. I caught up with her at this year's San Diego Comic-Con because she is kind of an expert on villains. A few years back she set herself this challenge.  If I wrote an entire book that only had bad people could I make you root for one of them as though they were the hero?  Schwab points to villains like the nobly murderous serial killer Dexter or the X-Men's long-running antagonist and occasional ally Magneto. And yes I know Magneto ends up in prison a lot but he keeps coming back.  They have their own ethics. They have their own system. They have their own code that they are following. So even if it is not our code the fact that they do have a code that they are not anarchic is something that I think readers and viewers find really appealing.  And I think that is the real heart of the matter the blackened shriveled evil heart because after all it is the readers who want to see the bad guy get his just desserts. And it is the author who dispenses the punishment. So if you are a literary villain here's some free advice. Adopt a cause practice your smoldering glances and your withering quips because charming the audience is your key to getting away with it whatever it happens to be. Petra Mayer NPR News Washington. 