 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Tess Vigeland. Reality TV has a competition for everything these days - cooking singing dancing cupcake baking - and now like magic you can add magic to the list. Syfy introduces us this week to Wizard Wars where magicians are presented with a challenge - take a collection of everyday objects and use them to create a mind-boggling presentation for a panel of judges. Well one of those wizards is mentalist Angela Funovitz. Arun Rath spoke with her earlier this week.  So first off can you explain - you are - you are described as a mentalist. For people who do not know can you explain the distinction as much as there is one between mentalist and a magician?  A mentalist is somebody who creates this illusion of sixth-sense so to speak - almost looking as if they are psychic - of course they are not claiming anything. But they can very much seem to be able to read your mind or something of that sort. And I loved that. I loved that there was almost a scientific element to it. I loved that it was very real very visceral. And you know you always make a disclaimer and you say yeah I certainly do not have this actual type of ability. And it is something that we do for fun for entertainment. But you know there is always an element of wanting to believe as well.  So do you know what my question is?  I know all your next questions.  Take us through the set of Wizard Wars.  Yeah.  Can you explain how the competition works?  I think the best way that I have been able to describe it to people has been comparing it to Iron Chef because a lot of people have seen the Iron Chef America show. And this is kind of set up in a similar fashion. So we have the four wizards which I am one of the wizards along with Justin Flom Gregory Wilson and Shimshi - all fantastic magicians. And then they have challengers come in and basically the first round - two pairs of challengers compete with each other. And whoever wins that round gets to compete against two wizards in the final so-called wizard war. And that is judged by a great panel of judges. We have Penn and Teller Jason Latimer and Christen Gearhart - all phenomenal phenomenal people.  And like in Iron Chef you are given a list of ingredients - things that you have to work with which are not all necessarily traditional magic props.  I mean things like spam things like earth worms you know what I mean? That is definitely not something that prior to coming into Wizard Wars that I would have ever conjured up in my own mind as something that I wanted to use in my own act so...  You know I am sure you have been asked this question before because the stereotype is that magic it is a boy's club right?  Oh yeah.  Most magicians are supposed to be nerdy guys. I was at a mentalist convention a few years back.  No kidding.  Yeah. You know you end up at these places from time to time.  Yeah.  It was mostly men. So why do you think it persists? Is that what audiences expect?  I think there are a number of reasons. Even when I was growing up I remember thinking to myself - because I loved magic from the time I was 10 years old - that was when I really got hooked. My inspiration on those shows was always like the female assistants. And so I thought what I would have to do one day was to meet some male magician and marry him and become his assistant or something if I wanted to do magical all the time - so it was challenging.  And now you are cutting men in half with chainsaws so...  Absolutely.  ...Well done.  And it is so fun. RATH It is hard to make a living as a professional performer - a magician - and a lot of people have day jobs but you have a very serious day ob. You are actually a medical doctor.  I am actually a first-year dermatology resident physician. I work at MetroHealth Medical Center in Cleveland Ohio.  Do you work magic into your medical practice at all?  Absolutely.  How?  I love it. I mean if you have a child that needs some sort of treatment that is going to be painful or something that they are afraid of you know - I mean geez what a beautiful thing it is to be able to bring an actual little piece of magic right there and something that distracts them entirely. You know that is very much a very passionate area of mine.  That is Arun Rath talking to Angela Funovitz - physician and current star of Wizard Wars which premieres Tuesday on the Syfy network. 