 It is a traveler's nightmare - beaten and robbed on a dark street in a city far from home.  Dearest friends I do not want to alarm you but I was attacked yesterday night in Ethiopia. A few guys ran at me from behind choked me until I fell unconscious on the dirt road and took everything I had.  His passport and wallet were stolen his laptop too. Once home he bought a new computer and got a suspicious email. It said I have your computer and all of your documents.  What would you do? Hit delete? Call the police? Well in this man's case neither of those things happened. Steve Drummond and Gabrielle Emanuel of the NPR Ed team have his story.  The man who got attacked is an American named Ben Armstrong.  I have known Ben for years and this all happened in 2013 in Addis Ababa. Ben was working for a tech startup.  And a couple months after that I get a note. All on the subject line it reads...   Hey Benjamin how are you doing? I am the person who own your former MacBook Pro - long story. Anyways I would like to return all your documents if you do not mind.  Now Ben's back in the U.S. He is left his international job and he is returned to school at MIT.  One of my mentors said get away. Do not get near this. This is going to be a big problem.  The emails kept coming in broken English from this guy with an interesting name - Fernis .  I thought he was a crook probably. He wanted something. I did not think it was charity.  When Ben does reply it is just a line. Not interested. Then he gets a friend request.  I log into Facebook and said sure I will be your friend. You know what is the harm in that? And then I see no picture. I see one friend - me - and some - like of a pop star. You know it is bizarre. It feels like I am getting conned.  So Ben shut it down. He stopped responding.  But this Fernis guy did not give up.  Hey Ben what the hell happened? I thought we were friends.  Fernis writes that he knows pretty much everything about Ben. He is been reading his documents and looking at the pictures.  It is creepy. And in an email Ben lets him know.  It feels violating to know that another person whom you do not know has access to all of your documents.  All this time Ben's waiting for the ask. He knows it is coming. And Fernis does want something. It is not what Ben expected.  Instead he writes Ben a long personal letter. He admits he is been using a fake name. Here's what he wrote.   I am ashamed about our country and I also feel guilty about owning the laptop. Forgive me for not telling the truth. I was just afraid.  And then Ben reads the pitch.   You do not owe me anything but it is been my dream to study abroad. Can you write me a letter of recommendation?  Ben's answer - nope. He replies but it is the bare minimum.  Here's a list of scholarships in technical fields for students in developing countries. And I sent him a link to a bunch of applications.  Fernis writes back immediately.   OK Ben I do understand your suspicion. But could you apply for me if you did know me? Actually it is a big deal - favor - to ask this but what can I say? I am desperate for studying abroad and I am passionate and enthusiastic. And this is when I think the conversation gets - it gets to the core of what we are trying to figure out which is what is our obligation to one another having come into contact in such a bizarre way?  Ben's suspicious but he leaves a window open just a crack. He sends Fernis a note - can you write a page and tell me why you would like to study abroad?  This was a test. This was definitely a test.  Two days later Ben gets an answer. It starts with Fernis' childhood dream.  He grew up in a small town in eastern Ethiopia. Fernis is his nickname. It means joyous.  Yeah my official real name - it is called Haileyesus. Can you pronounce it Haileyesus? Haileyesus.  Can you spell it for me?  Yeah. H-A-I-L-E-Y-E-S-U-S. Haileyesus.  Growing up his favorite thing was staring at the night sky. But studying astronomy in Ethiopia was nearly impossible. So five years ago he enrolled at Addis Ababa University studying architecture.  That is what he wrote to Ben in the test but here's what he did not say.  One day in his second year of college Fernis got a text. His locker had been broken into and his computer stolen. Fernis raced across campus. His friends were there. They looked like they were at a funeral.  My friends were gathered. They have sad face on their faces.  Sad faces because Fernis had lost his most important possession. He says you cannot call yourself a student if you do not have a computer.  Without computer you are nothing in that campus.  Fernis was miserable. For months he and his family saved up to buy him a new computer. Then he went to the black market.  So I met this guy. He also gets the computers from the robbers directly.  Right from the robbers directly. And one of those computers was Ben's computer a MacBook Pro.  Fernis took it back to school and he says he felt like a big man on campus. And went right to his dorm room bottom bunk and opened up the computer. First thing he saw? A picture of Ben.  The first time I see him he just looked like Matt Damon so...  ...Matt Damon?  Yeah. So I showed the picture for my families. They are already - oh is that Matt Damon? They were like - so I was just having fun.  So - wait you did not feel like a little bit weird looking at his pictures or reading his documents?  Yeah not exactly. I was fascinated.  Fernis was fascinated. He would never met an American before and he says he could not stop thinking maybe this guy could help me. Yet everyone was telling Fernis leave Matt Damon alone. He could get in trouble for having stolen property. But Fernis says he felt a moral obligation to return the documents.  It is not moral just to delete some people's life work.  So he takes precautions - a fake name and a new email address - and he reads everything on the computer.  But he does not tell anyone what he is up to.  Oh so you kept it a secret?  Yeah for a long time.  There is this dance going on. Both sides are moving slowly wondering if they can trust one another.  What do I do  here? What is the right response?  Because in all this time...  ...He is never asked for money once. He asked for something but it was the best possible thing he could have asked for to me. He wanted an education. That is what he asked for.  Should we give him a call?   Let us give him a call.   Yeah I can hear it.  Hello?  Hello Gabrielle?  Hi how are you?  I am fine. I am fine. I am not watching you right now.  You cannot see me but I have Ben here with me.  Hey Fernis how is it going?  It is good Ben. How are you doing?  I am doing well. How is...  On Skype we talked about that test - write a page about yourself. And Fernis did a pretty good job. His answer was thorough and complex. But his English needed work.  So Ben gets an idea. He gives Fernis another assignment. This time write an essay.  Show your perspective on the question how does new technology influence inequality in your community and across the world?  It sounds nerdy but that is a class Ben was teaching at MIT. He starts sending Fernis his lecture notes and the assigned reading.  And by the way Fernis you wrote an essay for every session and no other student did that. The most that another student would write is one essay.  Oh really?  Yeah.  Ben realized Fernis was his top student. His essays were clearer...  ...And more thoughtful than my American students'.  And it was not just that. Their notes back and forth revealed a lot in common.  His view of the world is strikingly similar to my own. And it is this question about all right yeah how different are we really?  When the class ended they kept going writing personal essays and sometimes talking online. Fernis uses that MacBook all the time.  She is like my girlfriend.   The computer's like your girlfriend?  Yeah yeah.  You spend a lot of time with it?  Almost all day.  .  OK.  It is been over two years since Fernis wrote that first email.  My English is changed tremendously.  And it ended up turning into something far more than I ever could have imagined.  Now Fernis is looking at schools in the U.S. He is hoping to pick up astronomy again.  And Ben? He is promised to write that letter of recommendation. Steve Drummond.  Gabrielle Emanuel NPR News. 