 There is sort of an on-screen sewing circle going on at the multiplex these days. The title character in Coco Before Chanel which opened this past weekend is a budding fashion designer. The leading lady of Bright Star is a poet's muse who designed her own clothes a century earlier. And for accessorizing you cannot top the editors of Vogue in the September issue. Bob Mondello says that while Hollywood often falls for fashion the fall this fall feels a little different.  Perhaps because movie stars love fashion films love fashion. Films like Clueless.  Mr.   What the hell is that? Ms.   A shirt. Mr.   Says who? Ms.   Calvin Klein.  Confessions of a Shopaholic.   Gucci boots. Ms.   I saw them first.  The Devil Wears Prada.  Mr.   Jimmy Choos Manolo Blahnik.  Not to mention Bruno.   What type belt is that candidate? Mr.   DG.  What is DG? Mr.   Dolce and Gabbana hello?  Name dropping though is what those of us who watch movies do. Designer gowns created for high society have always been something most folks could only dream about and that is where Hollywood comes in - it is a dream factory remember? As early as the Great Depression long before Project Runway or even TV Tinseltown brought the fashion runway to your neighborhood cinema.   A little peep into the coming season and a glimpse of the future too. Lumiere musique.  As she stepped away curtains parted and 1939's black and white comedy The Women exploded into color for a six-minute fashion parade. There were lots of movie moments like that for a while. Jane Russell sang her way down the runway in The French Line. Audrey Hepburn struck poses for fashion photographer Fred Astaire in Funny Face. And for a really bizarre variation on the theme Federico Fellini offered up a people fashion show in Roma - nuns parading in basic black roller-skating cardinals in red and fur-trimmed jewel-encrusted electric-stained glass robes for the Pope looking to make a really bold fashion statement.   All of this was mockery of one sort or another as were most movies centered on fashion models. The 1970s thriller Lipstick did not mean to ridicule its leading lady but it was hard to take Margaux Hemingway too seriously as she raced around in a scarlet evening gown she had accessorized with a rifle.   She was bringing down a rapist who had been freed by the courts. But while there is an occasional model-as-social-crusader flick - think Diana Ross railing at an all-white fashion industry in Mahogany.  Ms.   I would not tell you what I cannot do where I cannot go and why I cannot be different from anybody else.  The more usual approach is to show models as the dimmest of dim bulbs as in Zoolander.  Mr.   Do you ever think that maybe there is more to life than being really really really ridiculously good looking?  All of which suggests that Hollywood assumes audiences do not take fashion very seriously. But in recent years that assumption has been changing. The 1990s documentary Unzipped surprised even its producers by raking in millions while making a pop figure of designer Isaac Mizrahi. This year's  The Last Emperor and September Issue look at the business strategies that rule fashion world because fashion is big business. Big enough that Hollywood wants to piggyback on its appeal especially after a blockbuster has offered a tutorial in why people should care as The Devil Wears Prada did when Anne Hathaway let slip to fashion editor Meryl Streep that she was not much interested in couture.  Ms.   I see. You think this has nothing to do with you? You go to your closet and you select I do not know that lumpy blue sweater for instance because you are trying to tell the world that you take yourself too seriously to care about what you put on your back. But what you do not know is that that sweater is not just blue it is not turquoise it is not lapis. It is actually cerulean. And you are also blithely unaware of the fact that in 2002 Oscar de la Renta did a collection of cerulean gowns. And then I think it was Yves St. Laurent was not it who showed cerulean military jackets? I think we need a jacket here. And then cerulean quickly shot up into collections of eight different designers. And then it filtered down through the department stores and then trickled on down into some tragic Casual Corner where you no doubt fished it out of some clearance bin. However that blue represents millions of dollars and countless jobs. And it is sort of comical how you think that you have made a choice that exempts you from the fashion industry when in fact you are wearing a sweater that was selected for you by the people in this room.  Clear? Well if not you must not have been watching TV's Project Runway or caught the 400 million migration of Sex and the City to the multiplex. The fashion industry may be taking a recessionary hit at the department store but on screen it is boom time with audiences apparently as intrigued by couture as these stars who walk the red carpets on Oscar night. I am Bob Mondello.   Ms.    Red is dead blue is through green's obscene brown's taboo. And there is not the slightest excuse for plum or puce or chartreuse. Think pink forget that Dior says black and rust. Think pink who cares if the new look has no bust. Now I would not presume to tell a woman what a woman ought to think or tell her if she is got to think. Think pink  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 