 The surprise TV hit of the summer is a show that looks like it could have been made 30 years ago.   Stranger Things is a suspense horror show on Netflix. It is set in 1983 about a small town where a boy goes missing one night.    Ninety-nine out of 100 times - kid goes missing the kid is with a parent or a relative.   Well what about the other time?  There is a mysterious government lab a monster and boys riding around town on bikes. If you are hearing echoes of E.T. or Goonies or any number of other beloved '80s classics that is not a coincidence. When the show is creators Matt and Ross Duffer pitched Stranger Things they did not use a storyboard or a written synopsis. They told me they assembled a trailer made of snippets from '80s films.  I think it was around 30 different movies. A lot of them were from the '80s but not entirely from the '80s - movies that we cut together to kind of tell the story of the show. But it was cool because then we - you know we had you know a lot of shots from E.T. but we scored it with like John Carpenter synth music. So I think it helped us figure out what the show was going to feel like and I think it helped Netflix you know and other companies and producers understand what we wanted to do with the show.  To us actually this stuff - it did not feel like this hodgepodge. It all felt like a whole when we all put it together and we put the music over it. And I think the reason is that all those you know the Stephen King stuff the John Carpenter stuff the Spielberg stuff is all just about these small towns and these very ordinary people.  Matt and Ross Duffer are twins. They were born in 1984 a year after the show was set. Stranger Things is the first show they have ever created. And because they did not know any better they broke a lot of rules like casting children as the leads. In the first episode four boys played Dungeons  Dragons in their parent's basement a scene not all that different from the Duffer's own childhood.    A shadow grows on the wall behind you swallowing you in darkness. It is almost here.   What is it?   What if it is the Demogorgon?   Oh jeez if it is the Demogorgon.   It is not the Demogorgon. An army of trouble that is charged into the chamber.   Troglodytes?   Told you.   Pretty soon a new girl appears the weirdo in the woods. She is got a shaved head and uncanny powers. Also she barely talks. The Duffer brothers cast an eerily intense 11-year-old to play her named Millie Bobby Brown.  What was interesting is by the end of this shoot this 11-year-old girl - I am going up to her and going well how do you feel what do you want to be doing? - you know like I was treating her like she is like a 41-year-old Shakespearean actor.   Well and also because she is very - which is something else that most child actors do not have - she is very aware of the camera.  But at the same time she is like a little...  She is still 11.  She is still 11.  One day she showed up on set and she is just covered head to toe in glitter. And she is like I do not know where this glitter came from.  .  And it is like I am not having this problem with any of my adult actors covered in glitter.  I mean that - I mean yeah that was a real deal. It was like 40 - that was a 45-minute delay. That is a - that was...  It is very - I do not know if you have tried to get glitter off someone but it is very difficult. And yeah so we fell behind.  So she is still a child.  Yes.   It really delayed your production schedule because she came in covered in glitter?  Yeah.  Yeah 45 minutes in the morning which is a - and you actually have a limited number of time with kids. So as funny as it is to talk about now it was not funny.  No. We are like why are you sparkling? You are like in Twilight.  .  Yeah you are not a vampire in Twilight. You know what is going on?  The obsession with this show is more intense than I think anything I have ever seen. What was your oh my God what have we done here moment?  You know the first thing that really messed me up was the - there was the - Stephen King tweeted about it.   And then I was like what? I mean that to me was - because that did not - no one else had tweeted really at that point. And like - and he - you know he obviously is one of our idols and was such a big inspiration for us and an influence on this show and that sort of messed me up. I - you just do not think about it reaching those people. Yeah it was insane. It was insane. I mean...  I mean even starting Friday morning you know because the thing is released you know at midnight.  People had finished the show.  So many people had already finished and were tweeting all these great things about it. And then it just kept - through word of mouth it just started to grow more and more and more. And so even on Twitter what starts as a you know a few tweets turns into more and more and more and it just kept growing. And then - you know and then you start seeing all this fan art online.  The fan art.  And amazing fan art and that is when we started realizing that - you know and all this love for Barb of course. And that is when we...  Oh I want to talk about Barb. Here's the thing about Barb she is a very minor character on the show. A nerdy teenager the pretty girl's best friend on the sidelines.    Nance seriously he invited you to his house. His parents are not home. Come on you are not this stupid.   Tommy...  And yet when I asked on Twitter what people wanted to know about Stranger Things I practically drowned in a tsunami of fervor for Barb.  For us it is easy to relate to her because high school was a - it was terrible for us. And I know it was for a lot of people right? You either love it or hate it and we hated it. And so I think there is a lot of people that feel like they were on the outside looking in like Barb.  I think the other reason people really connect to her is because no one casts anyone like her. I mean she looks like someone you might really go to school with.  Yeah our teens have like acne and it is like - it was like great. I am glad we did not - to me it is important to try to keep that and make it feel as real as possible.  To some people the show apparently felt a little too real. In Stranger Things a Department of Energy facility gets up to some nefarious activities. And a couple of weeks ago the real Department of Energy decided it needed to set the record straight.  I love that the Department of Energy issued a public statement that they are not evil. That was like - that is my favorite thing.  Out of thousands of scientists none of them are evil. But it is like...  I bet there is one evil one.  There is one -  someone in there is evil. In a thousand people someone's not a good guy.  Someone's up to no good.  Yeah.  That is actually one of the bullet points in the DOE's slightly tongue-in-cheek blog post quote national laboratory scientists are not evil. Other headlines from the blog post include the Energy Department does not mess with monsters and the Energy Department does not explore parallel universes.  And also I love how they pretend like they know how an interdimensional monster works.  In the world of Stranger Things Matt and Ross Duffer actually do know how an interdimensional monster works - in excruciating detail. The twins wrote a 30-page document describing what is actually going on in this world with answers that the eight-episode show never fully reveals.  We want to try to create a mythology that has specific roles and a back story and at least to us we understand. And then again even if we are not doling all that out to the audience in this you know first season or perhaps in other seasons we still want to know that we have this solid base and that we know the answers to it. So it does not - I do not want - I want the audience to feel like they are safe that we have these answers. And if we are not giving it to them we are not giving it to them for a reason.  Matt Duffer and Ross Duffer thank you so much for your time and congratulations on the huge success of Stranger Things.  Oh thank you so much yeah.  This was so fun. Thanks for talking.  Thank you.  