 After what we have all been through the last 18 months we desperately need a laugh. But there has not been much to laugh about. Josh Johnson was one of the few brave comics who tried to hold up a funhouse mirror to the pandemic.   In all that uncertainty in all that fear somebody somewhere definitely ate a person. That happened all right? And we need to talk about it OK?  Johnson is a stand-up comedian a writer for Trevor Noah's Daily Show. And his career has bloomed during the pandemic. Recently Josh Johnson hosted his first special on Comedy Central and he is out with a mixtape that puts music next to bits from that show. It is called Elusive. But before all of that success Johnson was sent home from work at the start of the pandemic like a lot of us. And I asked him what that meant for the work of comedians.  For the most part all it really has done is sort of widen that lens of things that are happening because like the world was always crazy and lots of things were always happening. It is just that we were so busy that we could ignore most of it. And then in a year where we had to be still and could not go anywhere or distract ourselves we realized how much can be going on in a world in general. And I think that that - in a strange way it is made it a little bit easier to write about because now I think I am writing from a breadth of experience that a lot of people are sharing as opposed to having to explain every type of story or every new idea.  There is also some experiences like say the run on toilet paper which now seems kind of funny-ish . But at the time - I do not know about you but like I am watching these images and I am feeling like wait. Are things going truly truly sideways here like apocalyptic sideways? When did it start to feel like you could make jokes out of things or were you kind of taking notes the whole time?  For me I am willing to like die laughing. So it was never not wild. And I think that whenever something is incredibly crazy there is going to be humor in it. Depending on when you want to laugh is really when you can make the jokes that the public will accept. But the jokes are being written in my mind throughout the whole thing. It is just I can also read a room to know if people are going to be ready to laugh at something or not or if something needs to wait or if something needs to be rewarded.  Why do you think we are not seeing more comedy about this moment? Kind of like what is the chatter among writers about whether or not a set or jokes or - this is a moment you can make fun of or whether you are there to provide escape so to speak?  People come to see comedy because they are looking for that interesting perspective that they want to spend time with. And that means you really can talk about anything. There is so many comedians and there are so many audiences that there is no blanket statement that can be made about what should be talked about necessarily. I think that a lot of comedians lived through it in a way that was pretty traumatic and so they also want to wait to talk about it until they have really truly processed it.  Can you say like what do you mean about trauma for them?  It is a trying thing to your mind to evaluate and try to process analysis of the world around you all the time whether it is for jokes or for science or - there is a strain on you mentally when you already take on this job. And also the fact that within this field of work you have people who struggle with depression struggle with addiction - there is so many things that were compounded on people because of lockdown. And then to come out of that and try to do comedy it is a double-edged sword because you have to both try to use all of this pain as a release and give it to the audience and make jokes. But you also have to potentially delve deeper into something that you either want to avoid or you just do not enjoy thinking about. And so those struggles are also probably why you might not be seeing the most COVID material. Like I do not think it is to a point now where people think it is hacky because we are still in it. So it would be insane to say like nobody wants to hear COVID jokes anymore. It is like COVID is still happening you know?  There is some creativity and experimentation in the style of work that is coming out. You are a part of that trend. You released a kind of mixtape this year. So that is got bits of the special. It is got music. And maybe it speaks to kind of trying to create in the middle of all this.  Yeah. I mean I will be honest with you. I thought when - you know even when it was sort of announced people started talking about it I was like not sure but I was pretty positive I was going to die. Like I am the type of person that - if there is even a stomach flu going around I got it you know?  I want to laugh but that is kind of dark. We should mention you have asthma.  Yeah no I do. I do have asthma. But basically I just really wanted to start making whatever it is I wanted to make in case that did happen. I worked on Elusive which is the mixtape. And I had jokes that did not feel like they could go into the Comedy Central special because it became - it would make it so COVID-heavy it was the only thing I was talking about. But then I also had these really funny ideas that I had that were a moment in time. I do not know if those jokes will always work for the rest of time. And so I just really dug into it. And then I reached out to Mike Relm who is a producer in LA who I have always really admired. And that was the other thing that COVID did - is that since everyone was in lockdown I knew people were around. And from there we worked with like Roderick Frazier who is a choir director who helped us band together this choir for these like new renditions of Negro spirituals and stuff.  That whole sentence I did not expect to hear  like when I got this assignment. Like I needed a choir for the remixes of Negro spirituals on my comedy mixtape.    Oh freedom over me.  Yeah yeah. I mean but that is the thing - is that it became this wish list of everything that I had ever wanted to do musically. That is why there is like some funk on there. There is you know obviously like gospel through the Negro spirituals. And then there is like smooth RB sort of new wave alternative RB and then just some general hip-hop. And so at the end of the day if nobody likes it I have a dope playlist that I love listening to you know?    I do not mix up my dollars with anybody's. Looking in the mirror I see dad inside me. I am a soldier at heart man. I been about it. We was in the streets man.  And in the end what is been the kind of lesson or takeaway from you from this kind of period of creativity that is happening at a time that you know there is kind of so much turmoil in our society right now?  You know you spend so much of your life worrying about looking stupid. And the real worry is if people just are not looking. That is not to say try to garner attention at any cost. It is just that you do not get any points for that fear that held you back. And so reaching out to people to make Elusive was scary. And I did it and I am so thankful to everyone involved and myself that we made it happen. But if there is something that you want to do you at least have to try because that - not to sound like one of those motivational posters or anything but like that regret lasts so much longer than the moment that you looked a little silly.  Well Joshua Johnson thank you so much for taking the time out to talk with us. This has been great.  Yeah no. Thank you so much for having me. I really appreciate it. I am so glad I got to talk to you.  