 One couple two geniuses. Filmmakers Alex Rivera and Cristina Ibarra are two of this year's MacArthur Fellows commonly known as the genius grant. They are the first married couple to each win the prestigious award at the same time. NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports.  Alex Rivera and Cristina Ibarra worked on their first production together a documentary in 1999. They traveled to Mexico for a conference on indigenous communities and got in trouble when they tried to meet with a group of Zapatistas.  There was this government official from the conference who came up to us and was saying you know Article 13 of the Mexican Constitution says that foreigners cannot meddle in national affairs. And so we were really nervous.  Threatened to expel us - and we almost got deported from Mexico. And that was kind of on our first date really .  Deportations immigration and the border remain themes of their work individually and together. They share a whimsical avant-garde sensibility. Ibarra was born and raised in El Paso Texas across the border from Juarez Mexico.  So I grew up with family on both sides crossing the bridge you know every weekend to go see my abuelita in Juarez or mi tio mi tia. But whenever I turned on the television it was always white. And here I am this brown girl. I just felt like I never saw myself represented.  Ibarra was the first in her family to go to college where she learned about social justice movements. She began exploring her Mexican American identity by making films like her humorous coming-of-age short  A Homemade Telenovela.    My world the border starring me.  Ibarra went on to make a documentary called Las Marthas. Broadcast on PBS it featured debutantes in Laredo Texas who dress up in colonial-style ball gowns on George Washington's birthday.   We did not cross the border. The border crossed us. My family has been under Spanish Mexican and American governments and has not moved an inch.  For Peruvian American Rivera the border was more of a concept.  You know I grew up in New York going to Peruvian restaurants for Inca Kola and talking to my abuela in Lima and hearing stories about the Shining Path and about bombings in Lima. And like I am in New York like watching Gilligan's Island on TV and I have Peruvian family that are facing like a guerrilla war. And what - like what is that you know? And so the border theorizing of a kind of third space you know was a way to get a grip on my own experience.  As a teen Rivera worked for folk musician Pete Seeger who showed him how to mix art and political activism. In college Rivera made his first film.   Papa. Papa. Papa. Papa.   Papapapa was a humorous experimental documentary about two Peruvian immigrants - the ancient Incan potato the papa and his immigrant father his papa.   Later Rivera made several sci-fi films about immigrant workers replaced by machines. Here's a clip from Sleep Dealer his 2008 cyberpunk thriller set on the U.S.-Mexico border.    Let our robotics do your dirty work. Safe. Reliable. We make America strong.  Rivera and Ibarra had a daughter and got married in 2018. They also teamed up to make a film about a group of young undocumented immigrants DREAMers who went undercover in a Florida detention center.    Our mission? Stop the deportations. Our strategy? Organize escalate shut something down.  The Infiltrators was a hybrid film based on real events part documentary part scripted reenactment. It premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 2019.  We just thought their work was phenomenal.  Marlies Carruth is program director of the MacArthur Fellows Program.  Cristina shows deep respect for ritual and ancestry. But Alex's lens is more of an impatient activist.  Together Rivera and Ibarra say their MacArthur awards will allow them to continue what they love.  Make experimental work punk the system build our own thing outside of Hollywood.  Now they will have the funds to make more movies their way. Mandalit del Barco NPR News Los Angeles.  