 If you repeat the phrase this place it begins to sound like displaced. That is one of the observations Thirii Myo Kyaw Myint makes in her new book  A Family History. The book is an impressionistic story that traces her ancestors' and her own journey through Myanmar Thailand the United States and more. Each chapter title is the name of a city from South Bend to Madrid. I asked Thirii Myo Kyaw Myint whether that sense of displacement has ever gone away.  Now that I am talking to you I am starting to realize that that is kind of what the book is about. It is kind of about me always seeking belonging or this feeling of being able to say where is home where I am from and then realizing that I cannot really pinpoint that place and I can only come close to it when I am furthest from it. Like when I was in Madrid I felt really American - right? - when I was in a foreign country. But I never feel American when I am in this country because people are always asking me like where are you from? Where are you really from?  Without trying to fetishize outsider status do you think that sense of displacement gives you some insight that people who do not have that sense lack?  Yes and no. I mean yes obviously I have some insight. But I also think I have - I do not know - a lot of burdens and scars  from it right? So I really appreciate you saying that you did not want to fetishize outsider status because I think in my own personal experience like in liberal circles that is usually what happens when people say like oh it is so great you are bilingual or it is so great that you can be a cultural interpreter. And it is true that it is great sometimes but it is also true that it is really hard other times. If there is any insight that I do have I think it is sort of that I have always grown up knowing sort of my embeddedness and like contingency in the world and never have been able to take myself for granted as like normal. And I think that is something that people - other people have to learn over time.  You write about this the stories that people expect you to tell. You say white people specifically want to hear tell us how hard it is to be you but just do not blame us. Do not blame America. America saved you. And it goes on. As an author how do you navigate that tension between the story that you feel called to tell and the story that people want to hear the story that'ill sell books the story that people expect you to tell?  Oh man I do not know.   I think I just had to turn off the part of my brain that kept white liberal America at the center of my consciousness and just had to push it out. When I was trying to think of the book as something that was going to be read by white people or by Americans I just could not write. I just had like a roadblock. I think for me the only thing that makes those painful hard moments easier is having people to talk to about them with and so that is what I was trying to do with the book. I was showcasing these moments that were painful for me not so that white readers could read it and say wow that is horrible you know but so that other people could read it and say I relate to that or like that is so great that she is talking about this moment. I have so many moments similar to that.  There is a word that you write about in the book which you say is often translated as uprising. What is the word?  Ayekhin.  And you are right. It is a word whose power has no equivalent for me in English a word that has the word ye right inside of it. An ayekhin was an effort to write history with one's body with one's life. Talk about why that word is powerful for you.  It is a word I heard a lot growing up. When my parents were in Sittwe in Rakhine province the '88 uprising the '88 ayekhin happened. And my parents talk about it a lot. It is not like I was ever taught it in school - right? - or like sat down and taught this history. But it was just sort of a part of my consciousness ever since I could remember. And it just has this romantic quality to it this feeling of people enduring so much and still believing in hope and still believing that they could come together and make change. When I finished this book it was September of last year. And so I had not anticipated that the third coup would happen in Myanmar this year. And so when that happened you know ayekhin was another word that struck me again because it was - I just felt like it was happening all over again. It is really upsetting what is happening in Myanmar. But at the same time it is also bittersweet because it is incredible that after all these years of dictatorship people in Burma are still rising up all the time you know and they are still putting their lives on the line for change.  Can you connect that action that uprising which you describe as writing history with one's life to what you are doing in this book?  I mean if that is what the book does I would be overjoyed because I personally do not know if I can write history with this book right? But it is writing my own history. It is writing my family history my personal history. And that is kind of why I started the book - because I started to feel anxiety about the mortality of my parents. And I realized that their bodies were the only archive I had of our history of my sense of place. And I really felt the need to interview them and write these - write their stories down and write my ancestors' stories down you know just so we have them. And between the time that I started the book and finished it actually both of my remaining grandparents did pass away. It was hard because I wish I had talked to them more and interviewed them more. But it also made me feel a sense of relief because I thought OK well at least I got a chance to interview my parents right? And the regret would have been so much heavier if I had not done that.  Yeah. As you talk about the expectations of the kinds of stories people want you to tell and the kinds of questions you are constantly asked does it feel like writing and publishing this book has somehow broken you free of those chains like now you can get on with everything else?  Yes and no. I mean I cannot get on with everything else because these microaggressions and just outright aggressions continue in my daily life. And they are not going to stop just...  People at cocktail parties will still ask where you are really from.  Right.  Yeah.  Just because I wrote this book it does not mean it is going to stop. I mean so for example I just gave birth two months ago. And like literally a day postpartum one of the nurses asked me to get in touch with my culture. And I said what do you mean by that? And she said the culture of the country you are from. So that happened and it was awful. But I think in the past I responded to those situations by either just like shutting down or sort of crying. And this time I felt a little bit more emboldened to tell her that it made me uncomfortable what she said. It was othering. And I think part of it is that now that I feel like I have a platform I feel like well this can be a story later right? Like I can - maybe I will write about this in my next book or maybe I can write about this in an essay. And it kind of I think transfers a little bit of the power back to me.  Thirii Myo Kyaw Myint is author of  A Family History. Thank you for talking with us about it.  Thank you so much Ari.  