 We have been talking this summer about men what their lives are like and a new film and its director grabbed our attention.  Testing 123. This is Zach Braff live on NPR. Coming up next on NPR All Things Considered. With your new host.  That is actor and director Zach Braff joking around during a sound check just before our interview. Braff is currently performing on Broadway and starred in the TV comedy Scrubs. But he is best known for directing and starring in the 2004 film Garden State a model of twenty-something angst. Braff co-wrote his latest film titled Wish I Was Here with his oldest brother Adam. In it Braff's character Aidan Bloom struggles when his father is diagnosed with cancer and his wife played by Kate Hudson starts to rethink her role as the family breadwinner.  My brother is in one of those situations. His wife is the primary wage earner and he is home more often with the kids as he writes and pursues his artistic endeavors. And I - We started seeing that in lots of different aspects of our lives - both with people in the arts and people who were not. And so another thing we wanted to talk about was how that affected masculinity. This societal agreement we have had for years that a man takes care of his family and how that change might be affecting masculinity and child rearing and all of those things that come along with it. And it was something that we found really interesting but did not really see anybody writing about.  Your character reaches out to many people for advice and does reach out to the Rabbis at his kids school occasionally. But I noticed one idea that Aidan repeats again and again almost like a mantra is I thought you were supporting my dream.  Yeah.  And I am sure obviously for actors at any level this is a pretty common refrain. But what about the way he uses it is not quite right?  Well and again I want to clarify for your audience that of course in this example of the film he is pursuing an entertainment dream. But we really wanted it to be a metaphor for anyone pursuing their dream in any way. The question for us was if you do believe this is a finite experience that we are animals and when we pass on we go in the ground like every other animal how do I make the most of my life and how long am I allowed to pursue all the things I thought I was going to do? And now I have a family now I have little mouths to feed.  Right I want to play a clip from the Rabbi and his reply at one point in this.    But what about my dream? I mean does not God believe in my pursuit of happiness?   No. That is the Declaration of Independence.  I do not know why that line made me laugh.  Yeah he goes on to say he goes on to say Thomas Jefferson believed in your happiness. God wants you to provide for your family Mr. Bloom.  And it is a tough moment. I mean you know later on his wife essentially is shown having conflicted feelings about her own work and her own struggles about her role in helping her husband.  Yeah because I think there is a lot of relationships out there it is not  always the woman and sometimes it is the man were one person has really dedicated their lives to helping the other person pursue their dream. And they love them and they believe in them and they root for them. But at a certain point they are saying I cannot do it anymore I need help.    I input data into a spreadsheet. Literally a scanner should be doing my job. And there is just too much bureaucracy for anyone to even notice.   Then what do you want to do? I do not even know.   I do not know and you know what? I do not have a second to figure it out because I am on a  treadmill. And if I stop our kids do not eat. And it is all on me.  And you know one of the things that Aidan learns is that he has to show up for his family. He has to find a way to continue to pursue his goals but not be so checked out not to have disappeared from his family.  Her character also feels very different from the love interest played by Natalie Portman in your first directed movie Garden State I think that was back in 2004.    You know what I do when I feel completely unoriginal?  Lalalablablalaba. I make a noise or I do something that no one has ever done before and I can feel unique again and even if it is only for like a second.  And that is a character that one reviewer labeled the manic pixie dream girl like she is quirky and pretty and she exists to spur the hero on to maturity. But in this movie Aidan looks to his children and his father and his family basically to spur on change. Did this kind of reflect a change in your thinking about what romantic relationships can do for a man?  Well I have always had this fantasy of being saved by a great woman a powerful woman. I mean yes Natalie's character was quirky and silly. Maybe that is just the type of woman I am attracted to so I sort of wrote my dream girl. But I you know I have always loved this fantasy that I would be rescued and saved by a great woman. And I thinking in both films there are very strong women who are helping men come into maturity. I mean they say that women and girls mature faster than men and I think in this film Kate's character is a very very strong woman who is doing her best to hold an entire family together. The men are running around thinking like they are in control when really behind the scenes it is a strong woman that is you know keeping this family together.  You know you wrote this with your older brother and so much of the film is about the relationships between fathers and sons and family. You know what did this experience teach you?  It definitely taught me I want to have kids. I cannot wait to have children one day. I am a really good uncle and I love my nieces and nephews. And. you know just that relationship of when your child is old enough to teach you so much and just the idea of a young child bringing you back to possibility and to hope through their young wide eyes is something that is very intoxicating to me.  Zach Braff his latest film is called Wish I Was Here. He is also starring in the Broadway musical Bullets Over Broadway. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having me. 