 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Paul Haggis who won Oscars for Crash and for writing Million Dollar Baby has a new movie that is more complicated than either of those two. Third Person has a notable cast - Liam Neeson Adrien Brody  James Franco Mila Kunis Kim Basinger. It cuts from one story about relationships and parenthood to another and then to yet another. And the logic of how these stories fit together if at all is obscure. Here's a clip from one storyline. Adrien Brody's character is doing business in Italy. He meets an alluring and mysterious woman named Monika. She says she needs money to ransom her young daughter. Together they visit the man who must be paid.    Give him the money please.   What do we have? English?   American.   Monika you have an American boyfriend. Congratulations.   I tell you not to come.   American you have a sister?   Yeah. Yeah I will be sure to bring her next time. There you go.   Boyfriend does not like.   He is not my boyfriend.   Not your boyfriend but he brings me 10000 Euros.   Ten? No no no you said five.  Joining us are Paul Haggis who wrote and directed Third Person and actor Moran Atias. She plays Monika a Roma woman who is either trying to reconnect with her daughter or she is just scamming Adrien Brody. Hi and welcome to both of you.  Thanks for having us.  Hi.  We are talking with the two of you because I gather the idea for this film grew out of conversations between the two of you. When were these conversations?  I was just in the last weeks of shooting my last film and Moran had a small part in that. And she started pitching me ideas. And at one she said you know you should do a multi-storyline film about relationships. You remember that?  Yeah well you know you see a filmmaker like Paul Haggis and you want to be in that experience again. And I asked myself how could I possibly create that opportunity for myself? And I started googling best stories never been told.  Really?   I went - I thought maybe a Holocaust movie because I am Jewish maybe I could get a part in that. And he kept on saying - giving me advice. Just find something that you care about and you would want to be part of for such a long time because it does take a long time to develop a movie.  Well the resulting movie is Third Person. And here's the problem I have. This movie is a puzzle. And through much of the film we do not know what is supposed to be real what is supposed to be fiction how the plots are related or even if they are related. My informal survey Paul Haggis of three viewers myself included is that the puzzle's too hard.  .  So what is your intent here? Should I as a viewer be wondering throughout how - what is going on here?  It is interesting because it is either much too obvious as some have said or it is way too obtuse.  So you know I think what I wanted to do is - you know it is - I loved those films that really inspired me when I was growing up - so the French New Wave the Italians you know the people who were just redefining cinema. And you know look at Antonioni. You know you have got blow up. You have got a murder mystery that three-quarters of the way through the movie they tell you there is no answer. And then it ends in a tennis game between mimes.  And you leave the theater going what the hell? But next day day after you argue with your friends. You talk about it over a drink and then you go - ah ah. And it sticks with you. And that is what I wanted to do here. I wanted to make a film where - where you had an emotional reaction at the end but you did not necessarily get all the pieces. They are all there. It is not that tough of a movie.   But if I am experiencing some disorientation...  You are supposed to.  I am supposed to.  It is - I should think feel I am watching Antonioni movie. You are okay with that?   Yeah that I am okay with.  Moran Atias is this the movie you had in mind when you first had a conversation?  Oh even more than I could possibly imagine. It is not just three stories. It is a one story. And that maybe can help everyone feel that you are experiencing one journey. But it just - it takes you to different places like life.  You know I am reminded. There is one line in this film which by the time it was over I thought aha that was the topic sentence. And I did not understand it at the time. And it is when Liam Neeson's publisher tells him that he is been writing junk.    We are not going to publish it.   I am reworking it.   Your first book? Stunning - it was cruel and raw. No pity no shame - second book less so third fourth. Now you have random characters making various excuses for your life.  I worry that that is what I do. That I just keep making excuse for my own life. Or that I can only feel through the characters that I create and that I am distancing myself from real life and living through them.  The Guardian gave this film Third Person I mean one of the most scathing negative reviews I have ever...  Yeah I think the biggest piece of all traffic trash of all time.  Something like that. I mean I think the writing was likened to airline magazines - it was quite a piece of invective.   People love to - to be really personal.  Well I mean you read something like that. And I know this talk answers I do not care about reviews. You know who cares? Does it hurt?  You know if that was the New Yorker rather than the Guardian it would have hurt more. Everyone wants to be universally loved. But I knew that going into this - I mean that is - I knew going into all my film that is not what I really set out to. I like to challenge myself. I like to push things to the edge. Today we love to have everything underlined in caps and bold face. And this asks more questions than it answers. And I think you get frustrated because you want to write for an audience that you respect and that is what I think I do. You have to respect your audience. Some people today just do not like that. They want things told in the same way it is been told many many times. And they are very angry when you break with tradition- that kind of tradition.  You mention - this was I think Moran who said - it is one story.  Uh oh.  You said it is one story before.  I did.  Which is - in a way that is the answer to the puzzle. Would you have wanted to make it clear earlier on Paul that this is one story that there is something here?  You know it is fascinating because when I was cutting this together I thought - at several points I thought oh my God. I have given away everything by that reaction by that shot by this -  - my partner Michael Nozick kept saying no Paul you really have not. But if you are paying attention I said you will see this. You will see this painting here. You see this thing. You are going to start to figure this out. I love the fact that the story sweeps you along. And you are not looking that carefully because if you look carefully...  You have all the answers.  It is there.  And people when they leave the screening they come up and ask was there a daughter? Was not there a daughter? And people literally argue if I have a daughter or not. There is an answer and it is clear. It is in the screen. It is in the frame.  It is not good enough that we figured it out. We want to be told that we are right. This is not a date movie. This is a double date movie. You have to go with at least three people so you can argue outside what it is about. And together you will go oh yeah yeah. You will feel great.  It is like a great book. You cannot read it all at once. And you want to go back to a certain chapter and re-experience and understand why his character is even doing what he is doing at that moment.  Well Moran Atias and Paul Haggis thank you both very much for talking with us.  Thank you for having us.  Thank you.  The film is called Third Person. It is scheduled to open in theaters tomorrow.  This is NPR News. 