 It is Weekends on ALL PR News. I am Rebecca Sheir.    You want me to wear a mask?   The men you seek think you are dead Kemosabe. Better if you stay that way.  The Lone Ranger opened this weekend featuring a heavily made-up Johnny Depp as Tonto replete with war paint and a dead crow as a headdress. And when you consider some of Johnny Depp's past film roles like Edward Scissorhands and Willy Wonka could it be he is the actor who is logged the most time in a makeup chair in Hollywood?  I would say that is probably pretty accurate.  That is makeup artist Joel Harlow one of Depp's frequent collaborators. They met on the first Pirates of the Caribbean movie.  And I have worked with him on every Pirate film since then.  As well as Alice in Wonderland...  Dark Shadows...  The Tourist...  The Rum Diary...  And of course their latest partnership...  Lone Ranger.    Justice is what I seek Kemosabe.  Joel Harlow's worked with plenty of other actors too but he says a partnership like this one comes from a place of respect.  One of the things that I appreciate about Johnny is he does not shy away from makeup you know even extreme makeup or prosthetic makeup. It is basically a philosophy of whatever it takes to create the character.  How would you describe the relationship between the makeup artist and the actor? I would imagine things get rather - rather intimate.  Well I mean I can only speak about our relationship but it is. It is very collaborative. He is very fluent in the art of makeup. He could probably do the job himself I am just fortunate enough that he has me doing it. But when we are creating a character it is very collaborative.  Well as I understand it Johnny Depp had a definite idea of how he wanted Tonto to look in this new reboot of the Lone Ranger franchise. How did you two go about partnering up on achieving that look?  Yeah. That went back to - we were filming The Rum Diary in Puerto Rico and I was pulling images for this carnival sequence. And I had them sitting in the trailer so when he came in he saw these images sitting out. And one of these images was a copy of this Kirby Sattler painting I Am Crow  It is sort of the white you know war paint with the black stripes. And he pulled that aside and he said let us hold onto this because this might be a good look for Tonto. At which time I said well you know do you want to test it? I can start sculpturing nose prosthetics whatever we need get wigs made build the bird you know and we can put this thing together and take some photos. And that is ultimately what we did on a weekend. And based on those pictures that is sort of what re-sparked getting this film made.  Did you have any apprehension though about turning what is basically a white guy into a Native American knowing it was bound to offend someone?  Well he is not a white guy though. I mean he has Native American blood in him you know. And he is an actor you know creating a character. I mean you cannot worry about offending people because what we are doing is fantasy. So no I mean I was not worried about offending anybody. I just wanted to deliver as an artist the best version of this character you know from my end that I possibly could. And I think we achieved that.  Looking back at your years in Hollywood you have a long list of accomplishments. Any favorite stories from the biz that stand out in your mind?  You know I do a little teaching every now and then and one that I kind of tell my students is one of the first films I was working on in Florida I had sculpted these arms for this preacher that was like you know it was like a melting guy. And the arms came up to maybe mid-forearm. Me thinking that OK he is going to be wearing a long-sleeved shirt. Turns out he is in a tank top. And these things stop. They do not blend off. You know it is an incomplete illusion. But fortunately they were sculpted to look kind of like peanut butter and jelly. So I ran over to craft service and grabbed you know some of the peanut butter and jelly and smeared it on him and you know we got the shot. And it ended up working.  Please tell me what movie that was. I want to add it to my Netflix queue.  I do not even think it is out. I do not think it was even released. I was just so excited to be making monsters and creating characters. No matter I was like sleeping on a floor in a warehouse in Florida and you know it is a thousand degrees. But it is like we did not care. We were making monsters. We are doing what we wanted to do what we always wanted to do so.  Living the dream.  Yeah living the dream. I have a different dream now.  You have a different dream.  Does not involve sleeping on the floor.   Joel Harlow is the makeup department head for The Lone Ranger which opened this weekend. He is worked with Johnny Depp on about a dozen films over the years including the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. Joel Harlow thanks so much.  Oh my pleasure. Thank you very much. 