 All right. I want to begin this story with a note. The following conversation about Greg Kinnear's new movie Phil touches on the issue of suicide. It may not be appropriate for all listeners. In it Kinnear plays Phil a Portland dentist slogging through life. One day he sees a patient who seems to have it all - a happy family an interesting job. Then he hears the patient has taken his own life and Phil becomes obsessed.    Michael Fisk was this guy who I thought had figured it all out and then he killed himself. I need to find the reason why.  The movie is Greg Kinnear's directorial debut. He started his on-camera career as the host of the humorous entertainment show Talk Soup. He became famous for his roles in romantic comedies like You have Got Mail and the poignant Little Miss Sunshine. So I started off by asking why jump into directing on a topic as difficult as suicide?  I kind of was kicking the tires of directing. And I had a few stories that bounced around but it really was not until I was quite struck with Stephen Mazur's script. He had a way of telling - dealing with the subject matter of suicide which had affected me and my life through some people that were close to me. And I found this script had a strangely life-affirming quality to it.  Can we talk about that? Because for - to start directing out of the gate and take on a topic like this is no small thing. Can you talk about what your reservations were in taking on the topic of suicide and how you thought you wanted to approach it?  Yeah no big secret there. I mean I think anybody who has known anyone who took their life you know you are shocked and sidelined by that. And there is always this nagging question why in the sense of people who you thought seemingly had good lives going. And I guess that idea and that subject had always kind of stayed with me. And this is all happening you know in a window of time where this issue of suicide is you know clearly an epidemic.  Fundamentally the character of Phil he believes everyone is enjoying life in a way that he is not - right? - like kind of everyone has it better. And how did you think about that? Because I would think as someone who is an actor - right? - you have had a kind of close-up view of celebrity life...  Sure.  ...Which people tend to envy.  Absolutely. Listen. There is another thing that is happened. You know it is interesting that when you think of the rise of these numbers and then you think about the influence of social media and these gadgets that we carry around that basically mirror the lives and incredible experiences - whether they are real or not - of those around us. Look. It cannot be healthy. And there is an element of smoke and mirrors and of misrepresentation in the business I work in. You know it is part of the charm of it.  Not just an element it is one of the defining qualities right?  Right.  Frankly I mean...  Absolutely. It is obviously a misrepresentation of the truth because we all have you know...  Right.  ...Complicated lives. And there is the ups and the downs. But our business in particular stands out as one that just shows off the shiny glow of good things.  There've been times I have seen quotes where you have said I am not a movie star - right? - or like I am not - and it seems like you have always had a jaundiced view of this world.  Wow we have moved into the sweaty portion of the interview where I have to lie down on a couch to answer this. I guess I have always felt a little bit like an outsider in the business. You know it is strange that I was - I kind of went from Talk Soup to film but I fill out a place. I mean I look around I do. I think of movie stars being so comfortable being movie stars. And there is people who are very comfortable at that very good at it. And I would not say that I have necessarily had a great knack for it.  When I think of you as a character actor I think of some of the characters you have played. As an actor over the years what has been your type? Like how have you been boxed in at times and how do you try and play against it?  I certainly coming out of you know Sabrina and early movies was offered a lot of smiley...  Romantic...  ...Romantic comedies. And I probably did more than I should have when I started. I do not know. You know listen. I am Scotch-Irish you know? I want to fight everything. There is that in me. They tell me to go left. I want to go right. If they are going right I want to go left. I think I have just inherently kicked and bucked the other way. When there was a clear path for me I got uncomfortable. And I still feel that way.  Fundamentally Phil - right? - this movie is about a person who is looking back who is trying to make sense of things. Are you at that point in your life? And if so how are you feeling about it?  Well I feel very good about - I had a - just had a birthday. And I have three daughters a wonderful wife. And obviously my career is important as well. But when you ask me when I look back generally am I happy you know are there movies or TV shows or things that I might have regretted? Of course. But that is never where my mind goes. I tend to go to my life. And generally I feel like I have been incredibly fortunate and incredibly lucky.  Well Greg Kinnear thank you so much for speaking with us telling us about this film and talking a little bit about your career. Much appreciated.  Thank you very much.  And we want to note if you or someone you know may be considering suicide contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or the Crisis Text Line by texting 741741. 