 Tana French joins us now to discuss her new book. Welcome to the program Tana.  Thanks very much. Hi.  Well Frank Mackie tries to get away from this neighborhood Faithful Place when he is 19 years old. And I would love if you could read a description of the night that he thought that he was getting away.  Yeah sure. That would be great.   In the rock sack was everything important I owned jeans T-shirts a secondhand wireless a hundred quid and my birth cert. That was all you needed to go over to England back then. Rosie had the ferry tickets.  So he gets stood up by his girlfriend and it is 20 years later that he realizes that his girlfriend Rosie was killed on that night. It is a discovery of her body that pulls him back into the old neighborhood back into the arms of his family. And that is really where the novel proceeds from.  Mm-hmm.  But a lot of this story it seems to me is really about the idea that you cannot escape your past and you can escape your blood.  But the fact is that his new family - his wife and his daughter - he has not made a great job of that that this may be because in fact he tried to erase his whole sense of family.  What is it about this idea of people wanting to erase their past or erase their connections with their family that you find so interesting that you have explored it in a couple of books now?  And during the economic boom there was a sense that Ireland was escaping from a past of hideous poverty. And there was a feeling that the only way we could grab hold of this wonderful rich consumer heaven present that we were being offered was this idea that we cannot in any way pay any respects to our past if we want to hold onto the future that the two are somehow mutually exclusive because that is been such a crucial tension within Ireland over the last 15 20 years. I think that is why it keeps resurfacing in the books.  Well neighborhood plays an incredibly important role in this novel. Tell me a little bit more about this area of Dublin that you are writing about in Faithful Place. It is called The Liberties.  You can have an argument that is based on what somebody's great-grandfather did in the year 1900. The families that are interwoven by so much intermarriage and so much knowledge leads to a whole different level of intensity of community from what you get in almost any other area I think.  There is a really wonderful description of the neighborhood in the book that I would like you to read.  The place was winding down for the night if you could read there.  Just across the road my ma and my dad were presumably staring catatonically at the telly wrapped in their separate unimaginable thoughts seeing if they could make it to bedtime without having to talk to each other.   Dublin is almost a character in Faithful Place. And you as I said have lived all over the world. You could have been an international crime writer but you have really chosen to focus on Dublin. Why?  And in a weird way I think that being almost but not quite from here actually gives me in some ways an advantage because there are things that you would take for granted about a place if you were born and bred there. Whereas if you are part outsider still then you notice these cultural assumptions these undercurrents these things that to a real insider are so much a part of the fabric of life. And I think as a part outsider it is easier to pick up on them and integrate them into what you are writing.  Tana so good talking with you. Thanks very much.  Thank you. 