 Amazon will release six episodes of a new romantic comedy on Friday. The company posted a preview on Facebook hoping to lure viewers. It is up through tomorrow. NPR TV Critic Eric Deggans has gotten a look at the show. It is called Catastrophe. And we should note it is for mature audiences so there is some frank talk about sex coming up in a bit. Eric Deggans says it is also a fresh take on a modern relationship that avoids many pitfalls that sink lesser romantic comedies.  The story begins with Rob a handsome witty American advertising executive in London on business. After a chance meeting in a bar he has an amazing week of romance and sex with a sharp beautiful Irish school teacher named Sharon. Then after he is home in America he gets a phone call from Sharon with this news.    I am pregnant.   Did you just say pregnant?   Yeah I said pregnant. Do you want me to say it again? Pregnant.   I do not understand. I mean how...   Well I think...   Because...   You know we had sex about 25 times in a week and you wore a condom maybe twice.  But within moments an interesting thing happens.    I do not know what you do when you get pregnant by a stranger. I do not know the etiquette.   I am not a stranger. I am a familiar acquaintance a friend who helped you make a mistake but will now help you figure it out.  And here is where Catastrophe sets itself apart from many other TV comedies trying to build a modern romance story - because Rob is an adult. He is not a man-child avoiding responsibility or getting a forced crash-course on how to commit. For him figuring it out means moving to London and eventually proposing marriage which draws this response from Sharon.    Who are you? Do you have a middle name? Can you ride a horse?  Did a priest ever fiddle with you?   Clifford. Yes. And no. But a nun did stay in the room with me when I changed out of dirty underpants once.  .   My mom sent me an article about a study on arranged marriages and they found that fewer arranged marriages end in divorce.   Is that because they end in suicide?   I do not know. I did not read the whole article.  Written for British TV by the show is two stars Rob Delaney and Sharon Horgan Catastrophe features an outlandish situation. What do you do when a disaster forces together two people who then realize surprisingly they are made for each other? Other TV shows trying to make sharp comedy out of modern marriage have not fared nearly so well. These programs avoid sentiment and talk baldly about sex but it is unclear if the characters even care for each other which can make them seem insensitive unrealistic and unlikable. Consider this example - the FX comedy Married features a long-married couple too self-obsessed to connect with each other surrounded by similarly self-obsessed friends. Here's a scene from last year's pilot episode. Husband Russ is complaining to his pal Bernie about his fading sex life.    It is like even when we have sex it is like somewhere between like pity sex and necrophilia.   You know how Cindy really loves dancing and I hate dancing 'ecause it is a stupid waste of time? But I dance with my wife 'ecause even though I hate it I love having sex. Find out what she is into. Pretend to like it. It is called being sensitive.  Well I am not sure about that. Fortunately Married seems to have corrected things for its second season which starts next month on FX. But Amazon's Catastrophe never has that problem. Instead it is built a wickedly funny comedy around two people trying really hard who seem to be falling in love with each other despite all logic. Sounds like the quintessential romantic comedy idea to me. I am Eric Deggans. 