 It is time for some '80s.    I would like to call on the power of my three favorite Americans - Ronald Reagan Larry Bird and Jesus Christ himself.   This is a scene from the new Netflix show GLOW GLOW as in Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling. The actor Betty Gilpin plays a wrestling character named Liberty Belle and she is about to take on her Russian rival in the ring.    I will neuter all your pet dogs and fill your swimming pools with borscht.   The characters are of course stereotypes. That is the deal with professional wrestling. But that is exactly what got the creators of this show excited about telling the story. Turns out GLOW was a real thing. It was a syndicated TV show in the '80s. And then more recently there was a documentary about that show. And now there is a show about the show. The documentary is what got GLOW's creators Liz Flahive and Carly Mensch into the whole thing. They say professional wrestling was just better in the '80s.  It was less like violent.  And less slick too. There was more comedy in the personas...  And story yeah.  ...And story. And it was silly at times too in ways that I think maybe wrestling is not as silly now.  And for people who do not know wrestling like that clarity was also really helpful. For us people like the Iron Sheik who was like you know a huge villain in the '80s that just made sense in a way that people who are trying for the first time ever to tell wrestling stories - that felt like a much easier and more fun entry point for us than kind of like Liz and I will watch a wrestling match now and we will actually make it 15 minutes in and still have no clue who the good guy or the bad guy is.  Oh. It is kind of interesting too. When you are talking about how wrestling was different in the '80s you are kind of - you are like taking seriously this thing that people definitely nowadays do not take seriously - right? - this WWF style of like fake theatrical wrestling. What is it about the theatrics of it that interested you?  I mean it is almost like Greek theater in that it is like you are telling stories on a scale that like we are not used to but that is really exciting that can cross cultures can cross languages. From one side if you are being ungenerous you can say it is super reductive. And then from the other side you could say it is kind of like storytelling at its most potently inclusive and epic. And if you can figure out how to harness that I think that is exciting.  When you talk about being reductive I mean I think what happens is that the characters are all these types right? I mean that is what has to happen in the world of wrestling. You have become somebody that is like easy for people to like hang on to. And of course because this is the '80s like these types are potentially very offensive to people who are watching. There is - like the Asian character's named Fortune Cookie. The Indian girl plays an Arab terrorist named Beirut.  Yeah.  Let us just like listen to a clip of them like describing themselves.    I am one who is cute like panther. I am in danger. Help me. Save me.  Tricked you because I am fast like dragon. I am Fortune Cookie and Asian.  Yes our names are on this.   Exactly. You own this. I mean so - right so you knew you were going to have to do this.  Yeah.  What were the conversations about how to like do it well?  You know a lot of it was about keeping our eye on the characters' experience of having to play these characters you know? I mean I think the emotional honesty of an actress being asked to do this and how they grapple with that is a big part of our story.  Yeah. I mean there is times when the characters comment on their characters right? They say like hang on a second. This is racist.  Yeah.  There is a character whose name is Welfare Queen. And she is like oh man is this bad? Should I be doing this? Like she is able to take a moment to question that right?  And Welfare queen - we were lucky because she is played by Kia Stevens who is an actual professional wrestler. You know we would check in with her a lot and you know she would tell us 'ecause she is had to play tons of offensive things. And this - like Welfare Queen is perfectly in line with like the requests that she gets.  Right. I mean I think one thing - for people who have not seen the show these 10 episodes a lot of it is just them like putting this whole thing together. I mean it is literally the whole thing from the beginning. We are not going straight into the ring.  Yeah.  And there is this great scene. One of the main characters who is played by Alison Brie she is been working on figuring out what her character is. And she is landed on this idea of a - being a Russian villain Zoya the Destroyer who would be pitted against this other character named Liberty Belle who is played amazingly by Betty Gilpin. And I just want to play a clip of the first time these two kind of try out these characters together.    You think you are so great with your decadent fast food and your disgusting football which is wrong name for this sport because football is soccer.   In America we are free.   In Soviet Union we eat stars and stripes for breakfast.  It is so Rocky IV . Is not it Rocky IV?  Rocky IV we definitely watched.  Oh yeah.  And we should say that that whole scene takes place. I mean they are there in the ring.  Yeah.  Yeah.  You hear the sort of wobbly ropes and...  Yep.  Yeah.  And their kind of circling each other like you know villains are supposed to do as they fling insults at one another. And then it takes many episodes for them to kind of learn how to physically fight each other.  Yeah.  And you watch them learning and practicing it over and over and over again. These of course are two people who in real life do not like each other also and so they are kind of navigating that.  And then in real real life they love each other...   Right.  ...Which is actually like a really helpful dimension...  Nice.  ...Because they trust each other so much that even though you have to watch them go on this journey of not wanting to touch each other's bodies they are very much taking care of each other's bodies. And no one's ever actually slamming someone's head into a...  Right. I understand that they learned...  ...A post.  ...A lot of the stunts as they went long and did do some of them themselves.  All of them.  All of them yeah.  Wow.  I mean from the beginning we knew that in order to tell this like authentic story and to embrace the kind of funny bad-news-bears side of learning something totally new...  .  ...That it would be smart for us to go really slow this first season and actually let our actresses learn how to wrestle at the same pace that their characters were learning.  And it did something to the women too I think. You know we had them training in a boot camp for three weeks before we started shooting. And just the physical intimacy that they all experienced together and the idea that they had to learn something as a group I think bonded them deeply. And you know the level of trust they all establish with each other in the ring was really helpful to us as we filmed the whole season.  I understand you guys are still waiting to hear whether or not there is going to be a second season but it just seems like there is so many directions this could go right? Are you going to follow the original story of the original GLOW or are you going to kind of go off on your own at this point?  I feel like we have just scratched the surface on a lot of these women. And they are incredible to play with as actors and as characters. So - and we have got a lot of them.  Liz Flahive and Carly Mensch thank you so much.  Thank you.  Thanks.  And GLOW all 10 episodes is available now on Netflix.  