 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The prime-time Emmys will be handed out on Sunday night and one television show in particular looks to clean up.    Glee the wildly popular comedy on Fox has 19 nominations. That is the most of any show. And joining me now to talk about the Emmys from NPR West is Stacey Wilson of the Hollywood Reporter. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Hi thanks for having me.  And what do you think? Can Glee be stopped? Ms.  You know all signs point to Glee winning. The only show that could unseat Glee from the Emmys Sunday night is Modern Family another very beloved comedy. But Glee has dominated the pop-culture landscape for more than a year now. And it would seem that it is actually the favorite - a very clear favorite actually which is pretty rare for a new show. The last few years - has been dominated by 30 Rock. This is kind of an exciting development.  This is the comedy category and absent from it is the conventional sitcom the situation comedy that we think of. Ms.  That is true. The  what we would call laugh-track sitcoms. Absent this year is How I Met Your Mother and Two and a Half Men. But yes it is interesting. All the comedies have what we would consider a filmic quality. The Office and Modern Family have that mockumentary style. And Nurse Jackie Glee Curb and 30 Rock all have what we would consider single-camera filmic sort of style that feels more like a mini-movie than it does a sort of laugh-track sitcom that we sort of all grew up watching.  Yes. What you are saying is if we went to the movie theater and saw something that was a living room with angles from different cameras on the different categories it would be terrible. We would not sit through that movie. Ms.  Exactly.  Now the kind of technique you would see in a movie is more likely to be seen on television. Ms.  Right and because dramas have become so sophisticated - now we have Mad Men Dexter Lost Breaking Bad True Blood - these shows feel like movies each week which is why they are so incredibly appealing. So I do feel like the folks who create comedy have taken a page from that and comedy has never been more sophisticated as it is today.  Do you think that we are now seeing Emmys for TV shows in the age of hi-def and big flat screens in people's homes and perhaps you know people paying a little bit more attention to what it looks like? Ms.  Well I think that and the technology has been enhanced. And also you know the availability of shows online the Hulus that you can download full episodes of shows from various network sites - I mean that is incredible. But I also think more it is just people are becoming more homebodies. The movies are very expensive. And they are not that great for the most part.  Mm-hmm. Right. Ms.  And I think people are just enjoying being home. They have their nice TVs. They have their DVRs. I mean I personally spend most of my weekend catching up on all the shows that I record. And you know I would rather do that than drive to the mall and park and go through all that hassle.   Okay. You mentioned Mad Men lots of nominations in the drama category for Mad Men but some competition this year for that show. Ms.  Definitely some competition. AMC's other drama Breaking Bad that has been kind of - always been the close second. I mean Bryan Cranston the lead of Breaking Bad he is won the last two years and the show is absolutely just groundbreaking very gritty. I do not know if it is caught on with viewers to the same degree as Mad Men. It could be a sort of dark horse this year. But we are actually favoring CBS's The Good Wife which is very interesting. It is the only new show.  Yeah you said CBS for a second I cannot remember what that is. It is an actual network that is...   ...in the competition. Ms.  Right. You know CBS is  you know CBS always gets a lot of flak but you know what they have done extremely well the last years. The CSI franchise is a sure thing. I mean people love those shows. Obviously Survivor still does very well. But in the drama contender category this is the first breakout competitor that they have had. It is only been on one season. The return of Julianna Margulies who people love obviously from her ER days she is definitely also favored to win the best actress in a drama category as well.  Now the Emmys are on NBC. Ms.  Correct.  On Sunday. And it could be interesting if Conan O'Brien who is nominated for his now-defunct version of The Tonight Show were to be called up if he were to win on NBC. Remotely possible? Ms.  You know we actually had a story in yesterday's paper at the Hollywood Reporter about - he does have an embargo about what he can and cannot say on the air. But I think everyone is very excited including myself to see what happens if he gets on stage. I think everyone's rooting for him because it is such a bizarre situation. But it would be kind of a sweet victory for him to win for that very very short-lived Tonight Show.  Well thank you Stacey. Ms.  Thank you very much.  That is Stacey Wilson of the Hollywood Reporter talking about the Emmys. 