  If you were around in the 1980s this TV theme might stir up some memories - memories of Blake Krystle Alexis and the whole Carrington family the main characters of the TV show Dynasty which turns 40 this year. Between introducing one of the first out gay characters to mass audiences and offering up scenes of unforgettable camp the hit prime-time series quickly became iconic TV especially among LGBTQ audiences. For Pride Month Chloe Veltman of member station KQED visited the stately home south of San Francisco where the show is earliest episodes were filmed. She was joined by a Dynasty superfan. Here's that story.  Pride Month is in full bloom at Filoli mansion as I stand underneath the canopy of fluttering rainbow flags waiting for the arrival of San Francisco drag royalty. D' I am here to check on my house.  That is performer club owner and Dynasty fan D'Arcy Drollinger. Wearing red patent stilettos and a voluminous black wig the drag artist is decked out as one of her favorite TV characters Alexis Carrington Colby.    So take this junk and your blond tramp and get out of my home.  The character of archvillainess Alexis Colby played by Joan Collins in the original series did not appear until Season 2. By that time production had moved from Filoli to a soundstage in Hollywood. But that does not stop Drollinger channeling Alexis from acting like she owns the place as we launch into a Dynasty-themed tour after regular visiting hours.  Well they have kept up things quite nicely actually. But there were some riffraff here earlier. Who are these people in my house?  Surprisingly for someone who produced a drag show inspired by Dynasty this is Drollinger's first visit to Filoli. She is awed by the estate's opulence...  Breathtaking.  ...And the Dynasty connections we hear about from Filoli tour guide Willa Brock like the massive chandeliered ballroom...  In this room a pretty pivotal scene happened which is when Blake and Krystle got married.  ...The dining room presided over by an oil painting featuring a dead hare suspended from one of its hind legs...  In the first couple episodes they have a pretty strained family dinner in here.  ...And the library with its oak-paneled walls and shelves laden with antique books.  In Dynasty this was Blake Carrington's office.    I am offering you a chance to straighten yourself out.  Brock tells us the Filoli library was the site in 1981 of this iconic scene between patriarch Blake Carrington and Steven his misunderstood son.    Straighten myself out - I am not sure I know what that means.  Drollinger says this is one of the first appearances of an openly gay central character in a prime-time TV drama. Up to that point gay characters were either in the closet or played for laughs.  Even looking later on when gay characters were in television shows like Melrose Place they did not have as much character development as Steven did.  There was a precedent for Steven Carrington. The rival prime-time soap Dallas featured a dramatic gay character for two episodes in 1979 - Kit Mainwaring.    I am a homosexual Bobby.  But J. Reid Miller a Haverford College philosophy professor who studies queer representations in culture says Steven Carrington was not just out. He was also integral to the series.  And there for the long haul - you cannot just get rid of him after a couple episodes. You cannot write him out of the storyline because he is part of the family.  Yet most fans agree Steven Carrington is by no means the gayest thing about Dynasty.    If the champagne is too burned for your taste Ms. Deborah  do not drink it.  Alexis Carrington is the highest camp on television the juiciest character and the most drag.  Drollinger says the 2017 reboot of Dynasty did not come close to matching the original's over-the-top magic. She adds if Joan Collins ever comes to town she would love to buy her a bottle of champagne. She promises it will not be burnt.   For NPR News I am Chloe Veltman in San Francisco.  