 It seems you can find a competition for anything. Yesterday in Chicago fleets of librarians competed against each other performing dance routines with their metal book carts. And Chicago Public Radio's Gabriel Spitzer had a front row seat.   horn-rimmed glasses hair in a bun finger to lips stubbornly shushing. Now picture the opposite of that. Ms.  What you have here are sexy black pants with a gold stripe down the side some bedazzled Elvis tops complete with color case and cummerbund all in a flashy lame gold.  Mari Bales and her Pittsburgh Steel City Kings are one of five teams at the American Library Associations' annual conference for the finals. This sport is sort of like cheerleading if cheerleaders pushed around book carts at their day jobs. Ms.  Sometimes when you are pushing them along and you have that urge to go faster or that urge to like spin and be flashy well it is exactly like when you are in the grocery store and you just want to run and hop on your buggy and kind of ride it down the aisle.  The teams have developed themes music costumes. Gretchen Roltgen and her teammates from Baraboo Wisconsin say they have cooked up some sweet moves. Ms.  Wheelies.  Propeller.  The daisy wheel.  The caped wonder.  Roltgen is 62 with neon blue hair and she does not look the least bit out of place. Mr.  There is a stereotype that librarians are boring and I think they want to change that stereotype to librarians are crazy.  That is Mo Willems. He and fellow children's author Jon Scieszka are today's emcees. He says as book cart athletics get more competitive not everyone plays clean. Mr.  Steroids.  No kidding doping allegations? Mr.  That is been the big scandal this year. Hello Chicago.    Every one of the 600-plus seats is full. Each team rolls out its routine. The Des Plaines Illinois Cart Wheels go with a Grease theme in Pink Lady and T-Bird getups.  Mr. JON SCIESZKA   The Biblio Tech . I have never seen in international competition.  The librarians maneuver their carts into elaborate formations. They link up in long trains and turn intricate choreography. Mr.  Show what you got? 9.2.    Oak Park Illinois makes the day's most dramatic entrance complete with swords breast plates and Viking horns.  Mr.  It is building.  As the dust settles the judges tabulate the score. It is a shocker. Mr.  We have a tie. Mr.  What? Mr.  We have a tie. Mr.  How is that possible? Mr.  Math. Mr.  Oh.   The room falls silent awaiting a verdict from the judges.  We are going with Oak Park as number one. Mr.  Oak Park.   The Valkyries mount their winners' gold book cart in triumph a moving victory even for veteran commentators Mo Willems and Jon Scieszka. Mr.  You know what? Librarians rock. Mr.  Yeah. Mr.  These people have actually rehearsed this. Mr.  Yeah. I honestly did get goose bumps when the Valkyries came out.  It was just like oh my god.  With the champions chosen  Support your local libraries and the crazy people who work there. For NPR News I am Gabriel Spitzer in Chicago. 