 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And James Morton joins us now from London. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  And I would like you to explain the role that Vidocq played first the intersection of criminal behavior and police work that led to his becoming a star detective later on being a jailhouse snitch being an informant.  They were thoroughly disagreeable places. The people were kept in islands. And on one occasion Vidocq managed to escape.  They say well that is something. Let us see how your information works out. We are going to put you in prison and you can give us information from there and see how it works out. And if you do well you stay out of the bagne if you do not do well you go straight back. And he did well.  He did well. Is there any way that we can quantify how many people he managed to inform upon or even for that matter later as a detective how many cases he actually made?  Well he reckoned he had between 15000 and 16000 in his years of police service so it was a substantial number.  Now Vidocq contributed to his own legend by writing memoirs which as I understand from your book were equally voluminous and unreliable.  Absolutely. He was a bit unfortunate with his ghost writers for a start and there were certain rules which had to be observed if you were going to get a book if not published sold. So you had to have a certain amount of sex. You had to have a certain amount of adventure really as you do in any novel. And whether all the stories are absolutely accurate is another matter.  Was there a particular success that made Vidocq famous? And I gather he was famous beyond the borders of France. He was famous in England and elsewhere in the continent. But was there a particular case he cracked that did it for him?  I do not know that there was one particular - I think it was just the accumulation. One of the ones he did - he was an undercover man as well as everything else. He was a great man for disguises and he disguised himself from time to time as a Russian general a beggar which was easy enough a duchess which was a bit more difficult and he infiltrated a gang of robbers and brought them all to the guillotine.  Yes. When you say that he once disguised himself as a duchess as you remarked there are enough instances in his memoirs of his wearing women's clothing to make one wonder if it was not just a penchant for disguises. Did he enjoy wearing women's clothing?  Unfortunately he never wrote about whether he did or not. One suspects he was - what is the word nowadays - kinky.   He was once disguised as a nun and hid out in a farmhouse with the farmer's daughters in his nun's habit.  Well this is the difficulty. In those days books had to have a certain amount of sex in them to sell and they certainly had to have a certain number of adventures. And - rather like Casanova's memoirs one is never quite sure how much is truth and how much was just done for the benefit of the reading public.  And this really is the original character on whom any number of fictional crime solvers detectives sleuths are based?  Absolutely. Vidocq is the prototype of Dupin Edgar Allen Poe's detective. He features in Wilkie Collins. There was a very popular French detective called Lecoq by a man called Gaboriau and you can see the resemblance of the name even - Vidocq Lecoq Arsene Lupin who was tremendously popular in France a sort of thief turned detective. And indeed there are some suspicion that he contributes to Sherlock Holmes.  And in Les Miserables by Victor Hugo he is the model both for Javert the detective but also Jean Valjean the thief. He is both.  That is correct yes. He knew Hugo quite well and he always maintained that he would written the Court of Miracles scene in The Hunchback of the Notre Dame which he also claimed was the best bit of the book...   ...as he would since he was never one to hide his light under a bushel.  James Morton the idea of the criminal crossing over to become the criminologist or the detective is interesting but it requires a certain view of thieves and pimps and forgers that somewhere inside they are capable of behaving like you or me or perhaps that somewhere inside you and I are capable of behaving like them. Were the French especially understanding of petty thieves and other crooks back in the 19th century or did they just not know the full story of Vidocq?  I think they were attracted by this romantic figure because he was really quite good-looking. He certainly was a good talker good self-presenter and I think they were attracted by this man who has quote reformed unquote because we always like a criminal who reforms. And of course one way or another he was cleaning up Paris crime. It may not have been a thoroughly desirable way because there is no doubt he was quite capable of manufacturing cases against criminals would not be the first or the last policeman to do that. But generally speaking he was able to project an image in which he became enormously popular.  James Morton thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you.  James Morton is the author of   Criminal Spy and Private Eye. 