 As Shang-Chi F9 and a few other crowd-pleasers hit theaters this summer audiences got reacquainted with going out to the movies. Ninety percent of U.S. cinemas are open. And while the film business usually quiets down in cooler weather that may not happen this time. In his fall movie preview critic Bob Mondello notes that for more than a year Hollywood has been saving its biggest budget debuts.  James Bond has a license to kill but no one wanted that to apply to movie patrons.    I get why you shot him.   Yeah well everyone tries at least once.  So theater owners held their breath as Daniel Craig's final 007 flick slid from April of last year to April of this year...    Come on Bond. Where the hell are you?  ...To finally a fall date that looks like it will stick.    You can imagine why I have come back to play.  At almost three hours No Time To Die is potentially a billion-dollar picture worldwide too big in a lot of ways to relegate to a streaming service. And what is true for Bond is just as true for Marvel as it unveils a new batch of superheroes who call themselves Eternals.    I came here 7000 years ago to protect humans from the deviants.  Seven thousand years eh? If you are an Eternal time management is apparently not your forte.    How long do we have?   Seven days.  'Twas ever thus right? Also doing a bit of world-protecting Timothee Chalamet is a king in training in Dune the latest adaptation of sci-fi's biggest-selling novel ever.    My father rules an entire planet.   He is losing it.   He is getting a richer one.   He will lose that one too.  There is talk of a whole cinematic Duniverse  on the way.    Arrakis is a death trap.  And with so many films having delayed openings the same weekend Dune premieres Chalamet will pop up on other screens in Wes Anderson's latest weirdness The French Dispatch.    I am naked Mrs. Krementz.   I can see that.  Also butting heads this fall will be two true-story Adam-Driver-starring Ridley Scott epics if you can believe that - The Last Duel where Driver faces an accusation.    He attacked me.   The accusation is false.  It is the 14th century so her hubby Matt Damon has just one option.    I request a duel to the death.  The Last Duel is told from the viewpoint of each of its main characters so Driver at least gets his say.    I am innocent.   Let us let God decide.  Driver will be less lucky in Ridley Scott's House Of Gucci where he plays the fashion designer whose wife...    She is a handful.  ...Had him killed. His wife is played by Lady Gaga.    I do not consider myself to be a particularly ethical person but I am fair.  Cinemas will be teeming with other gangster types this fall including in The Many Saints Of Newark a gangster you know...    Antonio Soprano.  ...Just a lot younger than you knew him - in high school.    He is got a D-plus average.   Well he does not apply himself. But the results tell us he is a leader.  Got that right - and played by James Gandolfini's son Michael. Other movie scammers include gambler Oscar Isaac and Tiffany Haddish who stakes him in The Card Counter.    You have to be the strangest poker player I ever met.   Oh you have no idea.  In the film Beta Test there are techies who think they have found an illicit path to wealth.    These rich people - they do not have Facebook or anything. But you can bet these mothers have Venmo.  Lower tech folks in Queenpins sell the virtues of coupon counterfeiting though a small-town detective is skeptical.    They call it the coupon high. Supposedly it is better than intimacy with another person so I have been told.   Sorry. Have you not used a coupon or have you not had sex?   What happened?  And The Duke is about a 1960s thief who swiped a painting from London's National Gallery and became a folk hero when he offered to return it if the government invested in better health care.    How do you plead?   Not guilty.   Yeah.   For those unfamiliar with court proceedings that was the plea not the verdict.  The Duke is based on a true story as is The Eyes Of Tammy Faye starring Jessica Chastain.    Tammy Faye what'd you do?   Hello mother. This is Jim Bakker my husband.  She sang. He preached.    If everyone watching could double their pledge just for one night...  God loves you. He really does.  And evangelism was their oyster until...    We are not doing anything wrong though.   Is that a question?  Also based on real life - Kristen Stewart playing Princess Diana in Spencer. And in King Richard Will Smith is a tenacious California father who despite what everyone tells him just knows his girls are going to be great at tennis.    The chances of achieving the kind of success that you are talking about is just very very unlikely.   OK. You making a mistake but I am going to let you make it. Watch them hit a few balls.   All right. So tell me your names again.   I am Venus.   I am Serena.  So they hit a few balls.   So what do you think?  Documentaries will chronicle other real lives from one called Julia...    This is Julia Child. Bon appetit.  ...To fabled authors in The Capote Tapes and  Unstuck In Time. Also the Swedish teenager who played Tadzio in Death In Venice then spent decades trying to live down headlines that had called him the most beautiful boy in the world.   Enough reality you say? Well how about some animated kid flicks? One's about a buddy robot.    Hi insert registered name. I am your - your - your...  It is called Ron's Gone Wrong. Disney's Encanto is about a family where everyone's got magical powers except Mirabel.    Gift or no gift I am just as special as the rest of my family.   Maybe your gift is being in denial.  And what could be better in a family film than family bonding...    We are going on a road trip.  ...Except maybe an Addams Family 2.    This is cruel even for you.  And for adults there are genre flicks including a quartet of Westerns. In Jane Campion's The Power Of The Dog Montana rancher Kirsten Dunst tries to protect her family from Benedict Cumberbatch.    He is just a man only another man.  In another Tim Blake Nelson stars as a farmer...    You did not hold that pistol like any farmer I have ever seen.  ...Called Old Henry.    Listen to me. What is going to happen will happen quick.  In the shoot-em-up The Harder They Fall Idris Elba and Regina King head an all-star Black cast.    I know who you are - the angel who hunts down those who trespass against him with no mercy.  And Clint Eastwood is all mercy in Cry Macho a bring-the-kid-back-alive neo-Western.    This macho thing is overrated - just people trying to be macho to show that they have got grit. That is about all they end up with.  Eastwood also directed Cry Macho. Another actor who directs Kenneth Branagh has called Belfast his most personal film an Irish working-class 1960s story.    Kids the same age as ours are getting killed. We can give these boys a better chance than we ever had.  Edgar Wright's time travel fright fest Last Night In Soho is set in that same period. And the musical Jonathan Larson wrote before he wrote Rent is set a decade later.    This is the life bo-bo-bo-bo-bohemia.  It is called Tick Tick... Boom! because its autobiographical composer hero feels his time slipping away.    Bo-bo-bo-bo-bo.  The fall also has many films about grief. It haunts the parents linked by tragedy in Mass the characters in the lush 1920s romance Mothering Sunday and the bittersweet indie flick Language Lessons. And then there is the anxious high school student whose therapy writing letters to himself...    Dear Evan Hansen today is going to be...  ...Takes on a life of its own in a musical that transfixed sold-out Broadway crowds before the pandemic.    On the outside always looking in will I ever be more than I have always been because I am tap tap tapping on the glass.  Dear Evan Hansen will reopen on Broadway in December but audiences can see it at the multiplex in just a couple of weeks. Finally no more pandemic-era tap tap tapping on the box office window. I am Bob Mondello.    While I am watch watch watching people pass. I am waving through a window oh. 