 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Summer's almost here. And that must mean it is time for - Audie.  More TV. New summer programming right Eric Deggans?  That is right.  Now you are the TV critic for the Tampa Bay Times. So of course it is your job to - and I say job in quotes - to keep track of all this TV. And it used to be that the summer was for reruns right? People are outside not watching television. How did that change?  Yeah. That might have been true many years ago. But what we are finding now is that cable TV puts a lot of programming in summer because they know that the networks are less competitive but the networks have also decided hey wait a minute we cannot give up summer either. So they are putting more interesting shows in. And you also have online competitors like Netflix coming in and they have interesting shows coming. So right now this summer we have got something like over 100 new and returning shows coming to different forms of television that you can peruse.  All right then. So let us hear some of your TV suggestions for summer. And I want you to think about like substitutes for shows that are on hiatus over the summer. So let us say I like the sci-fi adventure show Revolution. But of course it is not on this summer. What should I watch?  Well if you like Revolution which is sort of a post-apocalyptic drama that has elements of sci-fi then you are probably going to like TNT's Falling Skies.   Definitely sounds like a good match.   Falling Skies has always been one of those interesting shows kind of conventional but every year they seem to be more successful so they get more money for special effects. And this time they are really pulling out all the stops. There is a lot of really interesting visuals and the show is storytelling has gotten more complex. So I am really interested in it.  All right. Let us look for a substitute for a cable show a lot of people might be missing now The Walking Dead. The zombie apocalypse got huge huge ratings for AMC. And if you are a fan of The Walking Dead back in the winter what is good this summer?  Well BBC America has this really interesting zombie drama called In the Flesh.   It is basically about what happens if zombies could be domesticated. So they figured out a way to sort of remove the bloodlust for brains and flesh for zombies and all of a sudden they get returned back to the families that they were a part of before they died. And then the question becomes how do humans handle this?  Now it always seems like there is a reality talent competition on somewhere. But American Idol is over and The Voice is almost through. What have you got for me?  Well what I got for you is NBC's America's Got Talent.   Now what is interesting here is that they are getting two new judges. They are bringing in Mel B from the Spice Girls and they are bringing in Heidi Klum who you might know as the host of Project Runway.  Yeah it is like musical chairs with these shows.  Exactly. No pun intended.  No pun intended. Wild card anything else you think that is just worth checking out.  Well there is a lot of interesting stuff. First John Oliver is going to be taking over The Daily Show. The regular host Jon Stewart is going to go off and direct a movie for a while. And so we will have a new person hosting The Daily Show a show that seems really suited to Jon Stewart's humor. So that'ill be interesting. We have got Mistresses on ABC. Now if you are into Desperate Housewives and you like seeing female-centered drama about female friends this is perfect. And I love this so-called Magic City.   It is set in Miami in the 1950s. It is about a guy who is trying to run the glitziest hotel in Miami Beach. But he is also wrapped up with mobsters and he is trying to get out from under. And he is just an amazing character and it is an amazing setting. And it is in Florida so you got to love it right?  Well Eric thanks for feeding my TV addiction.  Anytime.  That is Eric Deggans TV and media critic for the Tampa Bay Times. 