 You might not know his name and you might not know his face but there are two things you probably know about DeRay Mckesson  - his blue vest and his tweets. Both became synonymous with the protest movement that developed in the wake of the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson Mo. in the summer of 2014. Since then Mckesson has become a leading voice in the Black Lives Matter movement an unsuccessful candidate for mayor of his hometown of Baltimore Md. a podcast host. And now he is written a new book that tells his personal story along with his current thinking about activism. It is called  The Case For Hope. And DeRay Mckesson is here with us in our studios in Washington D.C. DeRay welcome. Welcome back. Thanks for joining us.  It is good to be here.  The reason I said welcome back is this is not the first time we have spoken.  Yes.  We actually met in Ferguson when you were part of one of the community conversations.  That was a long time ago - in the church?  In a church.  In a church.  And you had picked up and moved to Ferguson to be part of the protest movement. You are not from there. You had a job. You had an apartment. And you packed it all up and you moved there. Just take us back to that. Why did you decide to do that?  You know I - Mike Brown got killed on August 9. And I used to be a teacher. I worked in public education. I saw that a teenager got killed and I was like I am not doing anything this weekend. The least I can do is just go like see with my own eyes. I give a lot of lip service to like living the commitment. The least I can do - like the bare minimum - is go down on Saturday and Sunday right? And when I got there I was - like all the other stuff does not matter right? That like I had achieved the success I had been told was success early. I made a 100000 a couple of years before that. I was one of the highest-ranking people in the school system in Baltimore. Like I did those things and they were cool. They were not necessarily the most like life-fulfilling but they were important things to do in the world. And then when I got into the street it was the first time that I had seen so many people like committed to working this way. And I realized that I had a platform and that people were listening to me in the protests. It was - like I have got to figure out how to use it for good and like the rest I guess is history. But that was important to me.  As I mentioned earlier this book does two things. On the one hand it tells your personal story. On the other hand it does make a very considered case for activism in the current moment. So I want to take those two step by step. And the first thing is I wanted to go back to your personal history. You talk about your parents who both struggled with addiction. You talk about your mother leaving the family when you were only three. You talk about being gay. You are very revealing and some of this is very raw. And I was wondering about that decision because it seemed in the early days of your visibility you made a conscious effort not to talk about your kind of backstory. Why was it important for you to lay yourself bare if I can put it that way at this point?  You know we have to start talking about all of who we are because all of who we are shows up in the work that we do. So in that chapter on my mom it is like I know that I struggle with ideas of worth and memory and like that is deeply rooted in her. I know that I am a gay black man every time I come into a space. And I am like what does that mean to be in movement spaces or other spaces where people are homophobic but like me? And it is - like and I wanted to write about that. So you know I did not know how to write a book about justice or about where we have been and where we go with. I will - also saying like here's who I am in these ways. And like you said I try to do it in a way that says here's who I am and here's what the lesson is that I have learned.  So let us talk about some of the ideas in the book. The subtitle is The Case for Hope. Why do you need to make a case for hope?  You know there is like a pessimism that I think has arisen in this moment where people are sort of like we are doomed. There is like a doomsday sort of scenario. And I get it because what is happening in the White House and other places like can lead to that. But when I think about why people are out in the street and why people are running for office that is like hope work to me. And like I say in the book hope is this belief that our tomorrows can be better than our todays. So when King says the arc of the moral universe bends towards justice that is about faith. But when we say the arc bends because people bend it that is a statement about hope. And like hope - I realize - I learned it in the first incident - I say is I learned hope the hard way. It is like I learned hope like being dragged out of the police department by my ankles and like being shot at with rubber bullets and things like that. Like I had to ask myself like why am I still on the street? Like why am I still committed to this work?  You know this is interesting. I am glad you said it this way because this leads to a point that I wanted to make - is your concepts are presented in very straightforward very simple language which is one of the reasons you are so good on Twitter. I remember at one of the community forums somebody asked you what is it that you want? Like what do the protesters want? And you said stop killing us. You are thinking sort of very straightforward and you do not use a lot of big words in there. So it makes me wonder - it seems simple to you. Why do you think you provoke so much fury?  Polarization derives in a context where everything is a version of the extremes. And what I believe fervently is like the stuff we are fighting for is not extreme right? Like we can live in a world where the police do not kill people. That to me seems pretty simple right? I do not need to shout that right? That seems like pretty simple. So I was on a panel once with a police officer and she said to me you know DeRay there is a lot of people in the world who do bad things. Are you saying that the police should never kill somebody? And I say tell me when the police should kill somebody you love. She is like I do not know. I am like well I do not know either right? Like it is sort of that - like putting people in a situation where we realize that some of this stuff does not have to be the most complicated thing. Like I want you to tell me what is a mistake what is the crime that your kid could commit and you think somebody should just shoot him in the head? If you cannot name that for me then like why should another parent have to? Like that is not fair. And part of this work is like saying it in simple terms to have people grapple with it and not be able to dismiss it by the delivery not be able to dismiss it because they are like I do not understand it. And I am going to make it as basic for you as I can. And Twitter really was a thing that taught me that.  You have run for public office - not successfully - to this point. But you have also indicated that you would like to run again. If you achieve an executive position - especially like the mayor - you will be their mayor also. You will also be the mayor of the police department in that city or the governor or whatever like that. Do you have any sympathy for their point of view where they say I have been asked to do a difficult job? I am asked to break up family fights right? I am asked sometimes to confront people who may be mentally ill. I am asked to do a welfare check on somebody who has not been heard or seen from and that person is not taking their medication and they are paranoid and they shoot at me. What am I supposed to do? Do you...  Yeah. So I do not...  How do you respond to...  ...Know if it is about sympathy but do I understand it? Yes. So when I think about leading a city or leading a community it is about saying that like this is not working. It does not matter if you are a good person or not. This is not working. So you think about the city of Baltimore. We spend 500 million on police. They clear very few crimes at all. A whole division of the police department just got indicted by the FBI. A leader says this is not about you being a good person. This is about this is not working. In the same way that I think about when I visit classrooms in school - I was the chief of human capital in the school system of Baltimore. When I visit schools I am not going around saying hey is this teacher like a nice person? Nobody's learning in the class like kids are getting suspended left and right. But like oh they are really nice. Therefore I am just going to like let kids suffer in this building with all these nice people who cannot teach. That would never be acceptable for people. I do not know why people put forth that argument is an acceptable argument with the police.  So what is keeping you hopeful - you?  You know I meet so many people every day who like for the first time they found their power and like it reminds me of being a teacher. I used to teach sixth grade math and like that was the joy every day. You walked in the classroom and you are - and there was all these students who like did not think that they could do math well. And then they were like I can do it. And you are like you can do it. What the best teachers know that you already had the gift before I came in the room. But part of what I am supposed to do as a teacher is help you find the gift every day long after I am gone. With the worst teachers do is say the gift only exists in my presence. And that is the same thing with activism and organizers. The best organizers do is go into places and say you got it. You already got it. I am just here to help you unlock it. And I want you to be able to unlock it long after I am gone. And what I have seen all across the country is I have been in streets I have been in jails I have been in communities trying to help people like unlock their gift that they are going to keep long after I see them or anyone else. And when they do it it is like that is when you know you are like getting people like ready to do the work to change the world. There is nothing more hopeful than that to me.  That is DeRay Mckesson. His new book is called  The Case For Hope. DeRay Mckesson thank you so much for talking with us.  Good to be here. 