  50 years ago here in the U.S. protesters were taking to the streets. Philadelphia and Harlem saw race riots Atlantic City saw picketers screaming outside the Democratic National Convention. In Washington D.C. anti-war activists took over the National Mall.  Martha and the Vandellas' 1964 hit Dancing in the Street.    Down in New Orleans. Dancing in the street. In New York City. Dancing in the street. All we need is music sweet music. There'ill be music everywhere.  Mark Kurlanksy has written a new history of that protest anthem which he says has spread like wildfire through the music industry and been covered by dozens of bands.  Van Halen.    Callin' out around the world. Are you ready for a brand new beat?  Everly Brothers.    Summer's here and the time is right for dancin' in the street.  Ramsey Lewis did my favorite cover but he did you know it was a jazz trio and just completely turned the thing inside out.   Michael Bolton Neil Diamond not one of my favorite ones.     And all we need is music sweet music there'ill be music...  French and Finnish and Danish.   It is just a great song that everybody wants to do but not that easy to pull off. In fact the only recordings that have made it into the top 10 was the original Martha and the Vandellas and Mick Jagger and David Bowie which is a recording that everybody either loves or hates.    Australia Germany Africa...  Well in your book you proposed that Dancing in the Streets was an iconic song of the summer of 1964 - an anthem as you say in your title. And as we know that summer was a pretty turbulent time in American politics. We saw the arrests of civil rights demonstrators the burning of black churches not to mention everything that was happening with the United States and Vietnam. And yet today I am sure people listen to the song and many of them would just say it is a pop hit. It is a party song. So I am curious how did the tune become the protest song of that summer back in the '60s?  Well I think the key to the history of the song is that it is a song that inspires you. It makes you feel like doing something. And so it all depends on what it is you want to do. That summer when it came out - it was released July 31 two days before the Vietnam War began during the height of the civil rights movements Mississippi Freedom Summer. So it was a time that begged for meanings.  So do you think its original legacy is lost then that idea of it being a protest song?  I went and tried to watch all of the movies that have used it. Now there is this Whoopi Goldberg movie Sister Act 2 which you know it is not a film that is often brought up in serious discussions of cinema but there is an interesting moment. She plays this Vegas singer who is hiding out as a nun and she is trying to raise money for a glee club. She goes out in the street in San Francisco and to raise money for the glee club she sings Dancing in the Street.    It does not matter what you wear just as long as you are there. So come on. Every guy grab a girl everywhere around the world there'ill be dancing...  And that is exactly right. You know this is a song that gets people on their feet and it can be used for whatever you want. It can be used for black power it can be used for feminism it can be used to raise money for a glee club because it just inspires people.  Mark Kurlansky's new book is called  How 'Dancing in the Street' Became the Anthem for a Changing America. Thank you for joining us Mark.  My pleasure. 