 If you have ever wanted to live inside a part of Hollywood history now's your chance. This movie took home all the important Oscars - best picture actor actress director screenplay. And the place where it is most pivotal scene was filmed is up for sale.    What is the problem officer?   That is serial killer Buffalo Bill from 1991's Silence Of The Lambs. The house where Bill lived and raised a family of moths and tormented his victims was actually the Pennsylvania home of Scott and Barbara Lloyd.  They removed everything from our downstairs - wallpaper furniture...  Chandeliers... S.  Chandeliers... B.  ...Kitchen cabinets appliances. Everything was removed down here.  Scott says their house was picked not because it was creepy but for filmmaking reasons. B.  All the homes for this particular scene were to be old homes with a straight line from the front to the back.  Meaning a straight visual line from the front door through the dining room to the kitchen - perfect for the climactic scene where Detective Clarice Starling is slowly drawn into Bill's layer.    Mrs. Lippman had a son though. Maybe he could help you. I have got his card in here someplace. Do you want to come in while I look for it?   May I?   Yeah sure.   Thank you.  Unlike Barb Scott knew very little about the story and was not quite as prepared for what he saw in the movie. S.  I knew it was going to be a bit crazy. I just did not quite expect it to be that crazy.    Spread your legs put your hands in the back thumbs up. Freeze.  And in case you are wondering... B.  We have no pit in our basement.  So the filmmakers did have to resort to some Hollywood trickery for those scenes. But the Lloyd's helped with that as well. S.  They actually took pictures of a well that is on our property. And then when they built it on the soundstage they used those photographs to build that model.  The Lloyds are happy to sell their house to fans of the movie but they are hoping to appeal to buyers beyond horror movie freaks. S.  Anthony Hopkins is not a creepy old man because he played a creepy man in the movies. And this house is not a creepy old house just because it played one in the movies. She really was an actor more than anything else.  Whatever your fancy if you want to audition the house it is on the market now in the small town of Layton Pa. holding pit sold separately. 