 Well if you cannot stand to watch the game HBO's new drama series Succession debuts on Sunday. It centers on an 80-something media mogul resisting retirement. Here's NPR's TV critic Eric Deggans.  Brian Cox gives a note-perfect performance as Logan Roy a titan of industry holding a glitzy 80th birthday party. His life reads like a middle-class-to-riches story as told by his longtime friend and COO during a toast.    Raised in Quebec by an uncle with a print shop and a few advertising billboards Logan himself has made a decent way for himself these past 60 years - fifth-largest media conglomerate in the world. He is tough but he is always true to his word.  Well not always because the party was also called to announce Logan's long-planned retirement so his son Kendall could step up as CEO and chairman. Except as Logan tells Kendall he is changed his mind.    It is my company.   Yeah it is your company. And you know what? You are running it into the ground. The world is changing.   Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Everything changes. The studio was going to tank when I bought it. Everyone was going to stay home with videotape. But guess what? No no one was going to watch network except you give a zing and they do. You make your own reality.  And so begins the saga of Succession which features a super dysfunctional super wealthy family twisted even further by a fight over who should run their company. It is a darkly comic drama filled with backstabbing and missteps by Logan's inept and narcissistic children. Even when the mogul begs his daughter to help vote her stepmother on to the board of the family trust her response is empathy-challenged.    I would love to help.   Then help.   But I mean why would I when I am giving away power? Why would I do that?   So Kelly ...   Who is Kelly ?   Kelly  worked up some figures and she is seen that...   Dad.  Turns out Logan has had a brain hemorrhage. And Logan's kids raised in wealth have little idea how to actually run the company they want to control. It is a vision of the corrupting power of inherited family wealth that is popped up in several big-ticket TV dramas in recent weeks. Considered together they form a powerful commentary on the subject at a time when families named Redstone Murdoch and Trump wield huge influence in American business and politics. In Showtime's miniseries Patrick Melrose for instance Benedict Cumberbatch plays the title character. He is an unfortunate son in an upper-class family molested by his father and neglected by his mother. And after his father has died and his mother is dying when he has a wife and kids of his own Melrose discovers his mom has other plans for the family's money.    I have been disinherited.   What?   She is signing the house over to this joke charity. Nothing to us nothing to our children.   Patrick that is awful.   Oh and she wants me to check for loopholes make sure the whole thing runs smoothly. It is not enough to be disinherited. She wants me to chip in with the paperwork. She wants to help people - anyone really just as long as they are not related to us.  Based on a book series by Edward St Aubyn the miniseries paints a devastating portrait of a decadent aristocracy filled with pathologically self-obsessed and oblivious people. TV has often been obsessed with wealthy families through series like Dynasty Empire and Gossip Girl. But those stories of dysfunctional wealth have often been cloaked in soapy storylines and melodrama. These recent series are more serious and substantive. But rather than detail exploits of the super wealthy the prestige dramas feel more like cautionary tales exposing how wealth and power can destroy empathy and family unity. Consider FX's Trust which stars Donald Sutherland as J. Paul Getty an oil tycoon so callous he would gather his four mistresses for breakfast and pit them against each other quoting Shakespeare.    Overrated Shakespeare though  his will amused me. He left his wife his second-best bed. To whom should I leave my second-best bed?   Before you quote too much Lear you might remember how that particular family drama ended - murder poisoning suicide and insanity.  So when his grandson is kidnapped in Italy Getty has a predictable response at a press conference.    I have 14 other grandchildren who would be put at risk if I were to negotiate with kidnappers. I will not be paying a single solitary cent.  Eventually his grandson is returned but not until after Getty originally insisted his layabout son could only have the 5 million ransom as a loan with interest and the kidnappers sent the grandson's severed ear to the family. At a time when income inequality is an increasing concern these shows offer something of a consolation for those outside of the 1 percent presenting characters debilitated by their money rather than empowered by it. I am Eric Deggans.  And this is NPR News. 