 Jimmy Fallon has a not-so-secret weapon on The Tonight Show - the band The Roots. Drummer and band leader Ahmir Questlove Thompson says music is a crucial part of the program. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans paid a visit to the show to see how that plays out.  For the first time a hip-hop group is the house band for the most influential TV show in late-night.   From Studio 60 in Rockefeller Center at the heart of New York City it is The Tonight Show starring Jimmy Fallon.   Hey hey hey hey.  And you can chalk up much of The Roots success to the relaxed perfectionism of the band's leader Questlove. When I first meet him he is in a mixing room with the sound engineer at The Tonight Show is Rockefeller Center Studios.    Close your eyes...  This is like watching Rembrandt splash paint on a canvas.  I am listening to the mix 'ecause we are the musical guest tonight.  He is listening to a recording of the band rehearsing its new single Never.  If you do this now then it is not a big deal tonight after we perform it.  The show is engineer is learning the band's sound before they play on camera that evening. And Questlove catches everything including the thin tone of a woodblock.  Yeah. I do not mean louder but is there like a thicker texture?  This detail-oriented artistry has played off well for Questlove and The Roots.  Yeah that sort of...  The Roots are the last band you might expect to take over a late-night TV institution. They came together in the late 1980s and quickly emerged as critics' favorites. But some hip-hop fans saw them as quirky outsiders for their musicianship and brainy creativity. Five years ago when Fallon started hosting NBC's Late Night he specifically picked The Roots for his house band. But the network's suits were not so sure.  Feelings at NBC were sort of like OK we know that they are a good rap group. But what if we have Tom T. Hall on the show? Do they have range?  Can they play country or classical? NBC's solution - a 13 week probation so they could quietly fire them if it did not work out.  And they were like throwing crazy stuff at us. They would come in and be like you guys got three minutes to come up with an Andrew Lloyd Webber reference for da da da da da da - three minutes. And that is how the game Free Styling with The Roots was invented.  Free Styling with The Roots is their version of Johnny Carson's old Stump the Band contest.  And once we did it then they threw that - they were like oh no. You guys are ours forever. Like you know forget that 13-week meeting thing.  That test also revealed The Roots' unexpected talent for creating viral videos. They reinvented a sexy controversial hit with kiddy instruments.    Hey hey hey. And that is why I am going to take a good girl.  And slow-jammed the news even with the leader of the free world.   Jimmy POTUS stands for President Of The United States.   He is the POTUS with the most-us.  And when Jimmy Fallon moved up from Late Night to take over The Tonight Show in February music stayed at the center of the action.  Because for starters Jimmy is a musician. He is a legitimate singer and guitarist. This show is really a variety show disguised as a talk show.  As we are hanging out in the band's tiny rehearsal studio one of the show is writers stops by to ask for some on-the-spot creativity. In a couple of days Will Ferrell will be a guest of the show and so will his look-alike Chad Smith drummer for the Red Hot Chili Peppers. They want to have a drum battle but Ferrell does not really play drums.  Yeah. Chad's going to be drumming himself for sure. Will is going to be miming drums to you.  OK.  So what I was going to is if we could make like...  A dummy track for him to practice to?  Exactly.  Questlove is going to work up a simple drum solo Will Ferrell can pretend to play on camera. First he looks up a few drum solos on YouTube for inspiration.   I want something that looks convincing.  Then he sits behind small drum kit and tries out ideas.   On the show Questlove makes Will Ferrell sound like Buddy Rich.   . I just blew my mind.   It is strange to admit it but this is kind of the job that we were born for.  People who have admired the band's cool creative artistry did not always agree.  Once gawkers said The Roots in this position is like watching Miles Davis busk for change in the New York subway system. We wanted to be underestimated so that you could over-exceed expectations.  The success of Questlove and The Roots on The Tonight Show is a tale of triumph. The quirkiest band in hip-hop kept its cool and conquered the biggest institution in late-night TV. I am Eric Deggans.    I am going with the wind and I am going for the ride. Wish I could rest and open my eyes. But time as not fit to fly down from the sky. The place where the lonely love - not another soul there is only us.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 