 Louis Sachar writes creepy funny often weird books for kids. His Wayside School stories are favorites in elementary schools. His 1999 Newberry Medal winner Holes is still flying off shelves. Sachar's new book is an eco-bioterror-mystery-thriller-comedy. It is called Fuzzy Mud. When he came by NPR West a few days ago I asked him to introduce the main three characters starting with the protagonist Tamaya Dhilwaddi who is a bit different from the typical hero in today's books for young readers.  If it is a girl main character especially they are sassy and spunky and she is the opposite. She is this very quiet girl who just wants to do good please the teachers. And that is worked pretty well for her through kindergarten through fourth grade but now that she is in fifth grade her friends are now calling her a goody-goody and things like that. And she is not sure when the rules have changed. And then she walks every day to school with Marshall Walsh who she is kind of had a crush on over the years but nothing...  She is in fifth grade. He is in seventh.  He is - right. But lately she does not - she is not sure why but he is been kind of acting like a jerk. And we find out that he is basically been bullied this year and the bully is the third main character. That is Chad Hilligas.  And right next to the school is a pretty scary woods and that is where they encounter this mysterious mud.  Right yeah. Chad threatens to beat Marshall up after school. So when Marshall and Tamaya walk home he leads her on this shortcut through the woods and they proceed to get lost. And she discovers this odd-looking substance that she calls fuzzy mud.  And I want to not give away too much again but the fuzzy mud is I guess the source of the mystery and terror I guess that takes place.  Right. Yeah it is a pretty scary story.  There is a biotech firm.  Right and they are genetically engineering these slime mold and some of these have escaped. And that is what - that is become the cause of the fuzzy mud.  So let us do some play acting. I am going to play the part of a skeptical publisher. So a biotech-eco-disaster-thriller for young readers - Lewis Sachar what is wrong with you?   Kids love to be scared.  .  You know whether they get the environmental implications - and I think most will. But you know it is a good scary story.  It is scary and there is even - with this biological agent it is horror. It is almost like something out of a David Cronenberg movie  - that kind of body horror.  Well yeah I - when writing it I had to be very careful - had to find the right balance. So it could not be too horrific 'ecause it is for kids and it is just supposed - at it is core it is a fun scary story. You know in certain drafts it would cross the line too much one way. And then it would swing back and it would be not scary enough you know the next time through. So I had to find the right - the right balance.  There is something especially fascinating about this particular age. Tamaya is in fifth grade. The boys are in seventh grade. There is this kind of fascination about the opposite sex but it is - they do not quite understand what it is all about yet.  Yeah I mean especially for Tamaya - you know her group of friends are - at the beginning of the book are very excited because they are sitting next to older boys. And you know - and getting to hang out with older boys is just very exciting for them although Tamaya is kind of too scared to say anything.  And the rules are all changing I think as Tamaya observes at one point that - wait when did all of a sudden - it is bad to be good?  Right right. You know up until fifth grade she and her friends all you know just tried to please the teacher and do their homework. And now suddenly her friends are no longer acting like that. They call her a goody-goody and a goody two shoes and she is not sure what happened.  I am curious about the name of our female protagonist here 'ecause you - arguably your most famous character was Stanley Yelnats. His name's a palindrome.  Right.  I was wondering if there was something I was not getting about Tamaya Dhilwaddi.  No.  Sounds vaguely Indian  .  Right. It was - I did not want to name like Sarah or Vanessa or - you know. The world's getting much more diverse. And I wanted her to sound more ethnic but I did not really have any specific ethnicity in mind. So I made up a name that like you said sounded vaguely Indian. It could be vaguely Japanese. It could be a lot of things. There is nothing more to it than that.  You have been writing for young people for a while. You have won the Newberry back in 1999. Did you feel like your audience has changed or is what is a great book for young readers now pretty much what it was 15 years ago?  Yeah I have actually been writing since 1976 and my first book is still in print and doing very well. So no I think - I do not think it has changed - kids have changed. I have changed and so it is - you know it sometimes gets harder for me to put myself you know into that mindset. You know when I first started writing I was 22 years old and now I am 61. So it gets more of a challenge to me but I do not think kids have changed all that much.  Lewis Sachar's new book is Fuzzy Mud and it is out on Tuesday. Lewis Sachar thanks very much. It is been great speaking with you.  Well thank you. 