 A debut novel by young Latino writer We the Animals made a splash in literary circles when it was published in 2011. An autobiographical story about preteen brothers and their turbulent home life it seemed an unlikely candidate for film adaptation but critic Bob Mondello says We The Animals has become a haunting fever dream of a movie.  A hot summer in upstate New York three shirtless boys running wild the way kids do. Jonah's the youngest the storyteller...    Us three.  ...Scribbling in his journal about wanting more - more volume...    Us kings.  ...More muscles more time with Manny and Joel.    Us brothers.  The three of them so inseparable they often seem a single organism - bouncing off the walls tearing across a field being at the moon turning every flat object in the house into a drum and when all of that gets old huddling under a sheet whispering.    Body heat body heat body heat.  Childhood is a magical time for these three and a complicated time too as their sons of a mixed race couple who have moved upstate looking for a good life that has not really materialized. Dad's Puerto Rican and a nightwatchman. Mom's white and works in a bottling plant. Dead-end jobs struggling to make ends meet was not the plan.    Shake it papito come on.    All right. Now shake it like you are rich.  While mom and dad are crazy at love they are also fighters - she protective...    This truck - it does not even have enough seatbelts to protect your family.  ...He rough and tumble sometimes just rough.    OK. You win. You win.  Left to their own devices the boys have to figure out what is happening when say dad leaves after one fight that left mom bruised.    Will you get up today?   How do I look?   Purple.   Crazy.   Tore up.  That rates a note and an illustration in Jonah's journal scribbled by flashlight after his brothers are asleep and animated with scratchy pen drawings as the film lets the scenes in Justin Torres' autobiographical novel surface and recede the way memories do. Filmmaker Jeremiah Zagar is a documentarian making his first fiction feature here working with youngsters who would never acted before and creating a dreamlike narrative where Jonah's carousing merges with his fantasies about adulthood and his confusion over things his parents say and do - dad loving and leaving mom loving and clinging.    Promise me you will stay 9 forever.   How?   Simple you are not 10 you are 9 plus one. Next year you will be 9 plus two.   Why?   You be telling them that no matter how old you are you be Ma's baby boy.  She hugs him close.    I remember your heart inside me ticking like a bomb.  Ticking like a bomb that is quite the image and applies equally well to Jonah at age 9 ticking like a bomb with budding sensual feelings and the realization that there are ways in which he is not like his brothers. We The Animals are about to grow up grow to be men grow in the case of journal-keeping Jonah perhaps to be a writer who will capture this summer when things began to change and make it intense scary ecstatically lyrical. I am Bob Mondello. 