 Star Trek's final episode aired on TV 40 years ago this summer and in the decades since Leonard Nimoy's Spock became a cultural icon.   Mr. WILLIAM SHATNER   ...the needs of the few.  But Leonard Nimoy is not just a one-hit wonder. He is a modern Renaissance man. He is written plays and books published photos and even recorded a few albums.    In the middle of the earth in the land of the Shire lives a brave little hobbit whom we all admire.  Now a few years ago he said he was finished with acting. But this year he returned as Spock in the new Star Trek movie. Now he is back on TV as a recurring character on the show Fringe. So how did it happen?  There was a fascinating character with sort of a blank slate. The character had been referred to a number of times in previous episodes but never seen. And would I consider playing this character a combination of the richest man in the world and a Timothy Leary-type scientist. We are not quite sure what his intentions are he is in an alternate reality. And I think time will tell whether he is really giving out good advice or being misleading.   How do you feel about the way things have changed on television over the past decades?  I have seen a couple of shows that I enjoy watching periodically. The Entourage show I think is a lot of fun. I think Hung is doing some very interesting work about human nature. But I do not watch any show specifically very religiously. I sort of drop in every now and then.  And of course you have been on our air in the past years talking about your photography. And you have published collections of your work. The Full Body Project was one of them. You are now working on a third project called Secret Selves.  Right.  Can you tell us about that?  And I found that intriguing. And a gallery in Massachusetts in Northampton helped me to round up a number of people to come to have me do their portrait as their secret selves.  Now that the new Star Trek movie has been made and you sort of passed the torch so to speak to a different actor are you finished with Star Trek?  If they call me I will read a script but I would be surprised if they call me for another performance.  Leonard Nimoy The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins has become an Internet sensation watched by generations that were not even born when Star Trek was on.  We were 30 years ahead of our time with that recording.    Everybody knows him. Bilbo Bilbo Baggins he is only 3 feet tall. Bilbo Bilbo Baggins the bravest little hobbit of them all.  Any chance you will make another record?  I do not think so. Nobody's urging me to come into a studio to record music. I love - I had a great time. I recorded several albums. And a producer came to me with this idea and I thought it was a charming idea and we did it. And frankly you know it is getting more attention now than it did originally.  Leonard Nimoy thanks for joining us.  My great pleasure. Thanks for having me.    ...stolen by a dragon in the days of old. Bilbo Bilbo Baggins... 