 I am Rachel Martin and I have a confession to make. It is the Fourth of July weekend and there was a really big movie made in 1975 40 years ago pegged to this weekend - Jaws.    The shark swallow you whole.  Many of us have seen clips on YouTube. Maybe a lot of you have seen the movie. I have not. NPR film critic Bob Mondello thinks that is a film sin.  .  He is here to help me correct it and then we are going to talk about all kinds of other Fourth of July films. Hi Bob.  Hi. It is good to be here.  It is good to have you. All right. So before we have a conversation about what kind of movies we can watch this holiday weekend and why let us watch a scene from Jaws. So what are we about to watch?  Roy Scheider is on the back of the boat. They are throwing fish guts to try to attract the shark.  Yeah they are asking for it. OK.  And he is kind of not looking at the water and something shows up.  Something shows up. OK. Let us watch.   .  Oh no.   Now you have got to admit that is amazing is it not?   And the way you just jumped. That is what audiences did.    You are going to need a bigger boat.  OK so that is what everyone was fussing about back in 1975.  I cannot believe this is the first time you have seen this movie.  I mean...  Oh my God. I saw this back in 1975. I went to the theater. It is the first time I had ever seen a theater fill up from the front row. It was like everybody wanted to be as close as possible to be as scared as possible by this movie. It was absolutely amazing.  But it was really scary? .  It was terrifying. You jumped when it - OK?  OK you are right.  I mean and this was just one of the times that you have seen this animal. It is a very scary movie. It was very effective and it was effective all across the country at the same moment which had not happened very often at the point.  So we should also mention this movie Jaws - it was against a holiday weekend right? It is supposed to be happening on Fourth of July?  It is happening over the Fourth of July weekend so there is a mob at the beach and that is the problem. The town does not want to send everybody home because this is when make - can make all their money. So they are distressed and they keep on trying to not tell people about the shark. Well it becomes fairly obvious that there is a shark after a while.   So everyone went to see this film. This did far better than the filmmakers thought it would.  Because people did not really know that you could have a summer picture that would do a lot of business. The summer movie season what it was not a thing back then. Things like Godfather and Sound Of Music - they had opened in March.  The whole the whole idea of a summer blockbuster did not exist.  Right it did not exist. And this and then a couple of years later Star Wars opening on Memorial Day - those two pictures set this new paradigm for Hollywood that you could have a summer blockbuster season. And all of a sudden everybody was trying to create pictures for that.  Is this a weekend that has traditionally been a big release weekend for movies?  Well there have been pictures that have kid of owned it. The Transformers movies were always opening up Fourth of July weekend for a while. The Minions movies...  Yeah.  ...Have always open right about then. The reason the Fourth of July is a big deal is that everybody's out of school by then. And so all those kids have had a couple of weeks to get bored with whatever they were doing and parents cannot wait to pack them off to a movie theater. And the whole family's available that weekend so they can all go together. So a picture that is appealing to the whole family is going to be a big hit.  All right so Jaws was the original summer blockbuster. What about other movies that are just related to the Fourth of July?  Well there is Born On The Fourth of July which - it is a very serious picture. It is about the story of a paralyzed Vietnam vet named Ron Kovic and it is a - it is a very powerful picture. It is just a very substantial movie and it is not the kind of thing you think of as a blockbuster. Yankee Doodle Dandy...     Born on the Fourth of July...  What year was that?  That was Jimmy Cagney - 1942.  Oh.  It was kind of a big deal. That is the story of George M. Cohan who wrote the song Yankee Doodle Dandy.  And of course there is 1776.  The musical?  Yeah.     Vote for independency.    Someone ought to open up a window.  Which is really quite lovely and was wonderful on Broadway and made an OK movie. I mean they used a lot of the same actors.  OK.  There is Independence Day.  Will Smith.  Yes and they blew up half of the world on that one.   So what do you need to make a blockbuster? Does it - we talked about Independence Day Jaws. Do you have to have chaos and mayhem?  Well that certainly helps. These days blockbuster's are sort of manufactured. Back when Jaws opened they were very proud of the fact that they were spending more money to promote Jaws than had ever been spent on a motion picture. They made it a big deal. They - for months ahead of time they were selling the book. They made sure that the book cover looked just like the advertising for the movie. Everything was to promote this movie and to make it an event. And they were successful - far more than they expected to be. These days promoting the art of the movie you are promoting the idea that the movie then illustrates . Jaws was a good movie. It was an intimate picture with three characters who were really strong and a fourth character who was swimming a lot .  Bruce.  That is - yeah.   Yes he did a lot of swimming. The shark - a mechanical shark who was very persuasive because you could not see him for a long time. You only saw him like the last 20 minutes of the movie.   Less is more with Bruce .  Totally.   But to have sold me. You have convinced me that maybe I should go back and actually watch the whole movie.  Oh man. You have got to watch movie.  Not just the clips.  It really - it put Spielberg on the map. It is the picture that changed the way Hollywood thought of the audience and what the audience expected of Hollywood in the summer.  OK. NPR film critic Bob Mondello. Thanks so much Bob.  It is always a pleasure.  Happy Fourth.  Why thank you and to you. 