 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. At around six in the evening on November 9th 1989 Gunter Schabowski would unintentionally make history. He was the freshly minted spokesman for the Politburo in communist East Germany and he was handed a memo with a list of press announcements. They seemed ordinary even unexceptional until he read the fifth item on that list. Schabowski told the reporters gathered in the press room that every East German would now have the right to obtain a passport. Michael Meyer picks up the story from here. Mr.   At the press conference there was a sudden hush followed by a ripple of whispers. Schabowski droned on. Then from the back of the room as the cameras rolled broadcasting live to the nation  When does it take effect? Schabowski scratched his head mumbled to aides on either side that is a technical question. I am not sure. He perched his glasses on the end of his nose shuffled through his papers then looked up again and shrugged. Ab Sofort he read aloud from what he saw written on the press release immediately without delay.  It was a mistake. Schabowski misread that memo. Within minutes crowds from East Berlin began to gather at the wall that divided the city and by midnight they would join West Berliners on top of that wall the symbolic end of the Cold War. Michael Meyer was Newsweek's bureau chief in Germany in Eastern Europe at the time and he has just released a chronicle of that period. The book is called  The Untold Story Behind the Fall of the Berlin Wall. And Michael Meyer joins me from New York. Welcome. Mr.  Thank you.  You write that people in the United States at least were not really paying attention to what was happening in Eastern Europe until that day November 9th 1989 when the wall came down. But this was building for months maybe a year beforehand? Mr.  Yes. We Americans were a little bit of asleep. We had just had a new presidential election our attention was not exactly on Eastern Europe. But in fact if you are on the ground you saw a lot happening. In Hungary a new elected leader a man named Mikls Nmeth educated at Harvard began talking about free elections free speech free markets. They opened the stock market. In Poland the general who cracked down on Solidarity the band anti-communist trade union invited them to participate in elections the first free elections the East Bloc had seen since World War II. So you had islands of dramatic radical change - Poland and Hungary - and then you had others who were resisting the winds going from the east. And there was that tension that would ultimately result in the fall of the wall.  Michael Meyer you were fairly new as a correspondent there in Eastern Europe. At the beginning of 1989 did you have a sense that communism in the Eastern Bloc would collapse by the end of that year? Mr.  I did not have a sense of the collapse by the end of that year. But on a - my first trip to Budapest in fact in December of 1988 I heard that new political parties were forming. I met the justice minister this is  man. He was talking about free elections. I asked him what would happen if you lose? He said we would step down. I laughed. He said Mr. Meyer you do not believe me? He took out a little pamphlet from a desk jar and waved it over his head turned out to be a copy of the U.S. Constitution and the U.S. Bill of Rights. He said Mr. Meyer mark my words this will be ours before the end of the year and he was right.  Clearly there was panic in certain parts of the Eastern Bloc. And you described this crisis meeting that takes place in Bucharest Romania in July of 1989. What happened at that meeting? Mr.  The hardliners in the East Bloc saw what was happening in Hungary. They wanted to stop it. They knew its consequences. They wanted to do what they did in 1956 in Hungary intervene militarily stop it. There was only one man standing between that and Hungary's experiment with freedom and that was the man in Moscow Mikhail Gorbachev. Mikls Nmeth the Hungarian prime minister under fire looked over it - Gorbachev - across the conference table. Gorbachev winked at him as if to say pay no attention to these idiots. So Nmeth got up went outside smoked a cigarette and went home because he knew that none of these people could act without Gorbachev and Gorbachev would not move against him.  This all really comes to an end on Christmas Day 1989 when Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife Elena are executed after a hasty military trial in Romania. This was the strongman of the Eastern Bloc an ironfisted ruler nobody thought he would ever be overthrown. You were in Bucharest at the time. Mr.  I did not see Ceausescu himself shot. I watched it on a television in the Intercontinental Hotel in the dark doors and windows shut out while the firing still going on outside and someone whispered in the darkness the antichrist is dead.  Wow. Mr.  And he was.  Wow. How do you think it compares to other momentous years in late modern history 1776 1789 the French Revolution the revolutions of 1848 in Europe? Is 1989 on that same level? Mr.  I think it is very much. 1989 was the year that changed everything. It was not just the end of the Cold War. It was not only the end of the division of the world into east and west the free and unfree. The end of the Cold War set the stage for a modern era of globalization. It unleashed an incredible global bloom that is with us.  Michael Meyer is the author of the new book abut 1989 called The Year That Changed the World. He joined me from New York where he now works as the speechwriter for the secretary general of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon. Michael Meyer thanks for sharing your story. Mr.  Thank you very much Guy it is a pleasure. 