 Watching comedian Gilda Radner in the first years of Saturday Night Live was to watch a master shapeshifter who happened to be sidesplittingly funny.    Dear Roseanne Roseannadanna.  That is so funny I forgot to laugh.  Hello I am Baba Wawa. And welcome to Baba Wawa at Large.  What is all this fuss I keep hearing about violins on television?  Her character veered from the perpetually confused Emily Litella to nerdy teenager Lisa Loopner from the belching staggering punk rocker Candy Slice to manic Judy Miller bouncing off the walls in her Brownie uniform. Gilda Radner was just 42 when she died of ovarian cancer in 1989. Now the documentary Love Gilda explores the joys and struggles that animated her comedy. Lisa Dapolito is the director and joins me from New York. Lisa welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  You had access to Gilda Radner's written journals also audiotapes that she made and a whole bunch of interviews. Let us listen to part of the film where we hear her talking about what is at the root of her humor.   When I think back on my life I always felt that my comedy was just to make things be all right. I could be prettier than I was. I could be people that I really was not. I would use comedy to be in control of my situation.  Control of my situation - Lisa what is she talking about there? What is the situation?  She was a chubby child and people would make fun of her. And she just loved people. And she wanted to fit in. So she found that by being funny she could make friends. And then in that way it puts her in control of the situation.  Make them laugh before they hurt me she says.  Yeah. It was her defense mechanism. So it was you know it is very upsetting to know that she felt so bad about herself at times.  And ultimately was as an adult hospitalized for an eating disorder.  Yeah. I mean that was one of the things that I found in the journal that I did not really know and I do not think many of the people who were close to Gilda knew the extent of her eating disorder. She checked herself into a hospital. And she kept a diary of how hard it was for her every day to keep from not throwing up from not bingeing. It is really heartbreaking. And if you look at the five years of SNL and you go to Season 4 you can just see how skinny she was.  The title of her autobiography It is Always Something is a line from one of her characters she is probably best known for Roseanne Roseannadanna who was on the news on Weekend Update on Saturday Night Live. She had that big black trapezoid of hair and that scrunched-up face. Let us listen to one of her scenes.    A Mr. Richard Fanner  from Farlane N.J. writes in and says Dear Roseanne Roseannadanna. Last Thursday I quit smoking. Now I am depressed. My face broke out. I am nauseous. I am constipated. My feet swelled. My gums are bleeding. My sinuses are clogged. I got heartburn. I am cranky. And I have gas.    What should I do? Mr. Fanner you sound like a real attractive guy.    You belong in New Jersey.   Lisa Dapolito what is it like for you when you listen to that now?  I think that character is another side of Gilda that she was - she was never afraid to not look good and to just go for it.  Yeah. A lot of the film seems to focus on this question of how hard it was for her to not be those characters who she was when she was not in those costumes on that stage.  Well I think Gilda's whole mission I think in life was to love and be loved. And her relationship with an audience was one of the ways that she really got love and was able to give. So that was a symbiotic relationship between Gilda and an audience and I think she just loved that.  Loved it but it does seem like there is a tension there. There is a part of her journal where she says at one time in my life I was famous. And it seemed like everyone knew me. But she wonders whether she would be happier out of the spotlight. She fantasizes about being a checkout girl or a shoe salesman and not being on display for all those people.  Yeah. I think at some point during her SNL years it really changed for her. And for Gilda she loved going out into the world and meeting people and observing people. And then people would start to recognize her everywhere she goes. And her friends said that she was really really mobbed no matter where she went. So I think it started to change how she felt. And I think she grappled with being the center of attention. And then also you know just wanting to be somebody who is just normal going out into the world.  Yeah. When Gilda Radner got sick and ultimately was diagnosed with ovarian cancer she talked about that in her audio journal.   I have gone to doctors and seen that they are just looking at Roseanne Roseannadanna Or Emily Litella and not really seeing that here's a person who is sick who has complaints.  When you were looking through Gilda Ratner's journals and listening to those audiotapes that she made were there parts when you felt I am getting too close this is just too personal and I just am uncomfortable with exposing that side of her?  Well they were very personal but the way that Gilda tells the story and the way that she writes you just want to listen to her over and over again and read her over and over again. And everybody who started coming into the team - the editors transcribers producers - we just wanted to listen to Gilda and just read what she wrote because it is not only - it is deep and dark but there is also funny. And it is also inspiring. So even when in Gilda's audiotapes when she is talking about her cancer and she is finding out her cancer came back or she thought she was OK but she had to go back to the hospital and have another operation or another round of chemotherapy there is still always hope with Gilda. There is always something that makes you feel like wow if you can go through this I can do it too.  That is Lisa Dapolito. Her documentary Love Gilda is out now. Lisa thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 