 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block out on an urban adventure - on the water. A fast boat trip before dawn in the rain out on to New York City's Jamaica Bay. The A train rumbles by on a bridge overhead. We have come out in pursuit of striped bass.  Let me tell you a little something about striped bass. They are pretty much a mirror of our society.  This is the captain Vinnie Calabro. Capt.  Striped bass are a hardy vibrant fish that can endure a lot of crap.  And you figure if they can make it here they can make it anywhere. We are right next to Kennedy Airport right now. We can walk under the runway I think. Mr.  I think. Capt.  Oh yeah. Mr.  If the striped bass wanted to meet their cousin the European sea bass they could hop on an Air France flight.  That is writer Paul Greenberg. We have come out fishing with him to talk about his new book titled Four Fish. It is a passionate indictment of overfishing and the collapse of wild populations. It is also a defense of farmed fishing if done right. The striped bass we are pursuing today are a recent success story showing how wild populations can be protected. Striper numbers plunged through the 1970s -by some estimates down to fewer than 5 million - due to overfishing and pollution. So some states closed their waters to striper fishing altogether. Others restricted fishing Congress passed laws and the striped bass did rebound up to a high of 70 million. Paul Greenberg says with commercial fishing pressures reduced these fish are in remarkably good shape - which means that now catching a striper by a busy international New York airport is not a farfetched idea.  Mr.  I like being in a situation where this is like this living ecosystem that you can see the osprey around you can see the menhaden in the water big striped bass are around. It is like this kind of primeval prairie in the shadow if you will of Kennedy Airport.  So a primeval prairie was a control tower and 747s. Mr.  Yeah. Sure but the striped bass cannot see the control tower. And that there can even exist striped bass in this kind of environment makes you feel like we are not necessarily the boss of everything. We might have gotten the shore but we have not gotten the water yet.  Not yet. But still watermen like Vinnie Calabro will tell you about obvious declines in fish stocks. Mr.  And you have been fishing here since you were a kid right? So... Capt.  I have been on this bay since I am 8 or 9. I am 53 so - and it is every day. You are talking about thousands and thousands of hours a year. Mr.  So did you - I mean you actually could totally see when it was going down in the late '70s early... Capt.  Well yeah. See where you are right now? Mr.  Yeah. Capt.  Look north. Look south. Look west and east. Everywhere you can see - everywhere - would be schools of bunker right now everywhere.  Bunker is menhaden the bait fish they will use to catch the bass. Their numbers are way down. But the menhaden are still all around the boat. You can spot them churning the water. Capt.  Easy on its fins.  Vinnie Calabro throws out the circular cast net and soon hauls it in filled with hundreds of glistening silver menhaden. So with a barrel full of bait they start fishing for stripers. And yes  the author of a book about overfishing going out fishing. Mr.  The older I get there is part of me that kind of enjoys not catching something.  Mr.  If you talked to me before I wrote this book definitely want to catch something. Definitely want to put something in the pail. Definitely want to bring something home to my family.  Not so much now? Mr.  Less so. I mean I still go fishing. I still keep some fish that I catch. But I definitely viscerally feel it is a deduction that I am making from nature and there must be some karmic price to pay for it.   You think? Mr.  I think a little bit.  Well you talk about that tension in the book. You talk about fish being seen as food but also needing to be seen as wildlife. Mr.  Exactly. I mean even the word seafood is a - kind of a remarkably cruel word. And with...  It is a strange word when you think about that. Mr.  It is. I mean do we call everything that we eat from land do we call it landfood? You know what I mean? And what is interesting is that you go across cultures it is consistent. Romance language speakers speakers of Italian and German choose to call it sea fruit. Slavs call them gifts of the sea. And it is as if it is this sort of arbitrary thing. I mean people should understand that every time they eat a fish that was not raised on a farm that they are eating wild animals.  We now harvest about 90 million tons of wild fish and shellfish from the ocean every year. Mr.  Ooh there is a fish.  Out on the bay suddenly one of the rods has curved toward the water. It is a striper about 14 pounds 32 inches long. Mr.  There it is. Oh yeah it is a keeper.  Capt.  Nice fish congratulations.  Soon after that the rain becomes a downpour and we head for shore. I pick up my conversation with Paul Greenberg later along the Hudson River.  That wild fishing we just did? Well on a commercial industrial scale that is unsustainable. The world has doubled its per-capita fish consumption in the last 50 years. The oceans cannot keep up with our growing appetite and that means - like it or not - the future lies with fish farming or aquaculture. Mr.  Aquaculture is the fastest growing form of food production in the world right now. And it is sure to equal and overtake wild catch in the next few years.  So the trick is how to do it right how to farm fish with a small environmental footprint. Well for one it means choosing fish that are well adapted to aquaculture - fish that are efficient feeders that do not need to eat huge amounts of fish meal to produce a pound of flesh. Think tilapia or an Asian fish he likes called the barramundi. It also means keeping these farmed fish away from wild populations so they do not spread disease which could mean that fish gracing your plate spent its life in the inner city. Mr.  What is interesting and kind of cool is they now have systems that you can plug right into the middle of a city. Like in Baltimore not far from your offices they have this - in the center of Baltimore they have an above-ground aquaculture operation where everything is recycled where even methane gas is generated from the culture of fish and used to create energy to continue to power the system. These are modules that are being developed and that can be put in place.  Think back to those striped bass in Jamaica Bay. Paul Greenberg points out that today 60 percent of the striped bass we eat are farm-raised hybrids. For sea bass there are now nearly 10 times as many grown in aquaculture as are caught in the wild. Forty years ago the farmed sea bass did not even exist. But Greenberg says we have ignored the reality of what we are eating and what is gone. When it comes to fish he says we are engaged in a wave of psychological denial of staggering scope. Mr.  The denial is that we see these things in the marketplace. We see Irish salmon we see Scottish salmon we see Nova Scotia salmon. And the default assumption of the consumer is that those are just - no those are wild fish from Ireland or Scotland. No that is a practically extinct species. There is no more wild Atlantic salmon in the marketplace. That is a tragedy. It should be farmed Irish salmon. You know we should know that. But I think a lot of consumers are not realizing what is happening. This extinction followed by replacement with a domesticated variant is very much happening.  As for wild fish Paul Greenberg says we must hunt them with care and eat them with the fullness of our appreciation - and understand them above all as wildlife. You can read an excerpt from  The Future of the Last Wild Food at npr.org. 