 Our TV critic Eric Deggans often says there is so much good TV out there these days the Emmys are a way to help us know what is good and what we should pay attention to. So now that the Emmy nominations are out let us talk about them with him. Hey Eric.  Hey.  I am sorry to do this but I have to start by asking about an absence in these nominations Game Of Thrones not there.   The one show that was not nominated.  Yeah what happened?  Well Game Of Thrones started its latest season too late to be in contention for the nomination. So it was not that they got snubbed. They just were not eligible. But that opened up the drama series category for new shows. So we got to see for example Hulu's A Handmaid's Tale  get nominated as best drama series and Netflix's Stranger Things also NBC's This Is Us which was a welcome nomination because it is the first time a show from one of the big four broadcast networks has been nominated as best drama series in quite a while. You know HBO still remained the most nominated TV outlet.  Wow.  Their show Westworld got 22 nominations. It tied with Saturday Night Live for most nominated. So you know HBO's doing all right.  Well so let us listen to the list of best actress nominations.   The nominees for lead actress in a limited series or movie are Carrie Coon Fargo Felicity Huffman American Crime Nicole Kidman Big Little Lies Jessica Lange Feud Susan Sarandon Feud and Reese Witherspoon Big Little Lies.  What do you think about this list?  Yeah. Now there is something interesting about that list. A lot of those actresses are over 40. We have seen a wide range of ethnic and age diversity in all these nominees. And it is been wonderful to see the first three shows that were announced as nominees for best comedy all starred people of color. But the one thing that kind of bothers me about the nominations is we also saw a lot of nominations for shows that did not necessarily have their best year in the nomination period and maybe they should have made room for others that were more deserving. So Modern Family and House Of Cards these are shows that kind of had their best year a while ago. Performers like Viola Davis - I love her but she is won an Emmy already - Kevin Spacey William H. Macy from Shameless I wish that those guys had maybe taken a back seat so we could see even more new blood in these nominations.  This year's nominations seem to feature a lot of actors who have already won Oscars. I mean does that mean we are past the days of thinking that TV is inferior to film?  Oh yeah without a doubt. If you look at the list of people who have won Oscars there is almost a dozen of them and there is names like Robert De Niro and Nicole Kidman. And I think basically they are starring in these shows that would have been films you know 10 or 15 years ago. So De Niro in HBO's Wizard Of Lies that might have been a film 10 or 15 years ago but now it is on TV. And it is getting the kind of attention and accolades that you know it would not have gotten if it was in theaters.  So many shows to talk about. Were there any shows that got snubbed and any nominations that struck you as off or weird?  Well the snubs - FX's The Americans. Even though the actors got nominated it did not get nominated for best drama. And HBO's The Leftovers which is considered one of the best shows on television had its final season this year. It did not get nominated. The Daily Show and Seth Meyers on NBC did not get nominated. And variety talk which is a very competitive category Oprah Winfrey got snubbed. Her movie The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks on HBO got nominated but she did not get nominated for a performing Emmy. And Lena Dunham did not get nominated for the end of Girls. And my weirdest pick - I love this pick - Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg nominated as best reality TV hosts for Martha  Snoop's Potluck Dinner  on VH1. Come on they have got to win.  .  Kelly they have got - let us start to campaign now.   NPR TV...  For your consideration Martha and Stewart - Martha and Snoop.  NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Thank you.  Always a pleasure.  