 For all of the literature that is written around the world not much of it makes its way to the U.S. Books written in other languages that end up being translated into English make up just 3 percent of what is published here. And international fiction is just a fraction of that. Critic Ellah Allfrey has been paying particular attention to this category. Here she is with the review of a new German novel by Daniel Kehlmann called simply F.  Let us give thanks to the publishing Gods. It must have been they who delivered to us Carol Brown Janeway and her wonderful translation of Daniel Kehlmann's latest novel. I for one am grateful. The book opens with an outing. Arthur Friedland is taking his three sons to see a hypnotist. When he is called on stage his cool fatherly self-possession and skepticism seem to prevail. He returns to his seat unaffected. They leave the show. Arthur drops his sons off at home and drives away. Later we find out that he took his passport and emptied the family bank account. The boys will not see him again until they are adults. This abandonment is the tragedy at the center of the novel. The next time we meet the brothers they are grown and each is in crisis. Martin the son of Arthur's first marriage is overweight and socially awkward. He is an ordained priest but he does not believe in God. Identical twins Eric and Ivan were inseparable as boys but now their secrets keep them apart. Eric is a businessman involved in some financial misdeeds. Ivan is an art dealer and a forger. In fact all three brothers are fraudsters. And through them Kehlmann with dry wit and relentless pessimism examines lives lived without integrity. We watch the brothers struggle and we wonder do their problems all stem from Arthur's disappearance. And did something happen to Arthur on that stage with the hypnotist to make him run away? As he switches from point of view to the next Kehlmann orates the fate of the Friedland family during the summer of 2008. It is just before the financial crisis and lives built on deception are threatened with exposure. This is a book for the reader who does not mind working hard. In one exceptional chapter there is an anecdotal genealogy in reverse that tracks the lives of Arthur's ancestors. Kehlmann's prose is sophisticated and dense. His musings on religion art and life are intellectually rigorous and his plotting links all of the separate narratives in ways that will surprise and shock the reader. Even though I found all of the characters to be deeply flawed and unpleasant people the challenge made this a hugely rewarding read.  The book is F by Daniel Kehlmann. Ellah Allfrey had our review. 