 The eyes of Hollywood are focused north of the border right now on the Toronto International Film Festival. More than 300 movies from 60 countries are on offer. Many of those titles are headed to theaters and possible Oscar bids later this year. Our film critic Bob Mondello is in Toronto trying to see as many of them as he can. And Bob apparently I am hearing this is your first festival in almost 20 years. Please tell me how a film critic has managed to avoid film festivals.   Well it is kind of nice to avoid them actually. You know a really rough week for me sometimes is to see four or five pictures in a week. Here I am seeing four or five pictures a day which can be a little crazy. They run together in your head. But I am discovering that there is another side to that. You also see connections between films. For instance I have got this sort of mini festival running in my head with all these pictures about revolution. And I have got another festival running in my head about aging and a third one about dance and theater because there are a whole lot of pictures that use theater in them this time. And I just think that is all very interesting.  All right let us dig in a little more then. How many movies have you seen and what have you liked the best?  Well I have seen 22. I have been here - this is my sixth day. And I have seen 22. Among my favorites are the very first one I saw which was called Rust and Bone. It is a French film and it has Marion Cotillard losing her legs below the knee about 40 minutes in and has some of the most spectacular special effects you have ever seen. I kind of flipped over Anna Karenina that is one that everybody's talking about here. Which is Keira Knightly as Tolstoy's heroine and Jude Law as her husband who does not quite understand her. And it is gorgeous and choreographed the whole thing looks like it is danced almost. It is really beautiful. I also went crazy over Stories We Tell which is a documentary by Sarah Polley about her family that has so many surprises I am puzzled about how I am going to review it because you kind of do not want to give away any of the surprises. And then there is a picture that I think is going to be enormously successful although it does not sound like it. It is called Silver Linings Playbook. It is a story about a bipolar guy played by Bradley Cooper who hooks up with a very neurotic young woman played by Jennifer Laurence. And it is very very funny.    What meds are you on?   I used to be on Lithium and Seroquel.   I was on Xanax.   Did you ever take Klonopin?   Klonopin.   Like is it what?   I am tired I want to go. Are you going to walk me home or what?   You have poor social skills. You have a problem.   I have a problem?   Mm-hmm.   You say more inappropriate things than appropriate things.  So what is been the big talk of the festival?  Well. There are lots of things that are the talk of the festival almost always. But one of the pictures - and I have not seen this one yet - that everybody is talking about partly because Canada closed its Embassy in Tehran and they did it the same day that this picture premiered here. It is called Argo and it is Ben Affleck's pic about a scheme to involve Hollywood in getting people out of Tehran during the Iran hostage crisis.    I got an idea. We are a Canadian film crew for a science fiction movie. I fly into Tehran. We all fly out together as a film crew. I need you to help me make a fake movie.   So you want to come to Hollywood and act like a big shot without actually doing anything?   Yeah.   You will fit right in.  It sounds comic but it is also supposed to be very serious and quite a picture. Everybody's been talking about it.  And Bob lots of people end up talking about the disappointments out of these festivals and I am curious which films right now are getting that reputation.  Well not for everybody but I think there were a lot of people who liked for instance Cloud Atlas. I was less excited about it. That is the new one by the Wachowskis that spans six centuries and it is a very complicated science-fiction story about the interconnectedness of people. And I was not ecstatic about that one. But with 300 pictures you are bound to think that some of them are not everything you would hoped. But there is a pretty high level of filmmaking being shown here.  And one last thing Bob since it is your first festival in decades any fun or cool kind of cultural moments?   Well yes actually. At the beginning of all the public screenings - this does not happen so much with the critics' screenings but when you are at a public screening as soon as they put up the screen that says to be careful not to record anything the anti-piracy note everybody starts making pirate noises and going argh argh. It is a little strange.   I was not expecting that.  NPR's Bob Mondello at the Toronto International Film Festival. Bob thank you.  Oh it is always a pleasure. 