 1963 was a turning point for the U.S. And as much as it was complicated for the country it was all the more intense for one particular 13-year-old girl. Her name is Sharon Robinson. She is the only daughter of the legendary baseball player Jackie Robinson. Here's a bit of what 1963 sounded like to her.   And I say segregation now segregation tomorrow and segregation forever.    You really got a hold on me. You really got a hold on me. I said you really got a hold on me.   No we are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.    Whoa everybody sing yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.  1963 was a swirl of teenagedom divisive politics and sometimes complicated family dynamics. Sharon Robinson writes about all that in her new memoir Child Of The Dream. She joins us now in our studio. Welcome.  Oh thank you Ailsa. That was an incredible introduction. It brought me right back to 1963 the music and the words .  Well I want people to be able to picture your life in 1963. I mean you were one of only two black girls in your entire school right?  By 1963.  Right. And in reading the book it was clear that the kind of racism you had to contend with was much more subtle than the racism that your dad had to contend with as a baseball player.  Yes.  Why was it hard for you to tell your father about what kids were saying to you? I mean 'ecause you did not tell him about it till way later.  Because it seemed so minor in comparison to what the kids in the South were going through.  Yeah.  And we saw that on the television. So therefore like why bring up you know name calling. We did not talk about bullying back then or think of it as even bullying. So I did not realize what impact it was even having on me at the time. And so I am really looking back as I got older and realized oh yeah that is why I was so shy in school.  Yeah. There is this really sweet moment when you were listening to records with your best friend Candy  who is also African American and you are trying to connect with your idea of what it means to be black through music. You are listening to these Motown records. And when I was reading that part it made me feel like wow this girl feels disconnected from what it means to be black. Jackie Robinson's daughter feels disconnected.  I did. I was very happy as a little - as a young child you know in my white world. You know I had my horse. I had my best friend Christy  who lived down the street. But I realized when we were turning 12 that something was very wrong here. And I had to pull away from this white world in order to be a part of the black world. And I really wanted that.  Well - because of your dad's fame you had a front-row seat to the civil rights movement in a way the vast majority of 13-year-olds in the Northeast in 1963 did not. Your family hosted jazz concerts at your house to raise money. Martin Luther King Jr. came for a visit. In a way it felt like the civil rights movement was delivered to your doorstep but you were still shielded from the most terrifying aspects of it. Did that make it harder for you to figure out how you fit in to the struggle?  These kids were my age and I found it frightening. I found it exciting. I wanted to be a part of that and not you know sort of isolated in Connecticut where we were doing our own thing. But you know no one talked about it or paid much attention to what we were doing.  Yeah.  And I sort of envied these kids that they had each other and they were part of something bigger than themselves because we knew that that is what we were - we should be working towards.  Were you frustrated with your father when he would not let you go down to Birmingham and march?  You know I was not frustrated so much as like well when is it - when do we get connected you know? When I am watching these children I felt you know sick in my stomach you know that - I was frightened for them and also very proud of them. But I did not know how it was going to turn out. You know all I saw was them going to jail. And then we go back the next night and watch it on television again. And I am like what is going on? What is going to happen to these kids you know? And so I was - I continued to be worried about them until my father came back from Birmingham finally and could give me a more full report. Well did you meet any of the kids? You know what is happening? You know are they going to be punished? Are they out of jail? Are they safe? And that is when he gave us an action.  Right.  He came back and said we are going to start doing fundraisers at our home. And you kids are going to be as much a part of that fundraising as you know your mom and I are going to be. And everyone will have a role and the money we raise will go back to Birmingham or wherever the money is needed in the civil rights movement. And that first jazz concert I got it. We - I mean we worked hard and it was an incredible experience. But we also produced money.  Yeah. There you are getting the hot dogs ready - the hot dog buns the sodas the plates. And just give me an idea of what it was like to be in it?  When we are getting up in the morning to clean our rooms and get it ready for the artists we are also wonder well maybe Dr. King will see my room you know? So...   You know it is a very...  You cleaned it up extra good.  Extra good you know - it is - and then we did not also know what it was going to be like you know whether he was going to be a distant figure even though he is in the house you know whether we would be introduced him. But then you know we - he would not have anything to say to us. And then to Dr. King acknowledges us and looks to us and says - you know calls us foot soldiers. And I do not think I really knew what foot soldiers were at that point.  But it sounded really important.  But it sounded like you know we are marching you know? We are part of this march.   So you have written several kids books now. Why write this particular book at this point in time? Why choose only this moment in 1963?  I thought it would be helpful for kids to understand that children had a voice in the civil rights movement and that helped change the tide helped us get the passage of the Civil Rights Act.  Right.  And turning 13 is - to me was you know such a big deal.  Right.  You know it was really a big deal so I wanted to...  I think it was the year you had your first kiss but...  Right - first kiss.  ...Also the year the civil rights movement...  Yes.  ...Had launched at least in your consciousness.  Exactly so it was just wonderful to be able to pair these things. I felt this - you know this is important for kids to know that I did not - you know now I come to your classrooms and you see me as a confident and accomplished woman. But I did not - that did not just happen. You know I had my own trajectory and I wanted to share that with kids.  Sharon Robinson's new book is called  A Memoir Of 1963. Thank you so much for coming in today.  Oh thank you.    Everywhere I go I am going to let it shine. Everywhere I go I am going to let it shine. 