 Louisa Hall was a nervous speaker when she was little. At school kids teased her and said she talked like a robot.  I think I was just so nervous that I kind of could not put any real animation into my voice. But ever since then I have kind of looked at robots or looked at machines and wonder whether they were just having trouble acting human.  Machines have no trouble acting human in Hall's new novel Speak. It is set in the near future where an artificial intelligence with a vast memory is used to animate a line of dolls. Speak is told through five different characters who have all contributed some unwittingly to the memory and personality of the intelligent program.  It starts with a character in the 17th century Mary whose diary is later used as the transcript for the artificially intelligent doll. And then Alan Turing in the early 20th century - and then there is a character based on Joseph Weizenbaum who created the first conversational computer program. There is an inventor in the near future who has come up with an algorithm that kind of pushes the doll arguably into the realm of the living. And then a girl who has one of these dolls and loves her and talks to her and educates her.  But there are side effects on the girls who grow up with these uncanny dolls.  From the time that they are babies they are raising dolls. They are raising these children who they educate and they nurture and they take care of and they watch develop. And I just imagined what a different kind of childhood that would create if you are so responsible for a life from the time that you were that young. So these children are kind of mature beyond their years. And when the dolls are taken away from them this kind of scary sickness in which all the girls starts stuttering and freezing and they eventually cannot move as a result of this sort of incredibly central formative crucial character in their lives being taken away from them.  And they are quarantined and the quarantine even extends to communication because it is not quite clear that there is something that might be psychologically contagious somehow.  Yeah. There is a story in the New York Times magazine a couple of years ago about an epidemic in New York State where girls were stuttering and freezing and having all kinds of twitches. And people thought at first that it was a pollutant in the atmosphere and eventually decided that it was kind of a psychological contamination that was happening - that these girls were living under conditions of certain kinds of stress which I found really frightening and kind of inspiring as a way of thinking about the scary and troubling aspects of growing up.  And these characters they are all involved with artificial intelligence but there are conflicted feelings about. Well there is the character who is inspired by history Karl Dettman in this book who starts out as an artificial intelligence pioneer but ends up turning against it. There are worries that it can be militarized which make sense but there is also something that they feel is immoral about intelligent machines.  Yeah. So Joseph Weizenbaum whom Karl Dettman is based on he was concerned about the dishonesty involved in a machine saying that it understands you or saying that it feels why you are feeling pain because he felt that fundamentally a machine cannot understand you. A machine cannot empathize with you. A machine cannot feel pain. When he invented his conversational program which was based on a therapist there are stories of women in his lab falling in love with this machine and staying all night to talk to the computer and answer its questions and you know tell it their deepest darkest secrets. And he found that really troubling - the idea that you would rely on a relationship with a computer rather than forging real honest relationships with the human beings in your life.  And the way that it also relates to memory because there is a part of this which is very attractive. The computer intelligence is created from this input of all of these different human voices going back to that woman from the 17th century.  Yeah.  And there is a kind of immortality in that that is attractive...  Yeah.  ...For people who can get their data into the program.  So one of the characters lost her sister in the Holocaust and is incredibly driven to bring this program to life because she feels as if she could read her sister's diary to this program and get her sister another chance at being alive. So there is something incredibly attractive about it. You know there are characters in the book who feel as if they have to stand up for a robot's right to exist. And I find that argument really compelling as well because any time in history we have said that being is not fully alive or that being is unnatural we have been terribly terribly wrong.  So when we get the thinking machines the real thinking dolls do you think they will be feeling? I mean are you worried we will actually have as in this book warehouses full of old robot dolls who are broken and suffering as their batteries run out?  Yeah I think I take Alan Turing's line on this which I find incredibly humane. One of the big objections to the idea of artificial intelligence when he was first proposing it was that if a machine cannot compose a sonnet based on feelings actually felt then we cannot say it is living. And his response to that was how do you know if feelings are actually felt? How do you know if somebody else hurts the same way when you make fun of them? How do you know that another person of another religion say feels the same kind of sadness that you do? You know the answer to that question for him was that you have to assume that everyone and everything has the same feelings that you do because the opposite the other decision is a terrible mistake. So I think my line in the end is that if something looks like life if something might be life the best thing to do is assume that it is.  Louisa Hall is the author of the new novel Speak. Louisa it is been fun speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you so much for having me. It is my pleasure. 