 When you think about the housing crisis of 2008 that led to the Great Recession you think about Wall Street bankers and bailouts and foreclosed homes. A new film out this week reminds us that behind every one of those homes were people. The film is called 99 Homes and it stars Michael Shannon as a real estate broker who evicts people from houses that have been foreclosed on and then he buys up the homes for a profit. In this scene Shannon's character Rick Carver talks about how he grew up the son of a failed construction worker.    Now do you think I am going to let that happen to me? You think America in 2010 gives a flying rat's  about Carver or Nash? America does not bail out the losers. America was built by bailing out winners by rigging a nation of the winners for the winners by the winners.  The film follows Carver and one of the people he is evicted a young single dad named Dennis Nash. And it was written and directed by Ramin Bahrani who joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  I wanted to ask you first what made you want to make a film about the housing crisis? I mean did you know anyone who had been affected by it?  No but I came to know quite a few number of people. You know the whole world was turned upside down so I wanted to know. And I started doing a lot of research. There were four states that were the epicenters of the housing crash. One was Florida. And I started to go down there and spend a lot of time with real estate brokers. That is where I came to understand every single real estate broker I met carried a gun because they were scared who was going to be on the other side of the door.  When they went to go evict someone.  Yes because they did not sign up to do evictions they signed up to put people in homes to speculate on property not to conduct evictions. So I spent a lot of time with real estate brokers foreclosure attorneys spending time in the rocket dockets - the foreclosure courts where they decide your case in 60 seconds flat - going on evictions witnessing the evictions. I spent time with families that really seemed like your neighbor brother your sister and now they were living in motels next to migrant workers gang bangers prostitutes. So all these things started to fuel the script.  We talk about these evictions and these moments when these real estate brokers are - turn into people who are kicking people out of their homes. I want to listen to a clip. It is from early in the film. Michael Shannon's character he is the real estate broker he is come to evict Andrew Garfield's character this guy named Dennis Nash and his mother played by Laura Dern. Let us just listen to a little bit of it.    I am very sorry to tell you that this home has been foreclosed on and officially transferred to the bank and I am going to need you to please vacate the premises.   I understand what you are saying Mr. Carver and I was in court yesterday...   Yeah.   ...And the judge informed me that I got 30 days to file for an appeal and that is what I intend to do.   Well what I received is a court order signed by a judge. It says you are to vacate these premises today.   We were scared of this.   This home is owned by the bank.  And this is just the beginning right? I mean this scene escalates from here. It starts you know they are clearly in denial. They are like no no no no no - we have got 30 days we have got some phone calls to make to like the ultimate realization that not only are they getting evicted from their home but it is happening right now. Michael Shannon's like you need to get out of this house you are trespassing. They are like standing on the curb with everything they own. And eventually Andrew Garfield's character makes this kind of deal with the devil. Can you tell us about that?  You know in 2010 there were no jobs to be had and Andrew's a construction worker. And after he is evicted by Michael we get into a deal with the devil where he has to work for Michael the man who evicted him in order to get his house back. And to do that he is going to have to start evicting other people and a lot of other corruption in the housing crisis - scams endless scams against Fannie Freddie - the banks - and other homeowners. And the lines he has to cross are going to get worse and worse and worse. It is a very slippery slope. Initially for a good cause - get his home back for his family but at what cost?  And eventually there is these scenes these really wrenching scenes of him - the evicted - going to be the evictor where he goes to people's houses and knocks on doors. And we see a Latino family where the son is translating what is happening. We see an elderly gentleman getting evicted from his home. He has no idea what is really going on. He is got nobody to call.  Reverse mortgage.  Yeah he was tricked into some reverse mortgage deal. I mean I see you shaking your head. You look - I mean this is - these are really moving moments. Did you see these things happen?  The real elderly man actually had dementia. It is actually worse than what I put in the film but you would never believe me if I put it in the film. Reality is always too much for audience to comprehend. Often Andrew had no idea if it was an actor or a real person and he often had no idea what the person was going to say. So that elderly man scene - I told Andrew this is a real man with dementia. I do not know what he is going to say but you know your routine you know. Good luck.  Really? So there was no script for that.  Andrew...  For the other - he knew what he was going to say.  Andrew knew his thing because he knew the procedures. And the elderly man actually was an actor so he and I had talked about reverse mortgage his wife this and that. But then the rest is whatever happens.  The film is set in 2010. The crash has happened and now these are the repercussions of the crash. You know it is five years later. It is 2015. By all accounts the economy's doing better interest rates are low people are spending money again. Do you think that there is an urgency among the general audience? Do you think there is you know people are going to say oh do you - you know a film about the housing crisis? Is not that over?  Yes I think it will because it is not just the housing crisis. The film is an emotional story about people. The film is as we said a deal with the devil film. It is a thriller about that and how far would you go to protect your family. The title 99 Homes comes from this concept. Joseph Stiglitz coined the 99 percent. And it does not matter what side of the economic spectrum you are on people are angry. They are angry about banks they are angry about the government they are angry about why is it that no matter how hard they work they are not getting anywhere? They are angry about why is it that they have part-time jobs that do not have benefits? They are angry about so many things. And that is a global anger. And I do not think this is going away. This is just going to be escalating over time.  That is Ramin Bahrani. He directed the new movie 99 Homes. Thank you so much.  Thanks for having me. 