 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. The country has a new poet laureate named by the Library of Congress. He is W.S. Merwin. Two-time Pulitzer Prize winner he is 82 years old and lives on a former pineapple plantation in Hawaii. Here he is at the Library of Congress in 1999 reading his poem In Time. Mr. W.S.   The night the world was going to end when we heard those explosions not far away and the loudspeakers telling us about the vast fires on the backwater consuming undisclosed remnants and warning us over and over to stay indoors and make no signals you stood at the open window the light of one candle back in the room. We put on high boots to be ready for wherever we might have to go. And we got out the oysters and sat at the small table feeding them to each other first with the fork then from our mouths to each other until there were none. And we stood up and started to dance without music. Slowly we danced around and around in circles. And after a while we hummed when the world was about to end all those years all those nights ago.  W.S. Merwin joins us from his home on Maui. Congratulations and welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you very much.  I am curious about your first memories of writing. What do you remember? Mr.  Of writing?  Uh-huh. Mr.  Well my mother read poems to us which I think is wonderfully important for parents to do. And I was captivated by them and as soon as I could make a pencil make letters and words on the page I tried to write little poems.  How old would you have been? Mr.  Well I was rather young. I was around four. I was not quite five yet.  I have read that you moved to Hawaii to study Zen Buddhism back in the '70s. And I wonder how that practice and also the ecology the wildness of where you live filters into your poetry? Mr.  I think one of the attractions to me for Buddhism which I began to be interested in very seriously in my late 20s was the fact that it is a different attitude - it is not increase and dominate. It is recognize that you are a part of the whole thing. And that has an exhilaration of its own. It is a joy to be part of everything that is living and to be able to give something back sometimes.  Do you think about your poems in that way as having a kind of social function? Mr.  Not when I write them. I do not think about anything except the poem when I am writing them. But I think about them at a distance afterwards as maybe they will speak to somebody else because - a poem is such a one-on-one thing. You know you may have an audience but still everybody in the audience hears it individually and hears it in a particular and a distinct and individual way. And so it is always one-on-one. And it still is even when it is with someone in the past if you read Shakespeare or anything else in the past there is something very very present and very very personal about it. I guess I have always loved that and always been drawn to it.  Well what do you think about this new role as the poet laureate? You are in some sense an ambassador of poetry for the country. Mr.  Well I do not know what to think of it.  Yeah. Mr.  I do not want it to change my life. But on the other hand I want to contribute whatever I can. And we have been thinking of various ways of doing that. I like having gatherings of children and talking with children and with students of all ages. And that is one way. And we have been talking about translation and talking with translators and poets from other languages. And that is another kind of extension.  Well Mr. Merwin I was wondering whether we might end by having you read a poem I am thinking of a very small poem three lines called Separation. Mr.  Separation?  Yeah. Mr.  That is a very old poem you know that goes back to the late '50s I think. A long time ago. Yes Separation.  Your absence has gone through me  Like thread through a needle. Everything I do is stitched with its color.  That is so lovely. W.S. Merwin thanks for talking with us. And again congratulations on being the new poet laureate of the United States. Mr.  Thank you bye.  That is W.S. Merwin speaking with us from his home on Maui. 