   The four of us are going to take a little trip.   Paris.   No much better. We are driving to Wally World.    What?  More than 30 years after the original Vacation the Griswold's are back on the road. John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein are the co-writers and co-directors of the new movie. I asked them what is the best way to describe this film? Is it a reboot a remake a sequel?  Sequel very much a sequel.  Yeah we have been very clear from the get-go even with the studio that we had no interest in trying to remake the movie that National Lampoon made in the '80s 'ecause it is just so good that we would not want to tamper with it. It just works. And so we felt it was organic to bring it to the next generation with Rusty Griswold grown up taking his kids on a road trip to Wally World.  So you have Ed Helms being Ed Helms instead of Ed Helms trying to be Chevy Chase.  Right.  Exactly.  Exactly.    Look what your dad rented. That is a 2015 Tartan Prancer.   Did you say Tartan honey?   Yeah Tartan's the Honda of Albania. But this baby is pretty sweet.  Now I am curious about when you guys first experienced the film because Jonathan you are a little bit closer in age to me. When did you first catch the film...  I think I...  ...The original. What was your experience?  I am pretty sure I saw it in the theaters. I was in my early teens. And it was probably inappropriate that I should see it in the theater because it was a little raunchy. It opened my eyes to kind of a subversive form of comedy that had not really been something in my brain 'til that time.  And John you would not have seen this in the theater right?  I...  How old were you?  I did not no. I was negative 3 years old. But I remember the first time I saw it it was revolutionary for me. It kind of opened my eyes to what comedy could be and that it could be simultaneously smart and stupid. And that was kind of my favorite type of comedy - that smart-stupid where you are laughing in spite of yourself at goofy things. But then when you think about it there is something - an additional layer to it that gives it an extra intelligence.  You know - this is not original to say - there are a lot of reboots going on lately a lot of continuing franchises. We have the new Jurassic World Terminator Mad Max. There is going to be a new Batman. We have a new James Bond on the way. I thought Hollywood wants young audiences. Why do you think we are going to these - tapping these old...  Well fear I think mostly.   Probably.  They are afraid. You know there is nothing scarier to an executive than an untested new thing.  Yeah and I think they figure the same idea that hooked our last generation when they were young will hook the new young generation as well as the old generation. And we were both apprehensive about it too going into it. Like we shared that same fear that people will be very cynical about the fact that we are bringing this franchise back to life. And so we knew we had to approach it from a new standpoint and really put it in our voice.  It sounds like almost an impossible task because you are given this existing franchise people love it. You want to make it appeal to a new generation but not turn off the people who love the original.  Right yeah. Well we make it - there is a nod to that early in the movie where Rusty's pitching this idea of a road trip to Wally World to his family. And his wife Christina Applegate says...    So you just want to redo your vacation from 30 years ago? Do not you think that is going to be kind of a letdown?   No no no no. We are not redoing anything. This'ill be completely different. For one thing the original Vacation had a boy and a girl. This one has two boys and I am sure that there will be lots of other differences.   I have never even heard of the original Vacation.   Does not matter. The new Vacation will stand on its own.  So we were basically getting ahead of the audience's concern going into it and saying like we know what you are thinking but give it a chance.  And that moment in the theater that I saw it everyone really loved being in on the joke.  Absolutely.  So we mentioned there is continuity here. I do not want to give away too much but we do have - Clark Griswold is here. Chevy Chase...  Yes.  ...Makes an appearance.  Absolutely.  That was really important to us actually.  Was it hard to convince him or...  No.  How did he feel about it?  It was not which was fortunate. And I do not think it was just because we paid him either . He really seemed to be excited to get back into that role of Clark Griswold. I think he has so many fond memories of playing him and also playing with Beverly D'Angelo. They have such an amazing rapport together. They really do feel like a married couple.  Yeah.  Yeah.  They bicker. They make fun of each other. That was one of those pinch-yourself moments where you are directing Chevy Chase in your Vacation movie. It is surreal.  There is - we talked about how times have changed. And in a way I was kind of surprised to see this had an R rating. Well you see some of the stuff that is on regular TV or Comedy Central these days. It does not feel as shocking nowadays.  Well that is good.  That is good to know.  It is also a rare opportunity. You do not see a lot of R-rated family comedies. It is a weird kind of a hybrid because it allows - what it allows us to do is to point out that just because you are a parent does not mean you stop being a person with a history and a sex drive and all the things that humans have that you know in movies we tend to whitewash them. If you are a mom and a dad that is all you should be.  You know we wanted to explore the realism of the family dynamic and the R-rating kind of allows us to do it in the most broad way. It gives us the opportunity to put them in way crazier situations than normal.  You guys have been working together as a writing team for a while. More recently you have done Horrible Bosses Cloudy With A Chance Of Meatballs. This is the first film you two have directed right?  Yeah.  So what is it like co-directing compared to co-writing?  It was very much the same dynamic as when we were writing together. We are very collaborative. We kind of share the same mind and we do everything at the same time. We do not assign one role to each person which gives us the freedom to be able to bounce ideas off of each other see what sticks see what makes us laugh. And in a way it is an advantage to writing comedy solo.  Do the actors ever try to play you off each other?  All the time.  Oh absolutely.  Ed Helms you know he is malevolent.  They are very manipulative people .  No you know I mean there were on rare occasions I guess we would disagree on sort of a performancey thing and then we would just try and get it both ways and see which worked best in editing.  You guys are going to be working on the Spiderman reboot.  Yes.  Yes.  We can finally acknowledge.  We have been saying no comment...  Awesome.  ...For the last week but it is...  This is the first time we can say that we are writing it.  Yeah we are thrilled.  And there is - I mean in comics in general but in Spiderman I think in particular - there is lots of space for humor there.  Oh yeah.  So I am expecting...  Well I mean he is a sharp kid and witty and kind of deals with the fact that he is an outcast and a geek through humor. It is the sort of safety net for geeks like us . So I think we can totally relate to where he is coming from as well as the superpowers which we also have.  Of course yeah. John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein are the co-writers and co-directors of the new movie Vacation which is out on Wednesday. Gentlemen thanks for coming in.  Thank you for having us. It was a pleasure.  Thank you so much.    Holiday road holiday road... 