 Now a talk with Thomas Friedman the New York Times columnist about his new book. But first this historical analogy made on this program earlier this year by Paul Otellini the CEO of Intel. Our country's situation today Otellini said is like Britain's situation at the turn of the last century.  Well we are sitting here today looking over the next ocean the Pacific this time and the infrastructure being built out in Asia not just China but across Asia. And we should be appropriately saying oh my God.  Oh my God could have well been the title of the new book that Thomas Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum have written. It is called  How America Fell Behind In The World It Invented And How We Can Come Back. Tom Friedman welcome to the program.  Great to be with you Robert.  What you are describing here is a country that used to be industrially advanced exceptionally inventive unusually educated politically pragmatic relatively egalitarian. Today we look around and say that used to be us other countries are more like that now.  We thought the Cold War was a victory and we could put our feet up. In fact we had just unleashed a world of two billion people just like us - people with our same aspirations same capabilities. And just when we needed to be lacing up our shoes and running faster we put our feet up. We compounded it then I would add with a decade unfortunately tragically after 911 where we ended up chasing the losers from globalization for 10 years al-Qaida rather than the winners.  We were preoccupied you would say with the wrong rivals...  Yes.  Some people might argue this point or that about our decline. But let us stipulate that your description of the national funk or the decline that we are in is accurate. Why? What was going through our minds over the past 20 years that vetoed an older impulse to say hey we have to compete economically we have to save and invest we have to pay for what we do?  Well as I say there was a third factor and that was a generational change. We shifted from a Greatest Generation that really operated on what we call in the book sustainable values - saving and investing - and we handed power over to the Baby Boomer generation who really lived by situational values - borrow and consume. And I think that shift has been a key factor.  But to some extent we have seen the enemy and he is - he is our generation.  You know the world after the Cold War did not just get connected. It got hyper-connected. And when it did we were exposed to competition from so many more people so many more machines and so many more robots. You know Robert I wrote a book in - started in 2004 called The World Is Flat. And as I started working on this book I went back and I reread The World Is Flat and actually looked in the index - first edition under F. and I realized Facebook was not in it.   When I wrote The World Is Flat I said the world is flat. Yeah we are all connected. Facebook did not exist Twitter was a sound the cloud was in the sky 4G was a parking place LinkedIn was a prison applications were what you sent to college and Skype for most people was a typo. All of that changed in just the last six years.  But here's a problem with the very flatness that you have written about. Your book the problem it is addressing is a national concern. You are writing about this country. And I wonder when you talk to CEOs of large companies whose markets shareholders increasingly their labor force are global - they are not confined to this country whether they are on board with the national project. Or does the very flat world that you have written about mean that the production of wealth by American-based companies just does not benefit as many Americans as it used to and it may never.  What we need are 50000 people a thousand of whom are starting jobs for 10 people 50 of whom for 100 100 of whom for 30 - that everybody needs to be starting something.  But many of the remedies that you write about here are good in theory. But say having more and better teachers or a national academy of teachers is a proposal you are making in a season when in fact we are laying off teachers. A balanced approach to solving our fiscal problems is something you write about and we know what the fact the stalemate is in Washington. How do you get from where we are right now to solutions that might indeed address our national problems? What do you do?  And what we argue is that is because the incentives of politics today - money gerrymandered districts - are so misaligned with the needs of the country that they become like a closed circle operating on their own. And something has got to break through that. And what we argue for is an independent third party that actually can show that there is a huge middle in this country that demands a different politics.  You go out of your way to end on an upbeat note in the book and say that you - do you really feel optimistic? I mean do you really look around at Washington and the economy and say yeah we are going to come out of this okay?  Drugs Robert.   A lot of drugs.   You are self-medicating.  No it is - look I am truly an optimist. And the reason - we do not just end on an optimistic note. We end on a long discussion about what makes us optimists. It is because this country is full of people today who just did not get the word. They just did not get the word that we are down and out. They just did not get the word that Washington is paralyzed. And they go out and start stuff and invent stuff and fix stuff and make stuff no matter what is going on in Washington.  Tom Friedman thanks for talking with us.  Pleasure.  Thomas Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum are the authors of  How America Fell Behind In The World It Invented And How We Can Come Back. 