 Taylor Sheridan has been making a name for himself as a screenwriter who tells stories set in the American West. His drug cartel movie Sicario took place on the U.S.-Mexico border. His Oscar-nominated police procedural Hell Or High Water roamed all over Texas. And now he has both written and directed a film set on a Native American reservation. It is called Wind River. Here's our critic Bob Mondello.  Wyoming - an icy moonlit landscape - no one anywhere for miles except a teenage girl running in the snow terrified and barefoot.   .  She falls gets up runs some more. The next scene is in bright daylight a wolf stalking a flock of sheep. A shot rings out as it is felled by a marksman who in his snow camouflage gear blends into the landscape. Played by Jeremy Renner this guy Cory also blends in socially though there are not many folks to blend in with. He has a Native American wife and son.    I got to go to the res  tomorrow figure I take Casey by to see your folks.   Something killed a yearling in the pasture behind their house.   Yeah that is why I am going. Case ...   Dad?   Come on bud.   OK. I am coming.   Time to go. Whoa whoa whoa whoa what is your BB gun pointed at right now?  Pointing the gun away a sheepish Casey drops his bag.    Come down here.   Sorry Dad.   What is the rule bud - gun's always loaded even if it as not right?   Yes.   OK.  Mentoring is something Corey does almost without thinking passing on skills insights knowledge a trait that will soon come in handy. While looking for the mountain lion that killed that yearling he comes across the body of the teenage girl we saw earlier frozen in the snow.    I need emergency assistance.   What is your location?   The Wind River Indian Reservation.  An FBI agent is flown in from Vegas dressed for cold in Vegas notes the local sheriff.    I am Jane Banner FBI.   Welcome to Wyoming - all by yourself?   It is just me.   That is Cory Lambert. He is the one who found the body.  Once they get to the site Jane played by Elizabeth Olsen realizes she is out of her depth. She sees evidence of foul play. But Cory a tracker looks at the girl's footprints in the snow and sees a whole story unfolding - more mentoring.    She ran until she dropped here. See the pool of blood where her face hit the snow? Now it gets to 20 below here at night so if you fill your lungs up with that cold air and you are running you could freeze them up. Your lungs fill up with blood. You start coughing it up. So wherever she came from...  He looks around. There is nothing - nothing at all.    She ran all the way here. Her lungs burst here. She curled up in that tree line and drowned in her own blood.   Well how far do you think someone could run barefoot out here?   Oh I do not know. How do you case someone's will to live especially in these conditions? But I knew that girl. She is a fighter. So no matter how far you think she ran I can guarantee you she ran further.  If that sounds like dialogue from a classic Western poetic in its spareness that is by design. Writer and director Taylor Sheridan makes contemporary films that for all practical purposes are westerns. And he deals with a host of current social issues in the process. His characters are pushed to extremes by circumstances - not just that girl who ran 6 miles barefoot in the snow but her parents played by indigenous actors Gil Birmingham and Tantoo Cardinal - and even the bad guys. Sheridan paints a searing picture of lives on society's margins people who live with the silence and snow and not much else. He is made Jeremy Renner and Elizabeth Olsen icons while keeping them real which allows the sense of loss in Wind River to pile up deep as snow drifts. I am Bob Mondello. 