 We are going to movies now with our critic Bob Mondello. The season has passed for hot-weather Hollywood blockbusters and theaters are starting to see more intimate fare but just because these movies are quieter Bob says does not mean they lack intensity.  a relationship drama called Keep The Lights On.  Erik is a promising gay filmmaker whose promise is beginning to wear a little thin when we first encounter him talking on the phone on a gay hookup line.    You into that?  Where in Chelsea are you?  This commitment-free shortcut to physical intimacy says a lot about Erik's approach to life. He likes the start of things follow-through is not his strong suit. Still this particular hookup goes so well he dares to hope for something more.    I left my phone number on a piece of paper.   I have a girlfriend by the way so do not get your hopes up.   That is too bad.  They fall back into bed and into a relationship passionate enough to surprise them both. Paul's girlfriend falls by the wayside they move in together and stay together for nine years. There is a glitch in the relationship though. Paul does drugs a lot of drugs.    My little secret you cannot tell anyone.   I will not.   Because people in the publishing business like to gossip.   Paul I swear.  Filmmaker Ira Sachs reportedly modeled this story on his longtime relationship with literary agent Bill Clegg who is written his own book about struggling with addiction so - well do not get your hopes up at least about the couple on screen.  The film though  a nuanced portrait of emotional turmoil persuasively acted richly sensual one moment wrenching the next. And unlike so many films centering on gay characters not particularly concerned with things like coming out or HIV. The film is in fact evocative of a place and time - Manhattan at the turn of the millennium - when two gay  money passion a gay-friendly environment and friends so supportive they are almost hectoring in their love. Given the story's origins it is understandable that Keep the Lights On keeps its focus on Erik's growth more than on Paul's addiction. The young filmmaker-of-promise matures considerably on screen. And as for director Sachs I would say Keep the Lights On qualifies as promise fulfilled. I am Bob Mondello. 