 It is been just two months since Marvel superheroes reunited to save the universe in  Endgame. Already the world is threatened again. Thankfully a teenage superhero is on hand in  Far from Home. Our critic Bob Mondello says he is battling not just the usual villains but an unusually tricky storyline.  Right after the opening Marvel credit sequence there is a superhero in memoriam montage that seems to be one thing and turns out to be another. And that as it happens is a perfect setup for this movie. Barely back from Endgame Spidey is discovering that even folks he thought he knew are weirdly not what he knew - his Aunt May for instance and Iron Man's old pal...    Happy...   You look nice.   Thank you - you too.   Thank you - new dress?   Yes it is. How did you know ?   What just happened?  Small wonder Spidey cannot wait to get away on a school trip to European tourist spots that suggest the filmmakers really wanted to make a Spider-Bourne or a Spider-Bond movie. Peter does not want to take his spider suit.    Europe does not really need a friendly neighborhood Spider-Man.  But his Aunt May packs it for him so at least it is in his hotel room when Venice's canals start behaving strangely.    What is that?   I do not know.  A 50-foot water monster that Spidey's web shooting abilities do not affect much - happily a brand new superhero flies to the rescue - Jake Gyllenhaal as a guy the kids name Mysterio and who Nick Fury introduces as hailing...    From Earth just not ours.   There are multiple realities Peter. This is Earth dimension 616. I am from Earth 833.   I am sorry. You are saying there is a multiverse - because I thought that was just theoretical. I mean...  Peter geeks out and exposition ensues about how on Earth 833 they have seen this stuff already - hugely destructive critters formed from water fire air.    The science division had a technical name. We just called them elementals.   Versions of them exist across our mythologies.   Turns out the myths are real.   Like Thor. Thor was a myth and now I study him in my physics class.  I will let you discover the rest for yourself but know that director Jon Watts and his team are devoting pretty much the whole film to myths and their dangers. They reference fake news. They employ fake-outs and they encourage you constantly to not believe your eyes - easy enough when so much of what is on screen is digital though I suspect that is not what they have in mind. What they do a lot of is set up the next stories and deal with the wreckage from the last one. I confess I do not really spend much time thinking about Marvel movies when I am not actually watching them. So among the many things that had not particularly occurred to me were the ramifications of what happened in the Avengers flicks - Thanos wiping out half the universe for five years in what NPR's Glen Weldon has dubbed the Snapture.    He can do it with a snap of his fingers - just like that.  This film calls it the Blip and notes that those who disappeared came back just as they would left while the rest of the world had continued to age while they were away. I do not suppose it much matters that Thor is five years older now. But if Tom Holland's Peter Parker had not disappeared he would be 21 rather than 16. So it is helpful for the story that he got blipped and that his big crush MJ did too because otherwise she would have graduated college rather than still being as innocent as he is.    You look really pretty.   Therefore I have value.   No that is not what I meant at all. I was just...   I am messing with you. Thank you.   You are welcome.   You look pretty too.  They are a cute couple and whenever the film is not engaging in its ever-more elaborate fake-outs they are center-screen and central I suppose to recalibrating Marvel's superherodom. Things got pretty gargantuan during the more-than-20-film buildup to saving the entire universe in Endgame. The stakes this time turn out to be considerably lower and your friendly neighborhood Spider-Teen is arguably just the guy to bring things down to Earth and reestablish a human scale. I am Bob Mondello. 