 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The latest provocation from comedian Sacha Baron Cohen arrives in movie theaters Friday. The creator of Borat the controversial fake Kazakh who interacted with real unsuspecting onlookers has now streaked his hair blonde shaved his moustache and donned hot pants. In his new film he is Bruno a flamboyantly gay TV personality. Bob Mondello says Baron Cohen's appearance may have changed but he is still pushing the same boundaries.  Let it be said that Sacha Baron Cohen fully commits to a role. He shaved off all his body hair to play Bruno a gay fashionista who claims to be the biggest Austrian superstar since Hitler. And on screen he submits to process called . Hmm I cannot say that on the air? Can I say he runs at a martial arts instructor holding two  and wearing a ? How about that through a psychic he pretty graphically  and  the spirit of Milli from Milli Vanilli? Huh. I sense that this is not going to be an easy movie to do full justice to on the radio. But that is sort of the point. Sacha Baron Cohen is an envelope-pusher. In this instance playing a mincing gay stereotype so over-the-top and preposterous that it is the folks foolish enough to take him seriously who become the butt of the joke. Soldiers in an officer candidate camp for instance where candidate Bruno accessorizes his army fatigues with a silk scarf.   That is not part of the uniform. Can - you need to take that off. Mr.   This outfit is too much matchy matchy as it is. And so it is just time to break it up with some simple horizontal lines.  Do you have an attitude candidate? Do we? Mr.   No?  Everything he said? Mr.   No she is got an attitude.  We too .  He is got an attitude.  What sort of . Mr.   What .  Did you just call me she?  Cohen's humor is mostly about Bruno's obliviousness and the real reactions of real people to him. The movie's not just about homosexuality though an opening romp with a man Bruno calls his pigmy lover presumably designed to clear the theater of prudes is explicit enough that viewers will never be able to claim that they cannot imagine what two men do together. Bruno like Borat is an equal-opportunity provocateur happy to mock or humiliate or offend people on racial political and any other grounds available. At one point to solve the Arab-Israeli conflict he goes to what he calls the Middle-Earth and tries to mediate between a former Mossad chief and a former Palestinian government minister.  Mr.   Why are you so anti-Hamas? I mean is not pita bread the real enemy?  Both men looked briefly puzzled then the Mossad chief figures it out.   You are confusing Hamas with hummus I believe. It is a food okay. We eat it they eat it?  American celebs fare no better. Former presidential candidate Ron Paul and American Idol's Paula Abdul probably wish they had not agreed to an interview with Bruno. Way too late in the process both tried to insist on boundaries and Bruno pushes blithely past them just as he does when undergoing religious counseling to go straight or talking to overeager stage parents who are hoping he will cast their babies.  Mr.   Is your baby comfortable with bees wasps and hornets?  Georgie is comfortable with everything. He is fine. Mr.   Is she comfortable with dead or dying animals?  Yes. Mr.   Is she okay with extremely rapid acceleration?  Yes. Mr.   Okay. Does she always have to be in a car seat or can she just like freestyle?  Oh yeah. You can freestyle it and put her in her car seat whenever. Mr.   Is your baby fine with lit phosphorus?  Loves it. Mr.   Oh good.  Director Larry Charles has made Bruno a tighter better-looking film than Borat which is not necessarily a good thing on those occasions when you suspect him of scripting rather than just observing. It is probably getting hard for Sacha Baron Cohen to find patsies who will not recognize him and when moments seem like setups with actors they turn as tame as if he were Will Ferrell. That said when things feel real they can get scary-real as when an Arkansas wrestling crowd that is been whipped into a homophobic frenzy turns on Bruno realizing that it is about to witness wrestling of a sort it did not expect. Cohen has barbed wire between him and the crowd and he needs it. They are furious and the fact that their own behavior has been bigoted and appalling does not really make it hard to understand why they are furious. The brand of comedy they have been made the butt of is misanthropic exploitive and kind of mean. In Bruno it is also as often as not pretty  funny. I am Bob Mondello. 