 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. We have been through a summer of movie sequels now comes a fall of movie remakes including Straw Dogs The Three Musketeers and Tinker Taylor Soldier Spy. Our critic Bob Mondello was intrigued enough by this week's remake of a British gangster film called Brighton Rock that he decided to look at the old and the new side by side.  The 1947 Brighton Rock was black and white based on a novel by Graham Greene about a character named Pinkie Brown. Plenty colorful in other words a story set in a British resort town just before World War II.      you are in my...  Playing Pinkie a violent creepy 17-year-old gangster was a baby-faced Richard Attenborough the same guy who would later direct Gandhi and Cry Freedom but who here was playing a real psychopath chatting with his gangster buddies as he absentmindedly yanked out a doll's hair strand by strand.    Now you can die.  Pinkie killed someone and will spend most of the film trying to cover his tracks. When he learns a pretty waitress named Rose could incriminate him he sweet-talks her.    I like a girl who is friendly. A girl sensitive like me. What is your name?   Rose.   You and me ought to get acquainted. You got a boy?   Not yet I have not.  So that she cannot be forced to testify against him Pinkie will marry Rose though sex repulses him - as does she really. But with a woman's options being limited in the years before World War II audiences knew she would go along. The story turns darker and gets all tied up with sin and redemption as it progresses. Being Graham Greene characters both Pinkie and Rose are obsessed with Catholicism.    This cannot be a real marriage. Looks like .  At 92 minutes the first Brighton Rock is snappy well-acted unnerving pretty much a model gangster flick. So even all these years later you need a reason to remake it. Director Rowan Joffe's found several. He shot in color not black and white updated the story a few decades to the swinging '60s and got Helen Mirren and John Hurt to take supporting roles.    I came as soon as I could Ida.   Never thought I would live in fear of anything except the atom bomb of course. Certainly not a bunch of kids - one kid.  Brighton Pier does not look all that different though it is actually Eastbourne Pier this time but the people sure do. The town is overrun by rioting teenage mobs and rockers.    Leave it to me Pinkie.   No I love it.  It is an era of social and sexual upheaval providing new reasons for Pinkie to feel insecure and giving Rose more options. She could learn a trade make her own way not rely on Pinkie which makes her going along with him problematic. The film tries to solve that by playing her with more determination more spunk. At one point Pinkie played by Sam Riley drags her furiously to the edge of a cliff trying to frighten her.    Scared?  But she holds his gaze and melts him with her trust.    No when I am with you.  There is a lot of fancy filmmaking this time around substituting for fancy writing the last time. Where the first film had a lawyer spouting Shakespeare  crosses and crucifixes rather than dialogue about religion. You cannot accuse the new film of being untrue to the original book. It actually reinstates the novel's climax which Graham Greene had altered in his own screenplay probably because it would have been tough to film back then. But what audiences will remember from both pictures is not that scene but the one that follows an ending that Greene invented for the first movie to end it on an eerie note. It would not be fair to reveal it but if you are new to the story or have only read the novel it will likely strike you - as it struck movie audiences then -  a persuasive illustration of what a character in the novel calls the appalling strangeness of the mercy of God. I am Bob Mondello. 