 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. Anthony Breznican reports on Hollywood for Entertainment Weekly. And like many people in Hollywood he is got a story to tell. What is very un-Hollywood is that he is doing it in a novel. But he does have a Hollywood pitch.  It is kind of like Fight Club meets The Breakfast Club.  It is called Brutal Youth a story of life at a Catholic high school where students cope with bullying by laying low taking the punishment or becoming bullies themselves. You might say you can find bullying in one form or another in just about every high school. But things are a little different at St. Michael the Archangel.  They have institutionalized - it is sanctioned hazing. And this comes from my experience as a high school student coming in as a little many freshmen 14 years old. And you are told OK well there is this thing called initiation. And you are going to be you know picked onprotected by some senior. And you do not know who you get. You get some sadist and you are in really bad shape you know? And this was the early '90s and they saw it as sort of a harmless thing. It had been a tradition for as far back as anyone remembers. But at the time it was terrifying. There is a lot of ways that people in - who are powerless assert dominance over each other. It is a way of saying I am not the bottom of the totem pole. I am able to climb up because I am putting a foot on your neck. And the only rule in the school really is you cannot pick on anybody who can actually hurt you back.   Let us talk about the characters in this book. The three main characters they are kind of introduction to this school as they are freshmen - it is one of the upperclassman who is basically kind of lost his mind.  He snapped yeah. The book begins with what I hoped would be kind of an exciting perilous action sequence. You know I remember in high school studying Shakespeare and my English teachers said notice how often he starts with an argument or a fight. That is how you get the attention of the audience. So I wanted to start with something kind of intense. And also thematically I wanted to show we are going to follow these three freshmen through their first year in high school. They are good kids. What happens to make a kid like that turn hard turn sour turn bitter? And I wanted to show the worst-case scenario. And so we begin with a kid who is been pushed around and finally breaks. He snaps. And he does something that he cannot take back. And in that act of violence he climbs up to the roof to get away from something he is done. And he ends up pushing over these Saints these stone statues trying to hit the people below. And I thought that is pretty terrifying. So we can have our main characters kind of run out and try to be the heroes. And you see them trying to do the right thing. And as the story goes on you see how a kid goes from someone who will run out in the middle of danger to save somebody he does not know to possibly becoming the one who is trying to cause the pain.  Well there is - I mean the book is very dark.  Yeah.  But at the same time there is this is bullying. You know these two male characters Peter Davidek and Noah Stein they have a really powerful friendship.  Yeah yeah. You know the people who are with you when you are kind of in that embryonic stage of being a teenager figuring out who you are. I think those are the people who make a difference for you. And you never forget them. Those are like foxhole friendships you know. And the friend who takes the punch who takes the blame who absorbs the insult when they know you cannot take any more those are priceless friendships. And I wanted to sort of pay tribute to that in this story. And to do that I had to put the kids through some really bad stuff.  And in terms of the bad stuff Peter and Noah have different ideas about how you survive high school. Could you talk about their approaches?  Yeah. You know Peter Davidek he is you know a lot like me. I think I - when I was that age I just wanted to lay low. I wanted to do my thing and not make any waves. And Noah Stein is that side of this like you know you got to pick your battles. Let us pick every one. Let us pick every fight. He really means well but he is - there is no fight he will not take as long as it is for the right cause. He does not pick on anybody.  You have a character named Hannah who - she is one of the older students there. And she is been so tormented. She is changed her hair color multiple times to try to...  To try to change her appearance you know. She is a kind of a mysterious character for about half of the book. Hannah was one of the most picked upon students at this school for four years. And to protect herself she has been kind of like Madam Defarge in A Tale Of Two Cities. She sits quietly and gathers everyone's secrets. She overhears a lot of things. And so at the end of the year there is this big picnic. And they have a little talent show. That was considered the end of your initiation this kind of talent show. And her plan is to take her freshmen and force him to read in front of the audience her little collection of secrets. She is going to kind of throw a match over her shoulder as she leaves this school. And she is going to use one of the freshmen to sort of strike that match or to be the match. And any kid who does that is doomed for the next three years. You are not going to make it out of your freshmen hazing. You are going to be the kid who embarrassed everyone.  You know it is almost impossible to read this and be thinking about high school and bullying and not think about you today social media because the things that have this power in this book like the secrets that say Hannah has. I do not know if it is better or worse now that there is social media involved.  Yeah that is a good question. You know the diary the handwritten diary was my effort to kind of - this story's set in 1991. And I wanted that to be a little bit representative of what we face today with kids being bullied and called names on Facebook Twitter Tumblr. You know any kind of social media could be used as a blunt instrument in the wrong hands. And I think this is the analog version of that. The reason that is such a powerfully intimidating format is whatever name you are being called whatever rumor is being spread about you it is now published. It is now permanent. And I think the same kind of bullying and manipulation happens now with kids that happened back when you and I were teenagers. The difference is that adults now have a record of it. They can look and see oh my God this is what they are calling you? It is no longer some whispered thing in the hallway. It has a permanence. There is a trail. And I do not know if that makes it better or worse. It makes a little harder to escape because a friend of mine who is active with the anti-bullying group now you cannot go to your room and close the door and be safe. You fire up your computer and there is somebody on Facebook mocking you. Kids they are especially vulnerable. And that is why we see you know these tragic cases of kids who commit suicide. It is like why? You were - it is high school. You are almost out. Why would you give up like that? But we forget when we get older how painful that can be. You are like this newly-hatched chick. You do not - you do not have any guard up. You do not have any armor. And I think what I tried to explore with the book is how that armor forms. And how if you are not careful it can go so deep that it hardens you right to your core.  That is Anthony Breznican. And his new novel his first novel is called Brutal Youth. Anthony thank you.  Thank you very much. 