 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. For much of her TV and movie career Rashida Jones has played girlfriend characters who were funny loving and kind. When she got the chance to write her own film she crafted a complex character for herself who is not always so kind - and not so skilled at understanding love. The movie is called Celeste and Jesse Forever. But as you will hear in this clip Celeste and Jesse are not forever and they have a funny way of dealing with it - as their best friends not-so-gently point out.    What the  are you two doing?   What do you mean?   Yeah what do you mean?  What do I mean? You two are not together. It is not normal OK? You guys have been separated for six months. You are getting divorced all right? And you spend every day together hanging out as if like it is no big deal. Guess what? It is  weird.   Beth I do not think this is the...   No problem - what you think. Just stick up for yourself.   All right. You know what? Let us not play charades. It is  weird.   There is no charades...   No charades.   ...being played here.   No charading.   No. We are separated and we are friends. You guys should be happy. We used to fight all the time. We do not anymore.   Yeah. You should be thrilled. You do not have to choose sides. It is the perfect breakup.   Yeah. Everyone's cool.   Everyone is not cool.   Not cool.   No one is cool here.  Yeah everyone is not cool.  Everyone is not cool.   Which you find out in the film pretty quickly.   Like literally everybody is not cool not even them. I think they think - you know I think Celeste and Jesse think that they can outsmart the natural course of getting over someone arriving at a new phase in life. And the truth is you cannot.  Because Jesse lives in the back of their house. They are separated and...  Yeah.  For the first two minutes of the film they look so in love.  And happy yeah.  And the chemistry of it. Though even though I knew the plot point was coming when they said it...  Yeah.  ...I found myself being like what?  Right right. We wanted to do that on purpose because I do think that you start to realize why they are not together through the course of the movie. But you know we wanted to show a couple that maybe is not in love anymore but there are still all these elements about their friendship that they do not want to lose. And so selfishly they try to you know find a way to seamlessly transition into friendship which is you know - turns out to be impossible.  Now their chemistry is so engaging - you and Andy Samberg who plays the role of Jesse. He is really great in this. And it reminded me of another film which I will play a clip of.   OK!     So as a student of the genre...  I mean that is the biggest compliment you could possibly pay us.  And that of course is When Harry Met Sally.  Yeah.  Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan.  Definitely a classic. Yeah. I mean I would be lying if I said we did not set out to borrow and steal from the best parts of that movie because I just absolutely - Will and I absolutely love that movie.  And oh I should say Will McCormack is your writing partner.  Will McCormack. Yes yes. And we humbly set out to do what When Harry Met Sally did so well - was they asked this question can women and men be friends? I guess the answer is they cannot because they end up together. But we were hoping to kind of ask a similar cultural question right now you know which is can you be friends with your ex?  And is it a generational thing this idea of somehow outsmarting your heartbreak? And I ask that because this is actually not the first time I have heard of this. In my own life I had friends who separated and thought well we are going to have this very genial separation.  Yeah for sure. I mean I think we are still figuring out what it is to be in a modern relationship. And it is changing so much. And I think people are feeling like they can be the ones to define what that relationship is - whether it is an open relationship or you know being with somebody for 10 years and having children and then meeting the love of your life after that or living together when you have broken up and seeing other people. In a way this is a story about your first love. And what do you do with the love you feel for your first love? I mean can you take it with you? Can it still be a part of your life? Can you integrate it into your life? Do you have to let them go forever to move on? It is complicated. And I absolutely - it is something I relate to strongly.  Now as we said you co-wrote this with Will McCormack but you have also written a graphic novel. And I am interested in how you got into writing because your dad is Quincy Jones a big record producer - and a million other things I think. And Peggy Lipton your mom is an actress. When did you sit down and really start writing seriously?  Really not until four years ago. I would always wanted to do it. I actually just recently found a thing I wrote in the third grade. It was like what do you want to be when you are older? And I talked about wanting to write movies - which I must have buried deep in my subconscious because I do not remember ever having that as a dream. And in college I had a lot of friends who were writers and wanted to be writers and I felt intimidated by them. I just did not know if I had any gift or voice and I had no confidence about it. And then just kind of out of necessity - I was in a holding deal with acting and I thought maybe this is the time. And I just said to Will let us just sit down write every day. And if something great comes out of it great. If it sucks nobody ever has to see it. But if we have something let us see if it is good and let us give it to friends and see what they think.  I want to ask about that holding pattern with acting because in doing some research about you I have seen those words before where it seems like you are almost going to walk away from acting and then get pulled back into it - namely after college right?  Yeah. Well after college I moved to New York and you know was auditioning. And I got one job in a year which is - weirdly - kind of good odds-wise. But I was really surprised by how hard it was. And then...  What were the kinds of things casting directors would say to you?  It is probably the same for everyone. It is like I did not really fit into one thing. I was too quirky to play a lead girl but I was too exotic to play the - like stable best friend or - you know. I just never fit.  You mean being biracial they were like no one will know what you are if we put you on screen?  It was not that black and white - pun intended. But it was like - there was definitely a thing that was like I would try out to play women of color and they would be like you are not dark enough. And then I would try out to play like surfer babe. And they would be like you are too exotic we want somebody who kind of looks like a girl next door. So - and my personality maybe does not match what I look like or something. I do not know. I mean I think every actor has the story where they do not fit in - until they do. And that is fine. And I still got work and I was able to support myself. And then when I was 30 I just had a major lull where I just was not getting any work. And I considered going back to school and got some applications for grad school. And then I got The Office and that kind of changed everything for me.  So what is next for you? I mean now that you have opened up this avenue of screenwriting what do you want to pursue?  You know Will and I are still writing we adapted my comic book. And I just filmed another movie in London. And you know I am just going to try to play it out. I think I probably have to go play some pretty serious dark parts. I might need to play like a murderer or a drug addict soon because I have been so dependable and reliable and pragmatic for so long that...  In your roles as well as your life role.  And in my life. Yeah. Maybe I need some adventure in my life too. I am not going to murder anybody that is not what I am saying. But in my roles I think it would be nice to try to expand a little bit and challenge myself and see if I can do something different.  Thank you for the clarification on the murder bit. I appreciate that.  Yeah. I do not want intent to be dropped on this show.  Well Rashida Jones thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you. Thanks for having me.  Rashida Jones. She co-wrote and stars in the new movie Celeste and Jesse Forever. 