 Patricia Polacco has written and illustrated more than 90 picture books. Her young readers are drawn to her stories about family and growing up. She is won many many awards for her illustrations which are done in gorgeous full watercolor. Patricia Polacco's latest book is called The Blessing Cup and she joins us from WMUK in Kalamazoo Michigan. Welcome to our program.  Well thank you for having me. It is a pleasure to be here.  Your early life had a profound effect on your work Patricia. Many of these books feature your grandmother who you call Babushka and they are set on her farm in Michigan. Tell us about your relationship with her would you please?  Well in actual fact my parents were divorced when I was very young. And both of them moved back in with their own parents. So in my mother's household I lived with not only her but both my grandmother and grandfather my babushka and my dadushka. My father moved in with his parents who were from Ireland. So as a little girl we literally shared households. I would spend the school year with my mother and the summers with my dad. So in both households I had these amazing storytellers. Certainly people that are Eastern European I mean they cannot help it. They burst into story at absolutely nothing. And of course the Irish - show me an Irishman that cannot tell a story. I do not think they exist.   So my relationship with them was especially close and wonderful. You know I am of an age where we did not have television when I was little. And even if we could have afforded one I do not think it would have happened in our household. So our evenings were spent listening to glorious tales being told by the grandparents.  It is so intimate and personal. This latest book The Blessing Cup the tradition here that features in this book is definitely East European Jewish a very poignant story. Tell us a little bit about its point of origin would you?  Well the point of origin is from a very small shtetl in Russia. And you know at the time that this story was even told or retold to the family was during the pogroms which were - where persecution happened from the Czar's soldiers. They would come into villages and roust people out. And this is from a child's point of view this story and she does not understand why this is happening. So I set it in their village and it began with the pogroms. But it also begins with the mother who gets out this beautiful tea set that is been part of Anna's life since she was a baby.  Tell me the story of the tea set.  You write a great deal about tradition and family but you do not shy away from larger histories American histories and including painful ones. One of your books which I have recently enjoyed very much is the one called Pink and Say. And this shows a white boy and an African-American boy reading a book. It is obviously a 19th century depiction. Tell me about Pink and Say.  Well Say - his name was actually Sheldon Russell Curtis - was my great-great-grandfather. He fought in the Civil War and he went into the army. He saw you know death and destruction and eventually ended up in Andersonville prison in Georgia. And this story is about a young man who finds him in a field. He was left for dead. He was shot in the leg. And the young man is an African-American lad and he rescues Sheldon takes him to what is left of his home in Georgia and Sheldon meets this boy's mother. Her name is Moe Moe Bay. So he fell in love with them of course. How could he not? And eventually marauders strike and Moe Moe Bay is shot and killed. And the boys go on the run to go back to their regiments which Sheldon really did not want to do. He was a little boy and he was terrified. And Pink was brave and strong and you know Sheldon admired him so he went with him. Sheldon Curtis shook Abraham Lincoln's hand at Bull Run. So he would ask - well I never knew him. I knew his daughter and that is how the story came to me.  Touch my hand Patricia and I would. And she' You have just touched the hand that touched the hand that shook the hand of Abraham Lincoln. So that is at the end of the book. It is saying how many generations - we stand only six people away from Lincoln.  It took you a long time to begin writing books Patricia Polacco and illustrating them. You struggled with dyslexia as a child. Tell me a little bit about that struggle why it took so long to become a children's book author.  Well I actually have four disabilities. I have dyslexia dysnomia dysgraphia and something called failure of sensory integration which probably was the most devastating of all because it is very hard to hold still still is. I mean if you could see me now in the studio my foot underneath the counter here where you cannot see it is jiggling away because it just makes me feel better. I in my own skin did not know what was wrong but I started to get the impression that I am dumb and that I am stupid and I am not like other people. So it was a horrible struggle. Always good with the spoken word. I could certainly tell stories because I come from storytellers. But as far as reading them or writing them down that was an enormous struggle.  How did you come upon the idea that you would write a children's book?  Twenty-seven years ago my mother God bless her bankrolled a trip for me to Manhattan. She and I flew in and I had made 16 appointments to see 16 publishers in one week. So that was like four portfolio reviews a day. I had swatted up maybe seven or eight books and by the end of that week had submitted every one of them and somebody took them all. Every one of them grabbed a book.  Wow.  And the rest is history.  Fabulous fabulous story. Patricia these days you have been really successful and I have heard that you have given a significant portion of the money that you have earned from these books to charity. Would you mind sharing a little bit about why that is so?  I live in a community where they have seen better times. And the children there who are needy they have my heart. So I bought an old Victorian firehouse in town turned it into a center for art music and drama for the kids. And we distribute clothes and food. We do all sorts of things there. My biggest kind of claim to fame is we do a huge Christmas program every year. Santa himself shows up and he brings a reindeer or two. Very unpleasant animals. They bite.   I am part of art programs that are literally around the world. I have been to Russia many many times and I have gone there and done art camps. And I just think - one of my big issues too very much an advocate for the American classroom teacher. I think you know teachers in my opinion are the last standing heroes we have in our country. And I do not say that lightly.  Well you have given us so much to think about here. And I just so want to thank you for that. It is been just wonderful. Patricia Polacco is the author and illustrator of over 90 books for children. Her latest is called The Blessing Cup. Patrician Polacco thank you so much.  Oh my pleasure. Thank you so much for talking to me today. 