 We had the Japanese obstacle course competition show Sasuke to thank for the surprise summer NBC hit American Ninja Warrior. The American version has spawned now eight seasons of drama and athleticism as competitors scramble and hurl themselves through an obstacle course of stunts with names like the Jumping Spider Ring Jump and the Rolling Logs.   And it was not just the new obstacles that caused problems. We have made minor alterations to some classic obstacles and created some major headaches - oh oh.  After like the fifth or sixth spin just - I do not even know.  The courses are tough - so tough nobody managed to actually win it until last season. I talked to two of the show is executive producers Anthony Storm and Arthur Smith and Anthony told me where they get their ideas for obstacles.  Well originally a lot of them were inspired by the Japanese show but it is interesting that playgrounds and things like that are often - are the inspiration for the show and we try to grow it into something that is going to challenge you beyond what you thought you may have been previously been able to do.  Arthur Smith do you have an example?  Well the Devil Steps are kind of like a version of you know what a monkey bar would be. It is just a you know a twisted monkey bar.  Wait let us get into that. It is called the Devil Steps.  Yeah because they are devilish and they punish you. And they torture you.  All right well let us set the stage then. Monkey bars for me - when I think back to the kids playground it is like there is a horizontal set of bars right?  Yeah.  And you basically reach from one to the other like a chimp or a monkey swinging from vine to vine right? And you are - it is all stable. Nothing's moving. And maybe you go probably six feet - right? - before you...  Right.  ...Jump down.  Right.  Now how do you guys take it to the next level to the point where you would call something Devil Steps?  Well the Devil Steps themselves are interesting because if you - if you have ever seen a staircase and we all have there is an inside to a staircase. And if you were to climb up the backside of a staircase you would be doing one half of the Devil Steps. And so it is sort of like climbing a ladder without rungs for your feet.  A lot of this seems to emphasize that kind of upper body strength. Like for those of us who never quite got a chin-up going this is not the competition for us right ?  No.  You know upper body strength is definitely crucial but there is other elements of being a great athlete that you need to complete Ninja. And you know we are always surprised because you know the ideal athlete for Ninja Warrior is probably someone who is 5-9 kind of lanky 140. And that is pretty much it. But then again a few years ago there was a woman who vaulted Ninja Warrior more into pop culture and that was Kacy Catanzaro who was only five feet and 98 pounds. And no one said she could do the Warped Wall and she became the first woman to climb the Warped Wall. And it really broadened the show even more.   Will Kacy again make history?   Yes she will. She is such a strong competitor. There is no limit to what Kacy Catanzaro can do. I am convinced - just fantastic.  Arthur Smith you spent some time in your career at the CBC in Canada and helped with their Olympics coverage. It feels Olympic like the way you guys utilize music...  Yeah yeah.  ...And the way you focus on people's personal stories...  Yeah.  ...It felt familiar.  It was not an accident. Thank you for noticing. Ever since the beginning of the show we decided that we were going to take an Olympic approach that you know we were going to tell great stories. We are going to make people care. And we have had some remarkable remarkable things happen and remarkable background stories - people who are overcoming cancer and people who are running for their sick wife and - or just people who have lost a few hundred pounds and they want to prove something. The other positive message about the show is that you know it is not about winning. It really is not.  I was going to ask you about that. That is pretty much the opposite of most athletic dramas right?  Yep.  And like where does winning fall into your worldview?  Well in the worldview or in my - in the Ninja view?  .  I mean it is kind of - I mean the show is kind of anti-American in a way because winners you know - we always reward winners. And here you know the athletes root for each other. I always think back to Kevin Bull who was a walk-on. As you know we always leave a number of spots for walk-ons. This year we had 70000 applicants for Ninja Warrior. Under a thousand of them actually get to run the course but in every city that we go to we always make sure that there is 20 to 25 walk-on spots. And people will sleep out you know two and three weeks before to get a spot. And Kevin Bull on that one night waited waited waited waited and got his time. And there was this one obstacle. What was the name of obstacle?  Cannonball Alley.  Cannonball Alley. And everybody had failed at Cannonball Alley - I think we had like 20 - you know...  Fifteen consecutive...  ...Fifteen consecutive failures. No one could get past it and...  Can I ask quickly what is involved in getting past Cannonball Alley for those who cannot see it?  Cannonball Alley sure. It was four spheres hanging from above and they covered about a 22-foot pool so you had to swing from one sphere to the next to make your way across the pool without touching the ground or the water.  So everybody was trying to do it the same way. This is Arthur. Everyone was trying to do it the same way and they were using their hands and trying to use their grip strength to do it. And none of them were successful. And then Kevin Bull this walk-on comes on and he starts with his - starts with a hand and then he flips his legs around one of them...  Inverted upside-down.  ...Inverted upside-down and flips over and completes the obstacle.   Look at this.  Oh.  He is hanging upside-down. I love it.  .  He is going to go for a dismount upside-down and oh.  This is what I am talking about.  Wow.   That is what I am talking about. The first man to complete the Cannonball Alley cannonball.  Oh man.  Are you kidding me?  I love the moment because when we cut to the fellow ninjas many of which who had failed they were cheering. They were so excited in what this walk-on can do and that to me - in that moment it summed up American Ninja Warrior.  Anthony Storm it seems like this is part of a broader fitness culture of our time with the kind of tough-mudders and CrossFit and a lot of like things that actually do not even need a gym kind of exercising.  Yeah you know and I think it is sort of chicken and egg. I think that the show benefited from that and I think that the show feeds that in that now people build ninja obstacles themselves. And they train outdoors in their yards and even in their homes their basements their garages. They have to convince their husbands and wives to let them convert rooms into ninja gyms.  What do you think that is though? I mean what do you think people are sort of responding to or needing out of this particular kind of fitness approach?  Well I think it is about self-improvement and I think it is about people's desire to improve themselves in a way that - where they can see actual tangible achievement.  But it is all - like under the guise - these titles of fighting - warriors ninjas Spartans right? Like for people who are not soldiers...  Well it is a competition.  ...It seems like a lot of us are playing at soldier.   Well it is fighting your own personal obstacles. It is fighting your own challenges.  In the end do you hope that there is a winner or do you kind of hope there is not one ?  Well we are good with it either way. We - you know we are - you know our course is never going to be easy you know especially the final final course the Mount Midoriyama course but you know if it was easy it would not be interesting. That is for sure.  Well Arthur Smith thank you so much for speaking with us.  Our pleasure - my pleasure.  And Anthony Storm thank you so much for sharing some of the secrets with us.  Sure thanks for having us.  Arthur Smith and Anthony Storm they are executive producers on the TV show American Ninja Warrior. 