 And if you are looking for a slightly less pricey way to enjoy music among the stars  Star Wars in Concert. The space opera spawned six movies an animated series and an army of costume followers. Are you ready for a chorus and symphony? NPR's Allison Keyes reports.   This is nerd heaven.   It is like the Star Wars movies but cooler because the stars here are the 85-member symphony orchestra and the 60-voice choir that really bring this story to life.   There is a three-story high movie screen in this touring show that showcases shots of the orchestra simultaneously with a specially edited montage of music and scenes from all six movies.  Mr.   Luke I do not want to lose you to the emperor the way I lost Vader. Mr.   You will not.  Star Wars in Concert includes a spectacular light show with flashing emerald green lasers dancing overhead and...   ...some familiar voices.  Mr.   Even if he is part of a rebel of lions and a traitor I give you Mr. Anthony Daniels.  C-3PO - I mean Daniels such a diva. Mr.  Thank you. Thank you. And welcome welcome to Star Wars in Concert.  Daniels the live narrator here played C-3PO in all six Star Wars films and in the animated series.  Mr.   R2D2 a pleasure to meet you. I am C-3PO.  He says there is a reason the Star Wars saga resonates with this multigenerational audience. Mr.  For most people Star Wars is a timeline of their existence on this planet for the last 35 years. And the story as I tell it is of the destiny of Anakin Skywalker the destiny of 3PO but it is also the destiny of the audience. Mr.  I am a '80s child so Star Wars was the seminal movie for us.  Koye Oyedeji brought his 5-year-old son and his father-in-law to see the concert along with the exhibit of memorabilia that is traveling with the show. Mr.  The battle of good versus evil you know the idea of the force these are things that remain with you throughout your entire life.  Of course for some folks it is their life. Mr.  My Jedi name is Avlenkof.  Dave Cofelice rode the Metro here in full Jedi attire. He was seven when the first movie came out in 1977 and he is been hooked ever since. Mr.  I have a light saber  it is a park saber  and the costume itself I had somebody make it for me. And the belt these are food capsules and my utility pouches.  Fran Aslam in the hall taking pictures of her three kids with a guy in a really detailed Darth Vader suit had to think about why the movie's touched her. Ms.  I guess just the possibility that maybe it could be like that one day superheroes good over evil.  Speaking of evil...   ...the real Darth Vader's here or at least his costume from the original movie is. Mr.  This is a stunt cape.  That is Dave Iskra exhibit curator. And yeah he did say stunt cape. Mr.  The cape is shorter so for when he is running.  There is also a Yoda in a glass case the actual 7-foot-tall Chewbacca costume which is made of yak fur that has to be brushed daily and the original model of Han Solo encased in carbonite.   But it is the live music that blows the audience away.   Lucas Richman conducts John Williams' score and says he and the musicians have great respect for something that is touched millions. Mr.  When our horn player plays the horn solo it conjures up that feeling that emotional connection this is really that moment. I remember that moment in the movie and I am playing that. That is one of the coolest things.  The other cool thing is seeing classical musicians being treated like rock stars.   Allison Keyes NPR News Washington.  You can hear more of Star Wars in Concert at our website npr.org. 