 Movie producers in India think they have a different formula for success. For decades sex and nudity have been taboo in Bollywood films. So the makers of a new film - a sequel called Jism 2 - made headlines when they cast Sunny Leone in the lead role.    I am a porn star.  Not only does Leone play a porn star in the movie the Canadian-Indian actress is herself a porn star. Billboards in Mumbai promised a scantily clad Leone - before they were taken down by the city's mayor. And the movie so riled some corners of Indian society that even before its release last Friday Leone was being burned in effigy. Aseem Chhabra is a film writer in New York. He writes a weekly column for Mumbai Mirror and he recently shelled out his 14 to see the movie. Welcome there Aseem.  Thank you.  So before you tell us what you thought give us a little context about why this movie has been so controversial in India.  The fact of the matter is that Indian cinema is still censored very heavily by a censor board. You know all Indians - no matter which language - nudity is not allowed. Indian films are now allowed to show kissing which they have been doing now for 10-plus years...  But only 10 years.  Yeah.  It is fairly recently that you are seeing kisses in Bollywood films.  Yes. And so this film does have a lot of kissing but I think the producers wanted to get the audience more interested by showing these posters and sort of suggestive idea that you know there was going to be a lot of sex. Now you cannot have a lot of sex because the censor does not allow it but people are still curious because they thought maybe - you know you have a porn star so therefore she has to do what she does very well in the West.  Well we wanted to get some reaction from Indian movie-goers so we sent a producer to wait outside a theater in Delhi. And here's some of what we heard.  It is not a kind of a movie which you can watch with your parents or family. It is not a family movie at all.  Actually it was really slow and very boring and I was expecting something really good very good suspense but it was not up to that.  We were thinking maybe you know the storyline would be very good or we would get to see a lot of racy things but nothing's there. Sorry.  Leone was the only motive of watching the movie nothing else. Her acting was not that good - but she is hot damn hot.  She is hot and the people are saying the movie is boring. So what did you think?  Yes she is hot. She is a terrible actress and the plot - I mean there is...  We have not mentioned it yet. The plot is that she is essentially a porn actress who was hired by intelligence agencies to lure an assassin.  Right. But you know her being a porn star is completely immaterial. She could have been an Avon lady in the film - also - who was hired to lure an assassin. But the film is shot in Sri Lanka. And it is lush and beautiful but essentially very boring. And that is clearly what is coming out. I mean I am hearing that the audiences in India are very - you know they are bored. In fact there is a guy - in a small town - called Kampoor who went and filed a lawsuit last Saturday against the producers for deceptive advertising because he said that the posters suggested that there would be some nudity and there is none in the film.  OK. So there is no nudity  certainly no sex. But in the end - I mean what does the conversation about this film say about where Indian cinema is and where the culture is when it comes to sex up on the big screen?  India's changing in a very interesting way - and rather fast. This is the 100th anniversary of Indian cinema and a hundred years ago women could not even act in Indian films. Men used to impersonate as women and act. And so we have reached 100 years at the stage where there is a porn star who is acting in a mainstream film and you know the middle-lass Indians are having a conversation about it. You know she is been interviewed a lot in print media and television. And so people are sitting in their living rooms with their parents and actually watching this woman being interviewed - which I think it says something about how the country's really changing and accepting sexuality issues and having a conversation around it.  Aseem Chhabra thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Aseem Chhabra is a film writer in New York. He writes a weekly column for the Mumbai Mirror. And I forgot to ask what exactly does jism mean?  Jism means body.  OK. Thanks so much for explaining it all.  Thank you. 