 Just a warning - this next conversation contains adult content descriptions of sex acts and popular comic book characters. This may not be suitable for children. In an interview with Variety last week the creators of the HBO Max adult animated series Harley Quinn revealed that a scene depicting Batman performing oral sex on Catwoman was blocked by DC Entertainment. The rationale - because quote heroes do not do that. Well this prompted some heated conversations on social media about the censorship of female pleasure and sex in comics even as the sexualization of female characters has become standard in most storylines. Glen Weldon of NPR's Arts Desk joins us now to talk about all this. Hey Glen.  Hey. It is great to be here. Thanks for having me.  Good to have you. OK so what do you make of the argument that heroes do not do that?  I mean the whole notion that heroes do not do that - that is provably false. I would argue that thinking of others and putting their needs above yours is pretty much the definition of a hero.  .  But set that aside as you mentioned we are getting this second-hand - right? - from the Harley Quinn creators who noted that DC let them go nuts with villain characters but were very nervous very protective of heroes like Batman. And unfortunately that tracks right? These characters are extremely valuable nuggets of intellectual property to these corporations. And it also I have got to say seems sadly inevitable because superheroes are a uniquely American creation. It is jazz baseball superheroes. And they embody our uniquely American hangups unfortunately. So they are all about violence. But when it comes to sex they cannot help but reflect our repressed and puritanical attitudes towards it.  Totally. And we should note that we did reach out to DC Entertainment which has not publicly commented on any of this. But what happened here with Batman and Catwoman is part of a broader cultural conversation about misogyny female pleasure and the aversion to sex positivity in media. How do you think that larger conversation plays out when it comes to comic book culture in particular?  Well as comic book and superhero fiction went from the kind of fringes of culture to become what it is today - the mainstream - there is just a lot more voices in the mix more women more people of color queer folk. And they have got a fundamentally different and I would argue healthier attitude toward these characters because they use things like fan fiction to take these characters mix and match them up in a way that completely ignores the notion that DC and Marvel own them. And yes fan fiction has a rep. Sometimes they do it in a lot of sexual ways that make that Harley Quinn scene seem like Rebecca Of Sunnybrook Farm.  .  But there is something more important going on here right? It is really about renegotiating that relationship between creators and audiences. It is now an ongoing dialogue and not just this unidirectional corporate monologue.  Exactly. So I mean with all of this outrage on the internet boiling over last week - you know we saw Batman and Catwoman's sex lives trending - do you think the creators - you know I am sure they have seen all of this discussion. Do you think that any of that will have an impact on what ends up on the screen?  Well as you mentioned DC has not commented. Imagine being the PR flack tapped to write that press release. That would be fun.  .  But the reason you and I are talking about it Ailsa is because this whole thing was a very fun inescapable meme for a couple days last week on social media with idiots like me weighing in...  .  ...On which heroes do and do not do that. So yes they have heard. But are we going to get you know an official DC comic or official DC movie where the Justice League goes to a key party and there is lots of...  .  ...Hot hero-on-hero action? No. But if it helps move the needle even a little bit so that these corporations - and by extension these characters - get a little less uptight about sex that would be healthy right?  Yeah.  I mean think about it. They are already wearing the fetish gear so take the next step. It is a small one.  Great point. That was Glen Weldon from NPR's Arts Desk. Thank you Glen.  Thank you.  