 The latest Fast And Furious sequel F9 has just had the best weekend box office of any film since 2019. Does that mean audiences are ready to go back to movie theaters? Well NPR's Bob Mondello says it is certainly encouraging.  The last film to make more than 70 million in North America in a single weekend with  The Rise Of Skywalker    What are you doing there 3PO?   Taking one last look sir at my friends.  That was two Christmases ago. Vin Diesel's F9 has now raced not just to the biggest opening of the pandemic but to numbers that would have been respectable pre-pandemic. It is also playing to extremely diverse audiences and it is not even running at full throttle.    Crank it all the way up.  They cannot. Theaters in six states are required to operate at reduced capacity and many Canadian cinemas are still closed. That said audiences definitely came out to see F9 this weekend just as they have overseas since it opened in China a month ago. F9's worldwide total is now over 400 million. And happily for the film industry the Fast And Furious ninth-quel  is not alone. Also doing substantial business are three other sequels.    There are people out there people worth saving.  A Quiet Place Part II also Disney's Cruella...    I am just getting started darling.  ...And the latest in the Conjuring series.    I think I hurt someone.  Together those four films have taken in just shy of a billion dollars worldwide in one month. Great news until you consider that during summer blockbuster season in a normal year the numbers would be roughly twice that. If the film industry is not operating on all cylinders just yet COVID-related skittishness is only one reason. For the last 16 months film studios have been encouraging patrons to look for even their biggest blockbusters on streaming services. Breaking audiences of that habit may prove tricky. So far films that have opened only in theaters have tended to do best. Will that last? Well we should get an indication soon. The top four films this week opened exclusively in theaters. Next week though Black Widow is arriving simultaneously in theaters and on Disney Plus.    Here's what is going to happen.  It is a Marvel first that has industry-watchers intrigued.    Natasha do not slouch.   I am not slouching.  Will the film slump at the box office if it is available at home?    Listen to your mother.   Oh my God. This...  Most films that have gone that route have more than just slouched.    All right. Enough all of you.  Stay tuned. I am Bob Mondello.  