 When you have played Austin Powers Shrek the cat in the Cat and Wayne from Wayne's World what do you do for an encore? Well when you are comedian Mike Myers you direct a documentary about your agent. Critic Bob Mondello says the result  The Legend Of Shep Gordon is as startling and sometimes even as funny as anything Myers has done.  First there is five minutes of celebrity testimonials telling you why you should care about Shep Gordon -Willy Nelson calling him the proverbial canary in the marijuana mind - Chef Emeril Lagasse saying he invented the celebrity chef - parade of film stars testified to his libido. And then obviously hero worshiping Mike Myers lets the man himself Shep Gordon takeover. Telling how in 1968 he arrived in the Los Angeles motel fresh out of college with no money no job having just dropped some acid utterly at peace with the world.   And I think I hear and girl being raped around a swimming pool. So I run downstairs separate these two people and the girl went crazy and punched me because they were making love. They were not fighting. I came down in the morning. I could hear that same voice of the girl - 'ecause I never saw her that night. She called me over and said are you the guy I hit last night? I said year she was Janis Joplin. She introduced me to the guy she was sitting with which was Jimi Hendrix. Jimi Hendrix said are you Jewish? And I said yeah. He said you should be a manager. And I said great. No problem. Who should I manage? Alice Cooper.  Alice Cooper picks up the story.  So we go over to the Landmark Inn. We open the door to his hotel room and you could not see from me to you for smoke. And I do not mean cigarettes.  The arrangement they forged that day has lasted 43 years without a contract through all the schemes that turned Alice Cooper into a rock ghoul - The coat made of dead rats a live chicken tossed into the audience and a plan Shep Gordon hatched one hot night in Florida.  I came up with this ridiculous idea of buying see-through clothes made out of clear plastic putting Alice on stage naked basically and calling the police and getting him arrested for indecent exposure which we assume would get newspaper coverage.  So Alice donned the see-through plastic. Gordon called the cops pretending to be an irate parent and things did not go as planned.  I put the phone down. I hear a siren. And as the police come around the see-through clothes had fogged up from the heat and you could not see anything. The police came in and looked around like what are they crazy and left. After the show I said you know we just hit that classic moment where we cannot get arrested.  They did later plenty of times. Gordon did not just hang out with rockers. He also became buds with the Dalai Lama helped rescue Groucho Marx from poverty shaped movie careers galore and even almost more intriguing than all of that was never especially enamored of fame having seen it close up engineered a close up in fact. He found it so centrally unhealthy that he introduced a warning virtual into the signing of new artists.  I would sit them down take my glasses off look them in the eyes and say you need to really listen to me and listen seriously. This is not a joke. If I do my job perfectly I will probably kill you.  Fame the great equalizer. As a documentary director Mike Myers has the comic timing to make the celebrity anecdotes click along nicely. He is not quite as sharp at narrative so a bit of the oomph goes out of the film when the star wattage dims. And he tries to shape the legend of this guy who spends so much time on everyone else he is not really taking care of himself. And his slack though is picked up by Shep Gordon who seems every inch the supermensch of the title. Splendid company a sterling storyteller and yet a real mensch. I am Bob Mondello.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 