 In the new film Calvary Irish actor Brendan Gleeson plays a priest - a priest who has a date with murder. The darkly comic drama was a hit at this year's Sundance Film Festival. And our critic Bob Mondello says Calvary amounts to an existential detective story.  Father James is a tough-minded thoughtful guy - a widower and recovering alcoholic who came late to the priesthood and has found it suits him. He is popular with his parishioners and in tune with the coastal Irish village they live in. So he is just as unprepared as we are for what he hears in the confessional as the film opens.    I am here to listen to whatever you have to say.  I am going to kill you father.   That is certainly a startling opening line.  But the parishioner is not out to startle. He is aggrieved in a way that has him wanting to cause real pain - pain to match the pain he is been bottling up for decades.   I was raped by a priest when I was 7-years-old.   Did you make a formal complaint?  What good would it do? The man's dead.   There is no point in killing a bad priest.  But killing a good one that would be a shock.  So he gives Father James a date Sunday a week tells him to put his house in order and leaves the confessional. Father James goes to a superior who is concerned if not concerned enough to stop eating as they talk.    So do you know who it was?   Yes I know who it was.   Do you know him well?   Well enough.   Knowing this man as you do do you think it was an idle threat?   I do not know. I am not sure.   You did not grant him absolution obviously.   He did not ask for it.   Well there you have it. The man is not parented. There is no contrition. He is threatening to commit a crime and not asking for forgiveness for one. The in-viability of the sacramental seal does not apply.   You are saying I should go to the police?   I am not saying anything James. The choice is yours.  Which leaves him back where he started. Now while Brendan Gleeson's barrel-chested Father James knows who is threatening him we do not and as he makes the rounds of his parish talking with the police inspector but not about the threats because the inspectors male prostitute is there or arguing religion with a squire whose wealth brings him only bitterness you start to realize pretty much any of his parishioners could be the one - well maybe not the jailed rapist cannibal played in a nice bit of perverse casting by Gleeson's real son Domhnall. But certainly the arsonists adulterers and coke snorting doctors in the flock - their callousness leaves him regularly astonished never more so than when he confronts a butcher he suspects of beating his wayward wife.   Are you leaning into her? What is going on? O'  No no. That is that black fellow that she is been seeing - I mean the colored fellow she is been seeing. Sorry I did not mean to be racist there at all. It is a slip of the tongue. I think she is bipolar. Or lactose intolerant one of the two. And if I am honest with you I am kind of glad to have her off my hands.   Not even if this new fellows knocking her about? O'  She wants nothing to do with me.   What? O'  Not everyone can carry the weight of the world.  All the while the clock keeps ticking towards Sunday a week. Filmmaker John Michael McDonagh also worked with Gleeson on The Guard an entertaining action comedy that barely hinted at the depth of feeling they find in Calvary. If this film is bleak and corrosively funny in about equal measure it is also so clearheaded about the human cost of the church's abuse scandals that it qualifies as something of a leap of faith past the forgiveness preached in say Philomena to a more rigorous accounting - one that has a kind of cinematic grace. I am Bob Mondello. 