 Almost as long as there is been Hollywood there is been the Hollywood tour.   And here's the home of Gary Cooper here in Brentwood. On your left Gary can be seen in the doors. They come from the church from where he was married...  NPR's Ben Bergman was not too proud to ride along.  Everyday as many as seven times a day a seat on the TMZ Tour can be had for just 49 and a few hours of your life.    It is so good of you to join us on this magic ride we like to call TMZ Tour.  In addition to this blaring soundtrack the tour includes a guide Keith Jordan who could easily be mistaken for a drive-time radio host. He is actually the most clichd of all Hollywood cliches the struggling actor.  We are going to go out where the celebrities actually go to on a day-to-day basis okay. Where they eat where they shop where they party where they play.  As we get underway Jordan tells the half-empty bus to be on the lookout. We will be traveling through prime celebrity habitat.  Okay. So if we see anybody while we are on this tour guys I want you to shout out to me. Say Keith oh my God there is a famous person out there. I am going to jump out of the bus with this camera and I am going to get an interview with that celebrity. I hit a button on here that footage uploads directly to TMZ.com immediately.  The first stop on the tour is an iconic Hollywood hotel.  First up the Roosevelt Hotel home to Teddy's Nightclub one of Lindsay Lohan's favorite hangouts probably because her ex-girlfriend Samantha Ronson DJs here. Now for those of you under-busy the Roosevelt is where The Hills had their finale party.  The Roosevelt is also where the first Academy Awards were held in 1929 but no time to mention that here. We are off to the El Pollo Loco fast food restaurant where Brad Pitt used to work then the comedy club where Michael Richards went on a racist rant which of course TMZ posted for all the world to see.  I drive all over LA and every time I drive around I look and I see all these places that TMZ made famous.  Harvey Levin is the founder of TMZ which has made him a minor celebrity. He says he is been obsessed with starting a tour for years.  It just seemed to me these old line stodgy Hollywood tours you know that let people know what happened in the 1920s in Hollywood you know we could do a tour about what is going on now and who the people care about now.  Still Levin argues virtually everyone he puts on TMZ benefits from being there.  This is a city that it is all about selling tickets. It is all about keep me relevant make my song relevant make sure that people watch my show.  On your right the place where your favorite celebrity spawn are born Cedars Sinai Hospital.  We are coming to the end of our two-hour voyage and despite the tour guide's best efforts to keep everyone upbeat it is felt like a fishing trip where you do not catch any fish. Not a single celebrity sighted not even a D-lister. But then a tug on the line.  Wait wait wait. Say hi Ryan Phillippe. Do not drive away.  Our driver stops in the middle of the road attempting to box in the star of Cruel Intentions and The Lincoln Lawyer.  No way out.  Somehow the actor finds an opening and speeds away.   Say hi to TMZ.  Still Alicia Maretto visiting from Australia was hoping for more.  I wanted to see a lot more celebrities but you cannot really force them to come out.  Ben Bergman NPR News Los Angeles. 