 I am Audie Cornish.  I am Melissa Block and this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  Since Father's Day is upon us let us assume you might be making that last-minute dash to the department store for that paisley tietoolbox or grill apron that says World's Greatest Dad. We are going to turn to a guy who is trying to earn that title in his own life. Drew Magary a correspondent for GQ and the sports news site Deadspin also blogs about being a parent. It is safe to say that Magary does not take himself too seriously - what with his willingness to talk about everything from his failed attempts at spanking to a DUI. His new book is called  A memoir of Twenty-First Century Parenthood. And Drew welcome. You have got a family of five right?  I have - it is a family of five. We were hosed at the restaurant...   ...because I tried and put five people at the four top and then you are just - you are wedged in and you are miserable.  And give us the rundown of names and ages.  Ah. I do not give my kids names in public because I write online. And when people know your kids' names they say I am going to find your baby and I am going to eat it so...  Right OK.   So I - but my kids are 7 4 and 1. The oldest is a girl and then two boys.  All right.  Yes.  Well recently you wrote a post titled A Hater's Guide to Parents.  Yes other parents.  Other parents.  Other parents because other parents are the worst.  Exactly. And you outlined the various types of the worst some of which I actually had not heard of. One is that lady who drops her kids off at the playground and then goes for a run.  Yeah.  Do people do that?  People do that and it is like you know what if your kid's like 14 that is all right you know? But I am talking about like a 6-year-old you know?   And so they will go and they will just drop them off and like whoo yay free-range parenting let them discover. But you know what happens is the kid starts punching my kid and then I have to discipline this other kid but I am not really his parent so I cannot really discipline...  No you cannot really do that.  ...because it is the 21st century.  Yeah.   It is not Mad Men. I cannot like slap them for spilling my cocktail you know?   OK. Well another one is people who have extended fights with their kids in public.  Yeah. Like I have fights with my kid and if I do I make sure that other people cannot see because I do not want other people to see and know that I am the worst parent on Earth. So I always make sure to drag them out of the store kicking and screaming and we will get it...  And not just pull them to another aisle...  No. We will get into the...  ...which my mom did...  That is right. We will...  ...where people can still see you.   Yeah. We will get into the van so that we can yell at each other and that is fine. But like if you are just having it out if you are just like all right gauntlets thrown let us do this...   ...like right in the - right in the frozen pea aisle I do not approve of that.  All right. I am going to call you out on this because...  Sure.  ...in the book you do actually describe a time that you had a fight with your son. It was a battle at a hotel pool.  Yes.  And I do not think you won that one.   I did not.  In a nutshell tell us what happened.  He had to go to the bathroom and he made this sort of I have to pee-pee dance and like sort of stepping around and I am like oh you have to pee and like loud enough so like the lifeguard could hear it.  Right.   So now everyone knows that he has to go to the bathroom and I am standing there like I just gave away the whole plot. And so now I really do have to get him out of the pool because everyone is waiting for him to start urinating into the pool. And I am like please come out and he goes no. And I am like come on please please just do this for me. No. So I had to pick him up while he was sopping wet and he is kicking and screaming and presumably urinating. And everyone is watching me and it was terrible.  Now the book obviously is written in the spirit of humor and - but it actually grew out of this very serious issue in this kind of painful moment for you as a parent where your youngest child was born premature and was in intensive care unit and had to go through surgeries and we should say that he is fine and healthy now.  Yes. Not to spoil the book but yes  .  Yeah OK.   But at one point you talked about your own father comforting you.  Yes.  And what did that experience kind of teach you about him or about fatherhood?  I mean it was just - you always have your petty grievances with your parents but you know when I needed my dad he was right there. And sometimes it was just - it was nice for me to not be the dad for a second right? Once in a while it is nice to flip the switch and be the one who is comforted instead of the one who is doing all the comforting. And so I appreciate what my parents have done for me. I admire them to be able to raise me in the era that they raised me in. And I hope I do as good a job as them. I do not know that I am but I appreciate them. And after the ordeal I went through with my youngest son I actually appreciate my other kids more because like they say like the fatherhood changes you thing that is not true. Like you will have a kid just - you will be the same idiot who wants to watch TV and stuff like that. But when the kid almost dies that changes you. And you know at some point you know I am going to pass away and we are going to deal with the whole cliched circle of life thing but it really truly - it makes your life seemed a lot more epic in scope because you are somehow inexplicably linked with this other life form and the sum total of their 70 or 80 years of existence will be tied to your sum total of 70 or 80 years of existence.  Drew Magary his new book is called  A Memoir of Twenty-First Century Parenthood. Drew Magary thank you for coming in.  Anytime. 