 Hollywood's had a humdrum summer at the box office. In fact until Guardians Of The Galaxy came along the film industry was looking at its lowest attendance figures in more than a decade. But hope springs eternal and there is always fall. So we asked our critic Bob Mondello for a selective preview of the coming season.  You know what is not on the fall movie list - not even once? A straight up superhero movie. There is a movie about an actor who once played a superhero and who is now so down on his luck he is fantasizing about a return to stardom while balanced on a roof edge high above the street.    You are Birdman. You are a God.   Hey is this for real or are you shooting a film?   A film.   You people are full of crap.   Music.  He has written a play called Birdman.   He is a Hollywood clown .   Yes he is. But he is going out on that stage and risking everything.   This is about being respected and validated remember? That is what you told me.  That is Michael Keaton who as a one-time Batman knows a little something about what the hero's facing in Birdman. While there will not be other superheroes in theaters there will be plenty of regular heroes and a heroine or two including a Hunger Games gladiator who is become a symbol of resistance.    Any association with the mockingjay symbol is forbidden.  Yeah well forbid all you want. Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss is not hearing it in  Mockingjay Part One.    Are you fighting Katniss? Are you here to fight with us?   I am. I will.  Heroics elsewhere this fall will occasionally be historical and require not physical but intellectual prowess. The Imitation Game gives us Benedict Cumberbatch as British mathematician Alan Turing who basically had to invent a computer during World War II to help the Allies break the German's Enigma code.    Everyone thinks Enigma is unbreakable.   Let me try. Then we will know for sure.  Turing was not what you would call a team player.    Gentlemen meet Mr. Turing.   Will you two work together then? I am afraid these men would only slow me down.   Popular at school were you?  Still he achieves great rings as does a humbler but no less brilliant Englisman in The Theory Of Everything - a physics genius who must battle not just his physics department but his physical condition.    It is called motor neuron disease. Life expectancy is two years.  That diagnosis came when he was 21. He is lived another 50 years already though not without setbacks.    He has pneumonia. The only way he will survive would be to give him a tracheotomy. He will never speak again.   Yes he will.   My name is Stephen Hawking.   It is American.   Is that a problem?  I do not mean to suggest that there will not be rock them sock them movie heroics this fall. Some severely damaged leading men will be living up to Hollywood stereotypes rescuing damsels in distress. Liam Neeson as a non-recovering alcoholic in A Walk Among The Tombstones...   I have done this before.   You are going to do it again.  Denzel Washington as the Equalizer.    I am here about a girl.   .  And Ben Affleck wants to see himself as the good guy in Gone Girl but he ends up being chief suspect.    I had nothing to do with the disappearance of my wife.  And then there is a story about a woman who does not seem to want to be rescued - romance called The Disappearance Of Eleanor Rigby that has a structural gimmick in the storytelling. It looks at a relationship from the guy's point of view and also from the gal's in a car during a downpour. Here's Eleanor Rigby's take.   You are sopping wet.   You noticed that?  And here's how her boyfriend heard that exchange.   You are sopping wet.   Oh you noticed? Thank you.  Trouble in paradise? It is called The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby. Other films with storytelling gimmicks included teen dystopia - The Maze Runner - and David Cronenberg's latest industry in-joke Maps To The Stars. All of that fantasy is balanced this fall by a lot of true stories about headline-makers. Channing Tatum and Steve Carell in the thriller Foxcatcher based on a tragic 1990s combo of money sports and mental illness.    We are going to do great things Mark.   I am going to give you everything I have.  Also  All Is By My Side in which rapper Andre 3000...    Watch out for your ears.  ...Plays an up-and-comer named Hendrix.    I want my music to go inside the soul of a person.  Tracks about a woman who made a solo trek across 1700 miles Australian outback...   When people ask me why I am doing it my usual answer is why not?  And Rosewater the directing debut of Jon Stewart about a writer who appeared on the Daily Show and then...   You are a spy.  ...Ended up in an Arabian prison.   Who are you working for? The CIA? Who is Anton Chekhov?  Anton Chekhov the playwright?  You tell me. It is you who has listed an interest of him on Facebook.  And though the plot in Fury Brad Pitt's tank crew drama is pure fiction.   I have never even seen the inside of a tight.  The tank itself is real borrowed from a museum and reportedly the first World War II Tiger Tank ever to grace a film set. Sound a little heavy? Well even the fall's comedies sometimes center on serious issues - suicide in The Skeleton Twins starring Bill Hader and Kristen Wiig.    I get depressed about my life.   So you are not a famous actor? I got news for you. No one's a famous actor.   George Clooney is a famous actor.   OK George Clooney. I guess that is one exception.  Demolishing stereotypes is the point of a campus satire called Dear White People.   I read your entire 15-page unsolicited treatise on why The Gremlins is actually about suburban white fear of black culture.  The gremlins are loud talk in slang are addicted to fried chicken and freak out when you get their hair wet.  And the fact-based comedy Pride is sort of a twofer about both striking coal miners and the gay group that raises money to help them.   That guy was talking about lesbians. Cannot be true can it? You are all vegetarians.  More serious takes on social issues include The Judge a passion project for producer and star Robert Downey Jr. Frontera in which Michael Pena is caught up in an immigration scandal and Whiplash a Sundance Film Festival crowd-pleaser about a young jazz musician...   Here we go. 5 - 6 - 8.  ...Who gets bullied by his music teacher.   Were you rushing or were you dragging?  I do not know.  If you deliberately sabotage my band I will gut you like a pig.  Back to school with a vengeance. And while I am talking back to school parents will be relieved to know that after a summer notably lacking in family films the fall has five kids flicks before Thanksgiving. The Box Trolls about a boy being raised by timid critters underground.   No more hiding right?  Right.  Big Hero 6 about a kid with an inflatable semi superpal.  What is wrong with you?  Low battery.  A resilient youngster in Alexander And The Terrible Horrible No Good Very Bad Day.   Did I mention I studied fencing?  And those ever-traveling Penguins Of Madagascar.   We have arrived in the center of Dublin Ireland. We have got to blend in -  And while the kids are being treated to affirmation and adventure Dark Knight director Christopher Nolan will be scaring their parents have to death with a vision of a world that is run out of food in Interstellar.   We must confront the reality that nothing in our solar system can help us.  Now you need to tell me what your plan is to save the world.  That gets us to Thanksgiving after which the awards contenders come out - to play Broadway musicals biblical epics hobbits - but we are out of time. So we will save those for another day. I am Bob Mondello. 