 Moving from stage to screen is always a bit of a leap. And for a couple of new movies the leap is bigger than usual. One of those movies is based on an intellectual play about sadomasochism the other on a musical about a 1960s singing group. Both stage shows required serious reimagining for the screen. Critic Bob Mondello says the folks who did that reimagining Roman Polanski and Clint Eastwood brought to the task a long history in the movies and in life.  A director is casting a new play at the start of Roman Polanski's Venus in Fur and auditions have been ghastly. The play is based on a 19th century novel by Leopold von Sacher-Masoch. We get the term masochism from his last name. And the onscreen writer-director is despairing that he will ever find a sexy leading lady who has both classical training and a brain. Vanda a very late arrival for the audition only reinforces his doubts.   .  Doing vocal exercises she sounds like a fishwife and she is dressed dominatrix-style in black leather. For the character a lacy dress with a bustle would be better. But it turns out she has one of those in her bag. And her voice turns more delicate when she starts speaking the play's lines from memory much to the director's surprise.   .  Lines about sexual fantasies involving fur coats and childhood spankings. Is the play really about child abuse she wonders?   .  And he explodes.   .  .  Roman Polanski's been making films about psychosexual mind games for decades and also wrestling with onscreen demons that call up his own history as a Holocaust survivor say in The Pianist. That history of course includes his status as a sex offender off-screen. So when the opening shot has the onscreen director standing next to a very phallic cactus and that onscreen director makes you do a double take because he is a dead ringer for Polanski - even the same haircut - well let us just say you do not have to dig too deep to make connections especially with Emmanuelle Seigner Polanski's real-life wife playing the auditioning actress. The film still centers on the male-female power struggle playwright David Ives put in his original stage script. But where the play had the stage actress and her director sort of morphing into the characters as they rehearsed the movie blurs those lines and the ones separating the film's creators from the people onscreen. And by the time Venus In Fur is done the sexual tension is Polanski-esque in more ways than you might expect. That sort of thing is not going to happen when Clint Eastwood directs a musical about Frankie Valli and The Four Seasons.   Ahh ah-ah-ah-ahh. I love you just the way you are.  Oh he put a little of his younger self into Jersey Boys a black and white Rawhide episode playing on TV at one point. But that is just a joke. No what director Eastwood brings to Broadway's jukebox smash is a seriousness and realism you do not expect. He does not even start it with a song. He starts with a scene that could have been in Goodfellas a barber's 16-year-old son giving a shave to a local mob boss and by accident nearly slicing the guy's throat. The mob boss happily is a fan of the kid's throat.    A voice like yours is a gift from God.   Sure Mr. DeCarlo. It is just...   What?   I do not know. I just wish things would start to happen.   Impatient. Do not worry. You work hard everything follows.  Everything does follow - pop stardom then the usual ups and downs long tours broken marriages money trouble. And where on Broadway each scene leads neatly to a song...   Big girls do not cry...  In a more realistic movie there are perhaps necessarily going to be arid stretches. Eastwood's got a feel for music. He composed the scores for most of his recent films. But he does not have a particular flair for musical staging so the concert scenes do not pop. He is better with the backstage stuff even when dialogue's theatrically contrived - an argument for instance that gets refereed by the group's gay producer.    I do not get it.  What do not you get Tommy?   The title Walk Like A man. As opposed to what a woman?   Hey. Hey hey hey Ms. Congeniality? It is a metaphor. It is an anthem for every guy who is ever been twisted around a girl's little finger. And if I am explaining that to you we are in trouble.  Walk Like A Man take one.  Eastwood's production team rounded up enough vintage cars to capture the look of the '60s. But Jersey Boys is too wrapped up in its boys from jersey to give you much actual feel for the period. Onstage you expect the type-focus but onscreen it is weird that Sinatra is the only other musician who gets mentioned - no Beach Boys no Beatles? This Jersey Boys universe feels as if it is been crafted as specifically for the group's fans with Eastwood being fan number one as Polanski's Venus In Fur has been crafted around Polanski directors bending stage works to purposes cinematic and personal. I am Bob Mondello.   Ooh woo-ooh-ooh ooh woo-ooh-ooh walk like a man. Oh how you tried to cut me down...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 