 Missionary Sam Childers baseball manager Billy Beane and food writer Nigel Slater - they are all guys you could have a cup of coffee with if you were in the right place at the right time. They are also guys who are being impersonated by actors this week in new movies which gives our film critic Bob Mondello a bio-pic triple feature to review.  One film is affecting one is effective and one's a little affected. Start with the affecting one Machine Gun Preacher the story of how Sam Childers a drug dealing biker gang thug got religion and ended up doing charity work in war-torn Sudan. Charity work involving children once a soldier shows him a stream of what he calls night commuters flowing into towns to sleep on the streets.    Their parents send them out because it is safer to sleep here than in their own homes.   Why?   Because death comes at night in the villages. These are the lucky ones so far the ones the rebels have not found yet.  Does this sound like a standard heartstring-tugger? Well it would probably get pretty thick if someone besides Marc Forster were directing. Forster is the guy who made Monsters Ball Stranger Than Fiction and the most recent James Bond flick. Sentimental is not really his thing.    Get your little book there and do whatever it is you got to do to get me that .   Sam you need to calm down.   Do not tell me to calm down.  The folks behind Moneyball have no objection to tears if they are of the oh my God we are winning variety.    What is happening in Oakland?   It defies everything we know about baseball.  Take this exchange between manager Brad Pitt and statistics-loving player evaluator Jonah Hill who comes to his first day on the job with a thick stack of computer printouts.    I asked you to do three. How many did you do?   Forty-seven.   Okay.   Actually 51. I do not know why I lied just now.  Do you hear how much character information just got squeezed into 24 words? Tobacco-chewing Pitt laid back and kind of jokey. Nervous Hill so eager to please. It is the relationship between these two guys not what they make happen in the infield that drives Moneyball.    Hi Mr. Shot. It is Peter Brand. I apologize for putting you on hold earlier. Billy asked me to call you back. He is on another line.   Tell him we want 225000 for Rincon.   Billy says he needs 225000 for Ricardo Rincon. Please. Yes I added the please at the end.  Which brings us to Toast a film a' clef about a budding chef Nigel Slater who grew up in a home where cooking was not mom's strong suit. Still a foodie finds comfort where he can.    No matter how bad things get it is impossible not to love someone who made you toast. Once you have bitten through that crusty surface to the softer underneath and tasted the warm salty butter you are lost forever.   Hear that crunch? The food in Toast is downright tactile from the gloppy canned stuff that mom cooks to the mouthwatering pies prepared by a cleaning lady who more or less moves in after mom dies much to Nigel's annoyance.    You are wasting your time. I mean you are far too common and anyway you are married.   All I am doing is darning his socks.  The cleaning lady Mrs. Potter is played with delicious crassness by Helena Bonham Carter and as Nigel grows older life in the house they share becomes a bake-off for dad's affections.    That is the best lemon meringue you have ever tasted. That is the best lemon meringue anybody's ever tasted. If I was you son I would give up. You will never even be in the vicinity.   What did you put in there to make it so fluffy?  I am Bob Mondello. 