 When the actors John Lithgow and Alfred Molina came by our New York studios the other day they brought with them a loose joking rapport - the shorthand of longtime friends.   Fred and I had known each other for - well 15 - 20 years.  You call Alfred Molina Fred. We should clarify...  Yeah everybody calls me Fred.  OK.  Yeah if anyone says to you I know Alfred really well they are lying.   You can call him Freddy teacups. That is his mob name.   John Lithgow had just wrapped up a run playing King Lear on stage in Central Park and he was having a bit of an identity crisis.   I had my long long beard shaved off. I cannot even recognize myself. And I think who is that kid?  He looks like a slightly grumpy baby.   Lithgow and Molina bring that same easy intimacy to their roles in the new movie Love Is Strange. It is a quiet portrait of marriage. They play a gay couple who get married in New York after 39 years as partners. Their marriage costs Molina's character his job teaching music at a Catholic school. When he is fired the men are forced to sell their apartment and ask friends and family if they can move in.    Now it will not be long before I get another job and it should not be long before we find another apartment but in the meantime...   It is just a transition phase - probably just a week or two.  These two men Ben and George have shared four decades together. Now no one has room for both of them and they are forced to live apart. I talked with Alfred Molina and John Lithgow about creating the history of this couple on screen. They told me one thing that helped was the cramped New York apartment they share at the beginning of the film.   The apartment that was our apartment belonged to a couple who have been - how long have they been together John?  Longer than Ben and George.  Yeah you know 50 - 60 - 55 years or something like that. And they let us use their apartment...  ...and they were extras in the opening scene.  That is right.  This is a gay couple.  Yes and they would been together for a long long time. They would witnessed all the you know various changes - all the big political and cultural upheavals in the last 50 years. And they were inspirational really.  And a nice reference point for us.  Yeah.  They were very kind of self-effacing men. One very charming thing was they were huge theater fans. They would seen everything that Fred and I had done on Broadway. In fact they even had a collection of programs - of playbills. And they brought them out for me to sign. They would seen the first thing I had done on Broadway in 1973.  No kidding. And they saved the program.  And they saved the programs.  But they could not remember the production. .  They could not remember me. That is what - I was a little miffed.   Well it is been a long time. I am talking with John Lithgow and Alfred Molina about the new film Love Is Strange. I am curious whether this seems to you like a marriage of opposites because John Lithgow - Ben your character - seems to me to be a bit of a free spirit. George - Alfred Molina your character - is more tightly wrapped. And let us listen to a scene of the two of you at a bar where it becomes clear that George - Alfred your character - has been faithful for all these years that you have been together - not so for Ben. Let us take a listen.    Do I detect a note of jealousy in your voice?   I have wondered what you have been doing in your few nights without me.   That is not for me Ben. You know that.   For all these years?   For all these years.   Amazing - I am sorry I cannot say the same to you George. But at least I have always been honest with you.   Sometimes I think ignorance might be a little better.   I am sorry George.  What was going through your mind as you were shooting this scene? John do you want to start?  Well in 40 years - a 40-year-long relationship you go through hard times. You go through crises. I do not think this is Ben confessing to George. It is just a moment of saying I am sorry probably not for the first time. You know I - it is a film about the nature of long long relationships.  The way I saw it was that it was also not just - you know on the face of it it is Ben apologizing. But it is also a kind of acknowledgment of their survival - that they survived all these vicissitudes and all the changes - all the crises. And that is the strength of a long-term relationship - that you arrive at a point where in a sense it is a celebration. You know despite everything - despite all the things that we have been through we are still here. And that is why I think the title of the movie - you know the use of the word strange - and I always thought it was in the kind of almost Shakespearean sense of things being - something being most strange - most wondrous strange - you know something being magical and mystical and mysterious. And love is that. Love survives all kinds of things. And that is what is so fantastic about it.  And the fact that it is a same-sex marriage or it is a gay relationship that is been going on for 40 years - these have been 40 extraordinary years in our cultural history.  Yeah.  They have seen so many chapters including the appalling tragedy of AIDS in the '80s and '90s. They have - these two men have surely lost a hundred friends between them. Nothing is said about that and yet it is a kind of melancholy undercurrent.  You know I was thinking about some of the past characters that each of you has played. Alfred Molina you played a gay writer in the movie Prick Up Your Ears way back in 1987. John Lithgow you were a transsexual former football player in The World According To Garp back in 1982. I have been wondering if you would have thought 30 or so years ago that one day you would be playing something as normal humdrum ordinary as a marriage between two gay men?  Well I certainly did not. But is not that wonderful that we did? I mean I do not know what John's experience was like when he did Garp but certainly when we were shooting Prick Up Your Ears there was - I remember having discussions with very serious people - intelligent people who would be wondering if me - my choice to play a gay character was going to have a bad effect on my career. And you would not dream of suggesting that to an actor now. It is amazing how things have changed.  You think of major breakthrough films on gay themes like Brokeback Mountain or Milk or Longtime Companion or Prick Up Your Ears. All of them involve crisis and torment and frequently death - sometimes murder and assassination like in Milk. This is so prosaic and quotidian. This is an ordinary comfortable kind of inconspicuous and unassuming couple. And that is what is so amazing about it. You realize watching it I have never seen this before. You see it rarely enough on the subject of a straight marriage but a gay marriage?  It is the epic quality of the ordinary. You know you scratch something ordinary and then something extraordinary is always - you know is more often than not beneath it.  Well John Lithgow and Alfred Molina thanks so much for talking to us today.  It is a great pleasure. We are very proud of it.  Thank you.  John Lithgow and Alfred Molina star in the new movie Love Is Strange. 