 If you teared up when Andy gave his toys to little Bonnie at the end of Toy Story 3 you probably thought Pixar is animated tale had ended on a high note. Now Woody Buzz and the gang are back for a new adventure. In a moment we will hear from the singer-songwriter Randy Newman about his involvement in the franchise. But first Bob Mondello reviews Toy Story 4.  Last time Andy was heading off to college. This time Bonnie is heading to kindergarten. And as always favorite toy Woody is there to smooth the way.    Bonnie had a great day in class and we are going on a road trip.   Road trip?   Vacation.   Yeehaw.   But then something really weird happened. Bonnie made a friend in class.   Oh she is already making friends.   No no. She literally made a new friend. Everyone I want you to meet Forky.   Golly bob howdy.   Hi?   Hello. Hi.   Ah.   He is a spork.   Yes. Yeah. I know.  And therein hangs our tale.    Forky is the most important toy to Bonnie right now. We all have to make sure nothing happens to him.   Woody we have a situation.  A runaway situation that will unravel further on that vacation trip a visit to a Wild West tourist town where Woody encounters an old flame Bo Peep who introduces him to a daredevil motorcycle toy who can maybe help get Forky back.    Hi Duke.   Who is the cowboy?   Duke meet Woody. Woody meet...   Duke Caboom - Canada's greatest stunt man.  Keanu Reeves is the voice.    Oh yeah yes.   Huh?   He is posing.  Meanwhile Buzz Lightyear gets trapped in a carnival prize lineup with plush toys Ducky and Bunny voiced by Key and Peele.    I need...   A child to shower you with unconditional love? Join the club pal.   Yeah join the club.   Come on. Help me get out of here.   Oh I will help you - with my foot.  And you do not really need to know a lot more do you? Pixar sagas have occasionally been less than inspired - the Cars movies for instance - but Toy Story is part of the company's DNA. And in this fourth installment they are reaching for a new and even more resonant sense of closure. As always by focusing on the loyalty toys feel for their kids they earn audience loyalty. Just try not to care about Bo Peep let alone Woody.    Do I need to be worried?   Well my guys are veterans. They will hang in there.  The Toy Story world is now photo real enough that it hardly seems digitized and the foibles and feelings of the toys ring equally true after nearly a quarter-century. They have got a friend in us because they have been such good friends to us. I am Bob Mondello.    You have got a friend in me... 