 Mia Alvar was born in the Philippines but as a small child her family moved to Bahrain. Then they moved again to New York. The cities of her own childhood are the settings in her new collection of short stories In The Country.  Part of the project for BU was kind of getting behind the official sometimes sentimental narrative about overseas Filipino workers.  What is the - what is the sentimental version?  Well you know there is an overarching sense of them as the heroes and saints of their family who are making this huge sacrifice - which of course they are - of being apart from the people that they love in order to support those same people. And I was curious about where some of these characters kind of hew to that narrative and where they kind of go off-script as well.  Let us talk about one of these stories. There is an amazing story called The Miracle Worker obviously playing off the title of the old play about Helen Keller and this is about a character named Sally. She lives in Bahrain and she is been hired to be kind of a miracle worker to work with a disabled child.  Yeah. That story and that title really speaks directly to this reputation that Filipinos who represent a large number of the ex-pat workers in that area of the Middle East - that sense of them - as Sally in the story calls them the cheerful hard-working and obedient tribe .  Diligent industrious and...  Right - literally miracle workers.  And something that is interesting about Sally's situation and is true for other characters in these stories - the degree to which your identity is defined by what you do by your job. I mean it is true for everybody I guess but when you are in this foreign environment it is that much more of a contrast.  Right. And yet when people are sort of thrown together in a place that is strange or foreign to them Filipinos who maybe would not have socialized with each other back in Manila spend all their free time socializing with each other and kind of lean on each other and feel a responsibility to each other.  There is another character here Esmeralda who does seem to fall into that familiar pattern. She is a Filipino woman working as a maid in New York City.  Right.  I was hoping you could read the opening passage from her story.  Sure. That morning you are awoken by an airplane humming so close overhead it seems to want to take you with it. The clock says five an hour ahead of your alarm. You have lived close to two airports for almost two decades. You are used to planes. They even show up in your dreams. In last night's dream you died. Your body crumbled into ash. Before you could learn what came next before you could see where your soul went a machine - some giant vacuum cleaner which in real life was this plane - came down to sweep you off the earth like dust. After today you will never hear a plane in the same way again but you do not know that yet.  What is - another thing that is wild about this story - you use the second-person all the way through. You you you -you do this you do that. Why that approach? I mean it is kind of - it has a sort of haunting quality about it.  Well I think the second-person is just polarizing for understandable reasons. People do not like being told that they are someone they are not or they are doing something that they definitely are not. And it can come across in sort of an almost aggressive way . And I sort of decided that I was OK in this particular story with kind of aggressively insisting that the person reading identify with Esmeralda whose real-life counterpart might not have time to read a literary short story collection. Yeah I think the second-person kind of speaks to the desire to have someone identify with this character and also the impossibility of it.  Mia Alvar's debut story collection is called In The Country. Mia thanks very much.  Thank you. 