 Politicians and pop stars often come back to the same refrain.    Freedom is just another word for nothin' left to lose.    Freedom - I will not let you down.  Freedom - I will not give you up. Freedom...    Freedom freedom I cannot move. Freedom cut me loose.  The writer Maggie Nelson is the latest to tackle the subject. In 2015 her memoir The Argonauts was a massive international hit. And her new book is called  Four Songs Of Care And Constraint. It is a work of criticism exploring what it means to be free in our interconnected world. Maggie Nelson welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you. I am thrilled to be here.  So much has been said and written about freedom. This book is dense with references and quotes to other people's observations and opinions about the subject. What made you decide to add your voice to this conversation about what freedom means?  Insanity clearly but...  .  ...No. I - there are so many ways into this. I think it has a biographical route. I was born in 1973 and grew up in San Francisco kind of in the detritus of a lot of the civil rights movements and women's liberation you know kind of you know all around me. And I just was very curious as to you know this narrative that we would had these liberation movements but they would failed. And now we were kind of oppressed by neoliberalism or what have you.  Well and early on you kind of draw a contrast between the mantle of freedom that civil rights activists and other progressive marchers wore in the '60s with the present day when freedom is most often claimed by people who say you know I do not want to wear a mask to protect others from the coronavirus because it is my freedom not to wear a mask. It is been taken over by the other side of the political spectrum.  Yeah. I mean this is - that is a very long you know centuries-long split you know the kind of division in the United States of rhetoric around freedom that relates to emancipation and abolition and then the kind that is related to more individualistic movements you know Do not Tread on Me kind of a thing.  Early on in the book you argue that the idea of absolute freedom is a straw man. And in the introduction you write the question is not whether we are enmeshed but how we negotiate suffer and dance with that enmeshment. And so is your exploration of freedom just necessarily really kind of an exploration of freedom's limits and the idea that like we have to start from a place of acknowledging that in order to be free we have to restrain ourselves and others to a certain extent?  Yeah. I became very interested early on in how even slogans like Do not Tread on Me rely upon a relation. Like they address somebody else. You say do not tread on me. You are already talking to somebody you know? And I would be...  Right .  I was very obsessed with - you know by saying your body has nothing to do with my body you are talking to somebody else's body who is ostensibly right there with you. I mean you know...  So even an assertion for freedom on your own is acknowledging that that is going to limit someone else's ability to do something.  I do not know if I would say to limit. I would just say it is in a dance with.  So the book looks at freedom in four areas. There is art sex addiction and climate change. And I would love to talk about how the idea of freedom applies to climate change because when you look at the impact that human actions are having all around the globe what do you think freedom means in that context? Like is it freedom to burn fossil fuels and contribute to mass extinction?  Yeah I mean I think that that chapter is concerned with - and hopefully it has a generous cast to it. And I think it is concerned with the way you know like the same 250 years that we have really produced an enormous discourse about human freedom in - at least in the West - have been commensurate with the years of burning fossil fuels that are unprecedented you know especially in the last 60 years' pace. You know the book is very against calcified notions of freedom that we hold on to so tightly .  If the answer was simple it would not fill a book.  Yeah but they would - that they become death wishes. Someone's quoted that The Heartland Institute - saying like you know you will pull this thermostat out of my cold dead hand. You know like that kind of literal image of you know holding on so tightly to our use of fossil fuels you know I mean it kind of has a comedy in it if you think about it just like air conditioning or the remote control because it sounds so petty. But it is also to me more indicative of a kind of addiction to a certain notion of freedom the freedom that we have come to know which is implicated with fossil fuels like we want to go. We want to drive. We want to connect via Zoom easily and quickly via the batteries of these computers. We want to do all these things. And yeah I talk about in that chapter how some restraint - like the restraint to leave the remaining fossil fuels in the ground.  Many people would think of constraint as the opposite of freedom but it seems like in your understanding constraint is sort of a necessary component of freedom. Like it is a prerequisite.  Yeah I mean I think - and this is really clear in the chapter I write about sexual freedom that you know all of our choices have constraints built into them. You know sometimes they are legal constraints. Sometimes they are physical constraints. Sometimes they are ethical constraints you know and that the practice of the interplay between what we want to do and what others want to do and those constraints is in fact you know the practice of ethics. You know to be an ethical human and - is to engage with freedom and constraint both you know?  I am curious. Having spent years working on this book - I mean you say you started it before The Argonauts your international bestseller even came out. How do you view freedom now when you hear it in the context of a pop song or a political ad or a catchphrase that has none of the nuance  of the labor that you have put into this?  Yeah it is sad in a way because it takes something so interesting and it is - it works as a very blunt tool you know a weaponized tool so it makes me sad. But I also feel - I feel grateful to have spent this time getting at it because when I hear the word in pop songs or even in political discourse I know the writhing subterranean you know issues at hand and I hear them. And you know hopefully if people read the book they can enjoy some of that  exploration as well.  Well Maggie Nelson it is been great talking with you. Thank you very much.  You too. Thank you so much.  Her new book is  Four Songs Of Care And Constraint.  