 Now we are going to meet an author whose new novel The Wake became a hit against all odds in the U.K. last year. The book is being released in the U.S. next week. I met Paul Kingsnorth at his home in the countryside of far-western Ireland. He and his wife grow their own food and homeschool their two young kids.  I think we will get bees and chickens we hope - maybe something else. Lela you want an alpaca do not you? Lela wants an alpaca or a donkey or anything fluffy really.  Kingsnorth's latest novel is definitely not soft and fluffy. The Wake is set during the Norman conquest when armies from France swept across England crushing Anglo-Saxon civilization. It is sort of a post-apocalyptic tale set in the 11th century. Also it is written in a slightly made-up language - more about that in a bit. Before the book came out in Britain last year Kingsnorth assumed it would be a flop.  I suppose I was about halfway through it when I thought there is no way anyone's going to publish this. I am writing a book about a period in history no one knows about in a language no one can understand with a central character who is horrible.   There is absolute no way anyone's going to touch this with a bargepole but I do not care.  Kingsnorth used a crowd-sourcing platform called Unbound to fund the book because he could not get any mainstream publishers to bite. Then something strange happened.  The first inkling I got that it might be successful was when the first review came out which was in The Guardian which said it was a literary triumph which I thought blimey no one's ever said that about my writing before.  Then one day he was working in the garden when he got a phone call with some news.  It is just been long listed for the Booker Prize. I thought bloody hell. What? This is ridiculous.  To top it all off the great Shakespearean actor Mark Rylance bought the film rights. Here's Rylance reading from the first page of The Wake recorded for The Telegraph newspaper.    And who will hiere the gleoman when the tales he tells is blaec? Who locs at the heofon if it brings him regn. Who locs in the mere when there seems no end to its deopness.  Who looks in the mere when there seems no end to its deopness? If that does not sound like modern English well it is not. At first Paul Kingsnorth tried writing the book in the language that you and I speak today.  I did not get too far and I just thought this is not working. It seems strange. It made me realize why some historical novels I have read did not work for me. And I thought I just cannot have this guy doing 300 pages of contemporary English idiom. And what is the alternative to that?  So he began by sprinkling a few old English words into the text. Then he went all the way until it was nearly incomprehensible. And finally he pulled back on the throttle to create what he calls a shadow tongue - a mashup of old and new. The main character is a rebel an insurgent who tries to fight back against the invading French. As a reader I found that the language starts as an obstacle and quickly pulls you deep into the world of the novel. Kingsnorth says this is because the words we use to describe our world shape our perception of it.  So there might be 10 different names in 10 different languages for that willow tree over there and they may give the people who use those names a subtly different was of seeing the tree a subtly different relationship to it.  Did you find that in writing in this language you saw the land around you in a different way because of the language in which you were writing?  Yes I think I probably did. I think what you find when you start to look at old English and you start to look at the kind of Anglo-Saxon relationship with the land is that it is a starker thing because it is possible to just pass over landscapes in the world today. You do not have to really have any relationship with them at all. You can drive through them. And if you are living the kind of life that these people lived in the Fens 1000 years ago you have to have a relationship with every single thing that is there.  The Anglo-Saxon relationship to the swampy land known as the fens is similar to Kingsnorth's relationship with his land here in Western Ireland. The house is disconnected from the water grid. He and his wife plan to put up solar panels and wind turbines to get off the electrical grid too. There are clear parallels between Kingsnorth's writing and his lifestyle - the closeness to the land the sense that civilization as we know it may not last the longing for a simpler time. Listen to the author read this passage from The Wake.   Our fathers was freer than us. Our fathers' fathers stalked the wild fens. Now the fens is being tamed. Everything gets smaller. For every child born there is some new law. A man should be free and alone on his land. The world should not come in unless he asks it. Freedom should there be in England again like there was in the old days in the first days of the English.  It is funny that even a thousand years ago they were looking back on earlier days as better than they were .  Well this was one of the other things I was exploring with the book actually is the idea of nostalgia that there is always a time before your time when things were better because you know I can be prone to that myself so I wanted to explore what it was like. And I do not doubt that a thousand years ago there were men in England saying oh it was better when our fathers came it was better when their fathers came. Of course there would have been and maybe it would have been. But you know there is always this temptation to see this time before a fall when everything came apart.  Those echoes between the 11th century and the present day resonated with English readers. The U.K. booksellers' industry crowned The Wake book of the year. The novel is released here in the U.S. next week. 