 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. A couple of years ago Po Bronson wrote an article for New York Magazine about how parents should not talk to their children. He wrote that parents who praise their kids figuring that praise builds self-esteem and that self-esteem leads to achievement have got it wrong. Bronson cited research that shows that praise actually undermines kids. Well now Po Bronson has expanded on that article in a book of new thinking about children. It is called NurtureShock. He wrote it with Ashley Merryman. And Po Bronson joins us from member station KQED in San Francisco. Welcome to the program. Mr.  It is an honor to be on. Thanks Robert.  You mention in this book that you are learning with some difficulty to withhold praise from your own kids. I would like you to explain first why you are convinced they are better off that way and what is an example of it? Mr.  Children today hear so much praise that they have decoded its real meaning. We are making a mistake in thinking that we can manipulate them without recognizing that manipulation is at hand. So the research is clear that children only under the age of 7 take praise at face value and after that period of time they learn the pattern. Kids who are praised a lot are the kids who teachers and parents are worried about. Therefore to hear praise is really a sign that mama is worried about you. When I first encountered the research on praise I was coaching a kindergarten soccer team. My son was on the team. And until that point I was telling the kids constantly you are great you are doing well even when they were dribbling the wrong way on the field or they dribbled the ball right off the field onto some other team's field. And when I read the research I was like I have to change here. And it was not so easy. So I started by just praising the kids for wow you noticed the ball was out of bounds and you stopped good job on that. Or way to go in the right direction.  You learned to say something that the kids would receive as accurate and therefore sincere and truthful. Mr.  Right. And over time I learned to let kids develop their own judgment about how well they had done. And when kids fail and all we do is praise them there is a lot of duplicity in that and kids begin to hear nothing matters to my parents more than me doing great or me being smart. And failure becomes almost a taboo topic something that families cannot even mention.  And the main arena that you are looking at here is not childhood sports. It is school performance. And that is where praise that kids can see through according to the researchers you cite is not just of no good use it is actually undermining. Mr.  Kids who are praised a lot become obsessed with the image of looking smart. So they tend to not want to take academic risks.  I should be getting by on my natural gifts therefore to show other kids I am working hard would be to broadcast that I am not naturally smart. When in fact in real life you cannot get anywhere without not just some intelligence but also a lot effort and persistence.  Now praise is just one chapter - the subject of just one chapter in your book. You also address the question why kids lie. Why do children lie? Mr.  All kids lie. Almost all kids will experiment with lying at least by the age of 4. And if they start when they are younger you might think oh no my kid's lacking morality. Actually it is a sign of their nascent intelligence because it is more complicated to hold in your head as a child the truth and an alternative reality and then try to sustain that alternative reality.  Lying you are saying is an exercise in creativity in that sense. Mr.  And it is normative. We should expect all children to attempt lying. The question is what do we do with it over time? Kids who do not have it conditioned out of them by the age of 7 will tend to have habituated to lying as a way to deal with situations that are stressful where you are going to make people unhappy. And if you do not condition it out of them they tend to hang onto it as a habit.  Have you found yourself changing the way that you deal with your own young children in terms of their lying? Mr.  Oh certainly. We have done some online polling and I agreed with the 75 percent - before I would done all this research - that I needed to really emphasize to my kids that lying was wrong and I would sort of threaten them with punishments. Well it turns out that increasing the threat of punishment only turns kids into better and more frequent liars. And what I have learned to do is to tell my children in that moment when I think that they might lie I will pause them and I will say look you will make me really happy if you tell me the truth. It is awkward to say it but it does work and keeps kids from learning the habit of lying in difficult circumstances.  As the way you describe it lying for small children is often a way of keeping one's parents happy. The child thinks my parent really wishes that I did not do something in the first place. If I say I did not then that is my best chance of making my parent happy. Mr.  That is exactly right. And so we need to clearly signal to them what is the way to truly make us happy.  Then you return to the subject of lying when you write about adolescence. And there is one study you report on in which out of 36 potential topics you found that the average teenager lies to her or his parents on about 12 of them. And there is a list here. Teens lie about what they spend their allowance on whether they have started dating what clothes they put on away from the house. They lie about what movie they went to - and it goes on and on and on and on and on. How do researchers now understand adolescence that is different from before? Mr.  Well 78 percent of American parents think that their teenagers can tell them anything. But the teens completely disagree because while the average teen might be lying to their parents about 12 of the 36 common topics even the teens who lie the least are still lying. They are lying about five topics out of the 36. Parents today imagine that there is a trade-off between being strict and being permissive and that the benefit of some permissiveness is honesty that you are going to hear the truth and not be kept in the dark. So you will be able to help. The science says that those permissive parents do not hear more truth from their kids. And the best way to hear truth from kids is to set a few rules consistently enforce them - and then this is one that is going to sound controversial  parents who negotiate occasionally with their teens. We need to see that some arguing with parents a moderate amount of argument is actually a good thing not a bad thing that arguing is a sign of respect not of disrespect.  How is arguing a sign of respect? Mr.  Because to the teenager  telling you the truth and leading to an argument or just outright lying. Arguing over the actual rules is a better alternative and very different thing than arguing over your authority as a parent to set rules at all.  Po Bronson thank you very much for talking with us today. Mr.  Thank you Robert I really appreciate it.  Po Bronson is the author with Ashley Merryman of the book  New Thinking About Children. 