 This is how writer Will Boast describes his childhood move from England to Wisconsin - escaping the drab rainy confines of the British Isles and lighting out for the vast plenty of America. It was an adventure and it is where Boast's happy story ends. Ellah Allfrey has this review of his new memoir.  By the time he was 24 Will Boast was the only surviving member of his immediate family. His mother died of a brain tumor in his first year of college then his brother was killed in a car accident. There is more. While Will was away at graduate school his father died of a ruptured ulcer. The story of my family had come to an end he writes. It was just me left - some kind of tacked-on epilogue that when pointlessly on and on. But it was not over. It turns out his father had been married before. He divorced his first wife abandoning their two sons. Later he made sure the children of his second family knew nothing about them. Will makes other discoveries about his parents - a past of abandonment shame and regret. He tells the story out of order - trips to England to meet his half-brothers life in the States. Unfortunately they are too many moments were Boast's prose is earnest and over-crafted. The segmented scenes and zig-zagging timelines do not let the reader feel a real emotional connection with anyone - least of all the author. But in its best moments the book focuses on his parents and brother. In one chapter he recalls working with his mother at a local library cataloging books under gentle guidance. When she dies he remembers the sense of loss he felt when the books at the library were removed from circulation. When the man came to remove my mother's body he writes it left a blank in her rooms - an absence framed by the dust balls that had gathered over her decline. The discarded books I pulled left gaps - notches in the permanent dust that even when the shelves had been cleared cleaned and refilled still would not disappear.  The book's Epilogue by Will Boast. Editor and critic Ellah Allfrey had our review. 