 There is a strange form of communication that many of us might be familiar with - for better or worse. It is all about us but we rarely get to read it. It is the letter of recommendation. And a new novel by Julie Schumacher is filled with only these letters. It is appropriately called...   Dear Committee Members.  All the letters come from the desk of our curmudgeonly narrator Jason T. Fitger who we thought might sound something like this...   Let me be candid.  And candid he is.   The job market for young employment-seekers is abysmal. Otherwise Mr. Potton who graduated with a B.A. in English last spring would set his sights considerably higher.  The book does not have much of a plot. It morphs into more of a diatribe about the sorry life of our narrator and about the state of higher education.   The letter of recommendation has become a rampant absurdity usurping the place of the quick consultation a two minute phone call - not to mention the teaching and research that faculty were supposedly hired to perform. I have not published a novel in six years. Instead I fill my departmental hours casting words of praise into the bureaucratic abyss.  He is highly inappropriate. That is Julie Schumacher. She created this character. She is professor of creative writing at the University of Minnesota and she is written lots of letters of recommendation herself. Just like professor Fitger.  He is the sort of rageful person who you feel yourself sometimes to be before the superego takes over and tells you do not say that.  Now over the course of the book the letters reveal something about the professor's personality which one reviewer tagged as fitting a certain academic male stereotype. Which they called the passive-aggressive sexist.   Explain a little bit about this. Not an unusual character in literature. But is this a fair way to describe the way he talks about women?  Well when I was beginning the book the voice came to me very quickly. And I knew it was a male voice. A friend of mine said to me why did not you make this a female main character? And it never dawned on me. I just knew he was an angry traditionalist. I recognized him immediately. And there are I think parts of me within him but I think people would be surprised to think that inside me lives Professor J. Fitger. My husband said to me when I finish the book are you really this angry?  There is one good example. It is a letter for a character who comes up more than one time. She comes to the professor for more than one application because she is applying to law school and medical school and many things. And my favorite line about her he says her work is meticulous but not very interesting. Moment of truth. Personally I do not care for Mizelles  who may be ideally suited to law school. She is obviously brilliant but I find her off-putting and a bit of a cipher. She has a mind like a bric-a-brac storehouse of facts a surplus of content put to questionable use. He obviously respects something about her but it is so buried under a heap of insults. It is hard to imagine.  Yes. And she eventually does become very successful. I think he resents her abilities. He is writing letters for her but begrudgingly. He knows that she is going to make it with or without his help. And so his letters actually provide very little assistance to her.  Now one thing about this character is he struggles with some of the indignities as a scholar in the humanities. One of his laments throughout the course of the book is how his office is located near the bathrooms and how the department is in the midst of ongoing construction in the building. That is supposed to benefit a more profitable or marketable department economics. Is that something that does feel very real? Where people are very much questioning the value? Quote unquote the market value of an English degree or a humanities degree?  Yeah. I think the frustration that my main character feel is a frustration I have felt. You know the emphasis on the STEM fields - science technology engineering math. There is a bit of a feeling of an end of an era in American arts and letters. Or at least a sort of time of crisis. We are supposed to have a computer in every kindergarten classroom but where does that leave the future of literature foreign languages theater. You know we are also just at a point I think of educational crisis in terms of the cost of an education. It is a very difficult time right now in higher Ed.  It is funny. Every kind of every profession has its minor bureaucratic hells.   You have managed to make me feel a little bit sheepish and a little bit guilty for the letters that I requested.  Oh I still request letters from people and I feel guilty all the time. And I do have students who - now that they know about this book come to me somewhat apologetically. And I feel bad about that. Because I do want to advocate for my students who are - most of them - terrific.  Well like Professor Fitger in your book you still write them. And for that I thank you on behalf of your students.  And you are very welcome.  Julie Schumacher. She is the author of Dear Committee Members. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 