 A caped crusader is on the loose in the mountains of Pakistan.   The lady in black is the Burka Avenger. She is the new superhero and star of her very own cartoon series in Pakistan. When this avenger strikes she wears a flowing black veil only her brown eyes visible as she fights corrupt politicians and religious zealots. Her weapons of choice - pens and books.   Burka Avenger aims to empower young women in a country where attacks on girls' schools and repression of women remain enduring problems. It is the brainchild of Pakistani entrepreneur and pop star Aaron Haroon Rashid and he joins us now from Islamabad. Welcome to the program.  Thank you so much.  So first tell me how you came up with the idea of a burka-wearing super heroine.  Well you know I have produced a lot of my own music videos over the years and I realized music videos are sort of like mini movies. And I decided that I am gonna do a movie and I shortlisted several ideas and one of them was the Burka Avenger 'ecause at that time there was a lot in the press in 2010 about girls' schools shut down by extremist elements. So as an artist you are always inspired by what is happening around you and all these issues are constantly staring you in the face in Pakistan. So I thought of an idea of a protagonist protecting a girls' school. And that is how the idea for the Burka Avenger developed.  So tell me a little about her her name and her friends because she has this Clark Kent kind of alter-ego you know like what does she do during the day?  So is a schoolteacher named Jiya. She is a warm bubbly intelligent young woman who is concerned about education and concerned about the city and the people of Halwapur which is the name of the city. And then of course to fight the bad guys and to hide her identity the way superheroes do she puts on the burka. And it is a really cool sleek burka and she can leap off buildings and glide from you know almost like a flying squirrel.  And the idea is to convey some kind of social messages as well over the course of the program?  Absolutely. Each episode is centered around a theme moral social message and we touch upon various issues like child labor discrimination in Pakistan sectarian violence is a huge problem many issues like that. And one thinks these are really hard-hitting issues for a kids' show but we have presented it in a very entertaining manner and kids have been absolutely loving the show and it is full family entertainment you know even adults are loving it too.   So the show premiered this past Sunday evening and you talked about the reaction from younger Pakistanis but there is also been this criticism particularly from feminist quarters who actually argue that the costume itself is a problem. That essentially you have a superhero who fights oppression but she is wearing an article of clothing that is seen by many as a source of oppression.  Yeah but you know I will tell you that we chose a burka because of course we wanted to hide her identity the way superheroes do. She does not wear the burka during the day. She does not even wear a headscarf or a hijab or anything like that. She goes about her business as a normal teacher would. And so she chooses to wear the burka she is not oppressed. She chooses it to hide her identity the way a superhero would. And on the other end of the spectrum a lot of female superheroes in the West are objectified and sort of sexualized in their costumes like Catwoman and Wonder Woman and that certainly would not work here. And that is not something I want to do the way people are using sex to sell their shows and movies.  Yeah female Western superheroes their costumes are not exactly defendable right? I mean they are usually pretty sexed up. But at the same time the argument is that she becomes empowered by putting on the burka which is the opposite for some who perceive it as a symbol of oppression.  You know I have to tell you something that in Pakistan nobody is compelled to wear the burka in Pakistan like they are in other parts of Muslim countries. So it is not like we are giving out a wrong message. It does not make sense at all because people know about superheroes. People know that Bruce Wayne wears the cloak and the mask and his utility belt to fight crime but he is not going to walk around like that all day. And kids know that she is a great strong role model as a teacher as well. There is a lot of - most of her interaction in the show is as the schoolteacher.  Haroon what is your ultimate hope that the show will accomplish or inspire in its audience?  I think there is a huge space for children's entertainment in Pakistan. There is practically no local entertainment. It is practically zero. And a lot of the entertainment is imported from the West. It is not relevant socially relevant and most of it is just entertaining junk. And I think it is important to have positive social messages and themes and morals. And a lot of young children who do not get the opportunity to get a great education need programming which is entertaining and also educational.  Well Haroon thank you so much for talking to us about the show. Best of luck.  Thank you so much. My pleasure.   Aaron Haroon Rashid is the creator of the Pakistani cartoon Burka Avenger. You can watch a trailer for the show at NPR.org. 