 Canadian writer Annabel Lyon's latest work is a historical novel about the life of a teacher and pupil. The teacher is the Greek philosopher Aristotle. The pupil is young Alexander the Great. And the book is called The Golden Mean. Alan Cheuse has this review.  Here's a story that gives us the classical world with everyday liveliness and narrative force without ever sacrificing intellectual integrity and historical accuracy. Annabel Lyon makes this work with a graceful fusion of effective narrative and colloquial language in which kings and philosophers sometimes speak as kings and philosophers sometimes do like soldiers and stevedores. Aristotle a childhood friend of King Philip of Macedonia accepts the task of tutoring his son Alexander through late childhood up until the young prince takes over the kingdom at his father's death and marches his army east toward India. Aristotle afflicted as we discover by an antique version of manic depression tells in a somewhat muted voice the story of his own childhood and the discovery of his vocation as a philosopher scientist literary critic and of his marriages and daily life as a husband and teacher and writer. As he says after witnessing from backstage a royal production of Euripides' play The Bacchae I have been giddy all day. I love this vantage point the play from behind and seeing all that is gone into it. I love to be on the inside the backside the underside of anything and the usually unseen. That is how the novelist shows us ordinary Greek life and life at court and the personalities of kings and princes and servants slaves and street urchins. She gives Plato a cameo role. There is talk of philosophy some conversations between teacher and pupil about The Iliad and a sporadic commentary on Aristotle's hope of putting together some notes about tragedy. This Aristotle being a plain-spoken guy who loves the ocean and deep pondering of life and good love-making with his wife does not go on very much about the Greek gods. Divinity for me he says at one point is that very plume of birds the patterns of stars the recurrence of seasons. To this fine list  And splendidly intelligent and entertaining novels about the ancient world.  The book is The Golden Mean by Annabel Lyon. Alan Cheuse teaches writing at George Mason University in Fairfax Virginia.  