 Despite its title the new romantic comedy The Year Of Spectacular Men is mostly about women. Critic Bob Mondello says men do play a role though by providing lots of complications.  From the start there is a Woody Allen vibe - early Woody Allen.    Izzy was the first girl I met in I mean years who was...  This is the boyfriend...    ...Insecure enough...  ...Who is no great catch.    ...To think that I was right for her.  Then there is the self-absorbed actor...    She was insistent that I told her how I felt. Can you believe that? Who does that?  ...And the admittedly sweet but really inarticulate musician...    Dude she is my fabric softener.  ...And others none of them quite right for Izzy who is just finishing college in New York and having a quarter-life crisis wondering what to do next. Her little sister has plenty of ideas.    Why do not you take the year for yourself? You are a millennial. You could try the whole like having fun in your 20s thing. They are all doing it except for me.  Sabrina is a modelactress who is a big enough deal to get recognized as they are walking.    Oh my God Sabrina can I get a pic? Z.   Yeah.  This does nothing of course for Izzy's self-esteem but she recognizes that while Sabrina may be the little sister she is the wiser sister when it comes to romantic breakups.  Z.   What? He leaves you in a totally heartless way and is shallower than a kiddie pool. You are post-breakup. You are pre-real world. Save a little face while you still have some.  And Sabrina has a couch to crash on when the boyfriend kicks Izzy out which makes listening to advice kind of a requirement.  Z.   How many times did you call me and you were like he is a lunatic? He is a lunatic.   I am doing a scene with a really hot new guy from class. Z.   When I said there are other fishes in the sea I meant like look through the sea not immediately at the first person that shows up.  If these two sound like sisters it is partly because in real life they are sisters. Madelyn Deutch who plays Izzy also wrote the script. Zoey Deutch who plays Sabrina is indeed a successful modelslash actress. Their mother is Lea Thompson who got her acting break in another growing-up saga Back To The Future. She is sitting in the director's chair for this one and playing their mother.    Honey Sabrina told me you had waffles for dinner the other night. M.   Why are you - you and Sabrina have conversations about my diet?   It is a concern of the family's.  So in many senses The Year Of Spectacular Men is a family affair. It is also a consistently funny affair not just when Izzy's interacting with the variously unspectacular men on offer but in the sisters' inevitable Monday morning quarterbacking.  M.   I think it is over. Z.   You can never trust a guy who has 20 of the same shirt in the same color. It is not natural. That is not OK. M.   It is not.  Being woman-centric the film qualifies as a nice corrective to the sort of comedies it most resembles those '80s rom coms that joked about romance novel conventions without actually challenging them. The script's take on Hollywood is amusingly in the know - the Greek chorus of paparazzi outside Sabrina's apartment the Hollywood couple that is not stuck on itself the indignities of the audition circuit. For a film that marks both a screenwriting debut and a big screen directing debut The Year Of Spectacular Men makes very few rookie mistakes and the ones it does are easily outweighed by the snap of the dialogue.  M.   All I said was that he is good-looking. That is it. Z.   Do not do it Izzy. M.   All I... Z.   Do not... M.   That is... Z.   ...Do... M.   So... Z.   ...It.  Also by the believable back-and-forth of two fun sisters playing sisters. I am Bob Mondello. 