 The 75th anniversary of the movie Gone With The Wind is coming up. And when our staff on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED started talking about it we found out that many of the younger folks who work around here have not seen this classic film. NPR's Neda Ulaby wondered why.  Could it be that Gone With The Wind is not aging particularly gracefully?    We have got to have a doctor. I do not know nothing 'bout birthin' babies.  Film critic Wesley Morris who works for the online magazine Grantland says no. Gone With The Wind is a timeless classic he explains starting with its breathtaking technical achievements.  There is a shot of Scarlett walking across the street. And she is encountering all the bodies. And she is seeing the horror of the war for the first time. And it is just brilliant. It is just a brilliant shot. And the movie is full of those - low angles high angles medium shots long shots. The close-ups are astounding.  But here is what 13 students in a film class at Georgetown University said when asked if they would seen it.  I have seen half of it - parts.  No.  No.  Yes.  No.  Yes. I have seen half of it too.  No.  No.  No.  Unfortunately no.   These students are serious about movies. But a lot of them sided with 20-year-old Mike Minahan who said when it comes to Gone With The Wind frankly he does not give a damn.  Like everything I have seen about it says it like glorifies like the slave era and stuff. And I do not know what is the point of that? Like I do not really see that as a good time in history to be like oh sweet a love story of like people who owned slaves - like good for you.  These students had two issues with Gone With The Wind - race and rape.    Take your hands off me you drunken fool.  Scarlett is raped by her husband and wakes up the next morning in an absolutely wonderful mood. Today we watch that scene - or those with happy slaves - differently than we would have even a generation ago. But that does not mean Gone With The Wind is not timeless says critic Wesley Morris. It is just that to many viewers now it is unfashionable.  The reason the movie is not fashionable is that people think the ideas in it do not matter anymore.  But Morris says these vexing ideas about rape and race in Gone With The Wind are still huge underlying problems in society.  And in popular culture - and you cannot pretend that those things are not there anymore just because it is 2014 and not 1939.   .  In 1939 when the movie came out it is themes of deprivation made sense to Depression-era audiences.    As God is my witness I will never be hungry again.  Food and security war...  Steve Wilson curated an exhibition about Gone With The Wind up now at the University of Texas at Austin. He discussed it on NPR a few weeks ago.  These issues that are so important to Scarlett were also important to the people at the time. And I think that it resonated so much that it became an integral part of our culture that is still with us today.  Hunger Wilson says homelessness dealing with trauma after war - they are all still contemporary issues. And even though it is told from the perspective of a white slave-owning woman Wilson says Gone With The Wind's large canvas love story is timeless too.  I have had the experience of falling in love with someone who did not fall in love with me you know. So that is something that I think everybody can relate to.  That relatability is partly what separates a Gone With The Wind from a troublesome classic like The Birth Of A Nation. And traditionally Gone With The Wind has been a family movie. That is what it was for 27-year-old Georgetown student Becky Neff.  I saw it because I have aunts and uncles who were very affected by it. And when they were growing up and they just - it is a way for us to share something together in common. And they like to pass down things that were interesting for them.  And how interesting to families today to acknowledge and talk about problems with the film to understand America's evolving sense of what is acceptable and better appreciate a sweeping and timeless American epic. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 