 Perhaps no American writer is more associated with a place than Henry David Thoreau. And that by the way is the family pronunciation. In 1845 Thoreau went into the woods near Concord Mass. at Walden Pond. He built a small cabin and lived a simple solitary life. It is also where he wrote his best-known works Walden and Civil Disobedience. Thoreau was born 200 years ago today. Reporter Tom Vitale marked the anniversary with a trip to Walden Pond.  It is a sweltering morning as Notre Dame professor Laura Dassow Walls leads the way through the tall pines on the trail that hugs the shoreline of the 60-acre Walden Pond. Wall says Thoreau spent hours hiking in these woods every day.  His writing became uniquely his own style and his own thinking when he figured out that the way to break through into his own way of doing things was to think as he walked. And he started writing down his thoughts as he walked.  Walls has spent her lifetime studying Thoreau. Her new 615-page biography is out today to coincide with his 200th birthday. She says he scribbled notes in pencil on scraps of paper descriptions of the sights sounds smells and feel of the things around him.  To do that is to break the wall between ourselves and nature and to understand that we are always a part of nature and nature's always a part of us. So to be here and to be wholly immersed to be hot when it is hot and cold when it is cold to be hearing the birds and feeding the little mouse that lives under his cabin is to completely demolish that barrier and understand something really fundamental about what it is to be human.  A quarter mile down the path we arrive at a clearing where Thoreau built his 10-by-15-foot cabin. He moved in on Independence Day 1845.  Thoreau when he moved to his little cabin at the pond you know he was on a quest for self-discovery I think. He was declaring his own independence.  Don Henley singer songwriter and drummer for the rock band The Eagles says he discovered Thoreau when he was 22 years old in 1969.  And people who were my age in the '60s were on the same quest. Walden was a very popular book back then. So I was just seeking spiritually as Thoreau was for something to ground me.  In 1990 Henley founded the Walden Woods Project. He raised 20 million to purchase 200 acres of wooded land adjacent to Walden Pond so that it could not fall into the hands of real estate developers.  In Thoreau's time he was looking at the Industrial Revolution. And he stood up in the face of the Industrial Revolution and said wait a minute. We have to slow down. We have to take a look around us and not destroy what is left. You know his famous quote was in wildness is the preservation of the world. You know it is difficult to be 150 years ahead of your time but he was.  Thoreau was 27 when he moved to Walden Pond to think through his life and also says biographer Laura Walls the life of the nation.  He thinks something is going deeply wrong with America. And he is trying to figure out what is the foundational problem that gives rise to such destructive habits and patterns of life that we could imagine it is OK to enslave people?  As we go through Thoreau's journal he will be writing about nature. But now and then he bursts out with an entry full of rage.  Christine Nelson is curator of a Thoreau bicentenary exhibition at the Morgan Library in New York City.  And you know we are looking at one right here from 1851. And he exploded in his journal. Do we call this the land of the free? What is it to be free from King George and continue the slaves of prejudice?  The Morgan exhibition includes of the author's handwritten journals along with artifacts from his life.  Yeah. We are actually looking amazingly enough at the very lock from the jail cell where Thoreau was confined for a night.  For refusing to pay his taxes to a government that sanctioned slavery and waged what he considered an illegal war against Mexico. The experience inspired his essay Civil Disobedience. It is a tract urging nonviolent resistance to unjust laws that later influenced Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. Kevin Dann is author of another new Thoreau biography called Expect Great Things. Dan says Thoreau's overriding theme of the sovereignty of the individual is why he is more relevant now than ever.  You know the brutality of the police in this country and the surveillance systems - everybody in this country is afraid. If he were alive today he would have been out there shouting from the rafters. People go into the streets. You have no sovereignty anymore. It is gone. It is gone.  Back at Walden Pond Notre Dame professor Laura Dassow Walls points to a sign next to the site where Thoreau built this cabin.  And it reads I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately to front only the essential facts of life and see if I could not learn what it had to teach and not when I came to die discover that I had not lived.  Henry David Thoreau died from tuberculosis in 1862. He was just 44 years old. For NPR News I am Tom Vitale. 