 Who does not love a movie with a happy ending? Well apparently not our movie critic Bob Mondello. He sees more than 300 movies a year and he can only take so many Hollywood stars walking hand-in-hand into the sunset. But our movie critic has not always hated sappy stories. He was once a kid too. And we asked him if he remembered his first trip to a movie theater and he did.  I was 9.    Come on bucket mop broom. Flora says clean up the room.  A neighborhood theater in Bethesda Md. in 1959 - a matinee crowded with zillions of kids discovering new things about a fairytale we all thought we knew.    And now to make a lovely dress fit to grace a fair princess.  The Disney Sleeping Beauty was different from the Brothers Grimm version. For one thing the Disney animators reduced Princess Aurora's seven fairy godmothers to three - Flora Fauna and Merryweather. And Flora and Merryweather had very specific ideas about colors. Flora liked pink. Merryweather liked blue. And when they were magically creating Aurora's birthday dress...    No not pink - make it blue.  ...That caused problems.    Merryweather make it pink.  They kept casting spells and blue and pink bolts of magic...    Make it blue.  ...Some of which started shooting out the chimney like fireworks.    Pink.  I think the reason I remember this part is that at some point both Flora and Merryweather cast a spell at the same moment and the dress ended up splotchy and spoiled. If something like that had happened in my house my brother and I would have gotten spanked. But then Maleficent showed up and we forgot about colors and splotches for a while and worried about curses and pricked fingers and swords of truth and forests of thorns and a huge dragon and kisses that awaken fairy princesses only to have the issue crop back up again at the very end when Princess Aurora and her prince were dancing their way to happily ever after fairy godmothers looking on.    Oh I just love happy endings.   Yes I do too.  Blue.  I was worried that they would splotch everything up again but before they did I turned to my mom and saw she had tears in her eyes. And I said Mom it is not sad. And she said I am crying because it is so happy which to a 9-year-old is nuts. Later I would realize that mom and dad sometimes yelled at each other in real life and I was not connecting that to the lovers onscreen. Though I guess mom was. She knew then something I would not till later - that visions are seldom all they seem. But that day mixed messages were not what she wanted to impart at my first movie ever so she blinked and said who wants ice cream? And I did. I am Bob Mondello. 