 This month PBS has launched an updated 21st-century version of Thomas The Tank Engine the most famous resident of Sodor Island. The little blue engine who has been on PBS for a quarter century is getting a new look. Gone are the days of stop-motion animation. Now the show is computer-generated. And for the first time in the TV series Thomas will have a voice.    I did not catch Sir Topham Hatt's grandchildren's kite. Will you all help me?   Of course we will Thomas.  Thomas and friends are a hot commodity. To date they have sold more than 100 million books and wooden train accessories worldwide. That is a far cry from the Thomas who first chugged into public view in 1945. Reverend Wilbert Awdry published the tales that he would been telling his children for several years. The book was called The Three Railway Engines. We wondered what the inspiration for the little tank engine was and so we called on Christopher Awdry the author's son. He is now 70. Mr.  The stories were created for me when I was 2 as amusements while I was ill in bed with measles. Father did not think anything very much of them but he made me a little model engine the following Christmas as a present which he happened to paint blue. It happened to have six wheels. He happened to have a one on the side painted and in time I asked for some stories about my engine. He then said well okay. You know I can make up stories about your engine but before I can do that your engine needs to have a name. Why do not we call him Thomas the Tank Engine?  Now the Island of Sodor... Mr.  Uh-huh.  S-O-D-O-R. Mr.  Yep.  Where does this come from? Mr.  Well back in the early '50s round about 1953 I think my father went over to the Isle of Man to do a preaching at a Sunday school festival. And when he was over there he discovered that the bishop over there is actually called the Bishop of Sodor and Man.  Mr.  This is - I will not go into the derivation of the name because it goes back into history and it would be rather too long to go into. But basically it is a historical title. And father at the time was beginning to look around for places to put an imaginary railway because he is been getting letters from all over saying where is Henry's tunnel and where is Gordon's hill and what line - what branch line does Thomas run on and stuff like this. So on the way back in the airplane to Liverpool they - he realized that there was a wide open space of sea between the two places and had the idea that if he were to create an island he could call it Sodor and he could give the Bishop of Sodor and Man the other half of his diocese back.  Mr.  That is the way it was basically.  I see. Mr.  And that is how it started.  Now one other point the character of Thomas the personality of Thomas we should say he is a smaller engine than his friends most of them anyway. Mr.  Most of them yeah.  Is he a child? Is he a kid? Mr.  I think he is a kid at heart.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  He and Percy and perhaps Toby you know are a bit I think in Pa's imagination anyway are a bit like three small boys but yet rather more common sense and know-how and streetwise than your average three small boys.  Well just - before you go I wonder if you could tell us of these characters who have been part of your imaginary life as child and adult now for 65 years who is your favorite of all these trains? Mr.  Toby. No hesitation about that. Father always used to say that he did not have favorites because the engines were all his family and in a family you do not have favorites. They were his family so I do not have to - I do not necessarily have the same restriction. No Toby was my favorite always because a locomotive like Toby was in fact the first one that I was ever allowed to stand on way back in 1952 - August 1952. And as such you know it - that was a very special thrill obviously. And Toby is always the one that I have been most attached to.  Well congratulations on Thomas' birthday. Mr.  Thank you.  Actually this goes farther back than 65 years for you. You were only 2 68 years ago was when you... Mr.  That is right.  ...again hearing all this. Mr.  Yep. Yeah.  And you are pleased with the voice that Thomas now has in the new... Mr.  Yeah yeah. I do not have any problem with that.   Well thank you very much for talking with us about... Mr.  You are very welcome. Thank you.  ...Thomas the Tank Engine and his friends. Mr.  Thank you.  Seventy-year-old Christopher Awdry sharing his memories of Thomas the Tank Engine. His father Reverend Wilbert Awdry introduced the famous locomotive to readers 65 years ago.  