 Duplex is the title of a new novel from writer Kathryn Davis and that is really the only thing we are sure of. The book itself is a fanciful fever dream. It straddles worlds plays with space and time and is populated with robots magic and creatures called aquanaughts. Rosecrans Baldwin has this review.  You are walking your dog in a suburb that may or may not exist in this dimension. The dog whines. You ignore him. Anyway you are too busy looking out for that sexy evil sorcerer. Suddenly a gray rabbit appears and you realize the world is ending. That is not a direct quote from Duplex the latest novel from Kathryn Davis. Her sentences need a bit too much explanation. But there are plenty of passages I could cite that are equally bewildering. Half the time I did not know what was happening who was speaking whether or not they actually exist but I can tell you reading this book is a blast. Duplex is a traditional love story tucked inside an adult fairy tale then wrapped in science fiction. I think there are two planets in the novel. Possibly they are the same world. Possibly they are neighbors. In the end it does not really matter. World number one is like a 1950s suburb. Kids play in the street. Neighbors gossip. Teenagers find sex confusing. Robots live there too. But they are mostly like everybody else discontented. World number two it appears to be our own. There we track a group of schoolgirls at different stages of their lives. The head girl Janice is a bossy know-it-all. But the stories Janice tells actually hearken back to that first world I mentioned. In fact the two worlds may exist on top of one another hence the novel's title. As you read you realize it might even be possible to pass from one world into the next. Thankfully the laws of quantum mechanics do not power Duplex's magnetism. Instead it is Davis's beautiful prose her psychological awareness. She writes about one of her robot characters the act of pretending to get older had managed to confer a kind of dignity on the robot making it hard to remember that in actuality it was the size and shape of a needle. Speed-readers skip sentences at your peril something will happen in the plot that will not make sense for fifty pages then turn out to be essential. Halfway through I did put this book down for two days. When I picked it up again I had to start all over just to understand what was really going on. Still I would not take back one minute of reading. Sometimes really good company the interesting mind-expanding kind leaves you scratching your head.  The book is Duplex by Kathryn Davis. Our reviewer is Rosecrans Baldwin. His latest book is called Paris I Love You But You are Bringing Me Down. 