 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Now a review of a film that our critic calls this year's strangest documentary. It takes as its starting point genocide in Indonesia. Then it adds gangsters cowboys dancing girls men in drag and splashy musical numbers. Here's Bob Mondello to explain The Act of Killing.  The opening looks like something from a demented Bollywood musical.    Costumed girls dancing out of the mouth of a giant fish then frolicking under a waterfall as a director barks at them to look happy happier. Standing with them also getting soaked are two men one slender and dressed as a priest the other fat in a turquoise satin gown. These two men are notorious Indonesian death squad leaders. They slaughtered countless civilians accused of being communists after a military takeover in 1965. They are not shy about talking about what they have done. But the filmmakers did not want a talking heads documentary  to re-enact their story in whatever cinematic style they like. They like gangster flicks Westerns musicals. And this bizarre scene is one such re-enactment.   The slender man in black is executioner Anwar Congo. The heavyset man gowned in turquoise is paramilitary leader Herman Koto who in the film is not only enthusiastic about dressing like Carmen Miranda but also eager to recruit extras for the film's reenactments. He holds auditions in the street urging people too young to have been alive during the actual atrocities to scream as if their families are being killed.    OK cut cut cut.  A crowd has gathered and applauds.   Filmmaker Joshua Oppenheimer is obviously treading on dicey moral ground here empowering killers to tell their story when they have never been called to account for the barbarism that brought them to power. By some estimates more than 1.2 million civilians were slaughtered which makes it unnerving when these men say that films inspired them in their sadism. They picked up for instance strangulation techniques from gangster flicks. Executioner Anwar Congo playing a victim at one point has the techniques used on him to his quite evident distress. But in public he shows no doubts even appearing on TV...   Papa Anwar Congo.  Where a telegenic interviewer congratulates him for having found an efficient humane way of killing communists.     Back in the TV control room a producer wonders how these guys can sleep as will you as they stage their killings for Oppenheimer's cameras sometimes in stylized ways other times with realism so wrenching the extras are left almost catatonic.    Play-acting with murderers. Not sure I would want that on my resume. And when you get to the end credits and easily two-thirds of names are listed as Anonymous it is clear many of the crew found the idea disquieting too. But there is a reason two great documentary filmmakers Werner Herzog and Errol Morris signed on to produce The Act of Killing. It is a virtually unprecedented social document. Time after time  killers proud of the fact that they simply made up the charges for which they executed people thugs comforting children who have been told to cry for a scene but then cannot stop a strangulation shoot interrupted by the call to evening prayers gangsters laughing about the 14-year-olds they raped. But the disconnects are not the whole film. For in having these monsters recreate their atrocities for the camera a space has been opened for feeling. And the filmmakers show you the first consequence of opening that space as one man is hit almost physically by the reality of what he is done and then walks out without a word. The Act of Killing which may leave you speechless too is one of the most arresting acts of cinema around. I am Bob Mondello. 