 This week the History Channel aired its remake of Roots the iconic TV miniseries that originally aired back in 1977. Roots is the story of West African Kunta Kinte who was captured and forced into slavery in America and then it follows his story through generations of his African-American descendents. Last weekend we asked listeners to record their reactions to the new Roots. And today we get to share some of them with you. We start with Pious Ali from Portland Maine - no relation to the boxer. Pious Ali grew up in Ghana and he told us that is where he first watched Roots as a teenager in the 1980s.  After reading the book and watching the movie it gave me this sense of connectivity between myself and the African in the diaspora especially Africans in America. It is great that they are remaking it because I think it is all about visuals. And the actors who play the movie that play the roles connect the modern day - the younger generation to this.  That is Pious Ali. We also heard from Frank Bonet who also remembers watching the original miniseries and has a different takeaway.  I do not think it is as impactful today as in 1977. I guess this current series is more for a younger or newer generation in which television creates what they believe this generation wants to see instead of what they should see.  Here's one more reaction this one from Justin Rogers. He is 19. He experienced Roots for the first time through the remake.  As somebody who is African-American like I have heard some things. But nobody really actually like sat down and said hey read this book watch this special. The one thing that I took away was that they go through generations and generations of a family and I guess I hope for the future like questioning like my relatives and really asking them like what was it like when you were my age? I am at a place in my life where I kind of am finding out more and more about myself. And I feel like I cannot do that if I do not know the people behind me.  That is Justin Rogers one of many listeners who shared their thoughts with us on the Roots miniseries. Well keep them coming. You can continue the conversation. You can tweet to us npratc. 