 We are going back to politics now at least we think it is politics. We want to talk about the late night host Jimmy Kimmel who is made headlines in both political and entertainment news this past week when he spent a good chunk of time on three different episodes of his show criticizing the latest efforts by GOP senators to replace the Obama administration health insurance initiative the Affordable Care Act. Jimmy Kimmel accused one of the GOP bill's co-sponsors Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy of lying when Cassidy said the bill met a standard Cassidy had called the Jimmy Kimmel test.   There is a new Jimmy Kimmel test for you. It is called the lie detector test. You are welcome to stop by the studio and take it anytime.  Kimmel also pushed back against President Trump when the president defended Cassidy on Twitter.   He does not know the difference between Medicare and Medicaid. He barely knows the difference between Melania and Ivanka so.  The New York Times says Kimmel has become quote the unlikely face of opposition to the bill unquote. The comic has been vocal about health care insurance issues on his show since his infant son needed open-heart surgery and Kimmel realized people who are not wealthy might not have access to the level of care his child received. We wanted to talk about all this so we called NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Hi Eric.  Hey.  So you know a number of late-night hosts have made a name for themselves talking politics night after night. You know I am thinking about Seth Myers or Samantha Bee or Stephen Colbert certainly. Jimmy Kimmel really has not been one of them so I am wondering what you make of what he is done this week. And I am wondering why you think it is having the impact that it is having.  Well you know I think he is viewed as an every man. And you know he is smarter I think than a lot of people give him credit for. And I think he is also concerned about the way that politicians like Cassidy used his name when he first started speaking out about health care issues to make it seem as if he might endorse something they would do later. He is spoken out in a very detailed and thoughtful way. You know he is pointing out concerns about lifetime caps on spending for pre-existing conditions and the overall funding for Medicaid and other issues. And because he is this every-man comic who does not often talk about politics in a detailed way I think it resonates a little bit more in the public. And there is been all of this coverage including folks like us talking about it.  You know when he was asked about Jimmy Kimmel's criticism Senator Cassidy said that the comic did not understand the bill. And that is something that a number of other pundits have said. But at NPR we pointed out on Twitter that Kimmel was right that the proposed legislation would remove guarantees of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. And I wondered is it odd to see a legislator on the losing end of a policy debate like that with a late-night comic?   Well it seems we are in this odd political and media moment where celebrity and fame counts for a lot in these policy debates. You know we have got a reality TV star as a president. He is speaking to his people on Twitter a lot. There is a sense that if you are able to galvanize public opinion through fame that accounts for a lot. And Cassidy himself sort of attached Jimmy Kimmel to his work on health care by coining the phrase the Jimmy Kimmel test. And now he is reaping the results of that given that Kimmel feels the senator has not been truthful about what his bill does. And what is interesting is that Kimmel is coming across as the honest broker because he does not really stand to directly benefit from this. He is picking a fight with legislators. He is not necessarily going to get anything out of it. It is an example of how a media figure with a certain constituency can make arguments with the persuasiveness that maybe like pundits who are you know perceived to be too you know liberally biased or whatever they might not have the same impact. So it is been really fascinating to see how Kimmel has affected this debate.  I want to take that stay-in-your lane argument from a different side. I mean the fact is that people are criticizing Jimmy Kimmel saying well you do not know that much about it so whatever. But a number of people are defending him saying that look he is like a lot of people. He educated himself about this because he had to.  Yeah. I mean that is a double-edged sword in a way because you want people to speak out on issues even when they do not necessarily directly affect them. And I am hoping that maybe Kimmel might learn from this and pay a little more attention to issues that do not directly come into his world because there is a lot of debates out there about stuff like transgender people in the military and Muslims and undocumented immigrants. And we are all trying to figure out where to go on these things and it might help to have somebody as smart and capable as Kimmel join the discussion.  That is NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Eric thank you.  Thank you. 