 In the years after 911 you could always tell when the Justice Department wanted people to think an arrest was a big deal like in 2006 when the attorney general himself Alberto Gonzales announced a case out of Liberty City a neighborhood in northern Miami. Seven men were arrested and charged with plotting to blow up the Sears Tower.   And left unchecked these homegrown terrorists may prove to be as dangerous as groups like al-Qaida.  The FBI director at the time Robert Mueller talked about it on Larry King Live.   In Miami we are conducting a number of arrests and searches.  Big concern?  Whenever we undertake an operation like this we would not do it without the approval of a judge. We have got search warrants and arrest warrants and the like. And so yes it is a concern.  But how real was the threat from the Liberty City Seven as they were known? A new documentary for Frontline digs into that question. The film is called In The Shadow Of 911 and the director Dan Reed joins us now. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you. It is great to be on the show again.  The backdrop to this story is a shift in the FBI's priorities after the 911 terrorist attacks. Describe what that shift was.  Well the shift really was triggered by President Bush the day after 911 turning to the head of the FBI Robert Mueller and saying yeah I understand you are investigating the attack that happened yesterday but what I really want to know is what you are doing to prevent the next one. And this marks a pivot in the FBI's function where it goes from being entirely a crime-fighting organization to becoming a counterterrorism and domestic intelligence agency. And it is a role it was not really prepared for.  And so there is this one vivid moment in the film where a former undercover agent says - and I am paraphrasing here - before 911 if you told the bosses that you would identified a potential terrorism cell the bosses would say OK which terrorist group? What is the target? What are their plots? How many weapons do they have? And if the agent replied well they do not belong to any group or have a plot or have weapons then the bosses would say get out of here.  .  How did that change post 911?  Yeah the bosses would say you need counselling so you know...  Right that was his line.  Yeah. The madness becomes - after 911 becomes the method. And what changed was obviously America's engulfed by fear. The FBI is tasked with making America safe with finding the sleeper cells finding the next al-Qaida terrorists with a 911-scale plan. And they really did not know how to go about this. So one of the methods they used was sting operations adapted really from the war on drugs. This essentially involved kind of pre-criming  people who were quote unquote likely terrorists. The Liberty City Seven saga is really the first major counterterrorism sting by the FBI that became highly visible because the people who were arrested the defendants chose to go to trial. They did not accept a plea deal. They did not plead guilty. They did not settle the case. They wanted to go to trial because they thought they were innocent.  So that case the Liberty City Seven counterterrorism sting operation is at the heart of this film. Tell us about who these seven guys were. I mean up until this sting operation started they were not people you would ever describe as terrorists.  They were not. They were seven very young men in their early 20s. They were not you know part of any dangerous group within Liberty City. On the contrary they got together to teach kids martial arts. They had their own kind of spiritual philosophy which was a mashup of mainly Christianity with a bit of Judaism a bit of Islam thrown in - you know a little group minding their own business within this very crime-ridden community of Liberty City at the time. What made them kind of special was that the main guy in the group a guy called Narseal Batiste was the son of a couple of Christian preachers. His mom and dad were Baptist preachers. And he kind of fancied himself as a bit of a kind of messianic figure. He walked around in biblical kind of robes and carried a staff. And he is at the center of this extraordinary story. But these were just - yeah these seven guys - and they had a construction company together and it was not going well.  It is absolutely accurate to say these guys had shown no previous interest in committing terrorist acts. But as the man who oversaw the FBI investigation points out they had a million different off ramps. There were so many moments they could have said actually we are not going to pledge loyalty to al-Qaida. Actually we are not going to film potential targets. But instead of walking away they went deeper and deeper. And you know they vividly describe blowing up the Sears Tower. And so the FBI argues law enforcement cannot just walk away from that. What do you make of that argument?  I think that you know four years after 911 it was very difficult for law enforcement to say well you know what? These guys are not really dangerous and they are not really going to do the things that they are recorded telling our informants that they are going to do. I think the missing piece in this what is motivating in particular Narseal Batiste the leader is 50000. Their business is going badly. They want to scam this Arab kind of financier slash terrorist.  The informant who they think is an al-Qaida member is...  Exactly.  ...Promising to pay them 50000. And they are saying oh we can scam this guy out of 50000 by claiming to have a plan to blow up the Sears Tower.  Exactly. You can see the extraordinary scenes in the film that are - that were videotaped by the FBI covertly where Batiste comes out with all this kind of bizarre - you know describing scenarios from movies and just saying all sorts of stuff to please the FBI informant and like you know OK I have told you about my terrorist plot. Can I have the money now? What was difficult for the jury to imagine was that these men they had no inkling that they might be the targets of an FBI surveillance program. They were just trying to scam some money as a bit of a side hustle.  What is the larger takeaway here when everything that everybody says on every side of this sounds logical and plausible enough?  Common sense tells us these guys - you know as Mike German in the movie points out they had no plot. They had no weapons. They had no money. They had no means. To say that they were conspiring in support of al-Qaida is kind of nonsensical from the start. And when the FBI was surveilling them I know that they kind of looked at each other like who the heck are these guys? Now when a nation goes through something as paralyzing and as terrifying as 911 you want to be reassured obviously and you want to know that law enforcement and the government is doing something to protect you from the next one. That can very easily turn into the theater of security you know the illusion of security.  The men who were involved in this case are all free now. What impact did it have on their lives?  This case ruined their lives really. I mean it put them away in prison for you know the best part of their young lives their 20s and 30s. It took away their youth. And you know they are remarkably not bitter about what happened. What is remarkable is they were loyal to each other. None of them snitched on the others. They did not take a plea deal because they all knew that they were innocent that they were not terrorists. The consequences for these young men were harsh. And they are still to this day labeled as terrorists. And I hope you know that watching the documentary one of the things that we can take away from it is that they were not terrorists but they got involved at a time when America was very afraid in a silly scam in a stupid attempt to extort money. And it went horribly horribly wrong. But the case illustrates the desperate need for the illusion of security I think rather than being something that is an actual milestone in America's sort of security journey towards a safer America.  Dan Reed's new documentary for Frontline is called In The Shadow Of 911 and it is streaming now. Thank you so much.  Thank you Ari.  