 Before he attained widespread respectability with films like A History Of Violence and Eastern Promises director David Cronenberg was best known for helping create a genre known as body horror. Think of the exploding head in Scanners -   - Or body parts dropping off in The Fly.   Just be glad this is radio. But body horror was always about more than the gross-out. The Fly Scanners Videodrome Dead Ringers - all powerful explorations of how disease mortality and technology transform people in ways both wonderful and deeply disturbing. Cronenberg's horror has always been philosophical - even literary. In fact he is long dreamed of being a novelist. On Tuesday that dream comes true when Consumed Cronenberg's first novel hits the shelves. And yes it is gory. The protagonists are two freelance journalists Naomi Seburg and Nathan Math romantically coupled yet constantly separated from each other as they travel around the globe chasing down stories. And since journalists have to pitch their stories to editors I asked Cronenberg to pitch his characters' stories to you. First Naomi...  It is got a pretty good hook. It is a sort of a philosophy professor sex-cannibal murder.   The philosophy professor Aristide Arosteguy is accused of having murdered his wife and then eating part of her body.  And Nathan - what about his story?  He is researching kind of clandestine illegal surgical procedures that desperate people are having including organ transplants. And that leads him into some strange territory that ultimately interfaces with Naomi's story. Almost - well you have to ask. Is it random? Is it by chance or is there some subterranean connection?  You know these characters these journalists - a lot of the time they are actually not in the same place. But they are constantly interacting through their devices.  Yeah. These people are very comfortable with their virtualness. They are virtual you know. Virtual reality is actually where they live. And it seems to be a more compelling reality than any sort of traditional idea of what is real.  And even when they are actually in the same place the laptops the iPhones the iPads they are all out there mitigating the experience.  Yeah I mean I think it would not be coy of me to say that many couple these days living in the same house send each other text messages you know and emails. I do it myself with my wife. I am sure we are not alone in this. So how real and how virtual is reality? And really that is one of the themes of the book is the construction of reality - the sense that reality is neurology. If we incorporate the Internet into our nervous system which I think we obviously have done the understanding of what reality is shifts hugely. I would not want somebody to think that the book is you know it is all about the Internet. It is not really. But...  It is about a lot of flesh and blood too.  Yeah there is a lot of corporeality you know. And I certainly wanted my characters to be alive and to walk around and feel very physical.  I am speaking with director David Cronenberg about his first novel - Consumed. I could imagine this as a movie. Did this start out as a screenplay?  It started out as a bit of a screenplay that I put aside very quickly because I felt I did not know how to really advance it or develop it. And when I received a phone call from Nicole Winstanley who is the publisher of Penguin Canada saying I have seen your movies. And I really think you could write a novel. And have you ever considered it? At which point I said yeah only for about 50 years. Because I always thought I would be a novelist. I never thought I would be a filmmaker. I kind of got kidnapped by cinema. And she was very enthusiastic and encouraged me to develop it as a novel. And I think in retrospect - and I might be romanticizing it - but I think it was waiting to be a novel. That is why I could not develop it as a screenplay. And at first you know - at first I thought well of course I am going to want to make a movie out of my own novel because what an opportunity you know. How many directors get the chance to do that? But then I suddenly thought but you know I would be bored. I mean I have done it.  It is funny to hear you say though that this you know it is easier to imagine this as a novel because you have directed films where you have made films out of books that people said could not be made you know like William Burroughs' Naked Lunch and J.G. Ballard's Crash. That seems to be what you almost specialize in.  Yeah it is true. I have often said you have to betray the novel in order to be faithful to the novel because there is no direct translation. People talk about translating it. Well there is no dictionary for that translation you know. You really have to reinvent it for the cinema and in so doing you are - you are torturing it and you are brutalizing it. So I felt that that was not a process I wanted to subject my novel to actually.  You have a reputation for being able to get great performances out of actors - really collaborating. Was it strange to be just on your own with a novel without - just in your own head no one to bounce ideas off of?  You know writing a screenplay - a screenplay is a very strange hybrid form of writing. You do not really have to be a very good prose writer. In fact a lot of really highly-paid screenwriters are functionally illiterate. But what they can write is great dialogue. And they can structure a narrative. Because the only thing in a screenplay that gets on the screen directly is the dialogue. There is a whole huge other system that is going to come into play that is creative that will displace what you have written as a screenwriter. So you write relatively simply. And you know there is no point in describing a character in detail because they are going to cast someone who does not look like that. So why describe them you know? Whereas in writing a novel I have felt more like I was directing because I was creating the characters. But I was also having to direct them you know move them around the room give them the rhythm of their dialogue. And I was having to costume them. I was having to do the locations. You know it was - as I said it felt more like directing than screenwriting. And that was a surprise to me.  That is director David Cronenberg. His first novel comes out on Tuesday. It is called Consumed. David Cronenberg thank you very much. Real pleasure speaking with you.  Well it was terrific. Thanks for having me. 