 Filmmaker Richard Linklater is known for making really varied films from loose comedies like Slacker to that trio of romantic talk fests Before Sunrise Before Sunset and Before Midnight. It is still safe to say he is never done anything even remotely like his latest film titled Boyhood and neither has anyone else says our critic Bob Mondello.  This is going to sound like the most ordinary of stories - just a boy growing up. What is not ordinary is the way it is told. We meet Mason rambunctious giggling and played by youngster Ellar Coltrane.    Come in the street.  Dude.  I know right?  We will leave Mason almost 12 years later - slender tall a serious young man and still played by Ellar Coltrane. Filmmaker Richard Linklater started filming in 2002 and finished in 2013 shooting just a few days each year with Ethan Hawke playing Mason's dad Patricia Arquette playing his mom and Ellar Coltrane living the boy whose boyhood gives this film its title. Initially little Mason's got a sweetly natural innocence and vulnerability when his mom for instance lets him and his sister Samantha know that they will be moving to Houston and that dad's not coming with them.    Do you still love dad?   I still love your father but that does not mean it was healthy for us to stay together.   What if after we move he is trying to find us and he cannot?   Oh that will not be a problem. He can call Grandma and she will tell him or he can call information. We will not be hard to find.  Dad meanwhile does want to be part of their lives though every weekend when he shows up in his vintage Pontiac GTO to take them out he is kind of playing catch-up.    Mason how you been huh? How was your week?   Pretty good.   Yeah? What you been up to?   Not much.   No? You still hanging with that kid Joe?   Yeah.   He still your best friend?   Yeah I guess.  This dad does not want to be the biological father who gets polite conversation when he drives places and buys stuff so he pulls the car over and begs.    Talk to me. Samantha how was your week? I do not know dad it was kind of tough. Billy and Ellen broke up and Ellen's kind of mad at me 'ecause she saw me talking to Billy...  Mason listens to this for a bit and then establishes that he is his father's son.    But dad I mean why is it all on us though? You know what about you? How was your week? You know who do you hang out with? Do you have a girlfriend? What have you been up to?   I see your point. So we should just let it happen more naturally OK.  More naturally and that is just what does happen. Life happens scripted according to a plan the filmmaker laid out at the beginning and unscripted according to a plan nature lays out in real time. As mom and dad grow thicker Mason grows taller - more angular. His face loses its baby fat and on a camping trip around the film's midpoint with a casualness that'ill likely choke up every parent watching his voice changes. Now the usual way to show a kid aging a dozen years in a movie is to use several actors - one for childhood another for adolescence a third for late teens. But Linklater's managed something enormously richer and more resonant with what sounds like a stunt until you actually see it. Sure other characters have grown up on screen in documentaries and on TV shows that hang around forever but not like this - not sculpted and controlled with a dramatic arc that must have have given everyone fits as they filmed across more than a decade. Hitting milestones - Mason flirting with a girl at his first job getting his heartbroken at 15 - not by her but by his dad when he asks why their cruising in a minivan rather than the GTO.    I had to sell that.    You what?   Yeah I had to sell that.    You do not remember?   Remember what?   Really? You said that was going to be my car when I turned 16.   What? No I did not. I never said that.   I remember. I was in third grade and you were taking me over to Anthony Nadar's house for his birthday and he was talking about how much he loved your car. And so you were all like oh this is going to be Mason's when he turns 16.   Alright first off I have no memory of that alright? And second of all I would never say that - never.   You did though.   What...  It seems almost odd to talk of performances when they are as natural and unforced as they are in Boyhood but let me just to say they are wonderful. So are the offhand glimpses the film gives you of a decade's worth of music and video game consoles and cell phones. The picture is so unassuming and understated as it winds its way through a dozen years in the life of this family - in all our lives really - that you are likely to be surprised at how invested you feel - how proud and conflicted when Mason finally stands on the brink of adulthood. The film gives every appearance of happening the way life does. And the way life does it makes you care. I am Bob Mondello.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 