 Hercules may have slayed a lion and a nine-headed Hydra beast but he was no match for Scarlett Johansson this weekend.    I am not even sure that mankind is ready for her.  Johansson's Lucy topped the box office earning 44 million in its opening weekend - well above expectations. But that does not make up for the fact that overall summer box office receipts are in a slump down 20 percent compared to last year according to the Hollywood Reporter. To talk about why we turn to Paul Dergarabedian. He is a senior media analyst with any that measures TV and movie viewing. Welcome to the program.  It is great to be here Audie. Thank you.  Was 2013 really that great? I mean the movie Iron Man 3 brought in 400 million?  That is right one movie or two movies can make or break a summer and last summer was that good. The summer of 2013 was an absolute record-breaker kicking off with Iron Man 3 which opened with 174.1 million. You fast-forward a year later to the kick off to this summer of 2014 and the kickoff movie was The Amazing Spiderman 2 which opened with 91.6 million. So it is all about the product and getting that audience excited to go out to the movie theater.  So who are the ticker buyers that are skipping out on going to the theater?  Well I think the ones who have been skipping out a little bit are the 18 to 24-year-old males who have been the bread-and-butter of the summer movie season for decades. And now it seems that Hollywood should be chasing the younger females or the female audience in general. If you look at Maleficent The Fault In Our Stars Tammy and most recently Lucy you have female protagonists leading these movies and these are the titles that have actually been doing very well and not underperforming like so many others.  Last summer's hits were encouraging for makers of sequels and prequels and discouraging for people who put out new and original stories. This summer what is your takeaway?  My take away is that 2015 is going to be the biggest summer of all time I predict already. And 2015 will be the biggest box office year of all time. So we are down right now but the movie industry has a way of always bouncing back it is a natural ebb and flow and definitely the nature of the box office beast.  So 2015 is going to be the biggest summer of all time you are saying it here for the record. Why?  I am saying here absolutely. I mean it is going to kick off with  Age Of Ultron then that is going to be followed up with a new Mad Max movie we are going to have Jurassic World we are going to have a Pixar movie - Inside Out - Terminator Antman Minions - a a spinoff of Despicable Me. So there is a lot of big movies in the mix. And for 2015 overall you have got the next James Bond movie you have got the new Star Wars movies. And in terms of where we sit a year from now we will be talking about a 20 percent advantage over 2014 not a 20 percent deficit versus last year where we are sitting right now.  So it sounds like you are saying 2015 is all about more proven properties more sequels more stuff aimed at the demographic you say was not really turning out this summer.  Well therein lies the rub - it is the sequels that bring people out in a big way. For instance this summer Edge Of Tomorrow - Tom Cruise did very well worldwide but not as big as people expected in North America. But it was not a known commodity - Tom Cruise is - but this was not part of a franchise. So no question 2014 we are going to see more franchises more branded entertainment like 50 Shades Of Gray which comes out Valentine's. So it is about brands that people know for instance like this year which had The Fault In Our Stars based on that best-selling novel. So when people know what they are getting they are more likely to part with their hard-earned dollars at the box office.  Paul Dergarabedian thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you Audie I appreciate it.  Paul Dergarabedian he is a senior media analyst with any that measures audiences for the movie and television industries. We spoke to him about the dip in domestic box office sales this summer. 