 The movie Captain Phillips which features Tom Hanks in the title role besieged by Somali pirates was nominated for a ton of awards. There was less critical acclaim for Tom Hanks' Boston accent in the film which brings us to a new movie about mobster Whitey Bulger. It is been filming in and around Boston for months with a list of high-profile actors including Johnny Depp all trying to get that accent just right. And as Anne Mostue of member station WGBH reports in this encore Bostonians say this could make or break the movie.  There are plenty of films about the Boston mob.    Put the gun - put the gun down alright? I came here to talk some sense into you.   You did not come here to talk alright? You came here to get arrested.  Leonardo DiCaprio and Jack Nicholson worked with Hollywood dialect coach Tim Monich to nail that south Boston accent in The Departed.    Do you know John Lennon?   Yeah sure. He is the president before Lincoln.  And from The Fighter about Lowell Massachusetts boxer Micky Ward who could forget the infamous pack of sisters?   Get your hands off my sister.   Charlene - you skank.  Gail oh my god what'd you do to your nose?  It probably helped that one of those sisters actress Erica McDermott hails from Cambridge. Then there are the not-so-good accents. Ask Boston residents who fails and they mentioned Diane Lane in A Perfect Storm.    Remember I will always love you Christina. I love you now and I will love you forever. There is no goodbye.  Or Julianne Moore on 30 Rock.    That house is never going to sell. I am going to take it off the market and see what happens in a year or so.   Well what about your plans? The condo - the store for pale teens.   I cannot run a store and make change for people.  I will tell you the Boston accent is tough. I think it is a very tough accent to do.  Joe Stapleton has been an actor and a dialect coach in Boston for more than 20 years.  Couple things you have to keep in mind - you are in a rush.  Hi how are you? How is everything going? How you doing? And you do not move your lips a lot.  Directors drill actors over and over again. Boston native and casting director Angela Peri says they sometimes use her voice as an example.  Like they will have me read pages of the script and then send it off to the lead actor and he will listen to the accent.  When an actor is a lost cause Peri goes to the streets. She cast the movies American Hustle Ted and The Fighter.  Boston is great because we have so many characters like the sisters. I went everywhere. We saw over 500 girls to pull those sisters together.  But the locals are also tough critics. They are listening closely to the accent.  I definitely think it matters. You know depending on the movie a bad one could just kind of take you out of the movie and just ruin it basically.  Brendan Lynch grew up not far from Whitey Bulger. He says he is eager to see the mobster portrayed on screen. And he enjoys the variations in accents.  I do not think Alec Baldwin did the best job in the world in The Departed but I thought he did a really good job in the role. So I do not think it necessarily hurt. But no I do not get offended. It is just - you know they are trying.  Trying even if the roles have become a bit of a cinema stereotype. But it is business for coaches like Joe Stapleton. He starts every actor with the same lesson.   Moving talking looking walking. And those are the couple of things you can kind of keep - you know when you are first starting out. And the first one you probably want to master is  hi how are you?   Hi how are you? Try it for yourself. For NPR News I am Boston native Anne Mostue. 