 Brando Skyhorse was raised as a Native American the son of a chief. He was raised that way but it was a lie. Both his parents are Mexican. Brando did not know the truth until he was practically an adolescent. And he did not really begin to unravel all the lies that surrounded his past until he began work on his new memoir Take This Man.  A manufactured identity is nothing new in Los Angeles. For every starlet who changes her name or her breast size there are a hundred undocumented workers who assimilate there way into the city unnoticed to construct their own versions of the American Dream. In my mother's dream she saw no reason that just because we were born Mexican we would need to live as Mexicans. I was three years old when my life as Brando Kelly Ulloa the son of a quote good for nothing wetback ended. My life as Brando Skyhorse the American Indian son of an incarcerated political activist had just begun.  Brando Skyhorse joined us from our bureau in New York where I asked him about the man who was his fake father.  There was a real Paul Skyhorse Johnson. He was incarcerated in Illinois for armed robbery. His being was actually when I checked the prison records Paul Martin Henry Johnson. So I believe through some series of letters or communications my mother not only convince this man to adopt me as his son but also convinced him to adopt a sort of  American Indian name himself - the middle name Skyhorse. He was actually an American Indian. But when he got out of jail he became Paul Skyhorse Johnson.  You have met him. Talk about that.  Yeah I met Paul Skyhorse Johnson for the first time when I was five years old in prison. My mom had taken there and said you know we are going to meet your father. And we went on this train trip. And you know there he was in all of his you know Indian glory. He looked literally like the part of a stereotypical American Indian Brave. He was tall. He had long hair. He was an extraordinary figure. And I thought oh good God like this is my dad? This looks great. So it was very easy for me to believe the deception in part because my mother's features also looked very American Indian. She wore long hair. She had very sharp cheekbone features. She was mistaken for American Indian all of the time. So it seemed rather believable that we were this family of American Indians living in a predominantly Mexican-American neighborhood. As opposed to the reality of it which was we were Mexicans living in Echo Park California.  Talk about when you found out the truth. You were not even out of elementary school.  No I was around 12 or 13. I do not have the exact day when I found out. It was more like a series of really small revelations because when you are a child it is like oh you have all of this sort of desire and especially because I had father figures that were coming and going it was so important for me to get the details. Like when did you first meet? And you know what was your first kiss like? And where did you go on your first date? Without thinking oh well this guy was like you know a great political activist in the '70s. Maybe they did not go to McDonald's or something. Maybe they met on a reservation. And my mom's answers always kept changing and shifting which is - when you are younger you do not really keep track of those things. But finally by the time I was 12 or 13 I realized that all of these answers could not possibly be correct. And it just sort of came out. It basically - it was an acknowledgment that oh yes you know this person was not your father. This person Candido Garcia Ulloa this Mexican that I had married. He was your biological father. But he took off. And that is not important to you. And we will never speak of it again. So it became clear even once I had that information that A I could not use it and B it could have been another one of my mother's lies.  Your mother almost has a sense of contempt about why would you want to be a Mexican? What was it about being Mexican in the '70s that was so distasteful that made her want to create this alternate reality?  That is the 64000 question is not it? And I wish that I could have gotten around to asking her. And she probably would have given two completely different answers and meant them both. I think a part of her would have said well you know I relate more with American Indian culture. You know I love American Indian - you know just everything about it just really appealed to her in a really basic and primal level. And I think that the idea that she had been abandoned by a Mexican man really wounded her and really wounded her pride. And I think it confirmed a lot of the negative stereotypes that she probably had about what it means to be a Mexican in a place like Echo Park Los Angeles. I think she felt that maybe being Mexican was limiting for her. That no one would be interested in her or her stories if she simply said oh you know I am just a simple Mexican girl from Echo Park California. I think she believed that if she told people yes I am an American Indian yes my son's you know the offspring of an American Indian Chief yes I am really the most thing and fantastic person you will meet today that people would love her. And that people would want to talk to her. And that people would want to friends with her. That is another one of those sad ironies because my mother was so mesmerizing such a wonderful and charming personality that she did not need to invent anything. People would have gravitated towards her regardless.  That is Brando Skyhorse. His new book is called Take This Man. It is out now. Brando thank you.  Thank you so much. 