 A heated debate in the videogame industry has turned ugly and has escalated to include death threats. It is known as Gamergate and it is gotten so bad that two women have left their homes because of online threats. And another woman an award-winning games journalist has said she will never report on the industry again. It is a complicated debate about many parts of a changing industry. NPR's Nathan Rott reports.  Let us start with the basics. Gamergate started as a hashtag on Twitter - a banner under which people could collectively argue vent or attack an idea or an individual. In Gamergate's case that individual was Zoe Quinn.  I am Zoe Quinn and I am an independent game developer and community organizer.  Quinn has been actively involved in the videogame industry for a while and she is part of a growing demographic in that industry - developers and designers who are not making the next Call Of Duty or big-budget role-playing game.  I basically make weird little games that are about feelings so not the traditional sort of game where people usually think of when you say videogame.  Quinn's was notable game is called Depression Quest a game that simulates the experience of having depression through multiple choice text. And Quinn unwillingly sparked the Gamergate debate. A few weeks ago a spiteful ex-boyfriend accused her online of sleeping with the game's journalist implying it garnered her better coverage for Depression Quest - a charge Quinn denied. What followed though was Gamergate. A huge backlash of people taking to Twitter YouTube and online forums many using the allegations against Quinn as proof that there is ethical corruption in videogames journalism that game developers and game journalists have grown too cozy. Others labeled Quinn as a so-called social justice warrior a woman who is not interested in games just in promoting herself and her ideals by challenging video games traditionally male-dominated culture. And that is where things got ugly - horribly ugly. Quinn was flooded with death threats rape threats her personal information - even photos - were hacked and posted online forcing her to leave her home.  It is like the Internet is eager and waiting for a reason to be a total scumbag to you - at least if you are a woman and you are a loud outspoken woman.  Quinn says she was surprised by the vitriol and she was not.  It is happened to other women in the industry. Like Anita Sarkeesian has been basically living this for the last two years.  Anita Sarkeesian is a video game critic who looks at the way the videogame industry portrays women in games. In video blogs she talks about the roles women characters play - the damsel in distress the goal to be achieved or darker roles.  How sexualized female bodies often occupy a dual role as both sexual playthings and the perpetual victims of male violence.   Are you here for the whore?  In the last few weeks with Gamergate going the backlash against Sarkeesian's critiques got so bad she had to leave her home too.  It can turn your stomach pretty quick.  That is Adam Saltsman. Saltsman runs a small game company in Texas with his wife. They both watched appalled as the backlash spread from Quinn and Sarkeesian to other women and men in the industry who offered their support to the two women. Now Saltsman believes the attackers were and are emboldened by the anonymity of Twitter and online forums like Reddit and 4chan. And he says they are not representative of the gaming community over all.  The people doing the most harm are absolutely a vocal minority.  But their attacks still worked. In an e-mail from Germany independent games designer Andreas Zecher says they caused a quote 'brief but unbearable silence because people were afraid of becoming the next target. To show solidarity Zecher wrote an open letter decrying the harassment and saying that everyone regardless of gender has a right to be a part of the videogame industry. The letter gained nearly 2500 signatures many from prominent names at AAA game studios like Rockstar North Naughty Dog Bungie and Ubisoft. There is still a question though of just why or how a handful of allegations at a small games developer could spark such a huge firestorm in a multibillion dollar industry. Leigh Alexander is a videogames journalist based in the U.K.  What I think's going on is that there is a cultural spasm happening that nobody expected that accompanies the sort of mainstreaming of video games and the diversification of videogames.  Alexander is talking about games like Candy Crush or Words With Friends games that are now on smartphones and tablets - accessible to a far wider range of people. Not she says the traditional boys club.  And you know I think the conventional audience is really shaken up. I think in part because they are sexist and in part because they are used to you know being explicitly catered to as a precious special market demographic. And they feel like they might get left behind.  Alexander's is just one of many theories but most agree the industry is changing. The question is whether that change can happen in a more civil way. Nathan Rott NPR News. 