 As the Mars rover Curiosity does its work on the red planet a family in California has shifted its clock over to Mars time. The Mars day is nearly 40 minutes longer than a day here on Earth. And the entire family of Curiosity's flight director David Oh has time-shifted to sync with the day on Mars including his wife Bryn and their three children ages 13 10 and eight. David and Bryn Oh join me from Pasadena. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Melissa.  Thank you.  Now we are taping this conversation at 10 AM Pacific Time. But on your clock on Mars time what time is it right now? B.  So our bodies feel like it is about 10 PM at night. D.  We will be going to bed pretty much as soon as this interview is done.  And if I figure this out right for about the last three weeks you have added nearly 40 minutes to your clock every day. So you are now just about half a day off right? You are at the peak of your upside-downness in relation to Earth time. D.  That is right. We passed it just yesterday. We were having lunch at midnight yesterday.  D.  We had lunch at one AM this morning.  Well your oldest your 13-year-old son Braden has been keeping a blog with some really great photographs. There is one of you guys going bowling at four in the morning you are pointing to the clock it is four in the morning and one on the beach where it is just before midnight. So this has to be just an amazing adventure for them I would think. D.  It is an amazing adventure for them. I mean I think the biggest reason that we wanted to bring the whole family together on this is because they are joining in the adventure of exploring Mars. It gives them the feeling that they are part of the great adventure that we have as we drive a rover around on Mars.  Bryn what is the high point been for you? B.  My children have experienced several firsts while we have been on Mars time. Included in that is my little one did not know how to ride a two-wheeled bicycle when we started. And he has learned in the middle of the night in empty parking lots. And that is been a highlight for him in particular. He'00 in the morning. My children saw their first shooting star. We were able to stay up and watch the Perseid meteor shower. We have just had a lot a lot of fun.  I also learned from your son Braden's blog that you guys have come up with a whole new language around these new days that you have. B.  Yes we have found that there are words that do not exist in the English language that we have needed to use. So for example we are going to go to sleep this afternoon. When we wake up tonight it will be a new sol that is the word that they use to describe a Martian day. So it will be a new sol for us tonight. When we refer to having this interview this morning it will be yester-sol for us. We talk about having a play date sol-morrow night which for you will be tomorrow morning.  Sol S-O-L meaning sun. D.  That is actually a technical term. It is the term that the team the Mars rover team uses to refer to one Martian day.  A-ha. OK so this is working great it sounds like so far. But what happens when the kids go back to school?  B.  The kids will go back to school next week. They will still be on Mars time though their schedule will have moved enough that they can easily go back to school. They will be just going to bed several hours earlier than the other children. They will probably be doing their homework in the morning.  You are going to keep them on Mars time? D.  Once the kids line up with the regular Earth day they will stay there. So when...  They are going to stay back on Earth time. D.  Right when they are going to school they will be on Earth time.  Well David and Bryn thanks so much for talking to us about it. B.  Thank you it was good speaking with you. D.  Thank you Melissa.  That is David and Bryn Oh in Pasadena. David is the flight director for the Mars rover Curiosity. And their entire family has shifted over to Mars time. 