 How well do parents know their children or teachers their students? Critic Bob Mondello says the film Luce throws in some serious complications as it asked those questions about a class valedictorian.  We meet Luce as he is addressing a high school assembly in Northern Virginia saying all the right things about a rosy future and then asking his classmates to rise.    And to take this opportunity to thank you our teachers and our parents for helping us become who we are meant to be.  He is clearly practiced and comfortable in the spotlight popular with students and with teachers despite a wrenching childhood in war-torn Eritrea before he was adopted and brought to the U.S. He is a success story as the school principal never tires of saying.    Here's my question. How do we clone this guy? How do we clone him? Great job.   Thank you.  So Luce's adoptive mom is blindsided when one of his teachers calls her in for a conference about a paper he is written.    The class was given an assignment to write in the voice of an historical figure. Some students picked FDR at the start of the Great Depression or even Fidel Castro at the Bay of Pigs. The goal was to get them to think outside of the box - just want to make sure you understand where I am coming from.  She hands Luce's paper to his mom.    Who is this Frantz Fanon?   He was a Pan-Africanist revolutionary. He argued that violence was a necessary cleansing force that it was needed to free colonized people from their rulers.   You teach this.   I do not. Look. I will not pretend to know what it is like for Luce to confront certain...  Harriet Wilson sees Luce through a different lens than his parents do - a teacher's lens affirmative yes. But she was worried about this paper and even more worried about something else.    I found this in his locker.  A paper bag.    No.   Amy.   No I am sorry. I respect my son's privacy.  Respect or no seeds of doubt are now planted. She and her husband confront Luce and things quickly get heated.    We share lockers. The guys on the team share lockers. I do not know what 90 of the crap at the bottom is let alone who it belongs to.   So...   So not everything in my locker belongs to me.   OK good.  Director Julius Onah and screenwriter J.C. Lee on whose play the film is based are focused on big themes even as they deal with these specifics at hand - themes of racism privilege progressive ideals the tendency to see what we want to see. Kelvin Harrison Jr. is fascinating as Luce his eyes often registering very different emotions than his other features. And he is matched by Naomi Watts and Tim Roth as his adoptive parents Octavia Spencer as the teacher consumed by doubt and then not.    I know the difference between miscommunication and provocation. I can tell the difference between the two Dan.  Luce's champions see a model student a star athlete a kid for whom stuff found in a locker should count as a minor infraction. But does not that make him as much a prisoner of their expectations as a classmate who is been labeled a loser and kicked out of school for having marijuana in his locker? So much here is in the eye of the beholder. Depending on who you listen to whose judgment you decide to trust Luce could be either a paragon of virtue or a sociopath. And for a lot longer than you might expect the film Luce manages to entertain both those possibilities. I am Bob Mondello.  