 In the new movie Southside With You it is the late '80s and two young lawyers are going out for the first time. Their names are Michelle and Barack. Southside With You charmed critics and audiences at this year's Sundance Film Festival and Bob Mondello thinks it is going to be a crowd pleaser now at theaters all over.  They may work together at a prestigious law firm in Chicago but on this particular morning it is their folks who are doing the cross-examining - Michelle's parents over breakfast...    Where you going looking so raggedy?   Girl's got herself a date.   It is not a date daddy. He is the summer associate I told you all about - the one from Harvard Law? I mentioned I worked legal aid and he invited me to a community event.  All this while Barack is getting the third degree from his grandmother on the phone.    Well where is she from?   Chicago.   Uh-huh. Which part?   The side that is predominantly black.   OK so she is...   ...Yes Toot her skin is of the darker persuasion.  Played by Parker Sawyers the on-screen Barack looks a lot like the future president though with less prominent ears. His voice is higher but you figure it will deepen with all the smoking he is trying to conceal from Michelle when he picks her up. She is played by Tika Sumpter with warmth and a future first lady's confidence. And she quickly realizes that smoking is not all he is keeping from her.    Should not we be getting to the meeting?   We have some time. It is not for another few hours.   What?   I thought we would swing by the art center. There is an Afrocentric exhibit that is supposed to be...   ...Barack you seem like a really sweet guy but how many times I have to tell you we are not going out together?   Well Michelle thank you for saying that. You seem like a real sweet girl. But I have to correct you. We are in fact out and we are in fact together.   But not on a date. This is not a date.  She is insistent. He says OK fine. But they are just a few blocks from the art exhibit. Would it kill her to look at it with him? No it would not. And the images conjure memories.    What do you like about this one?   I guess it reminds me of our house on Sundays. The boys would be upstairs watching football and the girls would be downstairs singing around the piano.   Do you sing?   I play.   Any good?   I am not bad.  One of the things you realize watching Southside With You is how seldom budding relationships are allowed to just be on screen not pushing the plot forward or setting up a tense standoff or a joke. Of course conceptually devoting a whole movie to a single date puts pressure on a screenwriter - got to keep things moving and varied and lively while in this case lying in background that squares with what we already know about two of the most famous people in the world. Filmmaker Richard Tanne conceives Southside With You as sort of an origin story with occasional shout outs to the sequel we have witnessed in real life.    I wonder if I can write books hold a position of influence in civil rights.   Politics?   Maybe.  The Obamas have talked on occasion about their first date-that-was-not-a-date so its basic outline is decently well-known. They did go to the Art Institute and they grabbed ice cream and caught Spike Lee's just-released Do The Right Thing. And if that was not the afternoon Michelle first got to see Barack's skills as community-organizer-in-chief the film makes a decent case that it should have been.    You sounded a little professorial but you definitely have a knack for making speeches.  The film will not make converts of those who are not already fond of the first couple but coming so late in their tenure at the White House it at least does not play like a political ad. Cannot say it makes me yearn for a presidential first date series exactly - a flirty Millard and Abigail Fillmore? Not as appealing. But a Hollywood romance that is adult and smart and engaging counts as a rarity these days. And in that context Southside With You is a charmer. I am Bob Mondello. 