 Today you have probably heard a couple of news stories on our show that might be distilled down to good and bad guys heroes and villains. Well what makes a villain? What is the difference between your garden-variety bad guy and the evil genius besides a couple of IQ points? Chuck Klosterman tries to take on these questions in a new book called I Wear The Black Hat Grappling With Villains Real and Imagined. Chuck Klosterman welcome to the program.  Hey thanks for viewing me as a thing worth considering.  Well you are also the writer of the Ethicist column in the New York Times and people write you asking for advice about moral dilemmas from their lives. And in this book you first go at our very ideas of good and evil and working out that spectrum in our own minds by using Star Wars and what characters that you and you think other boys in particular would gravitate towards as they viewed the film over time.  Yeah. I was talking with the guy who ultimately edited this book and his son had just watched Star Wars his 4-year-old-son and was very affected by it. And I kind of had this theory that when you are a very young person the character in Star Wars you care about the most or like the most is Luke Skywalker who is this you know wholly good heroic almost naively pure kind of character. And then you become you know 12 years old a teenager and you gravitate toward Han Solo who seems like a bad person but ultimately he is good. And when you are you know kind of going through adolescence you sort of like the idea of being perceived as a dangerous individual even though you still sort of identify as being good. But when you really become adult you are no longer looking at characters fictional or unfictional as aspirational. You kind of are the person you are. And now when you look at characters you kind of want to see things in them that help you understand yourself. So I feel as an adult the character you care about the most is Darth Vader. The maturation process seems to move a person toward relating to and understanding villainous personalities. And that was in some ways kind of the framing device for this book.  So much of this is about context right? And you know one example that really speaks to that is this idea your take on Batman the comic book hero versus Bernhard Goetz who was in the late '80s came to be known as the subway vigilante.   This is an example you use in the book that really illustrates how important context is to deciding who is a villain right or who gets labeled a villain?  Well vigilantes are particularly complex scenarios because any sophisticated intellectual person if you say to them you know is vigilante justice good for society? They will say no. But when people hear a story about a real vigilante with very little information all that they know is that a peaceful person was attacked and responded with force and basically took justice into their own hands because no one was going to help them. In that kind of slightly defined abstraction people like the idea of a vigilante. It is like Batman. But as soon as that vigilante becomes a real person you know as soon as Bernhard Goetz starts saying things about his life and his worldview and we learn details about how he lives and we see what he looks like and we see all these things about him suddenly then the vigilante becomes very problematic again.  This is often described as somebody's image quoteunquote falling apart even though maybe that was not their construction in the first place right? That is just how we viewed them.  Well the irony is that it is actually someone not falling apart it is actually someone being put together. I mean with someone like Bernhard Goetz or with the fictional idea of Batman if you do not know anything about a person you only put good things into the shell.  Now you mentioned this editor who talked to you about the book at the start but you also write that he asked you whether you only wanted to write about this idea because you were afraid that you are a villainous person. And by the end do you really think that it is true? I mean do you wear the black hat?  Well if you write a book about villainy in order to define that you are one it almost seems like an excuse like I am trying to convince people that villains are interesting because I am a bad guy.  Although you have not done anything all that bad in the book frankly. I mean there is a couple of bands you do not like that I object to but other than that you do not seem that bad a guy. And you are the Ethicist. What the heck?  Well I mean as the Ethicist I am looking at other people's problems and I do think I am good at looking at other people's problems objectively and rationally and saying this is what an ethical person would do. I am very rarely arguing this is what I would do because I do not know what I would do.  Well Chuck Klosterman whatever your motives thank you for coming on this show to talk to us.  Oh thanks. It is great to be here.  Chuck Klosterman is author of  Grappling With Villains Real and Imagined. 