 A few weeks ago we talked with NPR's Bob Mondello about the new movie The Informant! starring Matt Damon. It was our fall preview show and the movie was not available to see so we tried to judge the book by its cover and we watched the trailer.    What I am about to tell you it involves something very large.   Everyone in this country is a victim of corporate crime by the time they finish breakfast.  Well the movie is now out and Bob Mondello has seen the whole thing. You are back with us here in the studio. Bob does it live up to the trailer?  Well in the trailer it looked like lots of fun. You are going to make fun of all this.   Yeah right.  It seems like a great idea. The thing is we are dealing with Mark Whitacre. It is a true story about the guy who blew the whistle about price-fixing at...  At Archer Daniels Midland.  They do voiceovers where Matt Damon will have been told something by the FBI agents and then he starts thinking about his laundry right? I mean it is just his head is somewhere else entirely. And after a while you realize that it is just going to be about lies that he is been lying to everybody and so he lies and then he lies again and then you discover that the lie was a lie.    Who else did you tell about the raid?   Well I had to tell my secretary. So all I said was Liz I am doing some work with the FBI. I might be out of touch for a while. I am pretty sure I have mentioned the name Cathy Dougherty a time or two. She is a trusted ally and I did not want her to be scared.   Why did you do that Mark?   I trust her.   Who else? Do not jack us around Mark.   Kirk Schmidt Schmidty.  Well after a while this gets old. In 90 seconds in a trailer that can be a lot of fun right?  Yeah. Well we like the trailer.  Yeah. No it was great fun.  They spent a lot of money going to see this movie.   I was suckered. What can I say?  You owe people...  It is a '90s story with a sort of a '60s soundtrack and a '70s look. And by the time you are finished with all this and the comedians in serious roles and Matt Damon having gained 30 pounds to play it there is so much going on that it is just too complicated. And ultimately it does not seem to have the focus that it would need to actually be funny and it is trying really trying to be funny.  OK so two weeks ago the message was go see The Informant! Now the message is stay at home do not see The Informant!  Well no no no I will not go that far but go to it with much lower expectations.  NPR's Bob Mondello. Bob I also understand you have some new reviews at our Web site?  Yeah I did two pictures that I like quite a bit Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs which is the best title you are ever going to hear but it is also a wonderful children's picture and a very serious film from Australia about South Africa called Disgraced.  And you can find all of that at npr.org. Bob thanks.  Always a pleasure.  