 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. The news media are buzzing about comedian Dave Chappelle's performance - or lack of performance - in Hartford Conn. last week. In response to a boisterous heckling crowd Chappelle stopped his routine and ultimately walked offstage. Depending on whom you ask the audience was rude and racist or Chappelle just had a bad night. Catie Talarski of member station WNPR reports.  As if the city of Hartford needs to add to its inferiority complex now Dave Chappelle hates us.   I do not want anything bad to happen to the United States but if North Korea ever drops a nuclear bomb on this country I swear to God I hope it lands in Hartford.   Chappelle killed them in Chicago with his joke about nuking Hartford. The successful show was five days after his disastrous performance in which he called the Hartford audience evil an arena full of suburban torturers and young white alcoholics. That audience thousands who paid up to 90 to see the show had been sitting and drinking for hours before Chappelle took the stage.  The crowd was a concert crowd. They were expecting to make noise. They were expecting to drink a lot.  Julia Pistell was there. She is in a local improv group so she knows what it looks like when comedy goes bad. She said it was a tough crowd for all the comics. One group even tried a sing-along which failed. So when Dave Chappelle got onstage maybe he was primed.  The hecklers absolutely affected him instantaneously in a way that he decided not to perform anymore. And I think that is a really tough night for a comedian. And he was the one with the microphone and he could have made a lot of other choices that also made his point in the same way.   Tonight my contract says 25 minutes and I have three minutes left. And when that three minutes is up my  is gone.  And that is what Chappelle did - killed time by smoking a cigarette and reading an excerpt from an audience member's book. When time was up he walked offstage to the continued heckling of the mostly white crowd.  These are a generation of white males who grew up on The Dave Chappelle Show.  That is David Canton who teaches history and black culture at Connecticut College. He says white audiences and black audiences may have different interpretations of Chappelle's work. His comedy about race is sophisticated Canton says and sometimes the meaning gets lost.  They were probably looking for Dave Chappelle to talk about Ashy Larry Rick James - all the skits that they grew up watching on the Comedy Central show. I think he wants to reinvent himself as a comedian and move away from The Dave Chappelle Show.  And Hartford's mayor would love to move away from the bad publicity. Pedro Segarra took to the Internet to defend his capital city  Dave Chappelle should quit whining do his job and try some yoga. For NPR News I am Catie Talarski in Hartford. 