 If it were real it might be the worst natural disaster in recent memory - a tornado filled with man-eating sharks.   Look out more sharks.  Fortunately for all of us the Sharknado phenomenon is not real as far as we know. The Syfy channel created this tongue-in-cheek b-movie last year and if you are hiding under a rock you may not be aware that it became a social media sensation. So tonight the sequel debuts and it is called Sharknado 2 - The Second One. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says this is a new kind of TV disaster movie the intentionally bad kind. Welcome Eric. I am so excited to talk to you about this.  So glad to be here.  I know you are not a meteorologist but to the extent that you can tell us what exactly a Sharknado is and why are not one but two movies about it.  Well in the movies a Sharknado is a waterspout that essentially lifts up these loads of dangerous sharks and then drops them on unsuspecting people flooding the city with man-eating sharks. So Syfy built this gloriously bad TV movie around this concept last year and it was starting Beverly Hills 90210 alum Ian Ziering and American Pie 2 star Tara Reid.  Luminaries of the silver screen both.  You have got to love - you have got to love these guys. And it was such a social media hit that Syfy made a sequel. And this time the Sharknado hits New York. Now we have got a scene here from the movie with Reid and Ziering just after they survived a Sharknado attack.    The shark kept chasing me. And it had this huge scar across its face and I shot him in the eye but it took my hand. It is he knew who I was.   He did not know you. If he did he would have run the other way. I am sure about that.  Eric it is so good because it is so bad.  What are you laughing about?  I know...  That is drama.  I am remembering the show Mystery Science Theater 3000 which was basically people making fun of really bad old movies. I feel like those movies are not supposed to be bad in the way that Sharknado and Sharknado 2 are supposed to be bad.  Exactly. That is what makes Sharknado and Syfy's growing roster of these made-for-TV movies really unique. It is a B-level disaster movie that is seriously awful on purpose so people can make fun of it.  Can I get you to put on your cinema historian hat for a minute and talk about where this came from?  These kind of disaster movie start as attempts to make serious films on a budget like say Airport 75. But they were also fans who made fun of how stilted and preposterous they were. But Sharknado is different it does not really have jokes but it is not trying to be serious either. It tells a story that is so absurd and so earnest with such bad acting that the result is an intentionally unintentional comedy.  But it seems like the joke is on us because while we are busy talking about and tweeting about this movie Syfy is making a ton of money off something that cost very little to produce.  Yeah that is a great point and they hire some of the cheapest actors - people who are amateurs like Kelly Osbourne and Billy Ray Cyrus and rapper Biz Markie to make cameo roles so yeah it is very cheap to produce these movies.  OK so when I watched Sharknado 1 and I am not ashamed to admit that I did I found the Twitter reaction almost more entertaining than the show itself. So give tips for the best way to watch a phenomenon like this.  For sure. First you want to watch this in a group so you can shout your snarky insults at the screen. Second you got to know your D-list actors. I watched this with my teen and tween daughters and you know a lot of the people they did not know - it kind of went over their head. And then there is a whole second screen experience here where you can tweet your snarky lines to your friends across the country and that is important too. Syfy has been making these kind of movies for a long time but I think with Sharknado they have got the perfect marriage of outlandish concept amateurish acting and middling production values. And if you miss it on TV you can see it in theaters on August 21st which even be more fun.  Thanks Eric.  Thank you.  NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. 