 In the new big-screen thriller Prisoners a police detective and a distraught father are at odds over how to solve a kidnapping case. That makes the film sound like a police procedural. But critic Bob Mondello says the filmmakers aim to make it something more.  Two couples neighbors in a Pennsylvania suburb have just shared Thanksgiving dinner and their kids are restless.   Nothing out of the ordinary no reason to worry certainly until the girls do not come back. At which point an older brother remembers something they saw on a walk earlier.   The police are called. The RV located. The creepy driver played by Paul Dano pulled out and cuffed.   There is nothing in the van. No sign of the girls anywhere. And after questioning him for hours Jake Gyllenhaal's lead detective has to tell the families they are back to square one. One girl's father Keller played by Hugh Jackman does not want to hear that.   In most police procedurals he would. But Keller who is something of a survivalist is consumed by guilt. He thought he would protected his family by stockpiling food and emergency gear preparing for every eventuality. But he did not prepare for this one. So while the detective pursues other leads he kidnaps the kidnapping suspect takes him to an abandoned building and beats him to a bloody pulp to find out where the girls are. After two days of beatings and worse the young man has not said a word and his face looks like raw hamburger to the horror of the other girl's father who Keller ropes in late.   Canadian director Denis Villeneuve whose last picture Incendies was about a family tragedy in the Middle East knows that scenes of questioning under torture will make post-911 audiences queasy. If the suspect is innocent what Keller's doing is monstrous. If he is guilty it is still monstrous but might save two lives. Should that silence objections? Prisoners is just getting started at this point. And as it wends its twisty way to a conclusion calculated to leave audiences thoroughly on edge it does not make moral questions or choosing sides particularly easy. Both survivalist father and by-the-book detective have sketchy backstories. And the middle-American normality they are so determined to defend is filled with loners lurking at candlelight vigils religion and religious hatred living cheek by jowl. All of it cloaked by cinematographer Roger Deakins in dismal grays and ominous greens. The director is not above stretching credibility here and there. Prisoners takes place in a pocket of Pennsylvania where police procedure apparently does not call for getting backup before heading into dark basements for instance. But there is no denying the filmmaker has cracked an unnerving thriller and one with more on its mind than just taking an audience hostage for a couple of hours. I am Bob Mondello.   This is NPR News. 