 A new limited series starts Sunday on HBO. Sharp Objects stars Amy Adams. She plays a troubled reporter investigating crimes that have upended her small Missouri hometown. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says it is less a whodunit than an immersive exploration of female pain.  Sharp Objects starts simply enough when a crusty editor in St. Louis played by Miguel Sandoval asks his cynical reporter played by Amy Adams about her small Missouri hometown called Wind Gap.    Wind Gap. What is it like?   It is at the bottom of Missouri - Bootheel spitting distance from Tennessee.   I know where it is. I asked what it is like.   Small - population's held at 2000 for years. Only real industry is hog butchering so you got your old money and your trash.   Which one are you?   Trash from old money.  Turns out one young girl has been killed and another is missing in Wind Gap. And the editor wants Adams' character Camille Preaker to cover it. But Camille's overbearing mother the high-society matriarch of Wind Gap does not approve.    When you are here everything you do comes back on me.   That might have been true when I was a kid but I am an adult now.   Darling when you are here you are my daughter. You can move away and forget but I cannot. You do not know the people here anymore.   Yeah believe me I do.  But we do not so Sharp Objects introduces us to characters we have kind of seen in other Southern-set dramas - the boozy truth-telling local gossip the beleaguered sheriff the knuckleheaded former high school pals who now have grown-up secrets of their own. But what works here is the way Jean-Marc Vallee's direction brings you into Camille's world. She is damaged and self-destructive revealed by a body she takes great pains to hide under long sleeves and dark jeans. Vallee who also directed HBO's hit Big Little Lies provides visceral images of how Camille's past haunts her now. That includes a scene in which Camille brings a detective from out of town to a spot where the football team used to take advantage of cheerleaders.    Some people would call that rape you know?   And some people would call that consensual you know?   Who are you talking about? Were you one of the girls?   If I say yes you will think less of me or you will feel sorry for me.   What?   Well a boy had sex with five girls and they put up a statue in his honor.   Yeah double standards exist. But having your way with somebody that sounds criminal - literally even on game night.  Based on Gone Girl author Gillian Flynn's first book this mini-series shows the dark consequences of female rage across three generations which may not help Flynn's reputation as an author focused on unsympathetic female characters. There is some things I do not like here - the Southern accents by Adams and some of her co-stars seem to come and go like the wind. The Kansas City detective played by Chris Messina looks more like he was imported from a Law  Order episode in Manhattan. And too many characters feel too close to insulting Southern stereotypes like this mom Camille meets when she tries to interview a kid who may have seen the killer.    Sorry to bother you. Your son was just in the window when I came by. He is playing with a gun.   Why do you care?   Just seems a little young to have a gun.   Breaking some law or something? Screw off.  Later we learn the mother was a meth addict and dying of cancer. When Sharp Objects goes wrong it is often in that kind of excess - piling up trauma in a way that can feel unreal. Vallee's artful direction often hides that excess while helping camouflage plot points you would otherwise see coming a mile away. But Flynn is right. We do not see female anti-heroes like Camille on TV very often a woman whose trauma and bad choices are written on her body in ways you will remember long after the show is final credits have rolled. I am Eric Deggans. 