 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Beth Accomando of member station KPBS was in the house this year for Starship Smackdown.  Football fans have the Super Bowl. Soccer fans have the World Cup. Sci-fi geeks have Starship Smackdown.  Well I mean Starship Smackdown says it all - does not it guys? I mean it is the ultimate conflagration of starships.  Mark A. Altman creator of the Cinemax show Femme Fatales says Starship Smackdown answers the continual debate geeks have about whether the Enterprise would kick the Millennium Falcon's butt in a space rumble.  We only allow real starships to participate - no cartoons no animated characters. Only real spaceships participate in the fight.  Here' Hundreds of people pack into a meeting room. Then expert panelists and avid fans - some even sporting their teams logos - suggest ships that fill up the brackets kind of like in March Madness.  We will have the original Battlestar Galactica and the new Battlestar.   Panelists have to be savvy on everything from Star Trek to Star Wars to Serenity from H.G. Wells to H.R. Puffinstuff. Fans eagerly yell out their suggestions in the hopes of getting their favorite ship into the competition before the brackets close.  One at a time!  This year fans threw the panel a curveball. They wanted one of the ships to be the Chevy Malibu from the trippy '80s cult film Repo Man.  Are you talking about the car in Repo Man? That is not a star - well it did fly away at the end but we do not know where it went.  I have got to say...  It might have had a mothership so it would not have been a starship it would have just been a surface-to-air transport.  You know what? Since it is the first time we have heard it I think it is a valid entry.  Then the panel surprised fans by denying them a human captain. They put famous computers at the helm. This year the infamous Windows 7 was loaded up on Deepspace Nine's U.S.S. Defiant.  The Defiant immediately crashes on boot-up.  This elicited cries of foul play from panelist Robert Hewitt Wolfe a Syfy TV writer and producer.  I think the fix was in. Once they put the Windows 7 program on the Defiant there was no possible way it was going to win.  By declaration of this committee the winner of the 10th anniversary Starship Smackdown is none other than Starship of the Imagination piloted by Hal. Thank you. We will see you next year. Good job.  Fan Christine Rideout was upset that her beloved Deepspace Nine craft was not given a fair shake.  I am very disappointed. I mean they put Windows 7 on the Defiant? What the heck is that? We did not have a chance after that. We just crashed.  Disappointment is just part of the game in this rough-and-tumble world of Starship Smackdown. Founder Mark Altman had his sights set on the Moonraker space shuttle but was still happy with the final results.  It is such a delight to see people that we have seen over the last 10 years come back again and again and indulge this bit of insanity this frivolous nonsense that we do every year.  For NPR News in San Diego I am Beth Accomando. 