 Thanks for tuning into ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Arun here at NPR West. More than 25 years ago Saroo Brierley was one of many poor children in rural India.  My earliest earliest memory would have been going to sleep during the night and looking at the stars in the sky with my mother on one side of me and my siblings on the other.  His mother was raising four children on her own. They were constantly hungry. Saroo's older brothers would hop trains to nearby towns to search for scraps. One day when he was just four years old Saroo tagged along to the next city down the rail line. Ordered by his brother to wait at the station he decided to take a nap.  But when I woke up my brother was not there anywhere to be seen. And I was thinking you know he should be here by now. You said you would only be a few minutes away. And all I saw was a train in front of me. You know I thought perhaps he is on this train. It was just as an impulse decision which in fact changed my destiny for life.  He ended up over a thousand miles from home in Calcutta. It might as well have been an alien planet. They spoke a different language. Saroo could not read did not even know the name of his hometown. He spent five harrowing months first on the streets then in a juvenile home and finally in an orphanage. There he was adopted by an Australian family and began a new life in Tasmania. As he recounts in his new book A Long Way Home Saroo Brierley never stopped thinking about his hometown in India. But finding a small neighborhood in a vast country where he could only remember landmarks proved impossible until Google Earth came along. Saroo spent years zooming in and out of satellite photos examining the web of railway lines across India until one night in 2011 he saw something that he thought looked familiar.  I thought to myself well you know the first thing you have got to see before you come to your hometown is the river where you used to play with your brothers in the waterfall. And you know the architecture of this particular place where I used to visit quite a lot has to be exactly the same otherwise if it is not I will just sort of you know fly over and go somewhere else. And so I studied it very carefully - extremely carefully. And the architecture of this particular place where I used to play with my brothers in the water was exactly the same. And I quizzed myself. Well that is a bit unusual but there could be another place that looks exactly the same too. You never know. And so I thought to myself - well why do not we just scroll a little bit more? I scrolled up a bit left and a bit right and a bit straight here - no you have got to go underneath here. And before you know it I was looking from a bird's-eye view at the town's central business district right in the middle. And I thought well on the right-hand side you should see the three-platform train station. And there it was. And on the left-hand side you should see a big fountain and there it was. And everything just started to match. And I said well from this point I pretty much know how to get back to my suburb. And so I just traced a road that I would follow back as a child. And before I knew it I was sort of looking at the suburb where I had grown up. And just on the right of it was the house that I grew up in.  Was your heart just pounding when you are you know having these realizations making these connections and recognizing those things?  Yeah it was. I was - I was trying to think you know is this a dream? Am I in reality? Get a hold of yourself Saroo. And you know I sort of did the zoom-in zoom-out - sort of looked at different angles 3D angles - to make sure that you know what I am looking at is not something that sort of looks the same but it is what it is. And it is my hometown and I just could not sleep for that whole night.  Let us skip several months ahead 'ecause you go to India. You make the trip. You show up at your old house - just show up there. But no one's there. What happened?  I sort of almost fell to my knees and I thought the worst. I have come all the way to find something that I had found on Google Earth and now I am standing there. Here's the house that I grew up in as a child and the door's shut and it is locked. And there is no one there. And I cannot believe how small it is. I thought perhaps everyone's gone. My whole family's you know died. They have passed away. But lucky for me there was - this lady came out of a doorway holding a baby. And she said can I help you in a very sort of English-Hindi tone. And I said to her my name is Saroo. And these are my family members' names. I tried to be animated too by pointing this is the house that I grew up in. She sort of I think understood what I was talking about and later on in the conversation she said these people do not live here anymore. And you know that sort of got me down again. And I thought what do I do? And another person comes in and I sort of spill my mantra to them as well. And then that sort of went on quite a few times with other people that kept wanting to know this person that is just a foreigner that is coming to a town that is never seen a foreigner. And people are starting to congregate and gather. And by the time the fourth person had come they said just stay here for a sec. And within 10 minutes they came back around. And they said now I am going to take you to your mother. And I could not believe it because when I went around the corner there was three ladies standing in front of an entrance to a house. And I looked at the second one. I thought oh there is something about you.  And it took me you know a few seconds but I decrypted what she used to look like to what she is when I saw her. And you looked so much shorter than as I remembered when I was a four-and-a-half-year-old child. But she came forward and I walked forward. And my emotions and tears and the chemical in my brain was like a nuclear fusion. I just did not know really what to say because I never thought this point in time of ever seeing my mother would ever come true. And here I am standing in front of her and I do not know what she was thinking. But I think she was quite gobsmacked as in how can this day be so true because you know later on she really wanted to see me again and waited in the same place for a long time for my return.  It sounds like this is something that obviously - it changed your life. I have to imagine that also reconnecting must have changed the lives of your Indian family.  Yes. Well you know from my brother's point of you it is the time that I went missing and later on he found out that my oldest brother had died. It was a big loss to him. He had two brothers and all of a sudden within a week apart they are all gone. And I think they are very grateful and very happy. Now there is two in the family - two sons and one daughter. And she could not be I reckon any happier than what she is. So it is a big thing for her and the whole family. And perhaps they do not really know how to take it. But it is only time before it all sinks in that you know this is true. I am here. It is not a dream. This is reality.  That is Saroo Brierley. His new book is called A Long Way Home. Thank you so much.  Thank you very much for having me.  Again it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. 