 When you open the pages of the new novel Housegirl you find a glossary dozens of words and phrases in Twi a Ghanaian dialect. Author Michael Donkor was born in London and is the child of Ghanaian parents. These words hint at the push and pull between those two worlds like this one the phrase for second-hand clothes.  Oburoni wawu - oburoni wawu literally means the white man is dead. And the idea is that when the white man dies his family send over all of his second-hand clothes to Africa and they are sort of sold in the market.  And then there is this word.  Abrokyriefoo which means foreigners is a word that is thrown at me  and my family when we come home from London to Ghana the whole time as a kind of clear marker that you know we are different from you know Ghanaians that live in Ghana.  Now the two teenage girls at the center of Donkor's debut novel are trying to find their place between these two cultures. Amma is growing up in London to Ghanaian parents. When we meet her a gap has opened up between the once-outgoing girl and her family. And so the parents hire a house girl named Belinda who leaves Ghana to come live with them. But Belinda's job is not to clean or cook. In exchange for an education she is asked to befriend Amma.  It is based more than kind of drawing Amma out of her shell. I think Belinda's real task that she is given by Nana and Dr. Otuo the parents of Amma is that she is meant to kind of teach Amma how to be a proper Ghanaian woman and by that a woman who is submissive and obedient and quiet and conforms essentially. And when Belinda meets Amma she is not doing any of those things at all. She is being kind of sullen and rebellious. And Nana and Doctor are really concerned as to why that is the case. So that is sort of really what Belinda's job is in London. It is to kind of tame Amma I suppose and also maybe to try and find out why she is suddenly changed the way she is behaving.  It is interesting. At one point Belinda is talking with Amma about what it means to be an adult. And she sort of says something along the lines of like well you just cannot be anything you want to be.  Yes yeah.  It is both - right? - pragmatic depressing.   There is a lot of things wrapped up in that moment to...  Yeah absolutely.  ...Be coming out of the mouth of a 17-year-old because she does not come from privilege. And so she is not completely wrong.  Yeah. And I think you know the - that description you offer there of Belinda's words kind of sums Belinda up quite brilliantly. She is sort of incredibly insightful at times but often what she says is really just saddening .  Yeah yeah.  There is sort of no...  But she has such a different background you know?  Absolutely.  And I think that is the thing. Like if you are poor you are from another country your paths out of whatever situation you are in are just so limited...  Yes.  ...Compared to a Western teen that is like I say anything that comes into my brain .  Yeah and I do not police my thoughts at all.  I want to be rewarded for it.  Yeah absolutely.  Like I mean it just - it feels so different.  Absolutely. And I really enjoyed writing those conversations between Amma and Belinda for that very reason because you get this uncomfortable clash of upbringings.  Right which is another theme of the book. Amma is somebody who in a lot of ways is divorced from her culture.  Yeah.  She sees it through the lens of her parents. And she looks at it as something of like oh what do they know?  Yes. Yeah.  And they look at her completely confused .  Yeah absolutely.  It is weird having that double vision right?  Yeah.  You sound empathetic to both sides of it.  I try to be. I think there are lots of things about Ghanaian culture that are quite troubling and I try and address some of those particular issues in the novel. So I think there is a kind of traditionalism which lots of people kind of talk about in the vein of kind of wanting to preserve culture and kind of not - wanting to not kind of lose a sense of the great kind of rights and rituals that have been going on in various parts of Ghana for centuries. But there is also a kind of repressive aspect to that traditionalism as well that means that people who feel that they do not necessarily conform to the kind of expected behaviors or identities of Ghanaian people feel quite trapped. And I think it also means that some of the young people who do not fit the mold as it were find themselves in terrible positions and find themselves deeply troubled and fractured by being pulled between this desire to fit in with the culture around them and the desire to be true to themselves.  So one aspect of the book - and this is very much a spoiler for people who want to pause - is that the character of Amma her outsiderness is compounded in that she is wrestling with her sexual identity. How did you want to illustrate this story? Like what is it about the character of Amma that you thought maybe has not been told before?  I think there is a feeling for LGBTQ young people that mainstream society has a problematic attitude towards non-heterosexual sexuality. And that problematic attitude is even more aggressively presented in lots of cases by black communities. This is something that I have encountered a lot in my life where you know your people as it were are supposed to be a source of kind of warmth and comfort from perhaps a kind of hostile world. But the moment that that kind of black community finds out that you are not straight that kind of source of comfort and communality is immediately withdrawn from you. And so it is that kind of tension that I was interested in sort of hinting at with Amma's story.  You also have an ear for dialogue and accents. And I am thinking of the scene where Belinda takes on a group of Jamaican girls on a bus.  .  Very vivid language.  Yeah.  Are these accents you can do out loud as well? Like how does this work in your mind?  Yeah I do not know. I think I listen very closely and try to kind of pick up on the kind of tics and kind of singular features of any given kind of accent or dialect that I am hearing. And I also enjoy doing like imitations .  Really?  And I think - yeah I do.  Can I ask like what?  Oh my Ghanaian accent is my favorite thing to do.  OK.  And I have been honing it for years and years.  Do it. Do it. Your poor parents - they have probably been brutalized by this. But please...   My mother feels so mocked so mocked and belittled by my renditions of her voice. She cannot stand it. She will not have it. But I persist in taunting her with my very accurate imitation of her voice .  That is so sweet. I love it.  You know when we sit down to write novels we are often quite imaginative with the way that we get our narrators to talk about setting and so on. And I think we should be equally inventive and creative with the way that we present speech as well.  The book begins and ends roughly the same way with the scene of a funeral. What about this story lends itself to a kind of loop?  I suppose in one way the loop I did - I think it came from my sort of sense that I wanted to think about progression and kind of movement and how this is a novel in lots of ways that feels like it is about kind of moving forward. So you know Belinda moves from the village to the city and then she moves from the city to the U.K. But then there is always a kind of longing to go back. We can sort of move on in all sorts of ways but there will always be a kind of core of us that is sort of deeply related to that place that we sprang from I think.  Well Michael Donkor thank you so much for speaking with us.  It was a pleasure to speak with you so much fun. Thank you.   Michael Donker's new novel is called Housegirl.  