 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. In  The Power Of Mathematical Thinking University of Wisconsin professor Jordan Ellenberg celebrates the virtues of mathematics especially when it is taught well. A math teacher he says has to be a guide to good reasoning. And he writes this a math course that fails to do so is essentially teaching the student to be a very slow buggy version of Microsoft Excel. And let us be frank that really is what many of our math courses are doing. In the conflict over how math is taught Jordan Ellenberg describes himself as a moderate.  There is a view that rote computation is totally unimportant. And I do not really believe that. I mean it is sort of painful to watch a student have to kind of work out again and again what five times nine is when they are trying to do something more advanced. To some extent you have to train those things into so-to-speak muscle memory the same way that a piano player has to be able to play scales and not sort of think each time about where the next note in the scale is. But at the same time it is a strange thing - is not it?- to have the main goal of math education be to replicate the functions of a 5 calculator.  Yeah.  I mean that is a weird thing for us to have as our highest desire for our math students. But I think most math teachers and most places now have higher goals than that.  Well how do you describe those higher goals that a math teacher can aspire to in addition to teaching times tables to kids for whom that is the challenge of whatever grade that is nowadays?  Well as I say I think one of them is to not only be able to compute but to look at the answer and see whether your answer makes sense which is sort of a species of skepticism right? You should always have skepticism about your own computations whether they are mathematical computations or moral computations or whatever they are. The example I give in the book is that if you are working a word problem that asks you to compute how much mass of water is left in a jug and you get negative four part of mathematics is to be able to look and say like no there is not negative four grams of water in the jug.   That is not actually an amount of water.  Right.  I do not know what I did wrong. I do not know where I switched a plus for a minus or switched a two for a nine but I know I did something wrong. When you actually look at the answer - and that is what Excel cannot do right? Excel will happily tell you that the answer is negative four. And so will your calculator and so will the Google search bar because in the end those machines are not built to figure out what answer makes sense. And you are.  But you say that if a student  of yours who has that problem arrives at the answer minus four grams of water and writes - I am quoting now - writes in a desperate hurried hand I screwed up somewhere but I cannot find my mistake you give them half credit for that. But if they just write minus four grams and circle it then they get zero.  Yes absolutely because the first answer is much better. It shows that they are thinking about what they are doing.  I know this cannot be right.  And what I love about mathematics and where I think you know - why should it have such a prominent place in the curriculum? One thing that is very special is that mathematical knowledge is something the student can create and experience directly. It does not rely on authority right? If you study history in the end you are not experiencing those things directly. You learn that a certain thing happened because your teacher said it happened. And then when you get a little more advanced because you can look up a book in the library and like see that it happened. Or God forbid Wikipedia said it happened or something. But you are not experience that yourself. And the truths of mathematics are different. I think this is where in school we teach kids that knowledge can be created and that it can be experienced directly and that if your teacher says something that does not make sense you can show them that what they said does not make sense.  One problem that you address is one that would come in handy for lots of people in my line of work which is dealing with numbers on say which state has the highest rate of cancers? And I want you to present the problem here.  Right. So this is an interesting question and of course people are extremely anxious about their health and looking for guidance and looking for firm answers in a regime where they are usually in rather short supply. And one thing people certainly do is like look at health statistics of different states. If you look at - if you take a rare disease like brain cancer and you look at its rate of incidence in different states there are very big differences. And so you might say well I should go where this form of cancer is the rarest. Clearly sort of something's going on in that state that is preventative against that disease. But when you look at the numbers they are rather strange because at the top of the list you see South Dakota with an extremely elevated rate of brain cancer. But if you look at the bottom you see North Dakota with almost none. So that is very strange - right? - because South Dakota and North Dakota are not actually all that different. But when you look at those numbers a little more closely what you notice is that the states at the top of the list and the states at the bottom of the list have something in common which is that they are very small.  Yes. South Dakota followed by Nebraska Alaska Delaware and Maine.  .  But also at the bottom of the list you find Wyoming Vermont North Dakota Hawaii and the District of Columbia. So very small places yeah.  Exactly. So basically hardly anybody lives in those states. That is what they have in common. And a sort of fundamental principle is that when you compute rates the smaller the state - or what we would say is the term of art the smaller the sample size - the more variation is going to be created just by random chance. It is kind of the same reason that if we are like who has the best batting average in the American League we do not count every single batter because there is going to be one guy who only came up once and he got a hit.  Right.  And he has a perfect batting average. And we do not look at that guy and be like that guy is the best hitter in the entire league. We do not do that because on some level we know that small sample sizes do not give reliable measurements. And what the mathematics does is it is there to formalize that. It is there to say well exactly how much more unreliable is a smaller sample size that is this much smaller? So it is taking an insight that we already have available to us that is part of our cognition and just making it more precise more strong more powerful more generalizable more correct.  Well Jordan Ellenberg thanks a lot for talking with us today.  Oh thank you for having me.  Jordan Ellenberg's book is called  The Power Of Mathematical Thinking. He is a professor of mathematics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 