 Baby Driver is a heist movie told from the point of view of the getaway driver named Baby.    I am the driver.  But it is the music that really drives the movie. Chase scenes are choreographed down to the second. Doors slam. Wheels screech all in time to the beat.    Nowhere to run to baby nowhere to hide. Got nowhere to run to baby.  Edgar Wright is a British director who also wrote the film. His movies are often known for their soundtracks. He made Hot Fuzz Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World and Shaun Of The Dead. To get the heist part of this film just right Edgar Wright turned to Joe Loya.  I was a script consultant tech consultant and I had a cameo in the movie.  Wait where was your cameo?  Yes.  I gave Joe the part of a security guard in one of the heists.   I just love the irony of that. And everybody who knows me and knows that I am in this movie - they just love that. It is a juicy irony.  It is a juicy irony because Joe Loya used to rob banks. When he and Edgar Wright first met the conversation went in a direction that surprised both of them.  We were talking about films a lot of the time. That was what was - surprised me.  Yeah yeah that is right.  Not bank robberies.  Well sort of bank robberies in film is what so very quickly the conversation became about. I realized what a big film fan Joe was. And then I was interested because I thought well you have done these things so it is interesting to me that you still watch fiction about them. And your response Joe to that was that most criminals watch movies correct?  Right right yeah. I was like you know most guys when they are arrested - and the cops will tell you this - you go to a video library and most criminals have the same - at least six of the same you know films in there.  What are they?  Like Goodfellas Casino of course Godfather you know different movies like that where...  Scarface.  ...You actually - Scarface of course. And then - but the point was that I was making is this is where we learned to talk like criminals. This is where we learned to talk you know with violence and aggression and be criminals. A lot of guys are still using a lot of the metaphors from these crime films. They were appropriating you know the violence and the mayhem from movies and it was no different than what we did. I mean it is - in a way like movies kind of teach young boys some maleness how to texturize your maleness. Certainly in my case I feel like a lot of my swagger as a bank robber - I kind of picked that up - because you know where do you get that from?  Edgar does that make you feel at all weird about making these kinds of movies?  No. I mean here's the thing. And I will say this about the movie and I am sure Joe would agree - is that without giving too much away about the ending the movie is sort of about like stripping away that romance. I would say in the first like...  Yeah.  ...Ten minutes of the movie Baby is - in his head is like I am this folklore hero and I am the getaway driver. And I drive fast and I evade the cops. But I am not really a criminal. I am not like the other guys. And then the movie is sort of like unfortunately like shattering that illusion and saying no you are like the other guys. And in the eyes of the law...  Yeah.  ...You are absolutely one of them and you will pay the same prices they will. So it is - sort of the whole movie is about starting with the dream in inverted commas of being a getaway driver and ending with the nightmare of being a criminal.  Edgar when you first met Joe was there one particular question that you really wanted him to answer?  Well I guess I had lots of general questions about the job a lot of which are sort of things about like what car you would drive in. You know would you dump it? Where would you kind of source cars from? The most specific question pertaining to this movie is I would ask would you ever play music on the way to a job?  And...  Well and then I remember Joe  responded - well there were two things that - Joe you can fill this in a bit more but the two things that you said that I just thought were amazing was one you said not on the way to a job I have got enough demons up here making music which I thought whoa.  Up here in my head meaning.  Yes.  In my head yeah.  And then pretty much Jamie Foxx says that line verbatim in the movie. And then the other thing you said Joe is that you said that you would listen to music after a heist. And one of the songs that you would listen to post-heist would be  Smooth Criminal by Michael Jackson.  .   Is not that a little cliche Joe?  Yes.  .  I admitted that I chose Smooth Criminal the first time because I was a knucklehead. I was a total cliche.   I thought OK I am a criminal. What song should I listen to - oh Smooth Criminal because I am so smooth.    You have been hit by you have been hit by a smooth criminal.  I get in the car. I am listening and I am getting into it. And I can feel how this - yeah this is it. This is - it is sharp. The violence has just occurred. And then he starts singing the - if you start listening to the lyrics it is basically the ballad of Annie's killer. Listen I do not want to play the ballad of Annie's rapist or killer on my pristine getaway. That does not work for me. So I went home and I went through you know all my CDs and tried to choose the song that would be best for my getaway.  Really. And what did you pick?  I ended up with Pink Floyd's Comfortably Numb.    Come on now. I hear you are feeling down.  All the power and the buildup to the bank robbery was in the beginning and I had to really - anything that came in my head that was harassing me bothering me - I had to just dispel it all to get to a really vicious silent place. Well on the way home I needed something that was like post-coital. I needed something to just chill...  .  ...And whatever but also that resembled some of the hazards of my home when I was a child.    The child is grown. The dream is gone. I have become comfortably numb.  And I played it for the next 27 28 bank robberies.  Edgar can you point to a scene that you did differently because of Joe's input?  Well I think a lot of the - I had the sort of shape of the story and the characters and I think in talking to Joe it is just detail that is worth its weight in gold. And it was an interesting thing. I would send kind of scenes to him and then Joe would respond as if they were real people. I remember specifically there was a scene where Joe read the scene and said damn this character asks a lot of questions. These guys in this business are a lot more direct than that. And I said well you know that is like rhetorical questions. And I remember you saying something I guess - is that like a British thing to ask so many questions?  Yeah well you know...  So and it actually inspired a line in the movie where like Kevin Spacey calls Ansel Elgort and says are you in? And like Baby just repeats it back. He says am I in? And he says it is a rhetorical question. You are in. And that was...  Yeah.  ...Inspired by my conversation with Joe.  Joe when you saw the movie was there any song that you thought oh I wish I would thought to play that when I was leaving the scene of a crime?  Well yes.   The beginning of this movie...   ...Is just thrilling.   The song in that opening getaway chase scene is Bellbottoms by the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion.  Yeah.  I think that is a good note to go out on. So Joe Loya Edgar Wright thank you both so much. It is been great talking to you.  Thank you.  Thank you Ari.    Oh...   Yeah.   ...Yes.  The movie Baby Driver is out now.    Yeah.   Yeah you know what I want to do. Yeah baby to catch the whole  New York City. Yeah blues explosion. 