 In Downton Abbey he wooed Lady Mary. In the Marvel series Legion he had psychic superpowers. British actor Dan Stevens has got range. Now he is starring in a German romantic comedy. It is called I am Your Man. Critic Bob Mondello says that speaking German is not the only thing that makes Stevens click with the object of his affection.  Alma is an archeologist scientific in her approach and as played by Maren Eggert skeptical by nature.    Hello Alma. Ich bin Tom.  But even by her own standards Alma's asking the handsome guy played by Dan Stevens some pretty odd questions for a first date. What are the sixth and seventh lines of his favorite poems?   .  Without batting an eye he recites them. What is the second to last letter of that poem?   .   A.  He also does a really complicated math problem when she poses that. And then utterly unflappable he smiles and suggests they head for the dance floor...    Alma.  ...Where he is pretty dashing with the dips and the spins until...   .  ...He has a glitch. This date is more of a test drive. Tom is an android. And Alma has agreed somewhat reluctantly to try him out for a few weeks as his precision-tooled algorithm gets better at meeting her every requirement of the perfect man. As Alma resists Tom will adapt. When she rejects a romantic brunch he cooks in the morning he will try rose petals candles wine and a bubble bath in the evening. Ninety-three percent of German women dream of this he tells her.   .  Guess what percent I am in? she responds.   .  .  These are pretty typical rom-com implications and the film works on that level. But filmmaker Maria Schrader is also interested in what the meeting of our every requirement for the perfect partner might mean for society. If perfection in a mate can be manufactured why would anyone bother interacting with actual humans? Alma can accidentally leave Tom out in the pouring rain for instance. And though she apologizes profusely when she comes back...   .  ...He did not mind.   .  Anyone who is ever inadvertently said thanks to Siri will understand the weirdness here. Alma whose name in Spanish means soul is not just any test driver. Her job is to judge whether ethics apply to artificially intelligent but nonetheless intelligent beings like Tom. Should they be allowed to marry work get passports? Filmmaker Schrader rather likes to pose philosophical relational and artificial intelligenzical  questions which may set you to asking a few. Like what Hollywood algorithm determines the number of nanoseconds before I am Your Man gets remade in English? And more to the point do androids dream of romantic dinners? I am Bob Mondello.  