 Earlier this week I spoke with the director of The Cove Louie Psihoyos about the industry behind the dolphin catch and the obstacles he faced making this film including 24-hour seven-day-a-week surveillance. Mr.  We checked into a hotel in the neighboring town and we had five hotel rooms for the crew the police had five hotel rooms. We would go out they would go out.  Were you worried that you were going to be caught and thrown out of the country? Mr.  Oh yeah daily.  I mean you take on the world's second biggest economy and a 2 billion a year captive dolphin industry you know I am still scared. Yeah there is arrest warrants out for us. You know the charges are trespassing and conspiracy to disrupt commerce.  There are arrest warrants in from the village of Taiji? Mr.  Wakayama Prefecture yep.  Oh wow. So if you went back to that area or you went back to Japan at all you could be arrested? Mr.  We would be arrested yeah.  And originally you had planned to do this legally. I mean you went to the town officials and you said we would like to film this. And they said impossible. Mr.  Yeah. I mean really at that point we did not want to get in the cove. The point was to get this cultural difference where you know our culture Western culture you know reveres the dolphin as something you know kind of holy. But then you have this village where you know they treat them like large fish. They do not regard that they are sacred at all. I mean to say I am not - this is not an indictment against the Japanese people. The Japanese people do not even know this is going on. That is one of the points of making this film is to inform them of what their government and the media over there has failed to do.  Now the dolphins that are slaughtered are the ones that are not sold to aquariums and to amusement parks. There is a point in the film in which we hear the sounds of the dolphins screaming literally as we watch these fishermen spear and slaughter the animals. And the water the sea water turns red like almost like a muddy river. And it is very shocking to see that. Mr.  Well you know this a PG-13 rating so it is you know we did our best to make this sort of the Disney version of the horror that goes on there. You know we protect the audience pretty well from all that.  Is dolphin meat widely consumed in Japan? Mr.  It is consumed but people do not know they are eating dolphin meat. It is sold under the pretext of being whale meat. You know the issue I think here is you know we are not going to win the argument on a animal rights issue. We are going to win it because we are going to prove that it is inhumanity to man because these animals are toxic. Not just a little bit toxic but through the ceiling toxic with mercury.  In terms of mercury. Mr.  Yeah it is anywhere from five to 5000 times more mercury than allowed by Japanese law.  Why is dolphin meat more toxic than for example tuna meat or other kinds of fish? Mr.  Dolphin and whales are at the very top of the food chain. Basically every tropic level of the food chain you put on another zero so you have a million times more pollutants.  And so as far as you are concerned this is not about killing dolphins for their meat. It is about the fact that their meat is unsafe to eat. Mr.  That is how we are going to win the argument. I am concerned about you know the animal welfare issue as well.  Mr. Psihoyos we obviously eat all kinds of animals. Some people eat horses. In the U.S. we eat cattle they do not do that in India. Why is it different to kill and eat dolphins and not cows or pigs for example which are also intelligent? I mean I must admit I feel a little bit awkward because I eat all kinds of meat. But I was horrified by this film and what happens to the dolphins but obviously a little bit conflicted as well. Mr.  Yes it is really typical to you know to say they are intelligent so they should be saved. You are right. You know it is really hard to win that argument. But you know a dolphin has a bigger brain than a human being. It has more surface area for gray matter for neurons. They are more sensitive than us on multiple levels they have an extra sense. Their sonic you know their sonic ability is legendary. I mean they can see right through you. They can see your heart beating. They can see if you are pregnant. You know these animals I think are superhuman.  The slaughter will begin in September. I mean it is going to start again. Mr.  Unless we stop it yes. I am not going to you know predict when it is going to stop. It will stop. You know I would like to be a catalyst for that.  Louie Psihoyos is the director of the new documentary The Cove. Mr. Psihoyos thanks for telling us the story about this film. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  We contacted the Japanese Embassy here in Washington for their response. A spokesman told us that those who see this film should take into account quote national and cultural differences between Japan and Western countries. This is NPR News. 