 It is Friday and it is August. And that means another batch of new movies are heading to the theaters begging for your hard-earned dollars. But believe it or not Hollywood is thinking less and less about your dollars and more and more about someone else's euros and yuans. These days half or more of a movie's profits come from overseas. In fact a bomb here in the United States can be a blockbuster abroad.  this summer's film The Prince of Persia. Budget 200 million. And here in the U.S. it only made about 90 million. A flop right? Wrong. Overseas it racked up an additional 237 million  What and more specifically what actors have bankable global appeal? And to answer that question we called on James Ulmer. He created something called The Ulmer Scale. It ranks over 1000 actors worldwide. And he joins us now. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Michele.  First off how does The Ulmer Scale work? What exactly are you measuring and how do you determine this ranking? Mr.  Well if you think of The Ulmer Scale as a kind of a stock market index for the stars we look at how a star's power in other words how able is their name alone to sell a movie and get those bums into the seat both nationally and worldwide. That is what we measure and we use really the people who are the powerbrokers the people who are the intersection of the deal point - the buyers the sellers worldwide. These are the people that know Bruce Willis's value in Japan versus you know Germany or versus America and who really control how well a movie does overseas.  Now I have got the list right here in front of me The Ulmer Scale's actors hot list for 2009-2010. At the top of the list Will Smith. Why does he top the list? Mr.  Will is somebody who is almost indestructible in terms of his ability to choose excellent roles for himself. He is put himself in franchise movies movies that are - that would have legs we call it. Maybe they are in one or two or three versions of them and they are often action-adventures which always do well overseas. He is also somebody who is really smart and savvy and really orchestrates his career very carefully. He studies the box office and he just does not blindly obey the advice of his manager and agents. He will really take an active role in his own career choices.  As I look at the list I am just going to tick through the top 10  Will Smith Johnny Depp Brad Pitt Tom Hanks George Clooney Will Ferrell Nicholas Cage Reese Witherspoon Leonardo DiCaprio Tom Cruise. Not a lot of women in that list? Mr.  No. Unfortunately I like to say that the global international marketplace is pretty sexist when it comes to their movie stars because first of all they cannot lead the marquee. Oftentimes you will - even today if you have a Julia Roberts who used to be able to sell a movie based on her name alone today you will need a male star. So they are also bankable as we call it really mostly in ensembles. They will also be a little more sensitive to the market fluctuations out there. It is just a sad fact of the international entertainment marketplace.  What are the biggest markets overseas and what kinds of movies sell well there? Mr.  Well let us just take one of the biggest markets. Traditionally it is been Japan. And you almost have to ask what kind of movies do not sell too well because generally Japan - although you cannot make absolute rules - they do not want to touch romantic comedies and some dramas but they certainly do love the Twilight series. Scandinavia will censor a lot of violence so Quentin Tarantino films do not do well there. Latin America loves genre movies horror movies. And I think what you are seeing is that the foreign market Michele is really going - responding to the idea of genre movies and it is becoming a lot more tuned in to what is successful here in America.  James Ulmer it is been great to talk to you. Thank you so much. Mr.  Thank you Michele.  James Ulmer is the creator of The Ulmer Scale that ranks actors worldwide based on their bankability. 