 The comedy Late Night stars Emma Thompson as a fading TV host and Mindy Kaling as a writer hired to make her more hip. The film was popular enough with audiences at this year's Sundance Film Festival to start a studio bidding war. Our critic Bob Mondello says it is easy to see why.  We first see Katherine Newbury standing backstage preparing to accept the latest of many honors.    She was the first female late night talk show host on a major network winning 43 Emmy Awards.  So Katherine's not expecting to have this conversation with a new network head the next day.    I came to tell you this year is your last.   What? You are canceling the show.   No I am canceling you. Do you want to know who Jimmy Fallon had on last Tuesday when you had Doris Kearns Goodwin - Robert Downey Jr. They washed a sheepdog together - glorious.   I am sorry Caroline. Should I have played giant Connect 4 with her or perhaps sung a karaoke song on the back of a tandem bicycle? It is Doris Kearns Goodwin. She is a national treasure.   Agreed. I only wish she would been an Avenger instead of writing books about Abraham Lincoln.   She could be an Avenger if she tried.  Warmth is not Katherine's strong suit but she is not letting go without a fight. So she pops into the morning writers' meeting looks at the white male faces around the table and realizes...    I do not know who any of them are.   I am Tom. I write the monologue. I am actually the youngest monologue writer in the history of the show.   Do not care.   No OK.   Do you know what? I am not going to remember any of this so here's what we are going to do. You are one two three four.   Hi Katherine.   Oh Burditt thank God. How is your baby?   She is 27.  So out of touch. Enter Molly seeking a job as a TV writer quoting Yates on her way into the building...    I have spread my dreams under your feet. Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.  ...And getting beamed by a trash bag. Molly's been working in a chemical plant - not usually known as a breeding ground for comedy but...    I have seen every episode of this show. I have read every book written about it. I do a little stand-up.   Where?  At the plant.    If you have a problem ask a chemist. She will always have the solution.    Which kills with people who know about chemistry.  Still Katherine wants a woman writer so Molly gets the gig and the audience gets a fish-out-of-waterworkplace redemption comedy that is happy to joke about such topical topics as sexism in broadcasting diversity hiring and how to navigate less-than-sensitive work environments. Mindy Kaling who plays Molly and also wrote the film's script has worked in TV long enough to know quite a bit about those things. And though she is given Emma Thompson the best line she is reserved a few plum situations for herself including one save-the-day-in-front-of-reporters moment when Katherine barely knows who she is. A publicist has been trying to soften the host's chilly image but the giving-numbers-as-names story has gotten out.    How would you describe Molly?   Molly Molly - Molly is...   She said to me that despite our very different backgrounds that I reminded her of a younger her.   Younger me.   Is not that wonderful?   I mean huge .   You know what? Everybody's going to want to get this. Let us get a picture of Katherine and her beautiful Indian protege.   Molly.  One way to negotiate job security. Director Nisha Ganatra keeps things moving at a brisk clip. And if there are a few too many plot threads dangling and a fresh spin on MeToo that is way too glibly resolved it is hard to feel anything but vaguely affirmative about Late Night. With those stars I would hoped to feel more than vaguely affirmative. But hey it is Late Night not Prime Time. I am Bob Mondello.    Do not let the negative ever get in your way. Do not let it mess with your life. Do not let it wreck up your day. Do not make the things they do get under your skin - got to push it... 