 There have been five Spider-Man movies already starring two different Spider-Men Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield. They have been hugely successful - so no surprise a sixth opens tonight. Critic Bob Mondello says true to the title  Homecoming the main character seems finally to have come home.  Pretty near the start of this movie everybody's favorite spider teen is coming home literally climbing through a window in his Aunt May's apartment crawling across the ceiling as one does when one is spider-bitten taking off his mask as he turns around and seeing his best friend Ned sitting there in shock.    What was that?   Nothing nothing.   You are the Spider-Man from YouTube.   I am not.   You were on the ceiling.   No I was not. Ned what are you doing in my room?   May let me in. You said we were going to finish the Death Star. She does not know.   Nobody knows. Well I mean Mr. Stark knows 'ecause he made my suit but that is it.   Tony Stark made you that. Are you an Avenger?  I should probably back up a little. Superheroes used to stand alone. Now they come in packs. The first two spider dudes were old school. Their world was just theirs. This new one has joined what is called the Marvel Cinematic Universe meaning he interacts with the other Marvel characters. He sort of is an Avenger though not full-fledged yet. Tony Stark has him on a short leash interning as it were.    You cannot tell anybody about this. You got to keep it a secret.   A secret - why?   You know what she is like. If she finds out people try and kill me every single night she is not going to let me do this anymore.  Peter Parker's always been a teenager but Tom Holland's super kid is the first who seems like he could actually be a classmate of Ferris Bueller's or the folks in The Breakfast Club. He and his best buddy who is played by Jacob Batalon are funny awkward and real - John Hughes teenagers more or less.    Dude you have a suit right? This is going to change our lives. We are going to have Spider-Man swing in say you guys are tight. And then I get a fist bump or one of those half bro hugs.  Spidey's antagonist a trucker who is cleaning up the mess from the first Avengers movie and keeping some alien-powered souvenirs feels decently real too partly because he is played by Michael Keaton...    The world's changing. It is time will change too.  ...But also because the screenplay gives him persuasive blue-collar reasons to be ticked off at the government and at billionaire Tony Stark. There are other bright spots - the girl Peter has a crush on the girl who maybe has a crush on him the wonderful Marisa Tomei as Aunt May.    What is the matter? I thought you loved larb. It is too larby not larby enough? How many times do I have to say larb before you talk to me? You know I larb you.  But what makes this homecoming fun is Holland who seems as excited about Spider-Man as his classmates even though he is Spider-Man. At one point he shows off a selfie video he took while he was in somebody else's Marvel movie.    I was in a fight with Captain America. And I stole his shield and I threw it at him and - what the hell? He is big now. I got to go.  We also see him learning to use the spider suit Tony Stark made for him...    Good evening Peter.   Whoa.   You have 576 possible web-shooter combination.   That is awesome.  ...And just generally having a ball imagining his own about-to-be glory even when he is screwing up...    No no no no.  ...As when he misjudges things on the Staten Island Ferry which gives director Jon Watts a special effects showpiece and gets Peter chastised by his mentor.    What if somebody had died?   I was just trying to be like you.   I wanted you to be better. I am going to need the suit back.   But I am nothing without this suit.   If you are nothing without this suit then you should not have it.  Tough love. Happily Tom Holland's Spidey is not nothing without the suit. He just has to grow into it. No question the suit suits him. I am Bob Mondello.  