 We have reported a lot on the COVID-related supply chain glitches driving up the cost of things like cars gas and building materials. Well here's another product that has seen prices more than double in the last year - comic books. Abe Aboraya of member station WMFE reports.   It is the battle of the century - Batman versus Superman.    'Sup Supes?   Wow it is Batman. What are you doing here?  But this time the Dark Knight versus the Man of Steel does not happen on the big screen it happens on an auction block in Dallas Texas.  The greatest comic in the hobby - Action Comics No. 1.  At Heritage Auctions bidding for the first appearance of Superman starts at 400000.  The biggie of biggies as far as this session is concerned - the first appearance of Batman - Detective Comics 27.  Here is where Batman beats Superman. Batman's first comic book appearance sold for 1.1 million more than twice as much as Superman's first appearance. During three days at auction a record 22.5 million was spent on rare comic books shattering the previous record that was set in April. The pandemic that put millions of Americans out of work has not caused them to have to liquidate their comic book collections and drive prices down says Douglas Gillock with online auction site ComicLink.  In hobbies we talk about you know death divorce and debt as the three D's of why people sell.  That is still true but the average price of a comic book sold in April more than doubled from a year ago. The younger generation is now collecting comic books fueled by the success of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. But also more people are seeing comics as a financial asset with a pretty good return on investment.  And in some cases extreme extreme returns. But they are also fun to own. There is pride of ownership.  If you are proud of your comic investment you will probably send it to Certified Collectibles Group in sunny Sarasota Fla. for authentication. Comics.  Comics? Let us take a look then.  High fences security guards video cameras everywhere - CCG is the Fort Knox of comics complete with an actual vault overflowing with pallets of comic books. Here comics and collectibles are authenticated and given a grade by specialists like Vince Oliva.  This is a Fantastic Four No. 1.  It looks pristine but Oliva's super senses can tell that missing pieces of the cover have been repaired the spine reinforced and the cover soaked and cleaned. It has been professionally restored.  And it is still a very valuable book but instead of a half a million now this might be - oh gosh - probably something more in the 10- 15000 range.  Once he is done comic books are then slapped in carbonite - kind of.   It is a hard plastic clamshell to prevent comics from being altered in ways that could affect their value. This whole operation - grading authenticating slabbing - takes hundreds of people. CCG President Max Spiegel says his company cannot hire fast enough and is offering 2500 hiring bonuses.  At the start of the pandemic we had 300 employees around the world. We just passed 500 employees. And I think by the end of the year we could have 600 or 700 employees.  So now what before the pandemic was a two-month turnaround for comic books is more than five months. A Pokemon card takes a year to get graded. For NPR News I am Abe Aboraya in Sarasota Fla.  