 America's most famous drag queen RuPaul Charles has finally gone mainstream with two Emmy nominations for the reality show RuPaul's Drag Race.   Condragulations Ladies. Can I get an amen in here?  Amen.  All right. Now let the music play.  The show is a competition. Contestants complete challenges like lip-syncing runway walks and photo shoots. And then RuPaul and a panel of judges choose the best drag queen. We visited the set of Drag Race here in Los Angeles where RuPaul and the gang are taping the show is ninth season. The producer walks us behind a two-way mirror to see the latest contestants.  So they are lining up right now for Ru's entrance.  For Ru's entrance.  Yeah.  OK. We can see into a big dressing room. RuPaul comes in and reveals the next challenge. We cannot tell you what it is - spoilers. But we can say the queens are given 30 minutes to go from boy clothes to full drag. We watch as they come up to the mirror and shave their chests put on makeup apply pads to various body parts and put on wigs and jewelry and gowns.  I look gorgeous. I mean seriously have any of you ever looked better?  Eventually time starts to run out.  Can we get a time check?  Ay que bonita!  Five minutes.  The queens finish their challenge. We sit down on another part of the set a supermodel-style runway. RuPaul walks up and he is not in drag. He is in a perfectly tailored suit made from a floral pattern they would normally tell you to never wear on TV styley  horn-rimmed glasses and just a little bit of makeup.  Hey.  Hi.  Hey - Ru.  How are you?  Good to see you.  Nice to meet you. I am Kelly. RuPaul's Drag Race started in 2009. The winning drag queens usually go on to be well-paid performers. The first thing I ask Ru is if he is worried one of these queens might steal his throne someday.  Think about it. In all these years that RuPaul has been RuPaul there is been no  who has come for this crown.  .  Year after year we pick America's next drag superstar. But has she ever come close to Ms. RuPaul?  All I am saying is...  I do not think so.  RuPaul has a saying. You are born naked and the rest is drag. Drag is what you put on after you get out of the shower.  We are all playing these roles you know? And I mean even as a kid I remember thinking why are not we talking about the fact that everybody's playing a role? I could not get anyone to break the fourth wall and say everybody's playing a role right? Are you seeing this?  But then there is RuPaul's particular kind of drag a drag he is been doing for decades - transforming himself from a tall skinny gay man to a blonde voluptuous woman. Drag with a capital D and the way you have interpreted it is something different. It is a way to comment on society right?  Yes. And definitely started - you know I started during the Reagan era and we were doing it as a - sort of a revolt not just against the status quo but as a revolt against this hyper-masculine culture and says you know what? F you to all you. I am going to do all of the things that we were told not to do.  RuPaul says for him it started with a variety show on Atlanta Public Access TV called American Music Show.  And I saw it one evening flipping channels and wrote a letter to them and said basically you are my tribe. I need to be with you. And they said well come on down. Be on the show. And I got together with a couple of my girlfriends and we did a dance routine to Junior Walker's Shotgun a Motown classic song. And I made some outfits with my girlfriends and we called ourselves RuPaul and the U-Hauls.  We found another episode of American Music Show on YouTube. A very young RuPaul teaches people a dance move called the incredible hulk.   Oh no. I know. But - and then the third thing is - oh the pelvic thrust. We cannot forget the pelvic thrust.  So on that show RuPaul found his tribe and he says that is what his current show Drag Race does for young gay men now.  What the show has done on a broad level is really spoken to young people who are out in the middle of nowhere to help them identify what they are feeling and who their tribe is and how to live a life outside of what they were told they are supposed to do how to successfully live your life without buckling under the pressure of society.  You have said that drag saves lives. What do you mean by that?  Well drag saves lives because a lot of these kids come from families who have really thrown them out because they are outside of the status quo.  RuPaul says he sees it a lot - contestants who have been kicked out or abused because they do not fit in. One contestant he says he will never forget is Roxxxy Andrews from Drag Race season five.   What is going on?   Nothing go ahead.  No tell me about it.   It just hit me like not feeling wanted and not being good enough. I just feel like my mom never wanted me and...  On the show Roxxxy says her mom left her and her sister at a bus stop when she was 3. Roxxxy went on to be a runner-up that season.  And it goes on and on. And these are not new stories to me. Coming up in gay life in the club world in the Bohemian world that is - that is the norm.  Now the show is up for major awards. We have to say condragulations  for the two Emmy nominations of course. And how do you feel about it? I mean how do you feel about you know being recognized by the mainstream world given that drag as you say is something that was sort of a middle finger to the mainstream world?  Well you know it is great. But whether we win or not makes absolutely no difference to me. I am going to keep doing what I do.  RuPaul likes to say he would rather have an enema than an Emmy. You know I mean I think when you said that you meant you did not want drag to become too mainstream because you maintain that drag is not - like at its core not mainstream.  It cannot be mainstream.  But drag is now mainstream. People talk about throwing shade. And you have got lip-sync contests on late-night TV. I mean...  Well those...  Drag is among us.  Well those are sort of the accessories of drag. But drag at its core is about challenging the idea of identity. And it actually mocks identity. So it could never be mainstream because mainstream is about OK pick what you are going to be and stick with it because you would make us feel very uncomfortable if you started shapeshifting and changing because that will wreck my head. So drag will never ever ever ever be mainstream.  At 55 RuPaul Charles has seen a lot. I ask him if things have gotten better for the LGBT community.  I would not say better or easier. There have been shifts and changes. But I have got to tell you. You know even in the late 70s we thought we were going to be where we are now. We thought we were going to be there then. But overnight - you know disco sucks. And you know with the AIDS crisis everything reverted back so fast. Your head would - you would get whiplash it was so fast. So I am very cautious when I talk about the changes and the advances that we have made in such a short amount of time - very cautious because in my lifetime I have seen that shift go completely backwards.  RuPaul thank you very much.  My pleasure.  RuPaul's Drag Race has been nominated for two Emmys - outstanding host of a reality show and outstanding costumes. The awards are next month. 