 Pro-America pro-business and pro-military thats how promotions describe a new entertainment network aimed at a conservative audience. It is called RightNetwork and it will roll out on the Web and mobile devices. TV is supposed to come later. RightNetwork executives say they expect to fill a big gap with material that isnt seen anywhere else. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has our story.  In one of the commercials for RightNetwork Kelsey Grammer makes a list.  Mr.  Things that just aren' big government more taxes group hugs cats on leashes. Hmm...  Another ad edits together all of the insults that are being lobbed at RightNetwork from the left. Mr.  Tonight's worst persons in the world. The bronze tonight something called RightNetwork...   We would blush if we were not already red. At the moment RightNetwork has just three shows. One of them is a stand-up comedy series taped at a club in Los Angeles called Right 2 Laugh.   I did not vote for Obama but I did order one of those Obama coins that they advertised on TV because as any collector will tell you a coin is worth a lot more when there is an obvious mistake on it.   Right 2 Laugh is produced and hosted by comedian Evan Sayet. Mr.  Really it is just a safe haven for people who have values more like the heartland who do not want to hear their president called a Nazi who do not want to hear that Christians are all stupid.  Sayet believes his show will fill a void because he says comedy today is dominated by left-wingers. Mr.  I mean on the other side we certainly had my old boss Bill Maher. I wrote Politically Incorrect for several years. We certainly had David Letterman who had no problem making these jokes about Sarah Palin and her children. We had no  you know you could look anywhere Jon Stewart and find humorists from the left side but there was very very very few  Dennis Miller being the one and perhaps only  who has identified as and spoke to the hypocrisies and the things that are humorous about the left.  Another RightNetwork series is the political reality series called Running.   Were at a tractor pull. .  Hosted by Chris Burgard a self-described ex-ballet dancer rodeo bull rider Hollywood stuntman and film director Running follows six rookie conservative candidates.   And in a state as big as Texas we found a little lady who would just spit fire. Maybe you have never been to a tractor pull before but Dr. Donna Campbell has never run for Congress before either. Ms.  It is a reality series. It may get an audience and it may not like all those other reality series out there.  Lisa de Moraes is a TV columnist for The Washington Post. She thinks RightNetwork is good marketing. She points to the success of that other conservative-leaning network. Ms.  Fox News Channel is a very successful channel. It is very targeted and the people who watch Fox News Channel watch a great deal of television. So I think this is a niche that is worth trying.  Lisa de Moraes says she is reserving judgment on the quality of the programs until she can see more. A couple of months ago RightNetwork found itself in some hot water when the company's own literature wrongly stated that one of its partners was Comcast. One of RightNetwork's investors Ed Snider does head up a joint venture with Comcast but his RightNetwork investment is personal and his pockets are deep. Snider also owns the Philadelphia Flyers and '76ers. Lisa de Moraes says the blunder  and all the attention it got  will not hurt RightNetwork one bit. Ms.  Oh good grief no. Everybody spelled the name of the network right.  But for now what you can see of RightNetwork is limited. They have got a website where several excerpts of the show Running are posted but only trailers for the other two shows. A RightNetwork spokesperson says television and mobile platforms are launching in August. Elizabeth Blair NPR News Washington. 