 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. You may be hearing a lot about the National Book Awards this week - at least that is what the National Book Foundation hopes. That is because they have made some changes to generate some buzz. One way they are doing that is by hyping the contenders. Each day this week the foundation will roll out a list of nominees in four different categories starting with young people's literature today and ending with fiction. The awards themselves will be announced in November. As NPR's Lynn Neary reports this is not the first time the National Book Awards have tried to raise their profile.  The National Book Awards are the glamour awards of the book industry. It is a chance for writers and poets to leave the solitude of their studies and mix and mingle with some of the movers and shakers in the publishing world. But Carolyn Kellogg who writes about books and publishing for the Los Angeles Times says the National Book Awards have an image problem.  There is people in the book world who when you say N-B-A they know you mean National Book Awards. Everybody else in America thinks National Basketball Association.  In recent years the National Book Awards have been criticized for nominating obscure authors whose books do not sell as well as winners of the Pulitzer Prize or the Man Booker Award. Thus the changes instituted this year. Non-writers such as librarians booksellers and critics have been included in the judging panels. And instead of one announcement of five nominees in each category this week's rollout of longer lists - 10 in each category - followed in about a month by a short list.  I love books and I would love to see some of these great books get more readers. We will see if the new format achieves that or not but it is certainly not going to be any worse than what happened in 1980 I can promise you that.  Craig Fehrman has written about the awards for The New York Times. Back in 1980 Fehrman says publishers - who fund the awards - decided to revamp them entirely. The National Book Awards became the American Book Awards. New categories were added the event was televised with William Buckley and John Chancellor as the hosts. The model says Fehrman was the Oscars.  Well one of the changes in 1980 was let us create an academy just like movies a big group of a couple of thousand people to vote on this. They even went so far as to steal technical categories from the movies which makes a lot sense when you are talking cinem. But with books you end up with an award like Best Cover. So all these changes are an attempt to make the awards more popular and easier to market.  Several literary heavy hitters were nominated that year.  So Mailer and Styron and Roth were all up for best fiction that year. They tried to withdraw their books and say we do not want anything to do with these new awards. More than 40 writers signed a petition saying we do not want anything to do with this this more popular and populist direction is not right for us and is not right for literary culture.  The awards ceremony was not a success. The event was scaled back over the next few years and by 1987 the National Book Awards were restored. The changes introduced this year are nowhere near so drastic which is a good thing says Carolyn Kellogg.  If you try too hard to have what you think are people-pleasing choices then sort of the essence of what you are doing gets lost - and that is finding great books.  Harold Augenbraum is the executive director of the National Book Foundation.  I love my lists.  Augenbraum says there is no danger the National Book Awards will become too populist. He believes the changes that were made this year have led to a rich diversity of writers and books.  The judges you know had the ability to be as diverse in voices as they wanted to be. So when I am looking at the lists and I am reading - as I am reading through the books and I was thinking to myself my God this one is so different from the one I just read.  Among the authors of young people's literature who were nominated today are David Levithan perhaps best known for Nick And Norah's Infinite Playlist which was made into a film  and Kate DiCamillo who won the Newberry Award for the Tale of Despereaux. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 