 The voice of a generation is gone - a generation of cartoon characters. June Foray has died at age 99. She was best known for her multiple roles on The Rocky And Bullwinkle Show including Rocky the flying squirrel and his nemesis Natasha Fatale. NPR's Ted Robbins has this remembrance.  Let us not start at the beginning. There is a line that could come out of Rocky And Bullwinkle.   It is the late '50s early '60s and Jay Ward's Rocky and Bullwinkle are skewering cartoon convention of the time with wry self-referential humor. Here Rocket J. Squirrel and his dimwitted moose friend Bullwinkle are off to Hollywood in search of fame pursued by spies Boris and Natasha. June Foray is both Rocky and Natasha - hero and villain.    Hey now who are you?   I am Bullwinkle.   Not you you.   I am still Bullwinkle.   I got it Natasha let us go.   But Boris...  The show was a hit among adults and kids. It went into syndication and it is still popular online and on cable. Foray told NPR in 2013 that she could not imagine the lasting popularity of her characters.   I never had any idea. All I wanted to do was work.    That does it Natasha come on. We are going to get an A-Bomb.   A-Bomb?   A-Bomb come on.   Did you hear that Bullwinkle?   Well sure they repeated it twice.   Do you know what A-Bomb means?   Certainly. A-Bomb is what some people call our program.   I do not think that is so funny.  It was the midst of the Cold War and anyone watching would have thought Boris and Natasha were Russian agents. So did Foray.   And Jay Ward said no no no they are from Pottsylvania. Do not make them from Russia because we had enough problems as it was. So I made it sort of continental.  In the same show she played earnest and clueless Nell Fenwick Canadian mountie Dudley Do-Right's girlfriend.    Dudley fancy meeting you here. I always knew you were a big spender and there is just so many things in town I want to buy.  June Foray was born June Forer in Massachusetts and she was doing voice work on radio by age 12. Her family moved to Los Angeles and she kept doing radio. She began in animation as the voice of Lucifer the cat in Disney's Cinderella.   .  Then even though Foray was a young woman came a string of old-woman roles - Mother Magoo in the Mr. Magoo cartoons Witch Hazel in Looney Tunes and Granny Tweety Bird's owner and protector against Sylvester the Cat.    Aha -  just what are you doing with my little birdy?  June Foray also began creating a legacy beyond her own work. She helped found the Annie Awards for animation and for decades she lobbied the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to recognize the animated features with an Oscar which it finally did in 2001. And she worked to digitize old film and TV animation as she told NPR in 2004.   So many of our famous animators and writers are gone. And we have got to commemorate them and remember their work.  Today we remember June Foray and her work. Ted Robbins NPR News. 