 The movie Maudie is the true story of a painter whose work is so exuberant you would never guess what a difficult life she lived. In a moment NPR's Susan Stamberg will tell us about the art and legacy of the real Maud Lewis. But first our critic Bob Mondello reviews the film.  She is tiny her frame bent fingers crippled by arthritis though she is barely in her 30s. Still it is her brother who looks nervous when he tells Maud she is going to have to stay with their Aunt Ida.    I sold the house.   Our house?   Maud mom left it to me.   I will look after it.   You cannot look after yourself.   I will get a job or something.   A job - a job doing what?   I do not know.  It is easy to see why her fellow Nova Scotians might underestimate Maud. She walks with a limp talks tentatively. But she is far from helpless. When the town eccentric comes into the general store looking for a live-in maid she spies an opportunity.    What can I do for you Everett?   I am looking for a woman.   A what?   A house maid.   Not the kind of thing we sell.   Am I an idiot? Well I need you to write - can you write...   A sign.   Yeah.   OK.   Looking for a house maid. Must have her own - what is the word I am looking for?   Sense of humor?   No cleaning tools. Must have her own cleaning tools.  The sign is barely up before Maud played pluckily by Sally Hawkins has grabbed it and started walking miles to Everett's place. He is a fish peddler seriously anti-social living in a wooden shack. Played by an almost unrecognizable Ethan Hawke Everett is startled when Maud negotiates a tiny pittance of a salary and starts cleaning cooking and though he bridles at this adding color to things around the house using leftover house paint.    Who told you you could paint fairies on the wall?   They are not fairies. They are birds.   Well who told you you could do that?   Well you did.   What?   You said make the place look all right. I think it looks all right.  They are quite the pair - Maudie crabbed Everett crabby. Still there is something about them together that kind of works partly because Hawkins and Hawke are remarkable partly because the filmmakers let them make much of small things - the looks on their faces say when she starts popping bright cheerfully painted cards in with his bills and a New York visitor offers to pay more for her card than for his fish. The world does not give this woman much but then not much is required to make her happy.    I love a window. The whole of life already framed.  Maudie's life was so constricted but her gaze so expansive as is her movie. I am Bob Mondello. Now here's Susan Stamberg with a look at the real Maud's art.  There is no rain in her clouds no gray in her shadows. Maud Lewis' small paintings are bright with sunshine and filled with blue skies crystal snow calm waters. They are pictures of joy. It is folk art. No formal training.  Often with a very cheeky sense of humor.  Shannon Parker is curator at the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia Halifax. There are 55 Mauds in their permanent collection. Why do you have that many? Do you have them because she is local or because she is good?  I would say both. She is a local artist who if we did not collect them especially in the beginning nobody else would have.  The gallery also has Maud and Everett's house. After they died the province of Nova Scotia bought the pint-size house and gave it to the gallery. Money was raised to restore it and in 1998 the house was moved right in. In her final years Maud told the CBC she rarely left home.   As not much for travel anyway.  Contented right here in my chair she said.    I have got a brush in front of me I am all right.  Inside surrounded by walls bread boxes cookie sheets a stove she would covered with cheery painted butterflies and tulips and swans - canvas was too expensive and hard to get - Maud also brushed her house paint onto beaver boards and Masonite all original from her imagination.   I have never seen any paintings from other artists you know.  Had not seen other artist's work. She saw what she saw lots of animals - cows horses cats.  Oxen with their brilliantly lashed eyes.  With her gnarled hands Maud Lewis started out painting 25 cent Christmas cards with her mother. Then came landscapes on the boards.  And that she charged originally 2 and eventually up to about 5. She was very hesitant to ask for more money.  Now they sell for anything from 8500 to 20000. She became known in the late 1960s. Passing tourists saw her sign paintings for sale. There was a magazine article then the CBC interview. Eventually she could not keep up with the demand. She sold her pictures wet. Curator Shannon Parker thinks Maud's popularity her story is a work of slow magic.  They did not have a lot of money. They had no running water. They had no electricity. There was a very limited - what she was able to do with her life. And yet her artwork was what she wanted to do. And it is something she was able to do and touched so many other people. That is pretty amazing.  Pretty amazing. I am Susan Stamberg NPR News.  