 Elena Ferrante's fans are rabid and there are hundreds of thousands of them around the world. So news of a new Ferrante novel is a big deal. The Story Of The Lost Child hit bookstores today and this is a bigger deal than usual because it is the last of the author's beloved series about two friends growing up in Naples Italy. It is also where the writer herself grew up but that is just about all that is known about her. Ferrante is a penname. Her neighborhood is another matter. It is as much a character in the novels as the people described in vivid detail. So we sent reporter Christopher Livesay to try to find it.  This is not the Naples of post cards. It is poor. It is ugly. And on a hot day two local women are taking me to Elena Ferrante's childhood neighborhood - or so they claim.  The area is there. It has to be there.  Carmen Vicinanza leads the way to what looks like a prominent landmark in Ferrante's novels. She reads a passage.   To the left was a tunnel with three entrances.  In the books the tunnel is the link from the neighborhood to the outside world.   But if you climbed up to the railroad tracks on clear days you could see beyond some low houses and walls of tufa and patches of thick vegetation a blue mountain with one low peak and one a little higher which was called Vesuvius and was a volcano. This tunnel that goes to the sea that is in the port area - it is there.  So is the Parrocchia della Santa Famiglia - the Parish Church of the Sacred Family just as it is called in the novels. Inside the grounds is a courtyard like the one where Ferrante's protagonists played as little girls. The Neapolitan Novels are widely believed to be Elena Ferrante's thinly veiled autobiography. The first person narrator is named Elena. Like the author she is also an accomplished writer reflecting on her youth in postwar Naples and her constant struggle to flee the poverty and violence even as the place keeps pulling her back throughout her life. At the center of it all is her complicated relationship with Lila her lifelong best friend.   My guides are longtime friends themselves.  Maybe 15 years 20 years many years. We look like teenagers but we are not .  Vicinanza's friend Lia Polcari owns a bookstore devoted to women's literature and formed an artist collective that creates work inspired by Ferrante's Neapolitan Novels. She points out that the author does not name the neighborhood in any of the books. But the clues are all around us. She takes us to the only cafe in sight. The owner is a man in his 80s who says he is never read any of Ferrante's books. That makes him the perfect person to ask about some of the clues we are pursuing like the first car in the neighborhood.  .  It was a Fiat 1100 he says.  .  The owner went a little bit out of his mind. We are floored. It is as if he were talking about Marcello Solara a villain in all four of the Neapolitan Novels. The uncanny similarities pile up. His nephew points out that the local shoemaker was named Gennaro and went by the nickname Rino. Even the owner is surprised by how much we know.  .  Does the book mention me he asks. He probably would not want it to. The cafe owner in the books is a Mafioso.   As we get ready to leave he recalls that a Ferrante family lived nearby past the public gardens across the street in the rundown four-story white apartment buildings. Again Carmen Vicinanza reads a passage.   I had never left the four-story white apartment buildings the courtyard the parish church the public gardens.  We enter a courtyard. A group of women peer down from a balcony. One of my guys tell them we are looking for a writer.  .  .  And then something utterly confusing happens.  .  .  One of them responds oh you are looking for Ferrante who lived here many years ago. Well they moved but this is the house where she was born there on the first floor.   My guides are elated. We found it we found it they rejoice.   But wait a minute. If Ferrante's her penname what have we found? Was it also her maiden name? Are they pulling our legs? Elena Ferrante has never once appeared publicly in 23 years of publishing. She only does interviews via email. There is been much speculation about her true identity. The women on the balcony thing they remember her first name.  .  One published theory claims Ferrante is Anita Raja Anita being the diminutive of Anna. Raja is a consultant for Ferrante's Italian publisher. She is also the wife of the the Neapolitan writer Domenico Starnone who himself has been accused of being Elena Ferrante. Her editors deny it all.   They say the darndest things. By now they say everything.  Sandra Ferri understands that reclusive authors tend to arouse curiosity. I point out how that could lead to sales. She sees where I am going.   It is not about marketing. Every now and again someone will say oh what a sly move to publish the books with a penname. Ferrante's clever. I tell them OK anyone can publish with a pen name and never reveal himselves why do not you do it? Let us see how many people have the same results.  And she warns Ferrante's secrecy gives her the space she needs to create.   She is even said it. If I am forced to reveal myself I would not stop writing but I would stop publishing.  That would be a tragedy say my guides. And besides Carmen Vicinanza says it does not really matter who Elena Ferrante is anyway.  It is fun but I do not think that the mysterious writer made the success of the book. It is the first case when the book is stronger than the writer than the person in this society where writers are important. They are everywhere in the - you know on TV and things like that. Without interviews without anything the books had all this success.  After all she adds we would not be outside on a hot day roasting in this unattractive little neighborhood if these books were anything less than superb. For NPR News I am Christopher Livesay in Naples. 