 Scientists laid out a nightmare scenario today for global warming - what would happen if we burned the Earth's entire supply of fossil fuels. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports on a study that shows that virtually all of Antarctica would melt.  The Antarctic ice sheet is huge. It stores more than half of the planet's fresh water. Ken Caldeira is a climate researcher at the Carnegie Institution for Science and he wanted to know how much of that ice would melt if people just kept burning fossil fuels until they are gone.  I have been wondering about this question for 35 years but was never able to address it.  He says it is only recently that ice sheet science has gotten sophisticated enough. So he and some colleagues used an estimate of how much fossil fuel is left in the ground to do computer simulations. Caldeira says if current trends continue we will see sea level rise two or three feet this century then the rate of sea level rise will start increasing.  And so we will have something like a hundred feet of sea level rise a thousand years from now which means basically abandoning most of the major cities of the world cities like London New York Washington D.C. Miami Paris Rome Tokyo.  The study appears in the journal Science Advances. Caldeira feels the world has basically done nothing to address human-made climate change.  So to ask ourselves well what would happen if we continue to do nothing I think is a valuable exercise.  But others say look this worst-case scenario does not seem plausible.  I do not think there are many people who have thought about it who think we will burn all the fossil fuels in the planet in the next few hundred years.  Michael Levi studies energy policy and climate at the Council on Foreign Relations.  If you create implausible global scenarios you get truly horrifying outcomes. If you create plausible but bad scenarios you get bad outcomes. That is not a surprise either.  This study also contains less-extreme scenarios. Those are the kind that interest Levi since they are more likely to be ones we might actually face. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 