 Stop me if you have heard this one before - a Major League Baseball player gets a side gig working for U.S. intelligence during World War II. Well that is the story of Morris Moe Berg told in a new documentary called The Spy Behind Home Plate. Berg followed a winding path to the intelligence world. He earned degrees from Princeton and Columbia. And he toured the world playing on an all-star baseball team with the likes of Babe Ruth. Aviva Kempner directed the film. She says Berg was recruited by the top U.S. intelligence agency at the time the Office of Strategic Services - the OSS - because he was smart and quick on his feet.  He was both brilliant but he also had languages. And let us face it even though he is an older athlete - because he was already a coach - this was a man you know who could get out of places fast and knew Europe from all his travels. You know we talk a lot about not letting immigrants come to this country. But what is interesting to me is some of the most successful OSS participants were those who were either immigrants themselves or children of immigrants because they knew the languages they knew the customs of the countries they had left and they could be easily drop backed in those places or interact there without raising suspicion.  So he is working for the OSS. I want to talk about one particular mission. This was during World War II. He was asked to attend a speech by Werner Karl Heisenberg who was a German theoretical physicist and most importantly the head of the Nazi nuclear weapons project. Let us play a short clip from your film.   Moe went to the lecture which was mid-afternoon with a pistol in one pocket and a cyanide tablet in the other.  And Moe Berg's instructions were to listen to what Heisenberg said very carefully.  That if Heisenberg talked about where they were with the atomic bomb and the progress they were making...  He was to take out the pistol they gave him and assassinate him on the spot.  Man we are a long way from the ball diamond here. How did that play out?  So Moe had been prepared by the OSS with a gun in his pocket and a cyanide pill to assassinate Heisenberg if he demonstrated any knowledge that the Germans were developing a nuclear bomb. And he not only listened to him at the lecture - and of course if he had killed Heisenberg he would be assassinated on the spot. But he decided to also talk to him more which he did after dinner. And at that point he concluded that in fact the Germans were not as advanced. And the message went back to America and the Manhattan Project that we could go ahead and proceed. So it was a very brave mission of Moe to conduct. And I think he was the perfect person because he can combine the right knowledge of German he was cool on the spot and he had briefed himself on physics. And I think there were few OSS spies that had the combination of those skills.  How do we ultimately measure Moe Berg's contributions to the war?  You know what is interesting is that Moe Berg never talked about what he did. He would be in many baseball games after the war in the press room with other writers and they would say to him Moe what did you do? And he would put a finger to his mouth and go shh I cannot talk about it. So you know it is been years and years and it is only now when OSS documents are declassified that we are finding out really Moe's contribution. I do not think it is an understatement to say that Moe's both his work in nuclear espionage in Italy but even more so finding out what Heisenberg knew or not was a crucial moment for America to know that OK the Manhattan Project is way ahead of what they know in Germany and to go forward because you know at that time we knew the Nazis were capable of anything. Obviously they were capable of genocide. And my grandparents - three of my grandparents and sister died that way. But it was the - which is of course a big reason why I wanted to do this film. But also they - in the hands of Hitler the nuclear bomb would have been a disaster for the world.  That was Aviva Kempner director of the documentary The Spy Behind Home Plate. Aviva thank you.  Thank you so much. 