 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. In an industry built on extreme skinniness the September fashion magazines are fat 584 pages in this September's issue of Vogue magazine and that is with ad pages down 36 percent from last year. For the last two decades Vogue has been shaped sculpted and pruned by editor-in-chief Anna Wintour.  Ms.  This I do not think we need. This is - we will just wait for whatever is they are making and that is it. This I do not think we should do. This I do not think we should do.  Anna Wintour with her trademark sunglasses worn indoors her twig-thin figure her bangs and highlighted brown bob Anna Wintour is the central character in a new documentary about Vogue magazine. It is called The September Issue. And director R.J. Cutler joins us to talk about his movie. Welcome to the program R.J. Mr. R.J.  Thanks for having me.  Anna Wintour is famously inscrutable sphinx-like. Why do you think she agreed to bring you inside the magazine because this was largely her doing that you were there to capture these moments? Mr.  Well you know one never knows why a subject agrees to make a film. You know we look for people who is - who have a need to tell their stories. In the case of Anna I had this idea to make a film about her. Here's somebody who everybody's heard of who is caricatured throughout our popular culture in movies novels. Even in The Incredibles there is an Anna Wintour-esque figure.  Movies like The Devil Wears Prada starring Meryl Streep. Mr.  And yes and entire films are based on her. And yet nobody really knows who she is. And I approached her - and to be honest it was a very easy sell. We met we started talking. This is very Anna. She is probably not going to meet with you unless she is interested in working with you. And by the end of maybe a 20-minute meeting we were off and running.  And the frame is the September 2007 issue that they are putting together. Mr.  Yes that is right. And it turns out to have been the single largest issue of any magazine that is ever been published. It is almost as if the day we stopped filming the whole world changed. But at that moment for that year we really captured a kind of a very particular period of time.  You said you are interested in people who need to tell their stories. Anna Wintour looks so completely uncomfortable. Let us take a listen to one scene from the movie that I think is probably what I felt to be the most revelatory moment that she gives you in this movie. She is talking about her brothers and sister and the good works they do. She has a brother who finds low-income housing in London a sister who is involved with farmers' rights in Latin America another brother who is a political editor. And here's how she describes what they think about what she does.  Ms.  And my like two brothers and my sister I think they are very amused by what I do. They - they are amused. So  R.J. Cutler what were you thinking when you saw her face and heard her voice as she opened up to you there? Mr.  Well you see in the film and I saw for many many months a woman who everywhere she goes you know the waters part. The entire industry kind of responds to Anna's taste her likes her dislikes. And yet this is a person who like so many other powerful successful people has doubts. She is human.  The counterpoint in the film to Anna Wintour and to some extent the comic relief here is Grace Coddington the creative director of Vogue joined the magazine at the same time as Anna Wintour did. She is a dramatic presence onscreen. She is a former model. She is got this big mane of flame-red hair. She is acerbic. She stands up to Anna. Tell me about Grace Coddington and how she became part of this film such a big part of this film. Mr.  Well she is quite amazing. And you know within the fashion world Grace is every bit the legend that Anna is. So the idea that these two women would be working you know a few doors down from each other it is quite amazing. Anna's office as you see in the film is kind of freezer of efficiency. And yet then there is Grace Coddington's office just a little bit down the hall where there might as well be a hookah pipe in the middle of this.  Mr.  Everybody's lounging around relaxing being creative being thoughtful. It is like - you know it is an incubator of creativity. Grace is forever wanting to push certain boundaries. Anna is forever supportive but in her way - being an editor cutting things. Grace says early on in the movie a lot of people have come and a lot of people have gone under Anna Wintour's reign at Vogue. And the reason people go is because they cannot take the heartbreak. On one hand when you see the movie you see the heartbreak that Grace is talking about. But on the other hand you see a woman Grace Coddington who is willing to have her heart broken. I mean she is willing to fall in love month after month with this extraordinary work she is doing.  Well by the end of the film Grace Coddington turns the tables on your film crew and she actually works your cameraman Bob into a fashion shoot. They photograph him with his camera. And there is a scene when Anna Wintour comes in and she sees this picture. Let us take a listen.   Ms.  A little bit of retouching need to go to the gym.  So R.J. we should explain. She is pointing at your cameraman at Bob pointing to the picture of his stomach and suggesting he get you know a digital tummy tuck. Mr.  Yes she is. She is.  Mr.  This is Anna giving notes to poor Bob Richman who has - who served as a model in a photo shoot at the last second for the September 2007 issue because Anna threw out a shoot at the last second and wanted it redone. Grace cannot figure out how to possibly do it. And she has this kind of stroke of genius where she is going to build the shoot of course with a model but around our crew. And we are all in it. But there is one photo in particular where Bob and the model are leaping in the air. Bob's got this 40-pound camera on his shoulders and you know the guy's working like a dog. And it is a beautiful photo. And then Anna takes a look at it and decides it is going to - he is going to need to be modeled up.  Sticks a skewer in right there patting her own bony ribcage as she does that. Mr.  Well yes she is - it is not a problem Anna would have. And then of course in comes Grace Coddington after Anna to rescue the day.  Yeah let us take a listen to what she says.  Ms.  Personally I think it is better that you are not like skinny-skinny. I really - to me it is much more makes the point that you are real people and not models. Everybody is not perfect in this world. I mean it is enough that the models are perfect. You do not need to go to the gym.  Mr.  Thank you Grace.  So she is telling your photographer you do not need to go to the gym. Mr.  Oh and then you hear that tiny little voice again as if it' Thank you Grace.  Mr.  I can be human. It is okay to be human. How wonderful. How wonderful.  Well who won that battle? Grace Coddington gets on the phone and tells the photographer do not retouch this photo. Mr.  Absolutely. And that is the end of it. That is the end of it. And the magazine gets printed and the photo was printed exactly as it was shot.  R.J. Cutler is the director of The September Issue. R.J. thank you very much. Mr.  It is a pleasure. Thank you.   You can watch scenes from the movie and read a review at the new npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 