 The phrase leave no trace is often used to describe good behavior in national parks meaning enjoy the scenery and then leave the park exactly as pristine as you found it. The new movie Leave No Trace is about a father and daughter who take that notion further than most. Critic Bob Mondello says the film is about being on the run even when no one's in pursuit.  As we come upon Will and his 13-year-old daughter Tom they are collecting mushrooms and edible leaves filtering rainwater shaving sticks to start a fire.    Dad this wood is really good for feathering.  They are so isolated in this forest so off the grid it seems miles and miles from civilization until...   ...The sound of chainsaws.    It is OK. It is a work crew. I saw them earlier. They are down by the pathways.  Will decides this is a teachable moment.    Drill.  They drop everything head from their campsite into the underbrush and in seconds are invisible - not their first drill clearly. Tom's pretty much grown up in these woods near Portland Ore. The thing is she is been seen. And a bit later when they hear dogs it is clear that sighting has been reported.    It is not a drill.  Director Debra Granik is adapting a Peter Rock novel called My Abandonment a story told from the point of view of its 13-year-old heroine. And the film maintains that focus. It shows us Tom's distress when social services get involved. Even with the best intentions they disrupt what has been for her a stable if isolated existence.    Who taught you how to read?   My dad teaches me.   You are actually quite a bit ahead of where you need to be. Was your dad in the service?   He was.   Do you feel safe living with your dad?   We did not need to be rescued.   Your dad needs to provide you shelter and a place to live.   He did.  Will though has not just been taking them on an extended camping trip as becomes clear when he undergoes psychological testing.    There is 435 questions. Respond true or false to each question.  I wake up rested and peaceful most mornings.   True.  My day-to-day life is full of things that keep me interested.   True.  I have nightmares or troubling dreams.  Also true but harder for Will to talk about. The authorities compassionate and sensitive do their best to provide support while leaving these two alone a strategy father and daughter take differently to Dad being broken his child not. Played warily by a grizzled Ben Foster Will watches and waits never giving away his feelings. Thomasin McKenzie gives the daughter a riveting stillness that thaws into adolescence as she encounters pet rabbits beehives a boy. A split was perhaps coming regardless. Biology would see to that. But the filmmaker creates often without words a portrait of a relationship that is grounded and solid even when father does not know best. Leave No Trace treads softly breaking not a twig. But boy do you know it is been there. I am Bob Mondello. 