 For protesters in cities across the country the past is the present. Racism brutality and inequality still infect America 400 years after the first enslaved Africans were brought here. And it is questions about the past and how it informs the present that Brit Bennett takes on in her new novel The Vanishing Half. Our co-host Mary Louise Kelly spoke with her about it.  The book is about twin sisters - identical twins African American skin so light that while one sister lives as a black woman the other passes as white. Both sisters are haunted by personal and collective traumas of the past and whether it is possible to erase that past in the name of a better future. Brit Bennett welcome.  Hi. Thanks for having me.  Glad to have you with us. And if I may just start with the current moment you as a writer who has thought deeply about race in this country I have to ask what is on your mind as you look at this country today in 2020.  Yeah it is been a very surreal week to be releasing this book in particular. It begins in 1968 during this period of civil unrest. And I think 1968 is a year that is on everybody's mind right now because of the protests happening. And I think also the book is concerned in race and how we form racial identities and racial injustice and that is obviously something that is resonating with people right now too.  Yeah. There was a page that I was underlining and starred - this is Page 158 - because there is a scene where it is set in the summer of 1968 and one of your characters is watching the news and describes sitting on the arm of a chair and watching cities across the country lit up in flames and neighborhoods being destroyed. And I wrote wow under it just thinking it is - you could have written that about a novel set in 2020. And that feels both you know like so much has changed but not - clearly way too much has not changed.  Exactly. And I think that is also a moment where you see characters reacting to these images so differently based on their racial background and where they come from and whether they understand and empathize with the pain and the anger whether they do not. And I think that that is also something that you are seeing around as everybody is trying to process this moment.  All right so to the where they come from point let us dive into the novel. And I want you to tell us about Mallard La. This is the town where your characters the twins Stella and Desiree grow up which is - it is a fictional town right?  Yeah. I got the idea for the book from a conversation I had with my mother who told me very offhandedly one day about a town she remembered from her Louisiana childhood where everyone sort of intermarried so that their children would get lighter with each generation. So I wanted to kind of explore the idea of a place like this. And I was able to draw on some research from similar Creole communities that were similarly insular and organized around people having light skin and kind of aspiring to have light skin in different generations.  So I have heard you use the term a racial third space talking about this town. Explain.  Yeah. So I found it really interesting the idea that this is a black community that feels that they are separate from darker-skinned black people. And at the same time they know that they are not treated in the way that white people are treated. So what does it mean to kind of exist in that third space particularly in that time and place which is a rural Louisiana town during the age of Jim Crow? It was a binary. There were white spaces and there were colored spaces so what does it mean to not exist in either and to exist in that liminal place?  The twins are inseparable as girls and then one of them decides to pass as white to take a job that was only open to a white woman. Her twin Desiree is left behind and lives her life as a black woman. Why was that something that you wanted to explore?  Well I think I was interested in this book of the idea of race is something that is both fictional and also something that is real. So I think when we talk about race being a social construct yeah the idea that these twins are identical and one essentially becomes white because she declares herself to be white and one is black because she does not do that there is an aspect of that that reveals how flimsy you know those categories are if you can transgress them through performance. But at the same time these decisions that they make and how they identify themselves materially affect their lives whether it is the jobs that they have or who they marry or what happens to their kids and the opportunities their kids are afforded. It really affects so much of their material lives even though the idea of race and these categories are so flimsy in and of themselves.  So flimsy and yet Stella the one who lives her life as a white woman finds she cannot escape her identity. She cannot escape her past. It keeps tracking her down which seems to suggest it is - you know it is like Faulkner wrote the past is not dead. It is not even past. That is a very different argument that race is a more fixed thing.  I mean I think it is both and it is all of them. I mean I am not trying to punt on this question but I think that it really is all of those things. So for Stella she is constantly performing. And that performance is also constantly changing. So I think that that was one of the things I found interesting about setting the book when I did which is later than a lot of stories about passing are set historically. To set it within the civil rights movement in that post-civil rights movement era Stella is learning how to perform whiteness at a time in which whiteness itself is also changing. And the scripts that she has learned within her Jim Crow upbringing in Louisiana are not applicable to when she becomes this sort of wealthy white woman in California. And she has to perform whiteness in a different way in a way that is often unacceptable to the other white people around her.  There have been quite a few novels written about passing and there is often this big reveal at the end. The person who was trying to pass for white it turns out everybody learns they are not who they said they were. You in this book seem less focused on that and more focused on you know what if a person who is passing for white is never found out? What does that look like? How does that play out?  Yeah. I mean I think you know some of the earlier narratives of passing that I was exposed to one is the movie Imitation Of Life which is you know adapted from an earlier book. And you know in that movie there is like that big climatic scene at the end where the white passing character flings her body in the casket of her dark-skinned mother who is just died. And she is sort of punished by the fact that her long-suffering mother has died without her. And she realizes that you know she was a terrible daughter for disowning her mother. So I think a lot of these stories of passing are often these moralizing stories. To me it was not interesting to think like is it good or bad to pass. I was really more interested in the implications of passing on this woman's life than in the idea of punishing her for deciding to pass.  It would be awfully easy to pass judgment on Stella the twin who decides to pass and live life as a white woman and condemn her as being less authentic than her twin. You did not land that way it did not seem like. You did not pass that judgment.  No. I mean I do not think I ever really want to moralize in fiction. I just find that boring as a writer. So yeah I was really thinking about the idea of passing as both an act of self-creation and also an act of self-destruction. I think there is something so deeply American of the idea that you can be who you want to be. You can create yourself. You can build yourself. It is sort of Gatsby you know that kind of ideology of being able to reinvent yourself in whatever way that you choose. But at the same time you know Stella loses a great deal by doing this. She loses her connection to her past and her family her community. She is a woman who is very alone in this new world that she is chosen to join.  That is Brit Bennett talking about her new novel The Vanishing Half. Brit Bennett this has been a real pleasure. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  