  OK do not freak out.  Step aside Peter Parker.    My name is Miles Morales and I am Spider-Man.  Miles Morales is a half African-American half Latino boy. Both his parents are alive which by the way in comics is a very unique thing and one of them's not a villain.  That is Brian Michael Bendis one of the co-creators of the new Spider-Man. For a few years now Miles Morales has existed in the Ultimate Marvel Universe kind of a parallel world in the comics realm. This week Marvel announced that Miles will be promoted into the mainstream Marvel Universe.  So it will not be Miles as Spider-Man with an asterisk. He is going to be Spider-Man just Spider-Man. And we thought that that message was as important as anything we have ever done.  I asked Brian Bendis how this new biracial Spider-Man was born.  A few years ago we were all at Marvel and we were sitting around a table talking about what we did right and what we did wrong and what we would do differently if given another chance. And one of the things we talked about was this idea that Spider-Man in particular if you really look at his origin and his background that there is a good chance that he would have been a child of color. And boy would not it have been nice to be more diverse in our representation of these characters in a more modern time.  You know it really feels like comic books right now have become so much more diverse recently. I mean the female Thor. There is a Muslim teenage girl as Ms. Marvel. We have Miles as Spider-Man. I have got to tell you I am grateful for this you know for my kids growing up in a world like this. I am wondering what does it feel like to be part of this vanguard?  Well you know part of my personal journey through all of this is for I have four children two of which are adopted one of which is African and one of which is African-American. You realize from a first seat that you - your kids do not have the same representation and things available to them that I did as a white little man. And you kind of just realize even through just osmosis - it is not like I stood up and said I am going to be more diverse in my writing. You just become more diverse because you realize things are needed and you know going back to the old Spider-Man mythos - with great power comes great responsibility - if I have got this stage right now at Marvel then it is kind of my responsibility to create work that represents what I think the world should be like.  Now I know you are on the comic book side but I have got to ask you about the movie side because while things are great - all the stuff we talked about in the comic book world - on the big screen you know the Avengers are pretty white. The new Batman Superman - white. And it looks like the new Spider-Man is also going to be still white. Do you feel like Hollywood's lagging behind?  I help consult on the movies. I am part of something called the Marvel Creative Committee that reads all the drafts and sees all the cuts of the movies. And you know the changes we are making in the comics you know some of them - some of these comics are 50 years old or older and so - whereas the Marvel Cinematic Universe has only been around since 2006. So even with that there is a lot of representation going on in the form of - they have already announced the Black Panther movie and the Captain Marvel movie which is a female-lead superhero movie that is coming. So there is a lot of representation going on in those movies right now and I just think it is the beginning of what is to come.  Brian Michael Bendis is a writer for Marvel and the co-creator of the Spider-Man Miles Morales. Brian pleasure speaking with you. Thank you very much.  Thank you very much. 