 Comic-Con continues today in San Diego. And for those of you who are not in the know this is the annual gathering of pop culture fanatics. Most of them are psyched to dress up as their favorite characters and meet some big-name stars.   How you doing Comic-Con?  .  Like Idris Elba the villain in the new movie Star Trek Beyond. It premiered at Comic-Con on Wednesday.    In the vastness of space there is only yourself your ship your crew.   You really want to head back out there huh?  The movie boomed outside playing on an IMAX screen in front of the ocean. Afterwards there were thank you's from Star Trek Beyond's 44-year-old director Justin Lin.   Unbelievable premiere. Thank you.   Lin comes to this with a lot of experience. He is directed several of the Fast And Furious movies. My co-host Ari Shapiro caught up with him last week to talk about the latest Star Trek film. Turns out Justin Lin is a long-time fan of Captain Kirk and company. And he says this all started at home with his Taiwanese family.  My family and I we had just immigrated to the states. And my parents had this little fish and chips restaurant. And they ran 364 days a year and the only day they took off was Thanksgiving. And they would work until 9 p.m. They would close shop and as a family we would have our dinner at 10 p.m. And Star Trek would come on TV at Channel 13 00 so my brothers and I we would try to talk our way into just hanging out with them. And so from 8 to 18 before I left for college that was our family time - was watching Star Trek.  Back then there were not a lot of TV shows or movies that had as diverse a cast as Star Trek did. Was that something that you were aware of as a kid?  You know I remember thinking that when we first moved to the states it felt very lonely. It was just the five of us. You know I did not know how to speak English at the time. And I remember watching Star Trek - and it was very progressive. And at the same time I think the notion of family of this group of people with various backgrounds coming together and going on this shared journey that sense of family was very new. And I kind of embraced that. That became part of me. And I felt like it was worth it to try to really just kind of go all out and try to hopefully contribute to the legacy of this franchise.  But when everyone has so much history with this franchise - I mean it just marked its 50th anniversary - does that make it harder for you to exercise your own creativity?  Well I think that is the challenge. And I think my take of Star Trek is to really kind of embody the essence of what makes Star Trek great - you know the sense of family the sense of exploration. But at the same time the mission statement of Star Trek is to be bold and to push forward and to try something new you know? So I felt like that was the perfect combination for me and for us as a team you know to try to tackle.  So the thing that you tried new - you destroyed the Starship Enterprise .  You know when I was thinking about Star Trek in 50 years I felt like it was time to try to deconstruct Star Trek to deconstruct the notion of utopia and a lot of the things that we might have now taken for granted. And hopefully by doing that we can reaffirm why there is a passion for Star Trek why we love it so much you know? And in this case I think it ended up being a very literal way. You know it is ripping apart the Enterprise which is very much the security blanket or the home for all these characters.  I looked up the box office numbers for the last Star Trek movie Into Darkness which came out in 2013. And in North America it took in 228 million. Worldwide it earned 467 million which is close to twice as much. So when you know that you need to appeal to a global audience and not just an American one how do you approach making a film differently?  I think it is about character and it is about a relationship that you build. And I think Star Trek - it is a very unique piece of property. It is actually thrived in multiple mediums. So I feel like Star Trek should be equally compelling if you are doing a space battle as if it was just two characters talking in a room. And I remember watching it and in my head I was thinking do Chekov and Sulu - did they hang out when they leave the bridge? Do they have a family? Do they have relationships outside of what we see on the screen? And that is something that I wanted to try to bring on screen.  Your first movie Better Luck Tomorrow broke the rules for depicting Asian characters on screen. And you went into debt to make that movie on your own terms. And it was a big hit. And so I wonder when you are given a multimillion dollar budget to create the latest installment in a decades-old franchise does any part of you bristle at the lack of freedom that a studio might impose?  Well I actually think being an indie filmmaker and then entering the system I have had total freedom.  I have got to say I have never heard any director of any movie with the budget of Star Trek say I have had total freedom. I mean...  ...I will tell you if you do not like the movie it is on me. And that is all I can ask for as a filmmaker. The thing that I love about filmmaking is that when you do an indie movie the passion becomes the currency - right? - because nobody signs up to work on that movie unless they really believe in it you know? And the challenge that I faced when I went into the studio system was that money was the currency you know? And for me that is not really acceptable. And if we are going to show up like let us have fun. Let us really push each other you know? And there has to be a voice. There has to be a point of view. Without it to me it is not really worth going and spending 247 for 18 months trying to make this film.  Star Trek as we mentioned has been known for diversity since its creation. And we are coming out of a period right now where Hollywood has been heavily criticized for its lack of diversity. As the film industry takes some steps to try to fix this problem I wonder whether you see this as kind of a knee-jerk reaction or a long-term shift.  Well I am hopeful. I am hopeful it is a long-term shift. But I - you know I remember even when I started out and you would do casting calls I was always kind of like confused why it is never just an open call. Why do not they just call in the actors and whoever's best gets the role? And so...  ...You mean they would say this character should be played by a Latino actor this character should be played by a white actor and so on?  Oh yeah it is very much - they do not call in the - you know the Latino actors or the Asian-American actors unless it is specifically saying it on-page. And any leads it is always kind of driven by a lot of the agencies and stuff so you are not seeing anybody other than probably Caucasian actors. To me it has always been an issue of opportunity. And that is all you can ask for is to go in that room and to duke it out and earn that role to earn that film you know? I am glad that it is being talked about and I hope it is not just a knee-jerk reaction but I - sometimes when I hear people talk about it I feel like they are kind of missing the point because at the end of day it is still a group of people coming together trying to tell a story.  Justin Lin thanks so much for your time.  Thank you.   Justin Lin is the director of Star Trek Beyond.  