 Saturday Night Live likes to mock the news not make it. But this week controversy followed the announcement of three new actors joining the cast. The reason - well it turns out stand-up comedian Shane Gillis one of the three had made a series of racist and homophobic remarks. In one episode of his podcast he uses a racial slur and makes fun of Chinese accents during a discussion about Chinatown. And in another episode he uses gay slurs to describe comedians he does not think are funny. NPR arts reporter Andrew Limbong joins us now. Hey Andrew.  Hey Ailsa.  So I guess the first question I have is what is the vetting process at Saturday Night Live for a new hire? I mean do not they go back and look at all the public material they can find about a comedian?  So yeah we reached out to NBC to try to you know ask that very question and they have not gotten back to us yet. What we do know is that the hiring and firing process behind SNL is all very mysterious and like hard to see through. You know we hear a lot of stories about people who did not know that they were getting hired until somebody congratulated them or they did not know that they were getting fired until - like you know I did not know I was getting fired until I read it in the newspaper. It is all very like weird and stuff.  Yeah.  What we do know about this sort of situation is that people tend to weather the storm. In 2016 Melissa Villasenor got hired and she deleted a bunch of tweets that were racist. And you know she is still hanging around. And you know Michael Che always gets some heat online for things he says and he is still the host of Weekend Update.  Right.  So they sort of just like bunker down and weather the storm.  OK well tell us a little more about this guy Shane Gillis. I understand you saw him perform at the New Faces showcase at the Just For Laughs comedy festival. You picked him out as a stand-out comic.  Yeah yeah.  What was his set like?  So yeah just for the people who do not know New Faces is a place where like up-and-coming comedians can perform in front of agents and people who can like change their life essentially right? So his set was 50 I am bad at sex I am like kind of pudgy and I feel weird about it - right - and like very very well-mined place for comedy. And the other 50 of his comedy was about how he is from Mechanicsburg Pa. and he just moved to New York. And he is sort of like straddling the line between his like racist stuff - his uncle's posts on Facebook - and like the aggressively woke friends he is making now in New York and just sort of trying to traverse the two worlds. And his set got - you know I put him on the list because his set got a lot of laughs. He has great like timing. And like the aggressive energy that is in his podcast was sort of like shaved off just enough you know?  Did you hear him make any actual racist comments during his set?  Every sort of like racist comments were sort of like couched in like oh my uncle just hates Kaepernick - like that sort of thing - like in the voice of.  Oh like not coming from him.  Yeah exactly. Yeah.  I see. So has Gillis responded to all of this anger that is coming at him now?  He posted a statement last night saying that you know he pushes boundaries. He has a whole backlog of podcasts and jokes that he makes and you know a lot of the times they miss. But he is also trying to push the boundaries of comedy.  Right.  Whether or not that includes you know making racist jokes is...  I notice that part of his statement was if anyone is actually offended I am sorry.  Yeah yeah yeah.  So he is not exactly saying that what he said was offensive.  Or maybe he is like opening up like a hotline for people to call up and be like hey listen I was - being very charitable there.  Right OK. And then meanwhile while all of this is going on with Shane Gillis another one of the new cast members who was announced this week for SNL was Bowen Yang who is actually the show is first Asian American cast member so this is kind of awkward timing.  Yeah it is kind of awkward. I mean Bowen Yang being the first Asian hire at SNL was big news when the announcements were first happening. We should say that Fred Armisen and Rob Schneider are both like part-Asian but he is their first - Bowen Yang is their first Asian full-time cast member. And what should be a time for some to celebrate has been sort of swallowed up by the Shane Gillis news.  That is NPR's Andrew Limbong. Thanks Andrew.  Thanks.  