 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. In the new movie Arbitrage Richard Gere does something remarkable. He plays Robert Miller a billionaire hedge fund manager philanthropist loving father and as Gere told us...  He is a gambler.  ...in a big way. Gere's character is racing to close a deal to sell his company and cash in before auditors discover a 400 million hole in the books a hole that could not only scuttle the deal but land him in prison child's play to Robert Miller.  He is on a continual adrenaline alpha rush of success.  So naturally when Miller gets in a car accident that kills his mistress instead of stirring up headlines that could shut down the sale of his firm he covers his tracks and begins an elaborate game of cat and mouse with police. In case you could not tell Robert Miller is a monster.    I am the oracle. I have done housing. I have borrowed credit swaps. I have done it all. And yes I know it is outside the charter but it is  minting money. It is a license to print money for everybody forever. It is God.  How do you make someone like this likable? I mean what do you find in him to root for? Because I have to admit the whole time I am watching on paper I am like oh this character is a jerk but I really really want him to pull it out somehow.   Is not that funny? I mean that is one of the uniform things and kind of mystifying things. And the comments I have gotten back even from very close friends that they are very angry with me that they care about this guy and want him to get out of trouble although they are well aware the guy is a jerk as you say and makes some very bad decisions in his life and has a kind of a mindset that you go huh? But look that is my job is to make characters human to make them knowable on some level. I think it had root in when you spend time with even supposedly monsters there is a human being there. And in storytelling you have got to find that human being.  Part of what makes this character human is his interactions with his family. His daughter played by Brit Marling she is his chief investment officer and there is a wonderful scene where she confronts her father about the money that is missing from the books.    They will take away my brokerage license failure to supervise you my name in every paper and blog while I visit you at your jail cell.   What do you want me to do? Did you want me to let our investors go bankrupt? Is that what you wanted? You wanted people to get really hurt.   What gives you the audacity to think that you can make other people...   You wanted those lights to be - no because it is my job yes.   Job it is illegal. It is illegal. And I am your partner.   You are not my partner. You work for me. That is right. You work for me. Everybody works for me.  That scene is so jarring because up until that moment he is really talked as a patriarch who sees his family as carrying on his legacy.  Mm-hmm. That was a scene we worked on a lot and in the end it came out of an improvisation actually that she is not my partner that she works for me. And I found myself almost in an animal growl saying everyone works for me. And I think that was the truest moment with this character that that is his mentality - horrifying but true. I mean he is naked in that moment.  There is a great moment where your character you think he is about to do the right thing in some way and he lies down for a second thinks about it and then comes up with a completely other plan...   ...that kind of gets himself out of the jam.  Yeah. My sister brought this up. My sister is a shrink and she saw it last night at the screening and she highlighted that moment also. And that mentality of I am always going to find a way out always find a way out. I think it is that kind of gambler's thing. Well I am down to my last penny but I am going to turn that penny into two pennies and I am going to get out of this. It is a really interesting kind of person that never truly gives in. Now if you would imagine they were in the service of something extraordinary on the planet what they could achieve I guess the hope for me is is that the people who are so effective in the world and can do this stuff which is just ultimately pretty silly just the accumulation of wealth if they were putting their minds and their talents and their skill towards being of service and responsible on this planet man this will be a garden.  People are familiar with some of your roles where you are in this very kind of lux environments and this certainly has that element. Is that anywhere like you grew up? I mean is that in your background or do you come from a very different place from your characters?  No. I came from a very small town in upstate New York and so these are all characters to me and kind of research jobs. It was funny to me early on that I found myself in the best dressed list because of the characters I play. It would be a tuxedo movie and I would be on the best dressed list but it was like I am sitting here in a T-shirt and running pants right now...   ...which is basically my world. You know I live very simply in the country and that is who I am.  Do you think as time has gone on have you come to understand something about wealth? I mean you are not like an actor kind of scrapping around for parts. And at this point is there anything for you to identify with these characters or how they can like let things go so far?  Well look I have seen - I have lived in New York since I was 19. I have seen New York from the point of view of someone who cannot afford to go to Blimpie's for a sandwich to someone who can eat at any restaurant in New York and can take a limousine around. It is you know my father grew up on a farm and he was just extremely poor but he found a way to go to college. I remember talking to him a few years ago and it was - we were talking about technology and I said if there is any technology that is emerged since he was born which was in 1922 and has it really made life better in terms of kind of genuine happiness? And he said no no no not at all. And the wisdom of that I think is extremely powerful that the qualities of happiness that we all can embrace are certainly outside the surface of things. On the other hand we should all have health care we should all have food we should all have shelter all those basic things and we can do it. We can do it on this planet. But the excess and the greed that is what everyone is reacting to now.  I feel like as a fan every movie I have seen you and I have always been rooting for you no matter what you are doing which I do not know what that is. Have you figured that out? Has a casting director...  I do not either.  ...said to you...  I do not...  ...or have you said...  I do not know. I do not know what that is. I suppose it is some peculiar thing I am able to do. I do not know. It is certainly nothing I work at or particularly aware of in the process. Again I just...  Maybe you look vaguely vulnerable all the time.   I am...  Like you need a hug.  I am more than vaguely vulnerable believe me.   On the scale of one to 10 it is quite high.  Well that is good to know. That is good to know. No matter what the suit is.   Yes.  Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thanks a lot.  Richard Gere talking about his latest movie Arbitrage. 