 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. And I am Audie Cornish. French actress Julie Delpy first beguiled American audiences in 1995 as the enigmatic French student in Richard Linklater's film Before Sunrise. Ever since Delpy has enjoyed life on the outskirts of Hollywood preferring indie projects where she can help shape her roles. She co-wrote the Oscar-nominated script for Linklater's sequel Before Sunset and has also begun directing her own projects. Julie Delpy's latest movie is called 2 Days in New York. She stars directs produces and helped write the script. It is the story of a New York couple - writer Mingus played by Chris Rock and photographer Marion played by Delpy.   Hilarity ensues when Marion's French family drops in for the weekend. The movie works in part because Delpy's Marion is not like the women usually conjured up by Hollywood.  Yeah. She is not really together. I mean she is kind of a - you know she is neurotic she is confused she is not sure what she wants she is impulsive she has anger issues. I mean she is not the most liked. She is not - she is far from perfection you know? And it is - yeah I mean it is fun to create a character who is not like you know sometimes you know in films the women can be more of like a - fantasy women like she is not really real. Like I wanted someone as real as possible. I love to write my characters as real as possible. I think it is more fun.  And there is a great moment in that clip where he says but you are French.   And I feel like that kind of sums up the whole film right?  You are a pain in the ass but you are French.  Kind of undermining that notion of like - just being French will somehow make everything better in a way.   Yeah. I guess French women can get away with a little bit more neurosis a little bit more - you know it is a bit more charming at least for a little - for a short time.  Exactly because that is when the family comes in.  Yeah.  And that is when essentially you take any French fantasies people might have about what the French are like - and put them through a shredder right?   Yeah exactly. Sophisticated people wearing Chanel you know?  Her family - exactly.   Tell us what you were trying to show with this family.  Well you know it is just like - it is always amused me to which extent - like when I see my friends meeting the family or spending time with the family of their husband or wife. You know it is really hard to deal with the people they come from. It multiplies all the bad side of that - I mean I just feel it is always - and it is so revealing also about the person.  And a huge amount of the comedy comes from the things that are lost in translation between...  Yeah a lot of it.  ...the family and then...  Especially with the dad that does not speak a word of English. It is the old-fashioned French you know? They are like stuck in the French and they are never going to move from it.  And your father Albert Delpy...  Yes.  ...as you said plays your father in the movie.  Yeah.  And we actually have a great scene - there is a wonderful scene in the movie where they are at a restaurant. And Chris Rock's character Mingus comes upon an old friend who is now working for the Obama campaign...  Yeah.  ...and he thinks he might have the chance to interview Barack Obama because he is - he is actually a radio show host.     Oh - sorry.    Obama socialiste! Yeah.   No Papa.   No not really a socialist.   Yeah not really a - I mean I love situations where like it is embarrassing. You know this family is just putting his life - in like 24 hours basically his life is hell in such a short time. It is so much fun to put - to torture people basically in movies to make them suffer a little bit.  I want to ask you about something you said earlier about the way women are depicted in films.  Mm-hmm.  When I look back at a film like Before Sunset and Before Sunrise and some of - some other characters over the years it is very - kind of hazy writing or sort of - image of the woman is a little bit romantic.  Mm-hmm.  And it seems like when you do things for yourself you kind of cut the legs off of that fantasy.   Yeah.  I mean am I misreading that? Or do you think there...  Well you know those films - Sunrise Sunset - are very romantic films. You want keep it sort of that way.  And I do not mean to pick on those in particular because I am a huge fan...  No no no. But it is...  ...but sort of - the woman they call her the manic pixie dream girl now as a film trope that is sort of like she is a little bit crazy and a little bit fun and she will change your life - woman.  Yeah yeah yeah.  You are never that when you get to write it on your own.  No no because I get more into - I like to describe women that are a little bit a handful and kind of not necessarily the dream you know because men get away with it to be all full of flaws. And women fall for men full of flaws. They love it. But then for the women it is not as much like that. And I feel - you know I do not know. I love describing women that are more real and not perfect. I mean who is perfect? You know I do not know anyone perfect do you? I mean...  But that - this woman is someone you could still fall in love with I guess is what the film sort of says in the end.  Yeah. I mean she has quality - you know I am sure she is good in bed. No I am kidding.   No that is your character.   I do not know - I think you can go with that.  You know that is one - you know she has some qualities. I mean she is - obviously you know they get along - with the character of Mingus - you know? She is probably funny you know and things like that you know?  Moving into directing over time do you feel as though you have kind of reached a point where you are able to feel confident in that role? I have read in the past you talking about people not being so helpful in that process you know especially men in Hollywood.  Yeah. It is a hard thing because you know I think directing is very much about problem-solving and it is very rational. It is not something you can take lightly. Not that acting is something you can take lightly but acting is more emotional so it is a different kind of job. So I feel a lot of studio heads and stuff - or people you know that are handling millions of dollars and putting that on the table to make movies you know - are very concerned with the fact that you know women have the reputation to be more emotional and not as rational or as organized or as you know meticulous. I do not know...  So do not be emotional.  ...something like that.  Do you find that you carry yourself differently in these situations?  No. But the truth is I am an emotional person when I need to be but I can also completely shut down that part of me.   You know when I know I have to make a movie I really think of the money that I am spending. I am really thinking of the time that I am spending. I am just really really really focused on making everything work. Just like any other business you know? I feel like I am dealing with doing business you know?  At times have you felt as though - that you are ready to move away from acting? I mean do you kind of see yourself as a filmmaker at this point?  I love directing obviously. I love acting too but I am never going to stop directing now. I mean you know unless no one gives me money. But even if no one gives me money I have a great sock-puppet show I want to do in my backhouse.  Wait. Did you say...  So...  ...sock puppet?  Yes.   So that is very cheap. No.   No. But it is funny I have no - you know a lot of people get stopped by things. And for very many many years when I tried to become a director I stopped myself because I was like oh I need this amount of money to make the film I need this to do the film I need this. And then I decided you know? Forget it. I am going to make a film for no money - that was my first film 2 Days in Paris.  I am just going to do it you know? And now I am kind of in that mode of like you know I am just going to do it. I mean it is like very freeing. It is like you know what? No one can stop me at this point.   Actress writer and director Julie Delpy. Her latest film is called 2 Days in New York. Julie Delpy thank you.  Thank you so much. 