 Make Way For Ducklings by Robert McCloskey.    When they got to Boston there was a nice pond in the public garden with a little island on it. The very place to spend the night quacked Mrs. Mallard.  As NPR's Tovia Smith suggests we can appreciate the ducklings as revolutionaries of sorts.  Call them accidental heroes. Mrs. and Mr. Mallard were never looking to change the world when they came to Boston's public garden. They just wanted a safe place to settle down.   I like this place said Mrs. Mallard. Why do not we build a nest and raise our ducklings right in this pond?  But before she could lay a single egg...    Look out squawked Mrs. Mallard all of a dither. You will get run over.  Nearly done in by those horrid things on wheels as she called them Mrs. Mallard retreated but only long enough to safely hatch her chicks and then return to assert her right to the road - which as any Bostonian will tell you can only be seen as a supreme act of bravery.  You are definitely taking your life into your hands. As I' Heads up heads up.  Retracing Mrs. Mallard's waddle through the public garden with just four little ones in tow Elizabeth Grady confessed a new admiration for the mama duck.  I think she was a lot braver than I am. From the Charles all the way over here? She is quite the brave woman.  She was a leader Mrs. Mallard.  That is Wendy Landman head of Walk Boston the nation's first pedestrian rights group inspired she says by Mrs. Mallard.   Let us share the space guys. We are here too. So she was certainly ahead of her time.   Today across the public garden from other historical luminaries like George Washington Mrs. Mallard is immortalized in bronze leading a line of her little Jack Kack Lack Mack Nack Ouack Pack and Quack - all crafted by sculptor Nancy Schon.  I cannot even begin to say what that means to me. Mrs. Mallard was really the heroine.  And you do not think we are exaggerating at all do you?  No let us play it up.   I think of her - that she is really brave.  It is a testament to her legacy that these 21st century tykes like 7- year-old Rhianna Torres and 5-year-old Emily Greeko would never dream of being so callous as those drivers of Mrs. Mallard's day.  I would look around if ducklings were crossing so they will not get like squished or anything. Say bye ducky. Quack.   The ducklings like the new island so much. And when night falls they swim to their little island and go to sleep.  Seventy years later Mrs. Mallard can rest easy knowing she continues to make the city a safer place to walk or waddle.   The end.  Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 