 Nearly two weeks ago 49 people were killed at a gay nightclub in Orlando. To honor them Logo TV the cable and satellite network focused on programming for the LGBT community is dedicating its awards show to the victims. The program is called Trailblazers and recognizes celebrities politicians and activists who have championed LGBT rights. It airs tonight on Logo and VH1 and NPR's Mandalit del Barco was at the taping in New York City.  St. John the Divine Cathedral was one of the first churches in New York to allow gay marriages. For the award ceremony Logo transformed it with pink and purple lights illuminating the vaulted ceilings. On stage were candles with the names of each of the victims of the Orlando shootings.   Each one had a name. Love is patience. Each one had a name. Love is blind.  This year's ceremony was dedicated to them says the president of Logo and VH1 Chris McCarthy.  Unfortunately there are 49 members of our community that were murdered and that hits all of us. It is tragic moments like that that remember that we are a community and that we need to be out and visible and proud.  Logo commemorated the late transgender activists Sylvia Rivera and Marsha Johnson. Also the Advocate magazine former tennis star Billie Jean King and a Syrian refugee named Subhi Nahas. Last year the 28 year old escaped from a country where he says being openly gay is a death sentence. Nahas told NPR that after ISIS and other extremist groups took power the hate became even more violent.  They started actively target - especially gay men. They started imprisoning them and they started to take them to the highest building in the city and throw them. And if they do not die the crowds will stone them to death.  Fearing for his life Nahas says he made his way to Lebanon then Turkey and finally to the U.S. with help from the United Nations. He is testified about his experiences to the U.N. Security Council and a Senate hearing on ISIS ideology.  The saddest thing for me is how far we moved because of tragedy.  Tony Award winning actor and playwright Harvey Fierstein was also honored. He told NPR the Orlando shooting was all too familiar.  Because we have seen it before. This is not our first gay murder. This is not our first attack on a bar.  Fierstein remembers the riots after police raided New York's Stonewall Inn in 1969. He also recalls losing friends during the AIDS crisis. He was an outspoken advocate for a cure.  We were not just going to say no and we were not just going to be quiet. And we created groups like Act Up and held demonstrations and got drugs pushed through and found our voices. And it happened you know because of a tragedy.  Fierstein has another way of responding to tragedy. On Broadway and in Hollywood he is portrayed and written gay characters and stories such as Torch Song Trilogy and La Cage Aux Folles. Recently he reworked the lyrics to his musical Kinky Boots to mock North Carolina's restroom laws.  So we made a video called Just Pee Where You Want To Pee. As not nobody tell me baby where I ought to pee.  Now in light of the Orlando tragedy the Brooklyn-born 62 year old is advocating for gun control. He says he imagines drag queens overpowering members of the NRA.  So if we had an actual West Side Story kind of dance floor they would be up one side of the room with their guns and we would be on the other side with cha-cha heels. And we would out-dance them .  That point was emphasized when RuPaul's all-star drag queen serenaded the audience with a song from Fierstein's hit musical La Cage Aux Folles.    Life's not worth a damn...  Mandalit del Barco NPR News New York.    Hey world. I am what... 