 Knocking down conspiracy theories is an exhausting business. Fresh ones seem to crop up every day. But critic Bob Mondello says the new comedy Sword Of Trust looks at what happens when folks try leaning into a conspiracy theory instead of fighting it.  Cynthia thinks she is inheriting a house when she and her partner arrive in small-town Alabama for the reading of Grandpa's will. But to pay for his final years there was a reverse mortgage. So...    Here you go.   What is it?   It is a sword.   What kind of sword?   An antique one. Congratulations .  It comes with some papers which explain why Gramps was so attached to the sword. They do not however offer a whole lot of comfort.    Was he...   Demented - yeah very.   This is not saying anything.   Yeah it is bad.  So they head to the local pawn shop there to spin a tale that will seduce a pawnbroker into parting with substantial cash.    This is a Union sword. This was given to my great-great-great-great-grandpappy who was a field marshal in the Confederate Army.   Yeah.   And this was surrendered to him by General Sherman .   Sheridan.   Sheridan.   It was surrendered to him by a Union general. What battle are we talking about here?   This battle - oh it is Chickaboga .   Chickaboga?   Chickabowga .   I do not think that battle is - that is...   Not familiar with it?   I do not think it happened.  That is because they tell him Grandpa had evidence that it was buried from the history books by the deep state.    Deep state?   Deep state yeah.   Shadow government.   What you are looking at...   Yes...   ...Is a genuine relic a very valuable piece of evidence that supports the actual truth which is the South won the war.   The South won the war.   That is right.   Show him the documentation.  An Internet search establishes that Gramps was not alone in believing this. And what follows is the shaggiest of shaggy sword stories involving deer ticks potentially lethal screwdrivers and an online community of nutjobs who will pay a small fortune for what they call prover items.    Forty thousand dollars.   Forty thousand dollars.   All right.   That is crazy.  Director Lynn Shelton and screenwriter Mike O'Brien created a framework for the story then turned a cast of terrific comics loose during a two-week shoot to improvise inside that framework. Among them - Jillian Bell as heir to the sword and doing riffs that would be the envy of many a scripted comedy Marc Maron as the cranky pawn shop owner.    Fries - I cannot eat them anymore. You know that. I have got sludge in my heart.   Oh really? I thought you gave up on that organ years ago.   I did but I still need it to function so I can stay alive. What are you doing?   Do you have any ketchup?   I think there is a couple of packs of ketchup over there where you are usually sitting away from me without - you are like a growth.   All right.  Shelton being a filmmaker who is always looking at how relationships work Sword Of Trust is not content to be just funny. Maron's pawnbroker has an issue with an ex-girlfriend who is played by the director. And if you know that in real life Maron's a recovering addict who is been clean for 20 years the way he frames that relationship cannot help resonating.    She keeps taking taking till I am drained I got nothing left I got no store I got no life I got no car. It will just be me and her strung out with a shopping cart maybe a cat. Have you seen those cats that can be with homeless people? You will be like man this is sad. And then I will be like yeah but look at the cat.  The story often does not go where you expect it to and sometimes does not go much of anywhere at all. But as its cast of terrific comics thrusts and parries Sword Of Trust makes improvisation something really difficult to pull off at feature length seem an absolute snap. I am Bob Mondello. 