 Showtime is taking on the rise and fall of Fox News founder Roger Ailes in a new limited series The Loudest Voice - debuts Sunday. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says the program is so engrossed with its subject that it often misses the mark on the bigger story.  For better and worse Showtime's The Loudest Voice is focused like a laser on its star and lead character compelling chameleon Russell Crowe as master media manipulator Roger Ailes.    There is a whole world of people out there who do not know what to believe so twisted up by the liberal media they do not even know who the good guys are anymore. You tell those people what to think you have lost them. But if you tell them how to feel...  Better known for athletic roles in action films like Gladiator and Man Of Steel Crowe transforms himself under a fat suit and tons of makeup as aging overweight media mogul Ailes. He plays him as a wily charismatic operator. Ailes understood back in the mid-1990s when News Corp owner Rupert Murdoch first decided to build a new cable news channel that the world of cable was different than broadcast television.    Cable is about one thing - the loyalty of a passionate few. We need to program directly to the viewer who is predisposed to buying what we are trying to sell. In politics it is called turning out the base. If we can do that then they will never change the channel.   And what is that niche?   Well I think it is conservatives.  In that moment Ailes explains the strategy behind Fox News Channel a media outlet that is as much a political operation as a news platform. We see other moments - Ailes cracking horribly inappropriate jokes like his jab at 2008 GOP presidential candidate John McCain.    I like John a lot but his message - it is about as limp as Liberace's handshake.   We see him taking credit for the racist birtherism that launched Donald Trump's political career.    You know we do not even have any proof that Obama is a citizen.   Did you feed that to Trump? He was just on The View questioning Obama's birth certificate.   We might have had a dinner.  And we see sexual harassment against a number of women especially anchor Gretchen Carlson played by Naomi Watts. It is summed up in a moment when Carlson a former Miss America complains about her Fox  Friends co-anchor Steve Doocy.    Doocy's out of control. He grabbed my arm on air to try to get me to shut up.   Gretchen Gretchen - you are Miss America. How would Miss America handle this? With grace give a little twirl. So let us see it. Why do not we see a little Miss America twirl?  Carlson would eventually file a lawsuit against Ailes in 2016 saying she was fired for resisting his advances. Two weeks later Ailes resigned under pressure. And by May of the next year he had died of natural causes. Showtime's miniseries is based on reporting by journalist Gabriel Sherman including his scoops for New York Magazine and The Loudest Voice In The Room Sherman's excellent Ailes biography. But the miniseries does not give any character besides Ailes enough attention at least in the four episodes provided to critics. Some major Fox News stars like Bill O'Reilly only appear in news clips and the women Ailes is shown harassing are mostly ciphers. The Loudest Voice implies that Ailes laid the seeds for our divided politics our fake news crisis the ascendancy of Trump and our MeToo moment. But the miniseries tries to cover so much ground it can only skim the surface of these stories while offering a sometimes sympathetic portrayal of the man who built cable TV's most-watched news channel and the heartbeat of conservative politics. The result is a primer on one of TV's most influential creators and an excellent showcase for star Russell Crowe that will still leave viewers wanting something more. I am Eric Deggans.  