 John Madden made his name as a movie director with the quirky literary history of Shakespeare in Love and the mathematical intrigue of Proof. But his latest The Debt is a very different kind of film an intense thriller about a group of young Israeli Mossad agents in the 1960s whose mission is to track down and capture a Nazi war criminal.    We will show the world what he did.   You are trembling? I think you are the one who is afraid David afraid of the monster.  The Debt opens this week. And director John Madden is with me here in the studio. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  The Debt is a remake of an Israeli film from 2007. What drew you to it?  It is a fantastically compelling story a really really powerful thriller but it is also got an incredibly complex drama at its core that gives you a lot to think about after you are - you finally relax because it is a movie that keeps you very very tense I think.  Definitely on the edge. A lot of the questions that this film raised were about morality. And there is one scene in particular where Helen Mirren's character Rachel Singer is talking to her husband - ex-husband Stephan played by Tom Wilkinson about their past.    I knew this would happen. I knew we would be punished. I knew we would have to pay.   I thought I would been punished already.  This all sort of harkens back to the idea of the debt. Is the title purposefully vague?  Hopefully a good title expands in meaning as a film unfolds. In Israel The Debt has a much more specific resonance having to do with the debt the nation owes to the six million dead and therefore that idea is probably first and foremost what the title evokes. But it has more meanings and other meanings as the film unfolds.  It seems like there are a lot of debts throughout the movie. There is...  There are. And there was different discussions over time about whether that word was too much of a negative indicator for people signifier I guess is the word and that they would swerve away from anything that connoted something they were trying to forget in their own lives.  I mean are you talking about right now especially with the national debt or the...  Indeed. Indeed. No. If you Googled it you had to wade through page after page after page of articles that nobody wanted to read or even think about. And I always took the position that if somebody came up with a better title I would be more than happy to embrace it. And it was sent to - you know there are organizations that specialize in this and I cannot begin to tell you how...  There are companies...  ...bizarre some of them were.  Wait wait wait. There are companies that specialize in creating...  Yeah.  That is their job to create a movie title?  Yeah. I mean I remember one title that come up which I think was their highly recommended. They offered about 50 possibilities...  Fifty?  ...20 likelies 10 that they really felt they could support and one that they thought was the absolute slam-dunk. And that title was Divulgence.  Divulgence. I think...   Which I see - it starts to sound like it is not even a word when you say it to yourself several times certainly not a word that trips off the tongue so...  Yeah divulgence.  So I said I think The Debt is a better title than that.  You have to cover the characters in their older life and their younger life and you did not use the same actors...  No.  ...and either dress them up old or dress them up young. You did six different actors.  Yes. Two sets of actors. That is true. So each character is played...  For each character...  ...by a pair of actors. And the film is unusual in that respect because it concerns people looking back and reevaluating their younger selves trying to understand what happened at that time and how it has made them into the people they have now become.  Do you have to cast specifically somebody who kind of looks like a younger Helen Mirren and somebody who looks like an older Sam Worthington?  Well in the case of the former I think it was very - it was important. And she is the prism through which we experience the story and I definitely wanted to achieve a kind of symbiosis between the elder and the younger actor and cast a then-unknown actress of considerable brilliance.  Jessica Chastain is from Tree of Life and The Help.  Yes. But there is a great physical affinity between them.  You have worked in television. You have worked in theater.  Yes.  You have worked in movies. But - and you started actually on an NPR program called Earplay.  A title I could never quite get my head around if that is an appropriate metaphor but yes Earplay I remember was...  Earplay.  ...the way it was always announced.  Does that help or hurt?  At what?  At making movies?  It helps enormously. I cannot tell you. I am not just saying that because I am sitting in a radio studio and talking to somebody who is made their career in front of a microphone. No. It is an extraordinary way to learn how to tell a story because what do you have? You have sound and silence. You have words and music and that is about it. And the other thing that I have never forgotten from that is the demands that a radio narrative a radio drama makes on an audience. In other words it requires the audience's engagement. And you know I like films that require you to do a little bit of work...  Yeah.  ...because I think an audience enjoys that. I think audiences do not like to be told. And unfortunately there is an orthodoxy in mainstream moviemaking that thinks the opposite is true. When we test movies there is always this infuriating question that they ask on the cards. You know were you confused by anything? And the studio has a tendency to come back and say they are really confused by the beginning. And I am saying well of course they are...  Should not they?   ...because they are beginning to be told a story and they want to figure something out.  The pressure is sort of to create a simple structure then.  Yes. And I think it is based on the notion that you know the audience wants to know what it is going to get. You know frankly the films that find a life and become celebrated are films that do not do that. And I do not understand why that lesson is never learned.  Do you think you will ever come back to radio?  I am sure I would. You know andor television andor stage all of which I have spent periods of my life in. And yes you become very nostalgic for certain...  Come back to us. Come back.   The door is never closed.  It may be a smaller train set but it is just as good a one.  That is director John Madden. His new film The Debt opens in theaters this week. John thanks so much for coming.  Thank you very much. 