 The writer David Mitchell is known for his complex plots most notably in the novel Cloud Atlas. It was made up of multiple interwoven stories spanning from the 19th century all the way to the 24th. Well Mitchell's newest work The Bone Clocks is one of the most highly anticipated novels of the year. It comes out next week. And our reviewer Meg Wolitzer says it too is a great read told from many perspectives.  The novelist Somerset Maugham supposedly once said that there are three rules for writing a novel. Unfortunately no one knows what they are. But maybe he should have amended that. Because there are a few authors who seem to know the rules. And David Mitchell is one of them. If you have read Cloud Atlas you know that what happens in a Mitchell book is usually wild and complicated and governed by a set of the most byzantine guidelines imaginable. Only the author knows them. And he is not telling. In this book Mitchell breaks the narration into six sections. Each one loops back around to give us a decade in the life of the main character Holly Sykes. When we first meet her she is a 15-year-old living in England. Her world is one of familiar Thatcher-era grimness. But Holly is a total original - impulsive emotional and highly sensitive. She is heard voices in her head that she calls the Radio People. These people turn out to be real giving the book a strong fantastical element. And when Holly's younger brother Jacko disappears we are off heading into a dazzling drama involving both the Radio People and their sworn enemies the Horologists. The next five sections of the novel go far afield. But David Mitchell can hold his own writing about almost anything and from almost any perspective - not just a teenage girl but also a male student at Cambridge a war reporter in Iraq and a novelist haunted by a terrible review which is probably not something Mitchell can relate to. But in almost every section he manages to convince the reader that he gets it. In the war reporter Ed Brubeck's chapter the Green Zone in Iraq becomes vivid and anxiety-making. But it is also enriched by particular pointillistic detail - the kind of absurdity that we remember from those years of death and excess. Mitchell writes - black GM Suburbans cruise on the smooth roads. Electricity and gasoline flow 247. Ice-cold Bud is served by bartenders from Mumbai who rename themselves Sam Scooter and Moe. If the book has a flaw it is that when we get to the supernatural material some of it feels surprisingly generic. Then Mr. Pfenninger one character asks why does your group exist? To ensure the indefinite survival of the group by inducting its members into the Psychosoterica of the Shaded Way. That kind of language slows down this high-speed writer. He ends up mucking around in a lot of explanations that do not have his usual elegance. But it is a small complaint in what is honestly one of the most entertaining and thrilling novels I can remember. For all the dystopia and the mysticism and the wild clanging noise in this extraordinary funhouse Mitchell's novel-writing rules allow him to show sensitivity toward his main character from start to finish.  The novel is The Bone Clocks by David Mitchell. Meg Wolitzer had our review. 