 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Guy Raz. A documentary about dolphins called The Cove won the Audience Award at this year's Sundance Festival. The film is structured like a detective thriller. But it struck Bob Mondello more as a real life horror story.  Some 37 years ago Ric O'Barry helped spark a worldwide fascination with dolphins by training five of them to play Flipper on TV.    They call him Flipper Flipper you will see him smile...  The TV show made audiences want to reach out and touch these seemingly sociable creatures and marine parks sprang up to cash in on that desire. A whole industry was born in fact capturing and selling dolphins. And as trainer O'Barry saw what Flipper had wrought he had a radical change of heart. Cooping up these sensitive intelligent creatures now seemed cruel to him. And overnight the man who helped start the dolphin craze became an activist trying to undo what he would done. A few years ago he got the ear of filmmaker Louie Psihoyos and took him to the Japanese town of Taiji. The place looks like it loves dolphins. There are dolphin-shaped buses dolphin billboards dolphin balloons. But O'Barry points past all that to what' the fishermen who use the dolphin's sensitive sonar to trap them. Mr. RIC O' There are migratory routes the dolphins have been using for thousands of years and they just wait until the dolphins come by. The boats then put these long poles in the water which have a flange on the bottom.  And they just bang on these poles with hammers and they create a wall of sound which frightens the dolphins.  Frightens them into these secluded cove of the movie's title where a few dolphins can be isolated for sale to marinas at more than 150000 each. The rest though never come back out. Mr. O' It is a dolphin's worst nightmare right there. Hundreds of thousands of dolphins have died there. You will see the signs keep out. The fishermen told me they said if the world finds out what goes on here we will be shut down. Can you imagine that? They actually told us that. We need to get in there and film exactly what happens. We need to  The rest of the movie is an attempt to do just that. The director figured if no one would let him get near the cove during the months when dolphin roundups are taking place he would go there when they were not - even then under cover of night - to do the sort of thing that folks associate with spy movies. In essence he is making a real-life suspense film. Mr. O' I sort set up this team this you know sort of this Ocean's 11 team. Simon Hutchins created all these weird ways to hide hi-def cameras and hydrophones. You know he is sort of a mad genius. We had a military-grade thermal camera which of course you are not allowed to bring out of the country. It has a pulse the thermal camera picks it up.  The buildup to getting the shots they want has a good deal of natural tension. The payoff well let us just say it is devastating. The filmmakers show how Japan fights bans on the killing of dolphins as part of protecting its whaling industry. And international opinion notwithstanding a country can do more or less what it wants in its own territorial waters. O'Barry maintains that things will change if the world learns what happens to Flipper's cousins so that Flipper can entertain them in a marina. The Cove makes his case about as strongly as it is going to be made. The film's timing is designed for maximum effect. The next roundup will start in September. I am Bob Mondello. 