 For 18 years a girl named Madeleine has been kept inside a sterile house interacting only with her mother and her nurse. She is the main character in Nicola Yoon's new novel for young adults called Everything Everything.  Essentially my main character Madeleine is allergic to the entire world. So she is not sure exactly what she is allergic to so they take no risks. They basically live in a bubble.  But even though she is cut off the bubble she lives in is full of teenage angst. Yoon tells Madeleine's story through prose diary entries text messages online chats even illustrations. We are inside her head.  There are all these boundaries that she wants to push against so she is a normal teenager in an extraordinary situation.  This is a novel for young adults and there is - there is a first love in this. But it is rendered so much more intense - I mean young love is always intense - but it is got this extra intensity because of her condition.  Right. So Madeleine is in her house and she sort of daydreams out the window sometimes. And one day a moving truck comes by and a new family moves in. And there is - super-cute boy comes out. He is dressed in black. He does parkour so he is very physical in a way that Madeleine is not. You know he is very a part of his body whereas her body sort of traps her. So she immediately notices him across the street.  And even though they have the isolation obviously we live in an age of social media so they are able to get in touch ultimately.  Right. So yeah in the book there are a lot of text messages and IM's lists and charts and they eventually get in touch via email and then IM. And then they started to fall in love.  What is kind of compelling is that Madeleine - Maddy in spite of her condition she is so relatable.  Yeah I thought it was important to make her a person that has accepted her life as it is. I mean because it would be hard for her to be angry and rail against this disease for 18 years right? I mean and it is the only way for her to cope. So I mean I think a lot of teenagers will relate to you know trying to push against your parents' boundaries. Madeleine has an extreme situation but I feel like teenagers all go through this.  It kind of draws into relief some of those universal things. I like when they are - there is obviously because of her condition there is an awkwardness about negotiating their physicality. But that is something that everybody goes through  in a way as well.  Right. Those are like the most fun parts to write. I have to tell you . I am like totally in love with my husband. I am like crazy about him. So like writing about falling in love - and I am remembering the awkwardness of when I first met him. That was pretty fun and pretty easy to write.  He is sitting right in the other room so you have to say nice things about him.  Right. And he is super-cute and I do have to say nice things .  And while you are - while we are talking about your husband David this book - the novel incorporates graphic elements or illustrations...  Right.  ...You know things that are drawn by Maddy and documents. And your husband David did those right?  Yeah he did those. I will tell you a story. So I write from 4 to 6 a.m. in the morning.  Huh.  Yeah.  Well you have a kid so that kind of explains that  for me.  Right. Right. When I first started writing she was four months old and that was the time I had to write. And I had this idea that Maddy would draw her world as a way to understand it. And I cannot draw so I drew this terrible rendition of the Hawaiian state fish which is called the humuhumunukunukupuaa. And I went to my bedroom and David was still asleep. And I woke him up and it was 4 a.m. And I was like honey will you please please draw this fish for me. And he got up he made coffee he gave me a kiss and he drew the fish. And that is the fish that is in the book to this day. And that is what is started sort of those nontraditional elements in the book.  It is a fairly tiny detail in the book that Maddy is biracial. She is half African-American she is half Asian. But it is not really a factor in the story at all. So why include that detail?  I think we live in a very diverse world and we need to represent that world that we live in. There are a lot of beautiful people in the world and they need to get counted. They need to be the heroes in stories as well. I will say for me it is very personal because you know I am African-American my husband is Korean-American our daughter is mixed. When I grew up I did not really see myself in stories and it is important for me for my daughter to be able to see herself in stories as well.  If this had an option to be made into a film you know it would be nice to see some of that on the screen too.  It would be just wonderful. What a beautiful thing that would be.  Nicola Yoon's amazing new novel Everything Everything is out on Tuesday. It is been a great pleasure speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very much. 