 2017 has been a record year in Hollywood but it is not a good record. This has been the worst summer at the box office in a decade. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports even hits like Wonder Woman and the latest Guardians Of The Galaxy could not save a summer of flops.  To be clear we have seen some terrific movies this summer. Still films like Girls Trip Baby Driver and The Big Sick are not exactly tent poles.    Where is the bloody air force?  Even the epic World War II drama Dunkirk already getting buzz for best picture was not enough to rescue a box office down 16 percent over last summer. This is partly due to what we can only call sucky sequels about mummies or...    Pirates.  Few people it seems were that invested in the ongoing travails of Captain Jack Sparrow of the Pirates Of The Caribbean or even the big noisy robots of Transformers. But these movies still made plenty of money abroad says media analyst Paul Dergarabedian of comScore.  Yeah well the international marketplace is different than North America. The novelty factor I think of these big bombastic American-made films - that has not worn off. Although we are seeing a little erosion of that popularity.   .  Partly because places like China are coming up with massive summer blockbusters of their own. A fast-paced action movie called Wolf Warrior 2 has made about as much money worldwide as anything the U.S. produced this summer.   A good movie is a good movie anywhere and a terrible movie is pretty much a terrible movie no matter where you find it.  And that is why relying on subpar sequels to be international hits is not a smart long-term studio strategy Dergarabedian suggests. Even though this summer's box office has tanked he says Hollywood need not panic.  This is a cyclical business. It is going to come back. We - every few years we go through one of these big downturns and everyone proclaims that the - you know the movie theater is over. That is not going to happen.  Just in the next few months we will see the new Blade Runner 2049...    You are a cop. I had your job once.  ...and Justice League and the new Thor movie and the latest Star Wars plus all those Oscar contenders. Paul Dergarabedian says 2017 may well redeem itself. That said it might be time to re-evaluate some weaker sequels. In the Pirates Of The Caribbean flop Johnny Depp faces an executioner who asks him...    How would you like to die pirate - hanging firing squad?  The answer might be the box office. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  