 The Toronto International Film Festival is underway. It is the 40th year of the fest and for a week now our colleagues Linda Holmes and Bob Mondello have been tweeting and blogging from Toronto. Bob is our film critic and Linda is our pop culture blogger and both liked The Martian by Ridley Scott and starring Matt Damon.    I am entering this log for the record. This is Mark Watney and I am still alive - obviously. I have no way to contact NASA or my crewmates but even if I could it would take four years for another manned mission to reach me and I am in a Hab designed to last 31 days.  Bob and Linda are back and join me now. Welcome back guys.  Good to be here.  Thank you.  So The Martian is big. It looks very hyped . It looks very expensive. And it is Matt Damon - big movie star. Was it that good?  Yeah I think a lot of people were worried that it would not retain the wit of the Andy Weir book that it is based on but it really does. He is a funny character. He has a sense of humor about his isolation. And he spends a lot of time doing very sophisticated science which is fun to watch and which they give you plenty of. It is nicely adapted. It is really terrific.  And it is exciting - oh my gosh. And it is gorgeous.  I mean he is lost in space right? Like this is the plot basically ? It sounds scary.  He is lost on Mars and then later in space. Yeah it is a terrific picture.  All right so that is the kind of big splashy film. Anything else - maybe something smaller - that you would just absolutely recommend?  I really enjoyed Room which is the adaptation of the Emma Donoghue novel of the same name about a woman who is held captive in a shed and eventually gives birth to a boy who she raises there. And he is 5 years old as of this point in the story and a lot of the movie is about how she tries to care for him in these terrible circumstances including trying to figure out what to tell him about their life. He does not know any different. And at one point she uses a classic tale to draw an analogy to their situation.    Do you remember how Alice was not always in Wonderland?   She fell down down down deep in a hole.   Right. Well I was not always in room. I am like Alice.  So that is a wonderful performance by Brie Larson and also the young...  And the kid .  Yeah the young actor whose name is Jacob Tremblay - who was I believe 7 when they shot this movie - is stunning and really expressive. It is a very fine kid performance.  It sounds very intense. Is there anything that you expected to love and then you know did not?  Yeah I - well I went in thinking The Danish Girl was going to be terrific. Eddie Redmayne just won best actor last year for playing physicist...  Stephen Hawking.  ...Stephen Hawking. And he is playing the Danish girl who is the first transgender woman to attempt a surgical intervention back in the 1920s. And I thought the picture felt more upholstered. It is more about the costumes than it is about the emotions of all of that. It wants to be but I just was not feeling very much.  There is so much hype about this film I think in part because there is like a slate of films that address LGBT issues like About Ray you mentioned The Danish Girl. Do you see a trend or any kind of theme that comes out in these films?  Well there is a lot of it at the festival and there is going be a lot of it this fall. I thought it was interesting because most of these pictures are not about the things that gay films have been in the past. A lot of times gay films are about coming out or about suffering in some way. And these were films in which the characters were gay but they were actually films about other things.  So not just about identity.  Right. So I thought that was kind of interesting. There is a movie with identical twin gangsters it is called Legend. Both of the gangsters are played by Tom Hardy and one of them is gay. I mean that is the way that gay issues are being incorporated into films this year. It is not about identity necessarily it is about gay people in life.  And there is also been tweets about the human rights issues that have come up in films. And is that something Linda that you saw as a trend? I mean were there a number of films like that?  There are a lot of films like that and one of the ones that I really was very affected by is called Angry Indian Goddesses and it is a - they say it is mostly improvised and it is a group of Indian women who get together for the wedding of one of them. And they spend a lot of time just kind of socializing and jawing about their lives and talking about how everything's going and you kind of feel like you are getting a little bit of a buddy comedy. But then ultimately it turns out to be a film that is strongly and unapologetically about the threats to the way that they live and their fears and the way that they are treated by police and by elements of government. And so it actually turns out to be quite a devastating film in some ways but it is also wonderful and often funny and warm. And it hit me very very hard that one.  Boy that is a lot more affirmative. I did not see that one I am afraid. The ones I saw were so distressing to watch and brilliant. I mean Son Of Saul is an astonishing picture about the Holocaust that is so first-person that you feel like you are in the room with the character that is there and the rooms he is in are in Auschwitz. It is a really grim and extraordinary picture. I mean just brilliantly made and wrenching. Beasts Of No Nation is about child soldiers with Idris Elba. Dheepan is about immigrants from war-torn countries. There were just all of these difficult films. To some extent you go to a film festival and you expect to see important pictures. There were a lot of pictures that felt important this year.  And now we are headed into that time of the year where all the kind of big movies come out and the kind of award-winning hyped movies come out. Are you feeling good? Are you feeling like people have a lot of choices going to the movies come fall?  Yeah and I think what I always take away from a festival like this is a lot of these films are not perfect across the board but they offer something. I saw one called Born To Be Blue in which Ethan Hawke plays Chet Baker. It is kind of a weird shaggy somewhat unformed movie but it is really interesting how they go about shooting it. It is an example of - you know a lot of times you are not going to see a perfect top-to-bottom project. You are going to see something that has great interesting elements and I think if that is what you are looking for I think it will be - yes a good fall.  You are already the movie critic so I know you are biased here.   Well I think - I mean I saw four or five pictures that I thought as I was watching them well that is going to up for an Oscar probably for best picture. Anomalisa a new picture by Charlie Kaufman that is animated and that is incredibly emotional and - I mean seriously we are talking about these figures who are all - they are made out of felt and yet you feel for them. It is a remarkable picture. And so I was looking at pictures and seeing how much they seemed to be about form and about filmmaking in a way which just fascinated me.  Well I want to continue this conversation online where you can find both Bob and Linda. Bob you tweet where?  At bobmondello.  And Linda?  I am at nprmonkeysee.  Linda Holmes is our editor for our pop culture blog Monkey See. Bob Mondello our film critic. Thanks so much to you both.  It is a joy.  Thanks Audie. 