 Jamaica is known for its music. It is the birthplace of Bob Marley and reggae. An event held each summer for the past decade has also put the island on the map for another art form literature. Baz Dreisinger reports on an unusual festival that celebrates language with a distinctly Caribbean twist.  Picture a small fishing village - the beach the rum the Rastas the tourists and the international literati. Now imagine everything coming to a standstill at the sound of this. FRED D' Coins in the sea pressed by light. This morning sky white of stars chalk off my shirt climbing sun.  Fred D'Aguiar's spare verses about cricket fields in Guyana shared the stage with Victor LaValle's comedic oh-so-detailed musings on an American men's room.  I open my mouth to breathe but the faint whiff of  filth and its corrupted soul haunted me.  Welcome to Calabash a three-day international literary festival with a vibe all its own.   Calabash was founded a dozen years ago by writer Colin Channer producer Justine Henzell and Ghana-born Jamaica-bred author Kwame Dawes.  Calabash focuses on two things. First of all we intend to make the festival have a Jamaican vibe and spirit - that is ease comfort calm but also innovation. But secondly to have a spirit that is almost Scandinavian in the sense of meticulous care for detail and intense level of professionalism.  No so-called island time at this fest. Things begin and end according to schedule. But this year poet and writer Kevin Young discovered that no amount of professionalism can tamper with the - OK I will say it - laid-back Irie mon feel of Calabash.  You see people there all day eating. They are with families. It really has a kind of community vibe and also almost a pilgrimage vibe.  They make that pilgrimage to Treasure Beach a rural untouristy slice of Jamaica's south coast. The event is staged at Jake's a boutique hotel owned by the family of Calabash producer Justine Henzell whose father Perry directed the 1973 classic Jamaican film The Harder They Come.    So as sure as the sun will shine I am going to get my share now of what is mine.  Justine Henzell points to the hotel actually a cluster of whimsical cottages strewn across six rocky acres.  You walk in here. The colors the buildings are painted the shells in the wall. It just makes you realize that you are in a different head space.  Authors jump at the chance to share in that head space every year. In exchange for hotel and airfare the likes of Junot Diaz Colson Whitehead and Sonia Sanchez forgo their usual fees to read at Calabash. In turn the event is free and open to the public but writers do not bother sending your resumes. Kwame Dawes handpicks the lineup and there is a waiting list.  Sometimes you want to mix race we want to mix nationalities we want to mix gender we want to mix sexual orientation. We want to constantly show range and show complexity and show diversity.  There is the biggest parade moving through my street. The skies explode with ticker tape. Strangers kiss on every corner. Their kisses are what make me live forever. This is how she makes me feel like honey like honey and trombones.  Then there is the crowd.   Ethiopian novelist Maaza Mengiste read from her debut Beneath the Lion's Gaze for some 2000 listeners.  The audience here has been a different kind of audience than I have ever read for. They are absolutely engaged and they are laughing. They feel with you when you are on stage. You can feel that energy and it was great.  And last but in Jamaica certainly not least is the final crucial ingredient music.   Calabash features reggae concerts and DJ sets and concludes with a world-class acoustic performance.   Calabash only just concluded but it is really a year-round thing. The Calabash International Literary Festival Trust stages writing workshops in Jamaica and also publishes mostly via Brooklyn-based Akashic Press Caribbean literature. Justine Henzell explains that Calabash's mission is to cultivate literary talent from across the islands.  There are poets who talk about Calabash and say that what they wrote is either BC before Calabash started or AC because the fact that they were able to hear poets from all over the world reading their work made them understand what incredible poetry is and it was giving them a chance to say OK. That - my poem is good but it is not great yet.  And in the same way the Jamaican festival has ultimately raised the bar for lit fests everywhere. After all would not you prefer a Red Stripe on the beach with Derek Walcott to wine and cheese with the tweed and ascot set? For NPR News I am Baz Dreisinger. 