  My next guest says he is created something groundbreaking in the world of poetry. Brian McGackin calls it broetry poetry for bros. Here's how he describes it.  Broetry originated centuries ago high atop the mountains of feudal Japan when a small sect of samurai monks decided they were tired of writing poems that were deep and meaningful and opted instead to write something people might actually enjoy. Okay I made all that up.   Broetry is poetry for dudes. It is poetry for people who do not like poetry. Had a rough day? Feel like sitting down and relaxing but only have a few minutes before the girlfriend gets back from Pilates? Broetry. Broetry is poetry for the 21st century. Broetry speaks to every man woman and dude-child who understands that reading should not have to be a chore. If you think you do not like poetry you just have not found a poem that is right for you. Broetry is poetry that is right for you. Broetry is a literary chili cheeseburger.  Brian McGackin calls himself America's broet laureate. He is got a masters in poetry from USC and to everyone's surprise he is the first in his class to land a book deal. And that book? It is a collection of broems poems for bros called Broetry. We asked him to share a few of them starting with a haiku Why Do Buses Smell?   Why do buses smell the young girl asks her mother? I listen because I want to know too.   He is in Miami. This is probably the only completely true broem in the book. Every word of this is true.   He is in Miami. Just in case the Los Angeles Police Department is looking for information on the whereabouts of a crafty-looking Latino male age 30 about 5'10 and extremely skinny who likes to smoke pot a lot and play video games all day and who enjoys drinking Newcastle Guinness and high quantities of Vitaminwater in the interests of any ongoing drug-related crimes in the area for example illegal possession illegal sale or illegal production in his friend's apartment in Los Feliz he is in Miami.   If you manage to track him down please let me know. He owes me rent two bottles of Arizona Green Tea and a frozen pizza supreme please.   Um. Are there any sort of like broetic forebears you know in the world of broetry?  Yeah. There are a lot of poets who had broetic qualities. Frost liked baseball. He wrote about sports. His poetry was always very accessible. Even Shakespeare - Shakespeare was just writing about chicks.   The cover poem is certainly an homage to William Carlos Williams.  Oh the one on the cover of the book.  Yeah.  I have finished the beer that was in the icebox and which you were probably saving for Friday. Forgive me. This girl came over so sweet and so hot.   Why You Should Listen to Classical Music.    John Williams. Jaws Superman...   ...Indiana Jones.   ...when Darth Maul gets chopped in half spoiler alert...   ...Obi Wan grooving to some classical music. I know what you are thinking now. That movie came out in 1999. That is not classical music. First do you know what a leitmotif is? Second Little Johnny Love is like 80 years old classical music. Did you know he composed the music for four separate Olympic Games and the theme song to Lost in Space? He is ridiculous.   Classical music. It makes you smarter. And admit it you could be more cultured. You just picked up a book called Broetry.  That is America's broet laureate Brian McGakin. His new book of broems poems for bros is called Broetry. Brian thanks bro.  Thank you.  