 Percival Everett is a man of the West. The landscape comes alive in his writing.   A spring-fed creek ran through the ranch. So even in the harshest summer weeks there was a narrow lane of willows and green grass. Moose and elk browsed and left deep tracks in the muddy banks.  Everett has written dozens of works in all kinds of genres. His latest titled Half An Inch Of Water is a series of interconnected short stories. When we sat down I asked him to read the opening lines where he introduces us to a man who has been shaped by the ranchland.   ...Love of the spread had been rubbed into him like so much salve a barrier against whatever was out there in the world a layer of peace. His mother held him close not wanting to lose her only remaining family but let the ranch the land shape him.  The man in this opening story is a veterinarian. The ways people reveal themselves when interacting with animals is a theme Everett returns to again and again.  I think most of what I know about people comes from what I know about animals. I have been fortunate enough to live with horses and mules for a large segment of my life. And the wonderful thing about them is they are honest. You know I have never been betrayed by a horse or lied to by a mule or even insulted by a dog.   And people behave differently around about their animals than they do without them. They become I think somewhat more honest.  One of the things that is exciting about this collection of stories - this notion of the Western character you know the lone independent figure person on the ranch or in the wilderness or wherever - usually - or always that figure is like it is the Marlboro man. It is a cowboy. It is a white cowboy. And the people in this collection of stories they are Native American. They are both genders. They are mixed race. It is a different kind of side of the West than we are typically presented with.  Well I am writing the West that exists. You have to remember that Westerns are complete mythology. If you talk about historic West a third of the cowboys were black. The railroad was built by the Irish and the Chinese more or less and black workers and all of this supported by women all the time. And yet you can find any number of Westerns that have no women in them. This is why they shoot each other a lot.   So yeah I am just trying to...  That is why they are so ornery.  Yeah no doubts. I do not make Westerns. I make stories and novels about people who lived in the contemporary West.  Well I am curious. What were the things that draw this book together? They are set in Wyoming and in and around an Indian reservation. Is that how you grew up?  No but I was fortunate enough to live in Wyoming the Wind River Reservation and I like it there. Wyoming might be my favorite state. You know it is so sparsely populated. I wrote these while I was in Paris. I was living in Paris and for some reason I started writing ranch stories. It makes perfect sense.  . Tracking comes up in this book - people who know how to follow animal tracks follow signs. How did you learn to track? It is not a skill most people in Los Angeles have so .  You would be surprised.   Well even as a kid I grew up in a city Columbia S.C. but I could go to a river. And I then started tracking animals with my guides to animal scat and footprints. It is just something I have tried to keep up with. I spend a lot of time in the wilderness though.  There are people that go into the woods the desert wilderness intentionally for a kind of clarity. There is a beautiful story in here about an adolescent boy. He is about 14 years old. And he wants to go off and go into the woods.  Oh yes.  But his parents just think that means that he is suicidal.  You know if you watch movies made in Hollywood the outdoors is a frightening place. You know it is 'ecause all of these movies are written by people who live in cities.   I just find the wilderness to be the safest place. Again animals are -grizzly bears notwithstanding - are fairly predictable. I understand them. I know that this is their space. The movement of animals at night and stuff is not frightening not nearly as frightening as hearing human voices in the night while in the wilderness.   Do you go off into the wilderness for clarity or inspiration?  Oh as much as I can. I have children now so I cannot go out the way I used to. But yes it is the best place for me to work actually.  Writer Percival Everett. His new book Half An Inch Of Water is in stores right now. It is been a great pleasure speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you for having me. 