 Amazon Prime Video's new series Undone asks a question. Are the visions of a young woman really a communication from her dead father or are they evidence of mental illness? NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says the series which debuts Friday creates revolutionary television.  Alma Winograd-Diaz is stuck in a slump.    I am so bored of living. I am 28 years old and I am terrified this is all there is. Sometimes I will be in the store and I will be looking at two different cans of beans and I will think these beans are better. No these beans are better. And then I will think that is the most boring thought anyone's ever had. I mean God. Everything is pointless.  Played by a fiery funny Rosa Salazar Alma is at once a stereotypically unmoored millennial and a completely distinct presence. Raised in San Antonio with a Jewish father and Mexican mother she is a child of two worlds familiar with both comfortable in neither. And because her grandmother was diagnosed as schizophrenic Alma's afraid she and her sister will eventually inherit the illness. She is so convinced in fact that Alma wants her sister to call off her wedding.    Believe it or not I am trying to help you. You do not want to marry Reed.   All right. I get it. He is white and he is rich...   That is not the point.   ...So you do not like him. Well what is the point?   Because we are broken people OK? And broken people break people.   No I am not broken. I wish that you would stop telling me what you think is best for me because I am not you.   OK.   You are so insanely self-involved you do not even know all the things that are wrong with you.   Now I do.  After another argument Alma gets in a car crash emerges from a coma and sees something shocking - her dead father Jacob played by Better Call Saul's Bob Odenkirk.    You can communicate with me because the car accident - it kind of lifted a curtain. And I need you to be able to communicate with me but now we have to develop your potential. You know this is kind of a new way of hearing.  All of this unfolds before the viewer in a spellbinding way rendered in rotoscope animation. If you have seen the film A Scanner Darkly or the documentary Tower you know what it looks like - flowing animation traced over film footage which can look realistic as a cityscape or fantastic as a pulsating galaxy. So when Alma has a fight with her sister it can seamlessly explode into a moment when she is floating among the stars.    I just wanted one year that was about me and you ruined that.   I was in a coma.  Amazon says this is the first episodic TV series created with rotoscope animation and it is an ingenious storytelling device. One moment it conveys Alma's feelings that she is living in a world that does not quite feel real. Then time and space will bend into a more abstract environment and she winds up having a conversation with herself. Co-creator Kate Purdy who also worked on Netflix's BoJack Horseman says she based some of Alma's experiences on her own struggles with depression and anxiety so it is no surprise that Alma's mother - and Alma herself - begin to question her sanity.    I think you need to see someone - a psychiatrist.   I have a follow-up doctor's appointment in a few days. I will get it all checked out when I go to that. Just do not worry.   That is with an orthopedist.   Yeah.   You are acting even stranger than usual. You usually act even stranger than usual but since the accident you have been acting more even stranger than usual than usual.   OK.  It is a compelling journey of self-examination wrapped in a detective story. As Jacob asks Alma to look into how he died Undone stretches bends and breaks most every convention of television to tell a unique tale offering the kind of game-changing experience I have always hoped streaming TV might deliver. I am Eric Deggans. 