 Now heres a guy who wants to take us far beyond Pluto and the Kuiper Belt - even beyond our own galaxy.  I am Michael Chang Gummelt. I am a video game programmer and designer.  He is also a huge Star Trek fan. And like a lot of fans Gummelt wants to bring Star Trek back to TV. But unlike any other fan next month hes going to get the chance to pitch his concept to Paramount the studio that produces the Star Trek movies. In Gummelt's show there will still be a ship named Enterprise and a United Federation of Planets but it takes place 200 years after Captain Kirk.  The idea is that the Federation after a great war has spread out across the galaxy now there is no new frontier. But then 10 years later they get this signal from the Andromeda galaxy. It is basically saying come check us out. Come on over. And everyone in this galaxy is like that is crazy. You know we have got to answer this. And so they dig up this crazy scientist. They had this crazy idea about how to cross that space. They built this new ship and there is a whole new crew that mans it and just sends them out there to check it out.  There are a lot of huge Star Trek enthusiasts out there. And they are even if you go on the Internet there are plenty of other people who have written scripts and concepts and even shot and filmed their own concepts.  Yeah there is some great ones out there.  Yeah some amazing stuff - but how did you get the attention of Paramount Studios?  Well it was kind of luck I will be honest. I mean this is an idea I have been working on for maybe 20 years off and on. And I figured well the 50th anniversary is coming up and I have not heard anything about a new show let me write up my idea. And I had finished the script. I put it online like last year in January. And I named it  Beyond. And then a year and a half later Paramount decided that is going to be the name of their next movie.   So the third of the new Star Trek movies.  Right. So I think they came across me and they were like ugh hey you came up with the same name. How would you like to come in and pitch your idea? And I was like OK why not?  Was it part of their way of getting startrekbeyond.com back from you?  I am not really supposed to comment on any of it unfortunately.   So why do you feel like we need Star Trek on TV since we have the new rebooted Star Trek in the movie theaters?  Star Trek movies always tend to have to be action films. They have to be self-contained stories with really high stakes. And that really limits the kind of storytelling you can do. I do not think you can get the breadth of stories and the depth of character development that you can get on a TV series. But I think that Star Trek is also when it is at its best is a cultural force for good. It shows a progressive optimistic future it shows diversity working together. It shows tolerance. And it is inspired generations of thinkers and creators artists and scientists. And I think that is probably the most important thing about Star Trek is its effect on culture.  So what would be your dream outcome for this to go into production?  Well so I am pitching to Paramount because they are the ones that discovered it because of the movie tie-in. But I know that they do not have the rights to produce new Star Trek TV series CBS does. But my goal is to meet with them and personally try to impress them on you know how this is a good idea how this is good for the franchise and how this is good business-wise and get them excited about it enough that they will then say hey CBS you should listen to this guy and get me a pitch meeting with them.  What do you think your chances are?  I am not going to get my hopes up because I know how the industry does not generally do things this way. But I am going to do my best and I have got nothing to lose.  Well I have managed to go this long without making an ultra-geeky reference. But before I let you go I will say I hope this is not a Kobayashi Maru scenario.   I do not believe in no-win scenarios.  Michael Chang Gummelt voting Captain Kirk - good luck with the pitch next month. Live long and prosper.  Thank you. Peace and long life - thank you.  