 Dinosaurs have been rampaging through movie theaters for weeks. And now just in time for Independence Day they are joined by robots and male strippers. Critic Bob Mondello says let the block busting go on.  Say hello to the testosterone twins Magic Mike XXL and Terminator Genisys. One designed at least theoretically for the delectation of women the other for men. And guess which one has more male nudity? Apparently you cannot time travel while dressed in so much as a thong.    Wash day tomorrow - nothing clean right?   Nothing clean right.  The Genisys film makers are back explaining why android Arnold arrived in the first Terminator movie naked. This time he does that again.    Your clothes - give them to me now.  And again there are two of him.    You will not be needing any clothes.  ...Well three in a way.    I have been waiting for you.  But let me back up a bit. See the nakedness is not all they are backsplaining. Terminator Genisys is advancing a whole new timeline for the Terminator universe. It starts out like the old one with human resistance leader John Connor sending a disciple back to protect his mom from the machines. But when he gets to the past it is not to the past any of them expect.    The 1984 John sent you to - it no longer exists.   No this is all wrong all right? John sent me here to save you.   From the Terminator that was sent back to kill me I know but we already took care of him.   We?  Arnold again - there is also much talk of how Genisys may be Skynet the system that lets the machines take over. Though it is also apparently glorified Bluetooth allowing you to connect all your devices. Whether they would come up with something to connect all the film's timelines - but speaking of devices Schwarzenegger...    We have been reacquired.  ...Keeps getting upgraded. Once a mere android - that is a robot with artificial flesh - he is in at least one of his incarnations here a cyborg - a robot with organic flesh. And if he can switch from android to a new operating system then I suppose there is no reason the filmmakers should not. Although there is a new beefy guy on hand this time.    Get back.  The rest of the movie is strictly old-school - recycled plot lines warmed-over effects just a post-governator reboot for Schwarzenegger which the filmmakers are optimistically billing as the start of a new trilogy. As the star keeps saying in the film I am old not obsolete - not as catchy as I will be back but then he says that too.    I will be back.   What?  Also back - Channing Tatum in Magic Mike XXL doing what comes naturally. This sequence catches him in the custom furniture workshop he  was so anxious to build in the first Magic Mike movie. That one had a Great Recession vibe. Now he has his carpentry business. But you know what they say about old habits dying hard. What is a male entertainer to do when this song comes on?   That is a rhetorical question. Tatum bumps grinds sands and drills until sparks fly. And you might say the same about the movie which knows exactly what its target audience wants from male strippers and delivers it with a charm that is seriously seductive.    These girls have to deal with men in their lives every day who - they do not listen to them. They do not ask them what they want. They do not even ask them what they want. All we got to do is ask them what they want. And when they tell you it is a beautiful thing man. It is like - we are like healers or something.  The plot - to the extent there is one - has Tatum and his buds reuniting for a farewell performance at a stripper convention adding one tiny twist.    I mean if this really is our last ride what if we make up some new routines?  So they practice and perform practice and perform - and visit some old friends and some new friends who are older.    I wish we had known you guys back in our day you know?   I know I know.   Well I would say it is still your day madam.   Damn.  The guys all look to have been chiseled from whatever marble quarry is just upstream from the one Michelangelo favored. These are bodies to fuel fantasies doing choreography that brings fantasies to life. Unlike its predecessor the new Magic Mike makes barely a nod in the direction of social significance. It is an entertainment machine calculated to encounter no resistance whatever when the machines take over.    Are you ready to be worshiped? Are you ready to be exalted?  Who is going to say no to that? I am Bob Mondello. 