  Spike Lee. The filmmaker was so taken with a show called Passing Strange and its star a singer-songwriter named Stew that he turned it into a movie. Our critic Bob Mondello suspects audiences will be glad he did.  Stew is a large African American man  red shirt black suit appealing voice. He is the author the songwriter and the subject of Passing Strange...   Cue music.  ...also the onstage narrator.  Mr.  Sunday morning South Central L.A. 1976. Mother stands in doorway. Youth is sleeping.  The characters he' a young man also in a red shirt because Stew's tale is largely autobiographical and a mom who almost immediately gets on your nerves.  Ms.   Now jump out of that bed and come a-churchin' with me. Mr.  She drops the negro dialect and speaks in her natural voice. Ms.   It is such a beautiful Sunday morning.  With that shift in tone Stew lets you know that he will be approaching this coming-of-age story with a twist or two. The middle-class Los Angeles teenager will grow up to be a lot like the adult singer-songwriter who is telling his story but that does not protect him from a certain amount of mockery after he leaves a church choir for instance to form a punk band.  Mr.   I am at war with negro mores I do not always get our norms. My mother's ...  Our hero's path to adulthood takes him on a Candide-like journey to Amsterdam where his middle-class world gets slightly exploded.     We just had sex that is right all three of us.  And to an art commune in Berlin where he goes through a little hell and emerges with an epiphany.  Mr.   See I am cursed  the crowd laughs too soon and all I have is my .  You will note that Passing Strange finds a musical style to suit each mood swing. It also has an impressive array of staging tricks to which Spike Lee adds considerable pop and sizzle on screen. The director filmed two performances on Broadway then shot the show again without an audience present to capture close-ups and off-beat camera angles. The cast is knocking itself out and the strikingly edited result is theater magnified amplified brought to a kind of life that does not usually happen for a theater on screen. I should admit right here that I am a theater nut so this particularly appeals to me. And I should also note that I had an opportunity to see the show live and I passed on it. Boy was I wrong. And boy am I glad that Passing Strange has passed my way again. I am Bob Mondello.  Mr.   Who lends the club that speakeasy air? The black one the black one. Who dances like a God and has Wunderbar hair? Der Schwarze. Now he is the life of every soire. He will give the bum's rush to your ennui. Turn off these lights because I barely can see the black one. 