 In the story of Rip Van Winkle a man who sleeps for 20 years wakes up in a world where people know things but he does not. Well flip that and have a story about someone who knows things no one else knows and that is the premise of the new movie Yesterday.    Yesterday all my troubles seemed so far away.   When did you write that?   I did not write it. Paul McCartney wrote it the Beatles.   Who?  Yesterday is the story of a man who is the only person on Earth who knows about the Beatles and Danny Boyle is the director. And you would have had to have been asleep for the last 20 years not to know what he is done - Trainspotting Slumdog Millionaire 28 Days Later to name a few. And he is here to talk about Yesterday which opens today. Welcome to the program Danny Boyle.  Thank you very much.  All right so did I lay out the premise the right way?  Yeah absolutely.  OK  so it is not a spoiler.  Oh God no. And it is illustrated very dramatically when you see it as he tries to find them on the computer as he tries to find evidence of them.   Yeah that is the world's most panicked Google search.  And there are no answers there. There are no Beatles.  Now I have to admit I am not a boomer so sometimes I am a little guilty of some anti-Beatles sentiment because I am like I get it they are good. When you heard this premise what did you think?  I thought it was a wonderful love story between Jack and Ellie you know Himesh Patel and Lily James in the film as we did it.  Jack is our Rip Van Winkle so to speak and Ellie is his lovelorn manager.  And his best friend to whom that should be his final destination really in life. But he moves further and further away from her as he scales the heights of fame. I thought that was a lovely love story and it is - I also thought that the love letter to the Beatles intertwined with it was a beautiful way of looking at their music again.  And we should say the actor Himesh Patel what appealed to you about his voice? You are asking someone who may not be known internationally to sing some of the best-known music in the world that people have their own ideas about.  Very much so because although obviously our fictional audience in the film have their memory erased of the Beatles but of course the real audience watching the film in the cinema does not. So you have to have someone who can represent the songs to both those audiences. And it was a struggle at first to find someone.  Like what does that casting notice say - must love the Beatles?  You have got to be able to play a couple of Beatles songs.  What one did he do?  Well most of the people came in it felt a bit karaoke. And then he walked in and he did Yesterday. And yet it was almost like it was his. And I had this like a double take for a moment. And I thought that is what we need. But he was transformational with the songs. And I think I know why it is really now. Even in their most joyous songs and they wrote some wonderful ones there is a little subnote of melancholy. And Himesh has that in him as well.  At one point he performs on a rooftop and he does a performance of the song Help.    Help me if you can I am feeling down. And I do appreciate you being 'round. Help me get my feet back on the ground. Will not you please please help me? Help me. Help me.  It is an emotional part of the film...  Yes.  ...Because he is actually in a moment of turmoil and panic about what he believes at this point to be a lie.  Yes.  What I liked about the performance is it was so raw and so intense and I had a moment thinking oh was this song always sad?  The truth is it was written by John out of kind of pain really. It was a scream for help. Like you said the character Jack is at a terrible moment where he realizes the lie he is living is not only a lie. It is also dragging him further and further away from his best friend and actually the love of his life Ellie. We did it by making it a kind of punk rock version of the song exemplifying John's cry for help.  That is an interesting thing to think about when I look back at your film catalogue because you have launched a lot of stars in a way - Ewan McGregor Trainspotting Dev Patel Slumdog Millionaire Cillian Murphy in 28 Days Later. You are familiar with watching someone have a meteoric rise.  I am very attracted to an unknown especially in a character that has got a huge journey to make. And obviously Jack in this film does make - and the other actors you mentioned in those other films make huge journeys as well.  Yeah those are all odysseys those films.  Very much so yeah. And I love putting an unknown in there because if the film is successful and works it does put a spotlight on that actor. And they have to deal with what we see Jack trying to deal with which is a stratospheric world of absolute fame and success. And people deal with it in different ways. I have been very lucky that people I have been lucky enough to be involved with in their career seemed to have dealt with it very well.  I ask because the antagonist is a character played by Kate McKinnon - we know her of course from Saturday Night Live - as kind of CD record industry agent. Here is how she welcomes him to the fold.    We need you to come to LA. See we pay. And then you come. And you write songs. And then we release them. And you make a ton of money. And then we take most of it.  Are you Kate McKinnon? Is this little speech one you have given which is come and drink from the chalice of fame?  Yes so it is very close to home. It is a portrayal of the worst excesses of the music industry. I am sure there is decent people in the music industry.  But any industry right? When I think about what you just said about fame...  Yes.  ...It can be a high price. And when someone offers it the way that they do I do not know. It feels weighty in some way because you are in the power to do this for people frankly. If someone is in a Danny Boyle film like your life could change.  Oh I see what you mean.  Yeah are you the bad guy is what I am saying .  Am I the bad - am I the bad guy yeah in offering this? It is one of the inevitable consequences of being involved in this business I suppose really. I think you can deal with it well though. Obviously in our story Kate is very funny in encouraging him towards the worst aspects of it the worst selfishness of it. But I think there is a nobler away as well. Listen I do not give any lessons to anybody because I am no saint myself but what you see in people when they approach the work is you obviously spot a reach in them an ambition in them which is not just venal but it is expressive as well. You know they want to exercise their talent. And obviously that is what you identify. And if you are lucky and good at it you can find people who can stretch the audience and enthrall them with the way that they will take you on that journey with them.  You know thinking back to the film itself I was reading a review from The Onion's A.V. Club and they talk about how deftly you use music in your movies. And it says it is only a matter of time before you make a full-blown musical.  I would love to do it. It is such a razor's edge I think doing them that you have to set out with enough confidence in yourself and in your material to be able to pull it off because you have to spread that confidence to everyone else really to carry the day when your characters burst into song. I am still working on it.  It is been a minute. Yeah you have been...  Watch this space yeah.  Well Danny Boyle thank you so much for speaking with us.  It is a pleasure. Thanks very much.  Danny Boyle directed Yesterday and it is out today. And we could not resist just one more clip. Name this pop star.    About the song the title Hey Jude. Let me just give you this advice right? Hey Dude.   Hey dude. Hey Dude are you sure?   He is right. That is so much better.   Is he? Is it?   Yeah yeah.  Hey dude... 