 Chuck Lorre is television's sitcom king. But every single broadcast network turned down his latest sitcom. NPR's Neda Ulaby tells us why.  Chuck Lorre's new show starts Friday on Netflix with a huge star Kathy Bates. It is called Disjointed.    I am Ruth Whitefeather Feldman cannabis lawyer cannabis activist and just before I opened the door cannabis user.   Bates plays the proprietress of a medical marijuana dispensary. Recently I visited the show is Los Angeles set a hippy-looking shop filled with psychedelic posters in glass cases displaying real product and a prop guy handing out vape pens to the actors.  And we will be vaping vaping.  All this was way too edgy for Chuck Lorre's home network even though his shows at CBS have earned more than a billion dollars according to Deadline Hollywood.  Nobody - we did not even get a meeting out of it. We sent the script in and got back no.  Bear in mind you are hearing the voice of someone who is created a multitude of other hits including Dharma and Greg Grace Under Fire Mike And Molly and Mom. Lorre says his latest show is just a workplace comedy - wacky customers lovable employees much in fact like Cheers.  The fact that they are smoking pot or if they were sitting at a bar in Boston drinking with Sam and Norm and Cliff there is still a surrogate family happening there of people care about each other.    Mom this is a blueprint for the future.  The tension in Disjointed comes partly from the dynamic between Kathy Bates' Earth mother and her much-more-corporate son. He is trying to convince her to build her pot dispensary into a national chain.    The gold rush is on and pretty soon somebody's going to become the Walmart of cannabis. Why not us?    Because Walmart is evil.   You shop there.    Only when I am buying in bulk.   There are so many issues to explore in Disjointed including just the challenges of running a small woman-owned business. To ensure its accuracy the show hired someone who does it for real.  I am the cannabis consultant for the show.  Dina Browner runs an actual dispensary in West Hollywood. She calls herself Dr. Dina.  I am not a real doctor but I am board certified by Snoop Dogg.  Perhaps not the first time she is used that line. Browner says she helps pick out props for the show and guides the actors some of whom are green when it comes to smoking weed.  They tend to hold the joints like cigarettes which is my biggest - yeah I hate that.  But Disjointed star Kathy Bates says she needed no such coaching. The subject matter is partly what drew her to the show.  I have chronic pain and I have had my doctor give me a permit to have medical marijuana. And it is made such a difference for me.  The co-creator of Disjointed Chuck Lorre does not use cannabis himself.  I have certainly had a great deal of experience with the various and sundry chemicals both fermented and otherwise.  It is no secret that Lorre's been in recovery for many years. He does not discuss it directly but his shows often do. His show Mom for example is about a pair of recovering addicts - a mother and daughter. I asked Lorre how he felt about making a comedy about people using drugs.  Why not do it you know? I do not want to become the spokesperson for sobriety or intoxication. But I would like to be the spokesperson for things that I think are funny. You know I discussed with friends who I trust you know for their insight and perspective. Is it appropriate for me to do something like this? And their response was always why not? It is funny.  But pot humor is not always funny unless you happen to be high. Take a moment in the show when two stoners make a YouTube video.    Hi I am Dank.   And I am Dabby. And you are watching Dank and Dabby the channel by stoners for stoners.   And by stoners.   The entire idea for the show was David Javerbaum's. He co-created Disjointed.  Pot humor can be slow. It can be very slow. It can be very arduous. That is not going to work with the rhythm of a multi-cam. It is got to be fast.  Javerbaum is a former head writer for Comedy Central's The Daily Show. He says with Disjointed he actually wants viewers to feel high when they watch it. And he says it is OK with him if most of the audience actually is stoned.  I mean people are watching Netflix stoned with or without our show you know by the millions I would imagine. If the only people who watch us are stoned people who watch Netflix that is an enormous audience. And I - that would be enough.  Here we go.  All right. Let us roll please.  Back on the Disjointed set a director says we are rolling. On this show that could mean any number of things. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 