 It is Father's Day. You did not think we forgot did you? No of course not. We got your card a long time ago. And after you fired up the grill or whatever it is you do to celebrate we have got some ideas about how to keep it going with a movie. And for suggestions we called up our old friend writer and critic Jimi Izrael to give us some suggestions for your Father's Day film festival. Jimi welcome back.  Hey Michel. Thanks for having me.  So what would you consider a Father's Day film anyway? Is it something where a dad does something awesome? Or what makes a good Father's Day film?  No no. As a matter - it is not quite that complicated you know? It is a film where everything in the film is not the father's fault. You know what I mean?  .  Because it seems like everything in life and everything in cinema is the dad's fault. So it is that single film where the father if he is not redeemed he is at least put out of his misery.   OK...  Take that Oedipus.  OK. That makes perfectly - well with that being said what is your first recommendation for Father's Day viewing?  Yeah. Really I am really feeling John Krasinski formerly of The Office and a few other things in between. But he directed and co-wrote A Quiet Place. And he plays Lee Abbot and he has these really hard choices and he has to have all the easy answers. And anybody that is a father will tell you they know there is never any easy answers and he had to deal with all the consequences. So that right now is just my favorite film because that is what fatherhood is really about. It is about not saying a lot and just taking all the blame. You know...   Oh man.  That is it.  Yeah - not exactly a laugh riot but OK - Interesting choice.  Not exactly .  No.  Not exactly no.  Any classics from people that they - maybe people already have in their VHS drawer if they can figure out where their VHS player is? Any classics you want to pull out?  Of course people already have Marlon Brando as Vito Corleone from The Godfather. Everybody owns that.    I never wanted this for you. I worked my whole life I do not apologize to take care of my family. And I refused to be a fool dancing on a string held by all those big-shots. I do not apologize. That is my life. But I thought that when it was your time that you would be the one to hold the strings.  Vito Corleone is the guy not unlike me who would do anything for his friend. I am not whacking anybody. You know  but - I mean I whacked the weeds...  .  But you are really about your legacy and you want your kids to appreciate it. As it happens his kids do appreciate it. So Godfather is a classic I feel that works for Father's Day.  And it also has father in the title so there - that works. OK. Well...  Hey.  OK.  Hey. It is an offer you cannot refuse.  So we have already - we are in kind of adult territory here. But what about people with say the littler people in the house. Can you think of something that might be fun to watch with littler people?  So I like Daddy Day Care. Eddie Murphy has done - he has done an uneven job with his films like the last 20 years. But Daddy Day Care really in my mind stands out because it captures the comedy horror and the drama of having to watch small children for any length of time.  .  So yeah that is why life can be - that is - yeah.    Maybe I have not had my coffee yet but it seems like these kids are multiplying. What is going on?   Yeah we got two new kids.   Oh come on.   Hey listen. We are going to have to up our game today all right? We need some structure and some planned activities.   No. We need Ritalin and leashes - that is what we need.  Another one - like The Godfather it is got daddy in the title. So you know...  There you go.  ...Win-Win win-win. OK. And...  Right.  What about for people who like animation? What about people who like animated films? You got anything there?  Yeah. So there is Finding Nemo with Albert Brooks as Marlin as the helicopter dad which I can kind of relate to because people would argue - certainly my kids would tell you that I am a little bit overprotective.    Are you sure you want to go to school this year? Because there is no problem if you do not. You can wait five or six years.   Come on dad. It is time for school.   Forgot to brush. Do you want this anemone to sting you?   Yes.   Brush.   OK I am done.   You missed a spot.   Where?   There.    And right there and here.  .  And as the helicopter dad he wants to kind of protect and keep his son in one place. But then his son kind of goes off and ventures into the world and then he has to travel - he has to dodge all these obstacles to try to find him and make his son safe again. So I can definitely relate to that film and that is an important film for you to see on Father's Day.  Well what are you going to do on Father's Day?  You know what? I am going to have a glass of whiskey and a big piece of chicken and be king for a day.  OK . That is the writer and culture critic Jimi Izrael with his picks for a Father's Day film festival. He also hosts the podcast Conversation For Adults. Jimi Izrael thanks so much for talking to us.  Thank you Michel.  And later in the program we will have your tweets about what you really want as dads for Father's Day. We got this one from HeyJoseph - doughnuts in between naps - simple man simple pleasure. We will have more later this hour. 