 Susanna Clarke's last novel Jonathan Strange  Mr Norrell was a sweeping page-turner about ancient magic set during the Napoleonic Wars. When it was published 16 years ago it became a global blockbuster hit. A novel like that is designed for escape. Well Susanna Clarke's new novel locks you in. It is called Piranesi. That is also her narrator's name. Piranesi's whole world is a strange labyrinthine house. His name comes from a real-life person - an 18th century architect and artist.  He did some engravings of fantastic prisons which have haunted my imagination for a long time. They could possibly be real places but quite dark and looming. I must admit I kind of want to go to those fantastic prisons of Piranesi. Then I want to walk around. I think then...  But maybe not forever.  Not forever. They are meant to be gloomy but I find them quite attractive.  The Piranesi of this book finds his own labyrinth quite attractive. He explores the massive halls lined with towering statues. He catches fish in the oceans that roar through rooms down below. Piranesi is at home in this mysterious house.  So many of us feel alienated in the places where they are. And he is in a very strange and in some ways inhospitable place. But he does not feel it is inhospitable. It is a meaningful place. The statues and the house all feel generally overwhelmingly benevolent to him and he feels like he is in communion with them like he is sort of almost having a conversation with the world in which he finds himself.  Your first novel was sprawling. It was almost 800 pages rich with historical details packed with characters. Did you decide to take a more minimalistic approach when you started writing this?  The reason is very very simple. Very shortly after Jonathan Strange  Mr Norrell was published I fell ill. And for the last 15 years I have struggled with ill health.  Oh my goodness.  I have chronic fatigue or something very like that. So at some point during my illness I would suffered very badly with cognitive impairment with what they call brain fog so it had been impossible to write. But I came to a point where I felt I could write. But the pressure of all the years when I had not written and all the stories I had not written weighed very heavily on me. I very much wanted to write another big book but I did not feel that was a very sensible place to start. So at various times I would been working on this story that became Piranesi. And I felt that is quite a small story. And so that was why I turned to Piranesi.  Wow. And it also feels like a way of processing things like cognitive fog and physical limitations.  Yes.  It is hard not to see some parallels there.  Yes. I was aware while I was writing it that I was somebody who would become incapacitated by illness who is to a large extent housebound and cut off from people. And I was writing a story about someone who lives largely alone but in a vast house in a house in which there are many many things to explore and many avenues of exploration. And there is still knowledge to be found and still wonders to be seen. And there is still beauty to fill your eyes even though you are cut off from a lot of other things.  Did the experience of writing this make you understand your own experience of incapacitation differently?  I do not think it made me feel differently about it but it brought out - I think always when I write I see things more clearly when I write. People would ask me - there is a lot of birds. Piranesi loves birds. And somebody said did you put that in because you - you are a bird watcher? And I was not really a bird watcher but Piranesi kind of taught me. I - after I would written it I went out and I got a bird table and I got birdseed. And I fed the birds and I looked after them 'ecause I felt Piranesi would want me to do this. So I did it.  And now you have let him out of the house of your mind that he was trapped in and he is in the world. This book is published. How does that feel to grant this character you invented the freedom to meet all of these readers all over the world?  He is a very - Piranesi - he has this sort of clarity of spirit - not exactly an innocence but he is a very - I think he is a good character. And when my husband and I realized that the book was going to be published we sort of looked at each other and said how will he cope? Will he be OK? But I think he has a very strong spirit. I think he is going to be fine. So yeah I think he can go out into the world. I am not too worried about him at all.  Susanna Clarke's new novel is Piranesi. Thank you for talking with us about it. It is good to have you back.  It is - you are very welcome. It is very very good to be back. 