 Dolly Wells and Emily Mortimer have been friends for a long time. So how long have you two really known each other?  We have really known each other for about 35 years.   We met when we were 25.  Yeah.   Yeah yeah. We met when we were four.  The two actresses and their friendship star in the show Doll And Em. It features fictional - but familiar - versions of each. A successful Hollywood actress named Emily invites her childhood friend Dolly to come out to Hollywood to be her personal assistant after a bad breakup. The second season of Doll And Em premieres tonight on HBO so earlier this week we had them in for a chat.  My name's Dolly Wells.  And my name is Emily Mortimer.  So we could spend the whole interview going through the ways you are really different from the TV versions of yourselves.  Yes.  But a kind of like broad strokes I would say from what I know about you Dolly obviously your character on the show is - you are kind of more uncertain of yourself. You are not a real actress whereas in real life you are a pretty accomplished performer.  Well who knows? But in the show I am single. I do not have any children. I have left a job working as a waitress and the only really solid important loving thing in my life is my relationship with Em.  And that is not true?  In real life that is the only thing that is not true.   We do not have a loving relationship.  And Emily in - we know in real life you are a star of the big and the little screen. What are the biggest ways in which you are different for the TV Emily?  Oh my goodness. I do not - I mean I do not have the nits currently.   No lice problems that you know of.  No although there have been indeed lice problems in the past but currently I am free of nits. What else? I do not think I am quite so...  Could answer this but you did not ask.  I think you might have to answer it.  It is such a mean question to ask her because...  Because I am much nicer in real life.  No that is the - that is the truth. What I feel proud of in us writing that character is that we made her be a lovable sweet person but you know who is also insecure and paranoid and a bit self-absorbed. And as a story what is interesting is the fact that they do not confide in each other so things that happen could definitely happen to Em and I in real life. She would be able to say I really hope I get this film and I would say I really hope you get this film. And the same with the other way around. We have got each other's best intentions in real life whereas it would not be quite so interesting to watch two people saying no I really think you should do it.  I support you in whatever you do.  Whatever you do you must do it.  .  Oh that would be so exciting. No no please.   Now season two picks up with Doll and Em - you two on the show. You are holed up in a lighthouse to write a play. And this just kind of gets my head spinning because you have written a TV show about versions of yourselves writing a play about versions of those versions of yourselves.   I know. Russian dolls...  It is very - it is very meta. But I think that we did not realize we were writing about our friendship really at all in the first season.  No no.  We did not think we were - I do not think. It was not until afterwards when everyone kept telling us that is what we would done and when we realized we would called it Doll And Em. So the second one became a kind of a riff on that feeling in a way. So it is got - it is taken to an extreme now.  Yeah yeah.  We have got...  Like a sort of crazy mirror or something.  Yeah.  We just keep saying...  Hall of mirrors.  Yeah a hall of mirrors - that you see people playing us - yeah it just goes on and on and on.  And we have got our entire family in this one. There is - Dolly's husband plays my husband. Dolly's kids play my kids. My husband plays my fake husband. Both of our mothers are in it.  Your daughter your mother-in-law.  My daughter and mother-in-law are in it avoiding...  Afraid of catching nits from me.  Terrified of catching nits.   Spoiler.  Our dog is in it even. I mean everybody's in its.  Let us hear a bit from the new season. This is from the first episode. Here you two are getting settled into the lighthouse where you have gone to write.    Hey are not you an actress?   Yes I am. We both are.   And playwrights now.   Smart - that is real smart.   Thank you.   And are you writing parts for yourselves?   Absolutely. Broadway here we come.   Real smart. I am guessing it is tough to book a job now that you are older. I mean I hear the aging process is harsh for actresses. Am I right?   I am guessing that might have been taken from real life.   Oh no no no. It is very very easy for women.  No one's ever ever said that.  It is much easier for women.  .  They always say just take a deep breath and when you get to 45...  Everything will ...  ...Everyone will want you to be the lead.  .  But the only different thing is that the men will be much much younger.  And more unattractive. I mean parts of the - parts of the joy of writing it is kind of outing all this stuff that can be depressing and terrifying.  Terrifying. Yeah yeah.  But then when you make a joke of it it is sort of is not.  Stops being so frightening. It is totally true. Em was very brave about that. I was sort of thinking - really? Do we just - but it is very liberating. Talk about all the things that make you laugh or bother you or bugger you and then you can make funny. And yeah it makes things seem less frightening.  And the other thing that was a big theme in the first season and is still a theme in the second although less so or more complicated in a way is jealousy - such a human emotion and one that we are all just so deeply embarrassed about but we all feel all the time. And we feel it most often towards the people that we love most in the world and for whom ironically you want the best. And you want their life to be wonderful and you just care passionately about them. But when their life is wonderful and when things go brilliantly well for them of course it inevitably makes you feel a bit sick.   And there are things like that that once you sort of say it and make a joke of it it is somehow just sort of less of a big deal.  Has the success of the show - has it made things weird in your life or between the two of you that everything's kind of like oh that is got to go in the show or you know made you super self-conscious?  No. I mean no there is moments like - when you just said something like in Doll And Em - I still...   I still find it weird that it is called - I still get moments of being self-conscious about...  Cringing.  Cringing is the word. But no I do not - well I can only speak for me but because as we say we have been friends for so long it is fantastically lucky that we got the chance to do this together. And we had written other things before and we will write other things again that are not Doll And Em. So it is a chapter in our sort of friendship and our life and our - 'ecause we have been friends forever it was either going to work or it was not going to work. And if it was not going to work that was going to be much easier together. And if this was going to work that was going to be much more enjoyable together. So I do not think it has made it.  That is Dolly Wells and Emily Mortimer. Their second season of their wonderful show Doll And Em premieres tonight on HBO. It is been great fun speaking with both of you. Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you so much. 