 This is a summer of sequels. There will be 16 in movie theaters this season. This weekend is the sequel-iest. Both How To Train Your Dragon 2 and 22 Jumps Street are out. Critic Bob Mondello says they offer us Blockbuster Deja Vu and also a lesson in how to train your audience.  21 Jump Street was already a parody of a TV cop show making fun of having been there and done that. So at the beginning of 22 Jump Street there is a previously on Jump Street recap followed by a meeting with the chief.    Well I hoped never to see you again.   Sup dog.   We are back.  In which he pretty directly addresses the original low-budget stakes as the movie studio saw them.    Nobody cared about the Jump Street reboot. But you got lucky.  And then explains where that leaves us.    So now this department has invested a lot of money to make sure that Jump Street keeps going.  A lot of money that you can see on screen in a chase scene on top an 18-wheeler cars burst into flames.    Dude that was a car.  All of it establishes that officers Schmidt and Jenko are not very good at action heroics. So their captain sends them back undercover as very overage students.    Same identities same assignment.   We are going back to high school?   You look like you are about 50. You are going to MC State.  In the first movie the joke was that beefy Channing Tatum and nerdy Jonah Hill had to work together because high school had changed so much. This time the jokes are more about how they work together in a dysfunctional partnership that a college shrink perhaps understandably misjudges somewhat when they tried to explain to him.    Doc I just feel like sometimes he is not even trying anymore.   Seriously he is clingy. He is terrified of being by himself.   Given all these strong feelings why do not you hold hands? He is literally reaching out for you.   Come on hold my hand.    You...   You have got to interlock it though. If you do not interlock it we might as well just be friends and not partners.  Filmmakers Phil Lord and Chris Miller who are themselves an impressive partnership having made The Lego Movie and the Cloudy With A Chance of Meatballs pictures know enough not to mess with a successful formula. They keep the self-referential stuff going right through the closing credits including young Ice Cube on the soundtrack and middle-aged Ice Cube on screen.     It is the same case. Do the same thing.  Sequel rules to live by. The other way to do a sequel though is to advance the story. And the How To Train Your Dragon folks take that route.    When do you think bud? Do you want to give this another shot?   Part two picks up five years after we last saw Hiccup then 18 Viking chief in training who is now an angular considerably more sure of himself 20-year-old. He lost a leg in the first movie. But he is adapted as has his dragon steed Toothless who has a prosthetic tail fin. No big deal is made of their physical challenges this time. What is happening here is that they are learning more about the world.    Something is coming. Something you have never faced before.    Protect our people. It is your destiny.  In the first film Hiccup had what was essentially a child's task overcoming his own and then his tribes' fear of monsters. With those fire-breathing beasties now tamed both our hero and the filmmakers can move on to more mature pursuits figuring out how to deal with an aggressor who cannot be reasoned with for instance and appreciating the balance to be found in an environment that is admittedly fanciful but gorgeously realized on screen.    Dragons wow.  Hiccup will discover that with power comes responsibility. And that the ones you love can make terrible even deadly mistakes heavy stuff for a kid flick. But there are precedents. Director Dean DeBlois has been saying this installment is the middle movie in a How To Train Your Dragon trilogy. And it is clear that he took inspiration from the first Star Wars trilogy which is not a bad model for breathing new life and yes a bit of fire into one of Hollywood's more nuanced animated franchises. I am Bob Mondello. 