 Many modern dads worry a lot about working too hard or not enough having enough money maybe too much. Well Ben Falcone has some thoughts about that. He says being a dad is weird. That is actually the title of his new book. He is a director writer and actor. As an aside his wife is also in show business actress Melissa McCarthy. We reached him in Burbank Calif. to talk about his new book. And because he draws many lessons about fatherhood from his own dad Steve Falcone we called him too. Steve Falcone is a retired college instructor and we reached him in Carbondale Ill. And I started by asking Ben Falcone about how he came up with the idea and why now?  Well you know I used to roast my dad at parties. I did it for many years would not you say Pop?  I would say so yeah. B.  . S.  It was a classic a standard yeah. B.  I would tell stories about you know growing up and the fun adventures my dad and I would have. And I would get laughs at parties doing it so I kept on doing it. And finally I did not do it one time when I went home to visit. And my dad says why did not you tell any stories? Like that he missed them. S.  I did. B.  So I was like oh wait a minute OK. So maybe I should do this. And then hitting middle age or wherever I am right now I think I started worrying that I would forget the stories. So then I just started to kind of put them down on paper with the intention of giving it to my dad and my mom and my brother as a Christmas present. So that is what I did.  So Steve cover your ears for this part because I am going to talk to Ben now. S.  OK.  Ben you know what? Your dad sounds awesome actually - always making time for fun driving a terrible car which you actually found horribly embarrassing when you were a kid because of course you did telling some important truths about Santa and the Easter Bunny which we will not be discussing here today we will not. B.  Thank you.  But did you think he was awesome when you were growing up honestly? B.  I did. I thought he was like a great guy a great dad. And we were very close when I was a little guy. And you know we remain so today so I am super fortunate in that regard.  The book is told - it is a very digestible sort of chapters that really do speak to just common situations that a lot of us are in. And it is in the form of you know some advice things like it is OK to let them see you sweat. Be sure you have your friends you know stop feeling guilty sort of things like that part. B.  Yeah.  But there was one that I wanted to ask if you would read if it is OK. B.  Sure.  It is about the basketball game with the priest.  B.  Sure. Sure. I will... S.  I stand by my statement. The lane is mine.   OK. Do you want to set it up Steve? It sounds like you want to set it up. Do you want to set it up? S.  Sure.  OK Set it up and then Ben's going to read. S.  I - delighted that I was able to play basketball into my 50s with my boys. And there was a basket hung on the Catholic church across the street. And we would go over there and play wicked games of half-court two on two. And one day - Father Karl  was the resident priest. And he was a hell of an athlete in very good shape came out and smiled. And we said get in the game Karl we need a fourth - and he did. And take it from there Ben. S.  I think that is...  OK that is... B.  I was like boy I wish I wrote that. So this is just - it is called Learn The Rules Of The Game Never Leg-Whip A Priest.  I had the ball and I passed it to father waiting for him to make a move. He passed it back to me and I faked a shot. But my brother was right on top of me so I passed it right back to Father Karl. Father Karl then took an explosive first step towards the hoop blowing right past my dad when my dad stuck out his knee and did the unthinkable - he tripped the priest. That is right. He tripped Father Karl who went down hard with a loud oomph as he hit the concrete. I did not know how to react. Geez Dad my brother yelled. No no that is how we played where I grew up too Father Karl said as he slowly got to his feet. It looked like he was in pain but he seemed very easygoing about the whole leg-whip-you-to-the-ground thing that my dad had just pulled on him.  What is the lesson here that we learn Ben?  B.  Boy well mine is just never leg-whip a priest you know.  Well yeah. B.  But the lesson I also take away is that my dad does have the strength of his convictions however misguided they may be.  OK so we are going to do some deep-dive reporting here. Steve what were you thinking? S.  The lane is mine honey.  S.  I had to do something. Father Karl was too fast for me . Yeah that is old-school basketball baby. You know what can I say? That is the way I grew up. I am from Philly and that is the way we play you know? It was not right but it was standard. It was old-school.   On a slightly more serious note Ben you say in the book as I think most people could appreciate that you know when you were a kid the fact that he was driving cars that cost a hundred dollars. And in fact you tell the story - which is kind of bittersweet you know about it is that you were so embarrassed to be driven to school in this beater and that you showed up one day and you almost ran afoul of some of the tough kids at school. And this one kid you know it saves the day actually because he says oh do not beat Benji  up. He is too poor to beat up 'ecause did you see the car that he drove up in? B.  Yeah.  You could see that as a kid just wanting to disappear into the floor. But you actually felt yeah yeah that is kind of OK. And I was wondering when you came to that realization that a lot of the stuff that perhaps you were mortified by as a kid was actually OK? B.  Well I will let you know when I get there. But no I think you know it is interesting 'ecause like with the beaters anyway and the bad cars like you know my dad did not really care. My brother Flynn did not really care. He is like oh it is a car. Who cares? And I am like what are you guys talking about? It is so crappy that people will see. And I was you know a lunatic about it. And I think the irony of this crappy crappy car saving me from a - for sure horrible beating that I was about to get at school I think that has definitely colored who I am in some way. So I think it is probably part of what has made me a fairly measured guy. And I can see the pros and cons of everything. And like my pop says I do try to choose the positive side of things when I can.  Is there a particular favorite passage of the book that you have or is there a favorite lesson? B.  The main thing that I really think about in terms of being a parent is you know love your kids and show up. And probably one of the chapters I think about is Always Support Your Children Even When They Lose Their Way And Take Their Waiter Job Way Too Seriously which is something that I did. Like when I was struggling and trying to you know get any kind of job I started become a very serious waiter. And there is nothing at all wrong with that but I just literally became - I became like a pain in the ass about it like my section I need the better section and like got competitive about it and was starting to kind of lose my way in that regard. And I think my parents both were really patient with me. And like here's a guy he moves to Los Angeles to become a comedian and an actor and you know see what his career holds. And instead I am like complaining about what section I have in a restaurant which was not my path in the first place. So I think it was really nice of them to be as patient and forgiving as they were.  Steve what about you? Do you have a favorite chapter or favorite bit of wisdom? S.  I like The Big Sky because it says so much about our relationship Ben and I. We were - we would gone to Key West. And we are on our way back. And I said to Ben oh do not you love - the sky's bigger here. And he said really? And I said yeah sure. He said why is that? And I said well the sky's bigger. He said 'ecause we are closer to the equator? I said yeah. He said Pop are you full of ? I said Yeah I think I am.  S.  And he said about everything? I said sometimes. You know and we had that kind of relationship. And he was very perceptive very attuned young - young lads. And we laughed about it. We laughed about it. You know I do not know. I just say stuff. You got to - you know what I mean? And hopefully it works out. I mean I do not just say stuff all the time. When I am parenting my kids I think I know what I am talking about now I will tell you.  A lot of parents worry a lot these days. They worry about a lot of things. S.  I know yeah.  They worry if they are doing the right thing by their kids if they are messing them up if they are around enough. Are they around too much? Are they helicoptering? Do you have some general advice for parents particularly dads? S.  Yeah. Do not sweat the small stuff you know? The biggest thing is what Ben has said. If I could tell every parent there are no part-time parents you have got to be there 247. And once you have done that you will know your kid. Your kid will know you. And you will know what to do. And another thing that Ben noticed is - and we are big on not over lecturing. As Ben says I once whispered in his ear boys who make bad grades will end up in the small towns they grew up in. Boom his grades got much better immediately. B.  They sure did. S.  And I also said to my sons at one time you know I know you are going to drink. But if you are in a bad situation call me. Well Ben was out with a bunch of the guys and they were really ripped. And he called me and I came and got him. And I was really proud of him for having the guts to - take me home Dad this situation's out of hand you know so. B.  Which by the way that situation I was at Back To The Future II and just seeing Michael J. Fox riding around on that you know magic skateboard. I was like I just got my tummy real upset. So I barfed in his car. When he says he is proud of me he was proud but I did have to clean up the barf. S.  Well you know.  Well happy Father's Day to you both. It is really been fun speaking with both of you. That was Steve Falcone. He is the father of Ben Falcone the writer the director and actor. Ben's new book  Lessons In Fatherhood From My Family To Yours is available in stores and online now. Ben Falcone Steve Falcone thank you so much for being with us. S.  Thank you. It was great. B.  Thank you. 