 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. For seven seasons on Saturday Night Live actress Kristen Wiig made us laugh hard with her off-the-wall over-the-top characters.    Oh my God!    She is going to be so surprised.   Oh my God!  From Sue the woman who loved surprises a little too much...    I really love surprise parties. I am so freaking excited!  ...to the Target Lady the overexuberant cashier.    You know what fertilizer is right?   Excuse me?   It is part dirt and part feces. It is my job to let you know what you are buying. I just thought you should know you are buying a big bag of feces.   In 2011 Wiig had her breakout starring role on film with the bawdy hit comedy Bridesmaids which she co-wrote. And now she is back on the big screen in a new comedy titled Girl Most Likely. Wiig's character Imogene is a failed playwright who loses her job her boyfriend and her apartment. She is forced to move back in with her free-spirited mother played by Annette Bening.    Were you getting spanked last night?   Why would you think that?   Because that is what it sounded like. Am I right?    Oh my God.   I am right are not I?  And Kristen Wiig joins me now to talk about the movie and her career. Kristen welcome to the program.  Hi. Thank you so much. I am glad to be here.  What was it that appealed to you about this character Imogene - because she has fallen about as far as she can go.   Yeah yeah. I always like stories like that where it starts off where this person you know seemingly has nothing loses everything and throughout the course of the movie in getting her life back finds something that she did not really know about herself. I do not know. I always gravitate towards things that have very specific sometimes weird characters.  And this movie definitely have that.  Can we talk about Imogene's wardrobe here because - I mean the premise is since you have been thrown out of your apartment you do not have your clothes. And you go back home to your childhood home and you rummage around in the basement - right? - and find clothes from I do not know what? - the late '80s maybe?  Yeah. I think early '90s.  Really really bad fashion.  Really bad. A lot of floral denim miniskirts and...  Yeah yeah.   And there is a moment when Imogene goes out on the town and one of the young people whom she meets says something like my mom had that vest.   Yeah the denim vest...  Yeah the denim vest.  ...the short cropped denim vest which I am determined to bring back.  You rocked the denim vest.  Thanks.   If that is all you took away from the movie then I am happy.   Then that is good enough? Let us go back to when you got your acting start with the improv group The Groundlings in LA. Talk about that time and what you learned there. It was such a fertile ground for so many actors and comedians who came out of there.  Yeah. I had no acting experience really at all. And a friend of mine told me to go see The Groundlings. And I saw an improv show and - I do not know something - I mean I always wanted to perform. And I guess reading a script in front of people and acting something out was always very intimidating to me because I felt like there was a right and wrong way to do it. And with improv it really is your personality. You make all the decisions. And so in some ways you cannot really do it wrong.  It was a lot that I learned.  It is just an interesting idea though that you would come - really with no great background in acting - right? - really no background at all and have the gumption to say you know what?  I am going to try this. I see this up there and it is something that I really love. And why not? I am going to give it a shot.  Yeah. And for me I am actually not very good at public speaking and talking in a big group even socially as myself. Playing a character is much safer for me. So getting up and someone telling me to do a monologue as a character I could you know talk for 10 minutes. But if someone told me to just get up and be myself and talk I would have a much harder time with that.  I am talking with the actress and comedian Kristen Wiig. When you got called in to audition for Saturday Night Live it was 2005. What was that like? What was the experience?  It was the most terrifying thing I think that I have ever done - to this day. Because I - it is - I knew it was going to be just me on stage for five minutes and they were very clear that you had five minutes. And I bought a stopwatch when I got to New York so I could time my audition because I was afraid like a big curtain was going to fall down or something after five minutes.   And what did you do?  I did the Target Lady. Aunt Linda was a character that I did on Update that reviewed movies. I did her and...  So Target Lady was there from the start? You had her from then.  Yeah. She was something that I had done at The Groundlings.  And where did she come from - because she is got this - at least on Saturday Night Live she has this bowl haircut and that voice.    Is this for your pasty skin?   No I just want to look good for a wedding I am going to.   I love weddings. I get to sit at circle tables and listen to the hits of today like Single Lady.   That is great. Listen I am kind of...     I liked how happy she was about pretty much everything. I was actually in a Target and - I forget somewhere in the Valley - and the woman who was at the register she just said something in a voice that struck me. She did not you know do the things that the Target Lady does - this woman - but I kind of embellished a lot.  You know do you ever just sort of hear her voice in your head now still? Is she still kind of lurking back there?  Gosh. Without sounding crazy I guess they all sort of...  Yeah?  ...lurk around back there a little bit. And I think I still have a little voice in my head or a muscle that wants to find characters still.  It must be a noisy place back there...   ...with all those voices.  It can be. I try not to spend a lot of time alone.   So that they do not drown you out?  Yes.  You know I keep thinking about what you said earlier about being such a shy person. And I think people hearing that will say you know Kristen Wiig throws herself into these characters puts herself out there makes herself look really unattractiv. How could she be this quiet retiring person that she is talking about and do this really over-the-top stuff? I mean does it feel like a contradiction to you at all?  Not to me. I think a lot of people assume that you are what you do. And that happens to me all the time when I do interviews or even when I just like go to a dinner. I think people think I am going to...   ...I do not know throw on a wig and start tap dancing on the table.  Well when you think forward about what you want to do now are there other kinds of roles other ways you want to stretch yourself that you are looking forward to?  Yes. I hope to direct. And the last handful of things I have done have been pretty dramatic which has been really fun for me. I hope I have the opportunity to do both - and to do all. And I have enjoyed doing voice-over. And I really want to you know spread my wings.   I cannot believe I just said that.   That is actress Kristen Wiig. Her new film is Girl Most Likely. 