 Lauren Belfer joins us now to discuss her book. Thanks so much for being with us Lauren.  Great to be here Lynn.  Now I understand that you had a really personal reason for looking into this history of penicillin. Can you tell us a little bit about that?  He was dead a year later. He died on the Fourth of July in the 1920s of a fast- moving infection and there was nothing his doctors could do to save him.  You know I have to say I really had not thought much about the kinds of simple things that could turn deadly before the development of penicillin and the other antibiotics as you describe in this book. How much did you know about it other than your own personal experience in the stories you heard before you really started your research on this?  So they used what was at hand. They had milk bottles. They had bedpans that is what they used. And the great challenge of the war was to find a way to mass- produce penicillin because clearly if you are just harvesting it drop by drop from a milk bottle you are not going to be able to supply say the entire United States military with penicillin. But by D-Day 1944 that is exactly what American industry had done.  Now at the same time penicillin was the military's focus but as your book makes clear and again it is fiction but according to your book at the same time there were what you call penicillin's cousins being developed and these - this is what the pharmaceutical companies were really interested in because that is where the profit was. Why is that?  And because the government controlled the production the government took the patents. But there were patents to be made available for the other antibiotics. This became what is now a billion-dollar industry. It did not exist in 1940.  Now Claire Shipley who is the heroine of this novel is a photographer for Life magazine and this really sort of was very evocative of a certain time in this country's history when a magazine like Life had so much influence on the culture.  Life magazine gave people advice on what to do in bombing raids. I remember an article about what to do with your pets during bombing raids because pets were not allowed in the shelters. I mean I thought I knew a lot about World War II but these kinds of things I mean that really brought the war home to me.  Lauren thanks so much. It was good talking with you.  Thank you Lynn wonderful to talk to you. 