 Even well-known books that are considered classics can be the targets of censorship. The Washington D.C. Public Library has come up with a clever way to remind people of that - a scavenger hunt throughout the city. Find one of the books that is been censored at some point and you can keep it. It is part of the run-up to Banned Books Week later this month. NPR's Lynn Neary went looking herself.  Scavenger hunters in Washington D.C. are stalking local shops cafes and bookstores looking for copies of books that are wrapped in distinctive black and white covers. There is no title on the cover just a phrase which describes the reason why some people wanted the book banned. Take The Catcher In The Rye.  That was banned for being anti-white.  Linnea Hegarty is executive director of the D.C. Public Library Foundation. She says the library wanted to get the public more involved in Banned Books Week. Someone pointed out that when books are banned their supporters still circulate them surreptitiously.  They cover them with a cover that makes them unidentifiable and then they pass them to people under bars or you know on the street or however. And they pass from hand to hand. And we thought oh that is such a great concept.  The library chose six books which have been banned at one time or another then began posting clues about the scavenger hunt on social media.  I have been checking Twitter. I have not seen anything new yet. Let us take a quick look.  Jose Vazquez first heard about the scavenger hunt on Facebook. Until then he did not even know that books could be banned and it made him want to find one.  That is kind of the child in me I guess. You try to keep something from me and I will seek it out more.  Vazquez has already found one book - Catcher In The Rye. Now he wants to find all six. He let me join him on his search. Our first stop - the Proper Topper a small shop near D.C.'s Dupont Circle.  Hi.  Hi. How are you?  Good. How are you?  Good. We are looking for a banned book.  We...  Unfortunately...  They have all been found. We are getting some more.  Store manager Tara McCreedy suggested we head over to Kramers a nearby bookstore and restaurant. We hit a dead end there too.  I can see if we are supposed to get any more in.  OK.  But I think they have...  The scavenger hunt has been more popular than anyone expected said Kramerbooks events manager Sara Baline. She thinks it is those attention-grabbing covers.  And so you want to pick up a book that says smut on the cover and you open it and you see that it is Catcher In The Rye. And it makes you think well I do not you know consider this smut. Or why would someone else consider it smut?  OK we decided to cheat a little bit. After all what are smartphones for? So they were expecting us at the next stop - Upshur Street Books. So you have some still.  Yes. Would you like me to show you where they are?  No I think we have to find them right?  OK. I think so too.  It did not take long. Vazquez spotted one right away. So what does it say?  This is filthy trashy sex novel.  What is it?  So this particular one is A Separate Peace by John Knowles.  Wow. Moments later Vazquez found another book - Native Son by Richard Wright.  This is profane and sexually explicit - sounds interesting.  And with that my scavenger hunt came to an end. But Jose Vazquez still has a ways to go.  Three down three to go I guess .  And yes the D.C. Public Library did restock the banned books just a few hours after we left. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 