 The actress Pamela Adlon does not show up in the tabloids. Paparazzi do not hound her. But she has worked in TV consistently for decades. She starred in the sexually explicit comedy Californication.    That is it. All you do is mope around the house all day in your underwear. You are on notice.  She helped create the semibiographical show Louie with the comedian Louis C.K.    This is the best thing I have ever tasted. I am going to eat this and then go home and kill myself.  And she won an Emmy for her voiceover work playing 12-year-old Bobby Hill on the animated show King Of The Hill.    When God was passing out wit you thought he said zit and you asked for seconds. Now out the window.  At home Pamela Adlon raises three daughters as a single mom. And that is also true of the character she plays in her latest TV show Better Things. In fact most of the details of her character parallel her real life. Adlon plays an actress and voiceover artist whose mother lives across the street. And when Adlon leaves the set at the end of the day she checks in on her real-life mother who lives across the street. In this scene of Better Things the youngest daughter accuses Adlon's character Sam of being mean to grandma.    Honey you are going to be mean to me too. Your sisters already are. In fact I need you to be mean to me when I am old so I do not feel so bad about how mean I am to your grandmother now.  The first season of Better Things won a Peabody and Pamela Adlon was just nominated for a best actress Emmy. When I met her here in Los Angeles she was doing final touchups on Season 2 of the show. Her post-production office is in a brutalist concrete building that looks like it was suddenly abandoned 20 years ago. On the floor where she works half-dismantled cubicles slump in a corner with piles of floppy disks scattered on the worn carpet.  I have done photo shoots in here. And like I take people over and like I threw the discs at the photographer.  I think most people would imagine that at your point in your career a place like this would be beneath you.   No Seth Rogen's right down the hall.  And this is where Pamela Adlon is doing the most personal work of her life.  I literally feel like I am going like this with my underwear.  You are opening yourself up here.  I am holding up my skirt. I am like this is my entire parts.  And you are showing it to the world.  Yes.  That is scary.  It does not feel scary anymore. It is like when I turned 50 I was like oh God this is such a drag. Like everybody on Twitter was like welcome to the five-o and whatever.  And did they also say and now your career will be over 'ecause that is the way Hollywood works?  Well why am I not on the scrap heap? Why did everything start happening for me at 50?  Why? I do not know.  Is not that crazy? You have to work very very hard. I have been working since some 9 years old.  Those conflicted feelings about age - they are in the show.    I used to think the scary part about getting older was dying. And it turns out that the scary part of getting older is young people. It is like we are the Indians and they are the white settlers. And they keep coming and they take all our resources and all we are left with is diseased blankets.  Adlon led us into a room where she was making final decisions with her team on the premiere episode of the new season.  So anyway let us watch.  Yeah. It begins with opening credits written in a rough scrawl on the screen.    Mother you had me but I...  I wrote out all of my credits. They have an alphabet of my hand. And that is my favorite color green.  Green. We hear so many stories about shows that are created by committee with executives and network people tweaking and weighing in. And this really sounds like it was birthed from your mind body heart and soul...  Yeah.  ...And put onto television.  This show came out of my vagina.  .  I know you said it nicer. Ari said it nicer.  As the episode plays she points out art on the set that her real-life handyman painted. Characters drink out of vintage glasses that she collected over the years. Even the actress playing her mother was amazed at how much of Adlon's world finds its way onto this show.  When Celia came to my house for the first time she was like oh my God it is just like the house in the show. I am like duh.  Suddenly an assistant cracks open the door. Food is here. Adlon insists that everyone eat.  Here you kids go.  What have you got here? Smoke whitefish bagels.  Mm-hm.  It really does seem that even while being an actress a showrunner a producer you are a mom in every context.  Oh I am.  I almost hesitate to ask this question because I feel like nobody asked the creators of Breaking Bad about creating a very male show. And yet this is a very female show which somehow seems more unusual.  But I get upset because I do not feel like my show is just a female show. My show of course is a female-centric show and for women. But my show feels like human.  But it is unusual on TV.  Yeah. Listen I am the boss of everything on my show and I still feel that weird you know woman thing. I have my name four times on the call sheet and still sometimes...  Wait as what? Actor producer...  Writer.  Writer.  Director.  Director.  And still sometimes you have that weird thing. I am just thrilled that people think I am a woman at all or a lady so it is...   Since you played a 12-year-old boy on TV on King Of The Hill for many years.  Exactly.  After the meal we head back into the edit room so Adlon can finish touching up the first episode of the new season.    Sam's father was the ugliest man I ever saw in my life. Oh yes he was spectacular. That is why I noticed him.   Is that why you married him?   No I married him because he was funny.  That is what my mother says about my dad.  Really?  Yeah.  This is like directly from the...  It is out of her mouth.  The actress who is playing your mother is saying lines that your mother would actually have said.  Yes exactly. I am really a fraud because all I do is just document what my mother says.  Scene by scene Adlon gives notes to the post-production staff on the colors the sounds the music.  I wanted it to be more upbeat. This is too mellow. This is like the shift and she is going to lure them in.    Jason  come here my black son. I love you.   I love you Mom.  That is an homage to one of my daughter's best friends Jason who is like 6-foot-6. And he is my tall black son.  Does it delight your daughters to watch it and identify the Easter eggs? Or are they like stop mining our lives for your show?  Both of those things Ari. Thank you.  . Pamela Adlon congratulations on your show and your Emmy nomination. And thanks for giving us this preview of the next season.  Thank you so much. Thanks for coming.    Daughter...   Daughter daughter daughter daughter daughter daughter daughter daughter daughter. That is my grandmother's painting. . Whoo.  Better Things returns for its second season September 14 on FX.    After school come straight home. Leave those boys alone daughter leave those boys alone. Go to the store come back... 