 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. In California Harry Potter's magic is working again. The Half-Blood Prince that is the sixth Harry Potter movie opened this Wednesday with the best first-day ticket numbers of the series. It made more than 58 million on its first day.  Mr.   You are the chosen one Harry. Ms.   You have to realize who you are. Mr.   Without you would leave the fate of our world to chance.  Wow the boy wizard is an exception to the rule this summer. While the season started strong with movies like Up Star Trek and the latest Transformers this season is cooling down and it is only July. John Horn covers the movie industry for the Los Angeles Times. He is written about this trend. And I am just wondering we are in July how badly are the box-office numbers doing? Mr.  It is not that they are doing badly it is that they are not doing nearly as well as they were at the beginning of the year.  Paul Blart Taken would be two good examples. At a certain point according to some estimates the box office was running about 17 percent ahead of what it was a year ago and now it is about 11 percent. So it has cooled off dramatically.  I thought the conventional wisdom has been that during a recession people go to the movies. So why are not they? Mr.  Well they are they just are not going as much as they did at the beginning of the year. And I think what is really changed is they are not going just out of habit anymore. I think the audience is asking a lot more of movies than they have in recent years. So you look at a movie like Eddie Murphy's Imagine That or Will Ferrell's Land of the Lost I mean those are movies that maybe three or four or five years ago might have worked. Let us go see the new Eddie Murphy family comedy. And now you have what the business calls complete concept rejection where the movies do not even open. They do not even get any business on a Friday. So I think the audience is becoming a little bit more picky and they are much more interested in what their friends are recommending than what critics are recommending.  John talk about marketing movies these days and what is changed because it seems that marketing failed almost with Bruno because you could not walk two feet without seeing a Bruno ad and yet it is not doing as well as its backers had hoped. Mr.  The movie business is driven by two concepts. One is marketability how much an audience is aware of a known franchise you know it is the next John Grisham book it is the next Harry Potter movie it is Spiderman. Do you know what it is before you go in? And the second one is playability whether or not audiences come out of a theater recommending the movie to their friends or that they enjoy seeing it. And Bruno had a lot of marketability. I mean Borat was a successful film. I think people knew who Sacha Baron Cohen was. And yet when the movie opened on Friday it was very obvious from looking at the numbers that people came out of that movie if not in the middle of it and started texting or twittering their friends and telling them that it was not any good. So from Friday to Saturday Bruno fell off 40 percent which is just unheard of. So what that says is that people came out of that movie and told their friends not to go see it. So when movies are not recommended by their friends they fall faster than they have ever fallen.  So John that really puts a lot of pressure on movie studios right? Mr.  Well it puts pressure on them to make good movies which seems like a strange idea. But as you know as little as two years ago the studios even if they had a turkey they would know that they could maybe get two weeks of business before the stink really caught up to the film and now they have 12 hours. People will come out of a theater so quickly and share their opinions so fast. And that word will spread so virally so quickly everywhere that if a movie is bad the audience will know it Friday night and the movie will be dead by Saturday.  John Horn is a movie reporter for the Los Angeles Times. Thank you. Mr.  Thank you. 