 What men must learn is that there are some women in this world who are never satisfied. So begins the short story Nights. It is about a woman a wife a mother who wanders the apartment unable to sleep jealous of her husband's easy snoring. She listens to the night sounds of other apartments - the creaking beds the distant telephones letters whispering down mail slots on every floor. Who writes letters at this hour she wonders who is calling? Well it is a tiny moment the smallest window into domestic life. And like every story in the new collection by Hilma Wolitzer it is a tiny moment that illuminates the full complexity of motherhood and marriage. The collection is titled Today A Woman Went Mad In The Supermarket. And Hilma Wolitzer is here. Welcome.  Thank you.  May I began by asking does your character ever get to sleep? .  Yes eventually. But she reflects my own insomnia.  Oh really? So this is - you have laid awake listening to the night sounds from the apartments all around?  Yeah and sometimes work keeps me awake. Sometimes stories come to me at inconvenient times so that if I am too lazy to get out of bed I will just reach for anything that is on the night table and scribble on the margin of newspaper. But of course in the morning I cannot read it. It is illegible.  But a moment of brilliance there in the illegible smudge. And is that the key you have to get it down onto a piece of paper so you can go back to sleep?  Well more now that I am 91 than when I was a younger writer when ideas came to me and I could remember them for a long time. I could keep whole passages even pages in my head.  You mentioned being younger and I will note that particular story Nights it was first published in 1974. A lot of the stories in this collection were ones that you wrote in the '60s and '70s. What is it like to go back and reread them now?  Well it is very interesting because they are of their time because there are no computers there are no cellphones. And to my horror the women do not seem to have any work beside their domestic lives. But I also see things that are still relevant. There is a kind of restlessness that I think women have within their domestic lives even when they enjoy them as much as I did mine. And I got extra mileage out of my domestic life because I was able to write about it. But I think - I am hoping that they are still relevant. And younger readers have told me they do relate to them. So that makes me very happy.  Yeah. I suppose you do not need a cell phone or the internet or Twitter to feel frustrated or feel desire or feel all the other things that one feels in a marriage.  But you also feel some happy things. I mean I was content for a very long time to just be creative in my domestic life. I would make birthday cakes from scratch and I would decorate them until they collapsed. I would make my kids homemade Halloween costumes that won them the first prize at the Halloween party. And I think that finally when I began writing in my mid-30s everybody was relieved of my household that I was putting that creative energy somewhere else.  Well let us talk about the stories. Many of them are about a couple named Howard and Paulette. We meet them when they are very young. And then we see these glimpses of them childbirth further out house hunting. What made you keep coming back and writing these two Howard and Paulette?  I just kept thinking about them and when I was not writing about them I was wondering what happened to them. And then I did not write about them for a number of years. And when I wrote the final story The Great Escape last year the only new story in the book I suddenly realized that I had to write about our own experience with COVID. I was hospitalized and my husband was as well in separate hospitals of all things. And he died of COVID two days before I was released from the hospital. And when I came home I realized that I needed to write about it but I did not think of having a collection of stories. My daughter Meg Wolitzer came up with the idea. I was still feeling too ill and in grief to really be interested in it but she even petitioned my agent about it. And finally I just realized that I needed to have something to do besides grieve and also something to look forward to. And when I began to write that story it was cathartic. It was sad. It was very hard for me to write. It was painful. But I also fictionalized it. Not all the details are the same. And I also assigned the experience to these characters.  Let me say first off I am so sorry for the loss of your husband last year.  Thank you.  You dedicate the book to him to Morty which is lovely.  Yes. Yes.  It sounds like you are saying this is fiction I needed to write it. But as fiction often is it is also true. And I do not mean that literally every detail. But I mean it felt true to you to write it this way.  Exactly. It is a combination of general truths and personal truths. It is telling the truth but telling its slant. And I remember that Grace Pelly  used to tell her students do not make your stories better make them truer.  In the story - in the early pages when they are both still alive - they are lying in bed Howard and Paulette. And Paulette is - she is trying to figure out code words how she is going to communicate with Howard if one of them dies first how he will know it is her. Does she figure it out?  I do not think so. I mean she tries all those code words after his death and they do not work. And I think she is figured out that there is no connection except through memory and photographs and conversation with the rest of the family. And I have discovered this as a newly widowed person too.  You end the story - it is written in first person as all the stories narrated by Paulette are - in the last pages you say I often speak to him. I was hesitant and self-conscious at first trying out a few possible code words. But over time I have become my usual garrulous self again.  That is me. That is Paulette. And that is me. Yes. I have to say I sometimes inadvertently turn in the bed when I am watching a Mets game which my husband and I used to watch all the time. And if there is a homerun or a missed ball if there is an error I turn to him. I turn to where he would be and say did you see that - before I can catch myself.  That is wrenching and it is beautiful.  Thank you.  Is there another story? Does Paulette continue on her own?  I have not done that but I suddenly thought of that today while I was taking a shower. Why not write about Paulette again? Why not see what happens to her in this new part of her life as I am living a parallel life to the one she would have? And I am interested in writing about it now.  Well Hilma Wolitzer thank you.  Thank you.  Her new collection of stories is titled Today A Woman Went Mad In The Supermarket. 