 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris. Oscar-winning actress Helen Mirren does not want to be defined by any one of her roles.  The problem with being very successful in any role is that suddenly you know you become identified with that role. For a long time I was the tough police detective you know as in Jane Tennison of Prime Suspect. And then I became the queen. And then everyone talks oh you are so regal and you play these regal roles you know? And I go well yeah I played the queen but you know I have played lots of other things too.  She is talking about Queen Elizabeth the first and second and Queen Charlotte wife of the mad King George III. But she' Morgana in Excalibur the lusty wife of a crime boss in The Cook the Thief His Wife Her Lover and now Grace Bontempo the no-nonsense madam in a new movie Love Ranch.    I am fining you 500.   Five hundred?   Mm-hmm.   What the  about her? I am going to go tell Charlie.   Go ahead. You go tell Charlie. But I am the boss around here and do not you forget it okay? I make the rules. You want to stay here you obey them or you get out. You understand?   She ripped my dress.   Oh boo-hoo. You know what? Next time I am in Kmart I will buy you a new one.    Come on. Go to your room.  Set in Nevada in the polyester-clad 1970s Love Ranch is directed by Mirren's husband Taylor Hackford and it is inspired by the real-life story of Joe and Sally Conforte owners of Nevada's largest bordello. The movie focuses on the unlikely romance between the been-there-done- that madam and a beefy Argentine boxer who is decades younger. Hackford whose film credits include An Officer and a Gentleman Dolores Claiborne and Ray says his wife is the greatest actress in the world and he would been looking for a joint project worthy of her talents.  A friend of mine Mark Jacobson who works for New York Magazine and another friend Lou DiBella had been developing the story. I knew about the story from the mid-'70s. It was the story of the Mustang Ranch the first legal brothel in the United States.  the husband and wife who founded the Mustang Ranch Joe and Sally Conforte and a South American boxer Oscar Bonavena who came to train there.  Wow this could be a great role for Helen.  So I am interested Helen in your response. In this case Sally Conforte becomes Grace Bontempo and she is someone who is tough when she needs to be - she will pick up a can and hit somebody over the head - and she is someone who is a bit hardened. But she falls slowly in love with this South American boxer. Did this immediately seem appealing to you or did you have a more complicated response?  No no immediately. I mean absolutely immediately. I loved the idea of the milieu  a bordello in Nevada in the '70s. You know all of those things to me especially as a British person I think is incredibly - kind of exotic and extreme and fascinating.  Did you stay in character? I am wondering - she is so salty. I wonder...   ...if all of a sudden if you found yourself as arch as she was?  I did not did I?  No I think you know Helen is an amazing professional. The one thing that was interesting is that in this instance Grace Bontempo is not Helen Mirren. She is very unhappy. She is been through a lot. Her world is tried and true in the sense that she is done it for so long that I think she is at this point you know past the point of having any you know dreams. And also when she has to go in there and wade into a situation - and it is fascinating these are the things that I researched. You know if something goes wrong in one of those rooms there is a panic button. And the girls press it and you would think oh if there is something wrong they are going to send the bouncer down there. Never - a madam goes. Because a man confronted by another man is going to get into a fight. It is the madam who tries to talk - and 95 percent of the time she is able to talk him down and take him down the hall like a puppy dog and buy him a drink and send him on his way. The point is that Grace Bontempo has been through all of this. And when she needs to apply discipline or deal with a situation she is plenty tough. That is not my wife. My wife is strong. She is got strong character. But I would not call her you know hardened tough madam as Grace is so I had to encourage her.    That doctor said you could have died fighting in that ring. Why did you do that?   Grace I am a fighter so I fight.   Do not give me that macho . He said you could die at any time.   I wanted to see you. I wanted to see you.  Helen a lot of times when people fall in love on film it is explosive. There are fireworks and violins in the background and it seems to happen all at once. In this case it was very slow in the evolving. She is resisting it. There are small things that happened but she is fighting it every step along the way.  Yes. Yes that is true. And I think it is only when she realizes you know that time is running out for both of them that maybe they only have a week more you know maybe only a few days. She just says let us take that time. Anyone can find love anywhere at any time between the most unexpected of people. You know sure hot guy meets hot girl you know they fall in lust and then they fall in love. Great. But that is not the only way that love happens. Love happens in many many many different random strange wonderful peculiar ways. And I have completely forgotten what I was going to say.   I do think the other part of it is you know people can look at something like this and go oh come on give me a break.  Oh yeah that was what I was going to say.  Could this ever happen? It actually happened.  Yeah that is exactly what I was going to say Taylor thank you.   Yeah. The fact is that you know truth is oftentimes - in fact most of the time - much more a fantasmic oracle much more interesting than fiction. And if you had taken this story which is rather operatic and written it as fiction  Give me a break. That could have never happened especially in that situation especially among these three people. But in fact it did. And it erupted into kind of fantastic passion and you know a crime of passion.  Any plans to work together again sometime soon perhaps on stage?  I would love to work with my wife again. I mean when you have a chance to work with Helen Mirren you are given a huge gift. And the great thing is that we made it. You know who knows what could have happened? After 25 years you know it was great when we first met but this time it could have blown up on our face.   And it did not and at this point I relish the opportunity. But what I do understand is that I will not seduce her unless I have got a great role.  It is been great to talk to both of you. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Thanks.  That is the actress Helen Mirren and the director Taylor Hackford. The husband-and-wife team collaborated on the new film Love Ranch. Ms. ARETHA FRANKLIN   Hold on.   Perfect perfect.  I love it. We are a husband-and-wife team now.  That is right. Good.   I should say the wife-and-husband team.   No no husband and wife is fine by me. No no I am not saying that. I just like the fact of us being a team. It is great.   Hold on. Do not you ever be sad. Lean on me when times get bad. When the day comes and you are down in a river of trouble and about to drown. Just hold on.  It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 