 Many of us grew up watching soap operas on television. Perhaps it was As the World Turns during the day or Dallas at night. Even though the unlikely plot twists and deadly secrets that drive the genre are falling out of favor on TV many of the shows are moving to the Internet. One Web-based soap is set in Washington D.C. in a neighborhood once written off by some people because of its reputation for poverty and crime. NPR's Allison Keyes visits the set of Anacostia the Web series.  There is the villainous madam whose daughter is kidnapped.   Do not you dare hurt my child. If you do I swear to god I will hunt you down .  There is the model with the drug problem.   Why do not you go run and tell the others how you just caught me in the church doing coke?  And then there is the battered wife.   Do you know sometimes I hate you.  What just sometimes? I guess I am not trying hard enough.  Got to love a soap opera. The show is creator lead actor and writer Anthony Anderson is a longtime fan of scripted serialized drama.  I just found the stories to be so intriguing and so captivating that I just wanted to do something of my own with African-Americans.  Not only did Anderson choose an ethnicity that rarely gets lead story lines in a soap he also chose Anacostia as its setting. The predominantly black neighborhood is viewed with trepidation by a bunch of white Washington who think of it as that scary place across the river that is a hotbed of crime and poverty. But Anderson says the rapidly gentrifying area has all the elements of the soap.  It has its drama. It has its mystery. It has its upstanding citizens and it has its not so upstanding citizens.  The characters are real you know. They are your mom. They are your sister. They are your neighbors.  Tamieka Chavis plays Mia Stevenson who happens to be a battered woman among many other things. She thinks the show has done a great job of highlighting Anacostia's rich culture and shows off its burgeoning upscale hangouts. Chavis says the characters connect with the people that live here.  They are not strangers and I really like that sense - I know this area has grown so much blossomed so much. It is a great thing.  Camera sound take one and action.  Anthony Anderson was shooting a scene about a character's pregnancy test on a D.C. Department of Health mobile van. Karen Watts the D.C.'s DOH says the partnership with the Web series is a first for the city. It is an attempt at engaging the public in a new way and trying to lessen the chance of unhealthy babies being born in communities at risk.  What we are hoping is that individuals are like oh yeah I remember that you know. I know a friend who needs to go in and get checked.  Of course this is a soap opera so you know that pregnancy test was one of the salacious story lines that make this genre appealing.   Julian I do not understand. Where were you?  I am sorry. Look I promise - it is a long story and I will explain all that.  Anderson's character's lover vanished then returned.  He was thought to be dead but he was actually pretending to be dead to protect his lover from the people that tried to kill him.  And now both may be dead after a church is blown up by a man who is against same-sex marriage. In all seriousness though both Anderson and Tamieka Chavis say the audience is captivated by the real life issues fans to the series end up considering. Take Tamieka's battered wife character Mia. Chavis says people came up to her on the street and said they appreciated the story line.  Seeing that they are not by themselves that it is an issue that other women go through even other men. Men get battered too.  Cut. That looked like money on my end.  In addition to getting love from the city the show is getting kudos in the industry as well. In 2010 Anacostia the Web series won for Best Ensemble in the first annual Indie Soap Awards. Last year Anthony Anderson won for best writer drama. The web series genre is gaining mainstream popularity. The Netflix series House of Cards which streams online just picked up nine Emmy nominations.  Little by little people are recognizing the web as a formidable place to get your entertainment.  Anderson says shows like Anacostia led that charge and now it is attracting mainstream soap stars like Martha Byrne formerly of As The World Turns. Anderson says he is looking forward to taking on more issues he thinks African-Americans should be discussing in their communities. Season Four begins airing this fall. Allison Keyes NPR News Washington. 