 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. It is been a tough year for the publishing industry. According to the Association of American Publishers sales were down nearly 18 percent in the first half of the year. But this fall heavyweight writers like Dan Brown Margaret Atwood and John Irving are fighting back with new novels and that is good news for folks like Cathy Langer. Cathy how good is it for you? Ms.  Oh it is wonderful. We are so excited about this fall. The publishers and the authors are pulling out all the stops.  Cathy is the lead buyer for the famed Tattered Cover book stores in Denver Colorado and she is in the studio at member station KCFR. Welcome to the show. Ms.  Oh thanks for having me. This is great.  So what do you think your customers are going to be reading this fall? Ms.  Well certainly they will be reading the big books that we are all looking forward to the new Dan Brown which is his novel that is the first one out for many years since Da Vinci Code. That will bring customers into the store. Once they are here they will have just an amazing selection to choose from and we are really looking forward to piling the books up in their arms.  So that is the book that is going to draw them into the store. Ms.  That is the book that is going to draw them into the store and that is one that no one knows really what it is about but you know it does not matter because it is Dan Brown and he is so popular.  I mean this is going to be the biggest thing since Harry Potter right? Ms.  Yeah for adults I think it is. I think you are exactly right and that is wonderful.  So people come in for Dan Brown. But of course you want to sort of steer them in other directions as well. What kind of books should people you know anticipate? Ms.  Well we are going to steer them towards some of the really wonderful fiction that is coming out. Lorrie Moore who has not published a novel in 11 years has one coming out called A Gate at the Stairs. She is a really wonderful funny literary novelist. And Audrey Niffenegger who you will recall wrote The Time Traveler's Wife has a new one coming out called Her Fearful Symmetry that is a ghost story that takes place at Highgate Cemetery in London and it is really wonderful. It is very different and very compelling.  Cathy let me ask you about the current economic situation. Are you concerned that people will rush out to buy books this fall? Ms.  You know it is been slow. The last year has been really tough but I have seen a trend starting about a month ago with some of the new novels that have come out and also some of the non-fiction that I think people are ready to actually buy books again. And that is why we are so excited because boy are there books to buy.  I mean Dan Brown is like a one-man stimulus package. Ms.  Well he is he is. And I think the publishers sort of rallied around that and decided let us just get it all out. If people are going to be in the stores let us have everything there for them.  Bottom line now if you were going to pick one book you know just one to buy this fall which would it be? Tough huh? Put you on the spot there. Ms.  That is such a hard question. But I am going to pick one that may surprise some people maybe not. It is called  Five Stories of Music and Nightfall. It is five short stories by the writer Kazuo Ishiguro who you will probably know for his novel Remains of the Day. He is such a beautiful writer. And he just has poetry and lyricism in his language and stories. And I really believe this one will rise up and be wonderful.  That is Cathy Langer. She is a lead buyer for the Tattered Cover bookstores in Denver Colorado. Cathy Langer thanks so much. Ms.  Oh it is been wonderful. Thanks so much for having me. 