 Our next guest is someone whose name you may not know but whose face seems to pop up all over the screen. She is had small roles in House Of Cards Better Call Saul and bigger ones in HBO's The Night Of and Big Little Lies in which he plays attorney Katie Richmond.    I can protect you some. You just cannot look  like you need protection. Do you understand what I am telling you?   Yeah of course. I am on my own. That is what you are saying.   You are not on your own but we need to be careful.  How do you say your name? What is your full and proper pronunciation?  It is Poorna Jagannathan.  Jagannathan - what are the worst ways you have heard it pronounced?  I was called porn from a very young age. I did not even know what a porn was at that point. But you know that is kind of been my nickname for years and years and years and my Instagram handle is poornagraphy so...  Oh so you have embraced it.  I have just taken it on.  .  There is no two ways about it.  All right. So this is kind of crazy to me because in your role on Little Lies your name is Katie Richmond.  Yeah  yeah.  I am not going to say you do not look like a Katie Richmond but I will say for you what was it like being cast in that role like going for a role like that?  Oh yeah yeah yeah. I often joke that one of my first gigs I was called Dr. Sikh which does not even - that is a religious...  Wait. Are you making that up?  Nope. Nope.  What - can I ask what program this was on?  If you IMDb it you can see it.   This smells like a Law  Order episode to me for some reason.   Yeah. So I have definitely come a long way.  That way involved getting fed up with the limited roles in the U.S. and going to India starring in some big movies there and letting Hollywood become more open-minded about casting South Asian women in complex nuanced roles which means Poorna Jagannathan has more options now. So I asked her how she chooses between them.  I am very very drawn to great writing first and foremost and then whether the story moves me even though I might have a very small part in the story whether it fundamentally moves me whether I think it will move the needle when it is put out in the world.  How have the roles changed that are offered to you over the last 10 years? I think I am trying to get a better understanding of how there is an evolution from Dr. Sikh to Katie Richmond. When did you start to feel a shift?  My biggest shift probably happened after The Night Of.  And that is where you played the mother of this...  Yes Riz Ahmed.  Of Riz Ahmed who people have seen in Venom and is kind of a superstar now.  Oh yeah yeah. He is amazing.  But in that you are the mother of a character who is accused of a murder.  Yeah.    An animal did that.   Yeah you are right.   Did I raise an animal?  And it could be something that involves a lot of just hand-wringing and looking around.  Yes indeed . I think you know I have noticed a shift twice when Freida Pinto was in Slumdog Millionaire and won the Oscar and a lot more - there were kind of more brown women integrated and woven into scripts and then personally I noticed a big shift after The Night Of. And the truth is you know that a lot of people have been fighting really hard in front and behind the cameras to have diversity represented.  You talked about The Night Of and I also want to talk about your role of Salma in Hulu's Ramy.  Oh I love that role.  Yeah. This is really fun and this character - the show for people who have not seen it is a comedy where somebody is - basically Ramy is living kind of between worlds the worlds of a conservative world of his religion and his Egyptian family and being a air quotes good Muslim and then also just being a kind of dorky millennial .  Yeah yeah love it yeah.  And we have a scene here where after we first met your character of Salma at a mosque during Ramadan the main character of Ramy helps you home. And once you are there you kind of - you get very candid with him taking off your hijab and more. Here we go.    I have not had a meal with another adult in a while.   What about your husband?   My husband - he is more like my roommate at this point basically. That is what he is. He rolls in whenever he wants expects me to hand over half my paycheck expects me to raise Ali singlehandedly. Sometimes I really wish he was like an old-school misogynist you know like our dads - just expect a hot meal at the end of the day clean house good kid. Nowadays guys expect you to work on top of everything else.   Yeah. I think that is what we need like just some more old-school misogyny. That would be awesome. Nowadays I feel like we do not have enough.  This woman is not seen very often on television or in American pop culture. How did you guys talk about this role what she would say and how you wanted to portray it?  So I would met Ramy a couple years ago. He was emceeing an event and most emcees are just awful and terrible and he was so crazy funny. And we just met and we started talking. He was a kid. He was I think 23 when I met him. He was a kid. And we were talking. We were laughing and he was like oh my God you are so funny. I should write something for you. And I said I am not going to play a mama. I am not going to play a depressed auntie. I am not going to be - you know I just want to be like funny and having sex. Like that is what I want. And he - you know he laughed and then you know a while later he called and said I think I have written a part for you.  That would be the best personal ad by the way. I am not going to be your mother. I am not going to be your depressed auntie .  It is my Tinder profile.  That is perfect .  You know and it just goes to - I think what happens is as actresses people are always looking to put you in different boxes right? You can move from a small box to a bigger box but it is still a box kind of the golden cage that is the model minority stereotype which is yes we get to play like these really smart people but then you know when you play the doctors and the lawyers and the engineers and the head of the robotics team you really start depriving yourself. And you know our community is full of - you know there is stories of addiction stories of depression there is stories of sexual violence there is stories of not belonging of immigration. I mean when you get boxed into that neatly tied up model minority box it is just always kind of calling for me to break out of it. So I mean that is what I was conveying. You know brown women are so seldom portrayed with any sense of sexuality. I can really see that for South Asian women especially Muslim women. So what does that look like on screen? I am like that is what interests me. That is what fascinates me. And I think Ramy explored that so beautifully.  It is so interesting to hear because I do hear people talking about the idea of a model minority and kind of how that can be limiting. But I guess it did not occur to me that it - obviously as a black person you do not get the model minority stereotype.  Yeah yeah.  That at a certain point you can feel so disconnected from that it might as well be a person playing an astronaut.  Yes.  Right ?  That is next on my list.  Like the head of the robotics team has nothing to do with your actual life.  Yeah. I mean it is like our lives are so messy and only a certain type of people get to portray that mess and it is not us. You know I want to portray the mess of my life. I am really drawn to it.  Well Poorna Jagannathan thank you so much for speaking with us. We cannot wait to see what you do next.  Thank you so much really appreciate your time.   You can see Poorna Jagannathan in the HBO movie Share right now or in an upcoming Mindy Kaling project which is still in production.  