 The Toronto Film Festival is under way. It is one of the grand slam events on the film festival circuit. And unlike Cannes or Sundance it takes place in an actual city where real people live people who go to ski or sunbathe somewhere else. So for film reporters like Michael Cieply of the New York Times this must be a whole lot more fun than those resort towns or even that museum of a city Venice with its film festival. I assume you have a good time. Mr.  Well we are having a good time. This is all work. The Toronto Film Festival is like the industrial film festival. You know it is enormous. It sprawls over the entire city and it goes from morning to night and you would better be filing about every minute of that time.  Now for the film business how big a deal is the Toronto Film Festival? Mr.  Well it is a very very big deal and more so than it used to be. I would say that over about the last eight years Toronto has grown from being what used to be just a lovely and then an important regional film festival into being the staging area for the Oscars and that is the bottom line.  From what you have written from Toronto I gather some of the movies people are most interested in this year are directed by women. Mr.  Well there is no question about it and you know one of the most prominent of those pictures Jane Campion's Bright Star about the poet John Keats and the love of his life Fanny Brawne is something that has yet to get its gala screening here. But you know that is one of the big questions is whether that picture will walk out of this festival and into an awards race to go on for the next four five six months and become something that we are all talking about over the weeks.  Mr.   I had such a dream last night. I was floating above the trees with my lips connected to those of a beautiful figure. Ms.   Those lips were they my lips?  That is a clip from Bright Star. And Jane Campion one of a few women directors who have films at the festival. Mr.  Well yeah a whole series of them actually. There is a Danish director Lone Scherfig who has a picture here called An Education. It is got a lot of attention. Jennifer's Body that is just about to open directed by Karyn Kusama. That is something that played at the midnight screening last night. And then one that everyone's going to have to pay a lot of attention to is Whip It. It is a roller derby picture directed by Drew Barrymore the first she is ever directed. And it points to something about this festival which is that unlike a lot of the others it is not afraid to have fun.  Unidentified Woman 1   Let us get 'em kill 'em dead. Unidentified Woman 2   Skate fast skate hard. Unidentified Woman 3   I am gonna puke. Mr.  Starting on Sunday there are going to be roller derby girls skating all over Toronto. And you better watch out because I ran into some of that team at Comic-Con a while ago and they will mow you right down.  Then there seems to be a whole category among the hundreds of films of Toronto this year of George Clooney movies. Mr.  Well there sure are. There are two of them today. George Clooney had just showed up and they had begun screening The Men Who Stare at Goats which is I guess best described as a dark dark dark comedy about psychics in the intelligence world and then another film Up in the Air directed by Jason Reitman who did Juno and Thank you for Smoking. In that one George Clooney plays a corporate consultant who is constructed a perfect life around the business of firing people.  Michael Cieply thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you.  That is reporter Michael Cieply of the New York Times speaking to us from Toronto where he is covering the Toronto Film Festival. 