 What is the half-life of a movie called Radioactive? That is how long can it sit on a shelf before it loses its kick? Well the makers of a Madame Curie biopic with that title hoped it would be on movie screens back in April. Three months later they have decided to stream it on Amazon which we should note is an NPR sponsor. This leaves us with just one question - will critic Bob Mondello give Radioactive a glowing review?  To call Marie headstrong would be to understate. She is arrogant chilly even with her sister.    Your child is crying.   Yes I am aware of that.   So should not you assume some sort of motherly disposition?  And she is managed to annoy the entire science department at the Sorbonne who in 1893 were the only folks willing to put up with her.    All I need is your assurance.   And it is for this reason I must ask you please to leave my laboratory.   Leave?   We cannot keep you in the manner you require.   But I have nowhere else to go.   Then you will have to set up a laboratory of your own Mademoiselle Sklodowska.   I lack the funds.   Then your lack of foresight in presenting me constantly with demands is something that will teach all of us a valuable lesson.  Patronizing much? The search for a new lab leads Marie to a second encounter with a scientist she dismissed on first meeting and seems determined to dismiss again.    You look as awkward as I feel. And I made the I think correct assumption that we will look less awkward standing together than we might standing apart.   Well that is a theory I can support. I am Pierre Curie.   You do like your name do not you? That is the second time you have told me it.  Still Pierre has a lab and can stand up to her.    ...My experiments will be optimized better. I will not...   Well I enjoy sharing science. And I think that by working together...   I will not tolerate it.   Well you will have to learn to tolerate it. I like collaboration.  And soon to her surprise she sort of does too enough to take his name bear his children and pulverize four tons of uranium ore to isolate two previously undiscovered elements one of which glows.    That is radium.   Radium?   A pinprick or radium gathered from four tons of pitchblende. Is not it the most beautiful thing you have ever seen?  At first Radioactive is a pretty straightforward biopic of Marie Curie who for several decades was not just the only woman but the only person to win the Nobel Prize twice. Rosamund Pike makes Marie as vibrant as she is determined while Sam Riley makes Pierre as bemused as he is tolerant. And for a while they are riding high say watching radium become a weird consumer fad.    Radioactive matches for your radioactive cigarettes radioactive chocolate radioactive toothpaste. There is a letter in here about radioactive beauty powder.  Yeah none of those is a great idea. Director Marjane Satrapi who made Persepolis an Oscar-nominated animated film based on her own graphic novel spends a little while establishing her costume drama bona fides. Then she starts shaking the form up leaping from scenes Marie actually got to see - her X-ray machines keeping World War I doctors from amputating sprained ankles for instance - to things Marie probably never even imagined - Chernobyl cancer therapies Hiroshima.    This is Colonel Tibbetts on the Enola Gay. Little Boy is now live. Permission to drop. Over.  The director who lives in France but was born in Iran also makes a point of the fact that the French soured on Marie who was born in Poland and started chanting go home you filthy immigrant at their Nobel-winning scientist...   .  ...Which is an interesting comment on today's attitudes but also sort of a lot for one film. Radioactive is perhaps more ambitious than seamless but its portrait of a pioneering scientist is at once romantic and fiercely feminist. And whatever the film's other flaws that is a nice combination. I am Bob Mondello.  