 Now It is unlikely that watching one of those shows would prompt you to give up electricity and maybe exchange your car for a horse and buggy. But a new study shows another form of reality show can actually affect your behavior after you watch it.   You just brought home Alex. Did you hook up with him tonight probably. Do I care no.  This is why nobody likes you because you keep talking .  Well guess what? All that yelling can make you more aggressive. Bryan Gibson studies psychology at Central Michigan University. Bryan welcome to the program.  Thank you.  What did you set out to test in this study?  Well we knew from past research that people who see relational aggression in media tend to become more angry. And of course relational aggression gossiping and nastiness is prevalent on these shows. So we wanted to find out if it really would affect how aggressive people were after they watched.   You are dancing with another girl. No no no no no.  How did you choose which shows you were going to use in the study?  Well it was not very scientific to be honest with you. We just knew of Jersey Shore and of course it was one of the most popular reality shows. Real Housewives is another popular franchise that has similar kinds of behaviors.   Move away you already had your drama tonight. Move away.  Hey do not touch her.  And then for control episodes we picked shows that were surveillance reality shows but that had more positive messages things like Little People Big World.  All right so you asked people to watch an episode of either a reality show like Jersey Shore with lots of verbal aggression. And then I know you also had some watch like a violent drama like CSI with lots of murder. Then what?  Well then under the guise of a separate study they had a chance to play a reaction time game. They believed that they were trying to hit a keyboard key as fast as they could to beat another opponent who was in another room. And they got to blast those people with noise if they won that reaction time game. So we monitored how long they wanted to blast them and how loud they wanted to make a noise when they blasted their opponent. It turns out that those who had watched Jersey Shore or Real Housewives actually gave a louder longer blasts after watching those shows being the people who watched the more violent crime dramas.  Oh my goodness. Why do you think you saw this result?  Well watching these kinds of shows and seeing people engage in this nasty behavior people are more likely to think aggressive thoughts after seeing those things. And so then when they have an opportunity to apply those they do.  Bryan what use is a finding like this then? You know should parents be taking notes? Spouses?  I think that is exactly the message. Obviously we are not advocating for some kind of censorship or pulling these things off the air but I think parents in particular should pay attention to the kind of media that their children are consuming and this is one form of media that may appear harmless but I think our research provides a little bit of evidence that there can be some negative outcomes as well.  Bryan Gibson studies Psychology at Central Michigan University. His most recent study found that reality TV shows like Jersey Shore and Real Housewives make the people who watch them much more aggressive. I am glad I did not watch those so I can very politely say thank you Bryan .  Thank you Tess. 