 Maxwell Perkins is possibly the most famous editor in American history. His stable of writers included Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. But those literary giants only play bit parts in the new movie Genius. NPR critic Bob Mondello says the titular genius was Perkins' biggest professional challenge - novelist Thomas Wolfe.  The Roaring '20s are in full roar when we meet editor Max Perkins but to look at him you would never guess. His nose is perpetually buried in a manuscript - on the street on a train in his office awaiting a new writer. As played by Colin Firth Perkins is not a demonstrative man - unreadable you might say - as opposed to Jude Law as unpublished novelist Thomas Wolfe who at the age of 28 is demonstrative to a fault.    Please sit down.   I was not even going to come. I prefer to get my rejections in the mail. There is something surgically antiseptic about those familiar words we regret to inform you. You cannot kill the deep roots by cutting off a few top branches. And the roots go deep Mr. Perkins and they are unassailable.   Mr. Wolfe we intend to publish your book.  .  Surprise but if the guy talks like that just imagine how he writes. The manuscript he has submitted which will end up as Look Homeward Angel is nearly a hundred thousand words too long. And Wolfe not being what you might call disciplined is not inclined to part with many of them.    Every word matters.   No it does not.   They are vital vital.   You are losing the plot.  Filmmakers have a notoriously difficult time capturing a writer's creative process because there is nothing cinematic about an author hunched over a typewriter. An editor's process - oy. But Genius takes a serious stab at making it kinetic. Perkins at one point reads a passage written by Wolfe his voice caressing every word. It is about love at first sight and Firth makes it sound like Shakespeare - a torrent of words cascading gorgeous just gorgeous. And then he takes out his red pencil.    He is falling in love. What was it like the first time you fell in love Tom? Was it cornstalk yellow and pompous chesterfield?   It was a lightning bolt.   And that is what it should be - a lightning bolt. Save all the thunder.  You can see the light dawn for Wolfe.    I have got you. Cut that. Cut that. All right we cut the text out. He saw a woman. Cut...  He is giving it a real go.    But it was her eyes that stopped his breath in his throat that made his heart leap up.   Now cut the words Wolfe.   It stopped his breath. Blue they were...   Now cut the marine line.   ...A blue beyond blue like the ocean.   Cliche.   A blue beyond blue like...   Like nothing but blue.   ...A blue he could swim into forever and never - cut this.   And pick up with...   Had there ever been such blue? Had there ever been such eyes?   Do not need the rhetorical.   Why?   It is not a lightning bolt. It is a digression.   A blue beyond blue - no. Her eyes were blue.   Better.  Director Michael Grandage hails from the stage. So does screenwriter John Logan. So where films about writers are often filled with raised eyebrows rather than raised voices these guys actively encourage grand gestures. Like the characters they are intoxicated not just by jazz or bootleg liquor but by words. By the time they are finished with that particular passage editing in offices and speakeasies and train terminals they have eliminated hundreds of words. But the remaining 25 are worth shouting above the din of a train pulling out of the station.    Eugene saw a woman. Her eyes were blue. So quickly did he fall for her that no one in the room even heard the sound - period - end of chapter four.   Only 98 more to go!  Is it too much - well sure. Overdone and showy Genius is more Tom Wolfe than Max Perkins you might say. The film has not fared well with critics possibly because critics are used to being edited and thus are not inclined to think of editors as heroic. Obviously they have not met my editor - wonder if she will cut this part - guess we will see. I am Bob Mondello. 