 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in Culver City California. Culver City was once known as the heart of screenland. Lots of classic films were shot here such as Singing in the Rain and Gone with the Wind.   That opening credit sequence features a house that is supposedly Tara. It is an antebellum-looking mansion. It is actually the Culver Studios. And I am standing right in front of it with NPR's Mandalit del Barco. Hi Mandalit.  Hi Madeleine.  So that was a long time ago. And over the years a lot of things have been filmed here. And now I have read that fewer and fewer things are being shot here.  That is right Madeleine. These days there is a problem in Hollywood known as runaway productions. TV and film productions are being lured away to other states with tax incentives. You know I spoke to the head of Culver Studios Jamie Cella and he gave me a little tour of this place. There are pictures of Betty Davis. Mr.  And Humphrey Bogart and  Cary Grant. Mr.  John Barrymore and  Marlene Dietrich.   For years these stars and more worked at the studios built by the legendary producer Thomas Ince. Here on the back lot and in the soundstages classics were made like the original King Kong Hitchcock's Spellbound and the unforgettable Citizen Kane.  Mr.   Rosebud.  And classic television was shot here as well.   The Andy Griffith Show was a staple so was Batman.   But the Culver Studios trademark mansion will soon be up for rent and they recently lost one of their biggest clients.   The producers of NBC's popular game show Deal or No Deal found a better deal in Waterford Connecticut where the state offers production companies 30 percent tax credit. Mr.  It burns. I do not like it. It was a huge blow.  Jamie Cella says losing Deal or No Deal was a big deal. Mr.  They moved to Connecticut for a tax rebate that I could give every away for free and I still could not make up for the tax break.  Ironically as a consultant for a studio in Brooklyn Cella successfully lobbied for a 5 percent tax credit to lure productions to New York. Mr.  Boy did I create a problem for myself now.   Cella says as a result of tax incentives in 40 other states California has lost as much as 70 percent of its on-location production. Mr.  The below-the-line workers the crews on the actual movie they do not work if the show leaves L.A.   the caterers storeowners drycleaners restaurants even Hollywood's biggest prop house which just went out of business with a huge auction.  Lot 169 selling a side table from Lemony Snickets. Here we got. Hundred dollars and go. One going to go two. One going to go two. One going to go two. Two going to go three.  At 20th Century Props auctioneers bid on owner Harvey Schwartz's prized possessions including a replica of Howard Hughes's chair Austin Powers' escape pod and a huge T-Rex skeleton. Mr.  Well I am really torn up. It is very painful to watch all of these products go up for auction. It is a tragedy.  Schwartz says the runaway production situation prompted him to liquidate his entire collection of 91000 props. Mr.  Everybody is going to other states. Even Detroit offers a 42 percent tax incentive. So of course people want to go to Detroit and shoot.  TV producer Eric Schotz who bid on some penguin statues says the incentives are luring companies to leave L.A. Mr.  Can you blame them? Production people are trying to you know squeeze every dollar out of production. The fact that you have to shoot in Ireland or Iowa to get it but there are tremendous tax benefits.  In July California finally began offering tax incentives to keep films and TV shooting in California. But the new law was a little too late for prop collector Harvey Schwartz. During the auction he took a sentimental last walk through his massive 200000-square-foot warehouse. Seems like the end of Citizen Kane.  Mr.  Rosebud.  Schwartz worries that Hollywood will never be the same. Mr.  Most of the really great talent that' the grips and the carpenters who know how to do everything they are all leaving. They are all moving to other places. They are losing places like me who have taken 40 years to gather up enough goods to supply a whole movie in one fell swoop. So it is a real tough tough tough tough game.  And actually Madeleine it is not the end of the game. We are back here at Culver Studios in front of the soundstage where they are currently taping for the upcoming ABC show Cougar Town.  Cougar Town starring 40-year-old-something Courtney Cox  On the prowl.  on the prowl. And yeah there are people here getting the set ready for filming. So all is not lost.  Just look at the light. Look at the weather. That is why people came to Hollywood.  NPR's Mandalit del Barco thank you.  Thanks Madeleine. 