 One of the most successful beach books of last year was about a witch who falls in love with a vampire. Go ahead and roll your eyes but the book called A Discovery of Witches charmed many skeptical critics and readers. Among them was NPR's Neda Ulaby. She talked with the book's author about combining serious academic research with supernatural romance in The Witches sequel that is coming out next week.  Deborah Harkness is not only an enormously successful novelist who writes about trendy things like vampires. She is also a respected historian of science a professor at the University of Southern California and a wine expert. Right now at her favorite wine store in L.A. she is pouring a voluptuous glass of California red.  And it is ciroc so it is really red and fruity.  There is a lot of wine appreciation in Harkness' breakthrough novel A Discovery of Witches. Her academic work involves the study of alchemy the transformation of matter. She says wine is like alchemy too.  I am going to pour you some of this.  It smells like olives.  Olives and blackberries something sort of herbal.  The way you taste flavor notes in a good glass of wine Harkness says is a little like how she tried to use history in her novels.  I kept thinking of the historical information as spice or herbs like tarragon. A little history went a long way.  The heroine of A Discovery of Witches is a historian too - a Yale professor and a reluctant witch researching at the great Bodleian Library at Oxford University.   Dr. Bishop your manuscripts are up.  In this reading from A Discovery of Witches Diana Bishop runs across a mysterious book about magic that is magical itself.   Traces of guilt shown along its edges and caught my eye but those faded touches of gold could not account for a faint iridescent shimmer that seemed to be escaping from between the pages. I blinked.  Then an evil cabal steps in and steals the book so Diana hunts for it across Europe with the help of a hunky vampire. Now if that sounds like an unholy mixture of Twilight meets The Da Vinci Code author Deborah Harkness says she was influenced by higher brow literary fare including Anne Rice's The Witching Hour and A.S. Byatt's Possession.  You can taste those underlying notes of those books.  If anything Harkness just wanted to unite her academic passions with the kind of fiction her students read. Her new novel Shadow of Night takes her first novel's characters back in time to the renaissance Harkness' area of specialty so she knows exactly what her heroine would wear to meet Queen Elizabeth.   It took four women two hours to get me dressed. First I was laced into my clothes which were padded and puffed to ridiculous proportions with thick quilting and a wide farthingale that was just as unwieldy as I had imagined. My ruff was suitably large and ostentatious though not Mary assured me as large as the Queen's would be.  Oh she made Elizabeth as scary as she must have been.  That is Constance Sublette. Like Deborah Harkness she is a historian who also writes fantasy and science fiction. She says Harkness takes obvious delight in writing her heroine into Elizabethan history and she says it is clear with her real life supporting characters such as William Shakespeare or the Queen's alchemist John Dee Harkness did not need to do much extra research.  She had already written a book about John Dee.  Sublette says she loves that a story about a witch and a vampire's romance also takes on everything from palace intrigue and political fights in the 1500s to weighty questions of metaphysics and bioethics. Maybe it is Twilight for the intellectually restless.  If you are tired of books in which the only question anybody asked is who is going to sleep with who and when this is a book for you. It asks other questions but we do get to sleep with somebody really nice.  That would be Matthew Clairmont vampire aristocrat more hot than nice and a geneticist. Author Deborah Harkness says if you are going to have an immortal life you will probably pick your career carefully rather than having a stereotypical vampire job like mortuary worker or private detective.  You would be a research scientist an investment banker an art collector.  And she says vampire or no all authors of books with plucky enterprising heroines in love with dark brooding men have something in common.  We are all writing Jane Eyre fan fiction.  Jane Eyre fan fiction with bite. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 