 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. Arun Rath is away. I am Tess Vigeland. School is starting. That means lots of time in the classroom or library sitting quietly - no distractions. But more and more brain science is saying that may not be the best way to learn. Benedict Carey covers medicine and science for the New York Times and he is written a new book called How We Learn. Ben welcome.  Thanks very much. Nice to be here.  And I am going to play a game on my phone and look up tips on how to juggle and maybe take a nap while I am talking to you. How does that sound?  That sounds good. Absolutely.  'ecause then I am going to remember and absorb more of this conversation right?  Yes you are. Well look I mean a lot of people think learning is all discipline. I know I believed it. And it turns out that scientists have discovered - through a whole lot of different ways - that it does not work that way. The brain is a foraging instrument. You know it is a scavenger just like humans were for so much of their existence. And once you appreciate that you are able to take some pressure off yourself to not worry that you are doing things right all the time and to have a tactical plan when you study for something.  Right. Well you talked about how - I mean I think most of us grew up with this notion that self-discipline and focus are what we really need to learn something. And apparently that needs to be replaced by distractions and maybe even as I noted napping. So what is it about our brains that we know now that basically turns the whole concept of learning - shall we say - on its head?  Well we know that quiet study ritual - all those things we assumed to be true - assumed to be self-evident - those are only one way to study. A lot of the things we have learned whether it is to cook or ride a bicycle to socialize we have done those piecemeal. The brain is very good at learning on-the-fly during daily life. And so to take topics and isolate them you know to sit there like a monk with a textbook - with the chemistry textbook - I mean who wants to do that right? It is difficult. I am not saying it is - you throw it away. I am saying that is only one environment where learning occurs. It also occurs throughout your daily life.  So a lot of this deals with memory - memorization. But of course memorization does not necessarily translate into comprehension. So like you can know all the U.S. President's names and when they were in office but that does not mean you understand history right?  That is right.  So does this new way of learning address that as well?  It does. There are a bunch of things that scientists now know improve retention which is talking about you know foreign-language names places facts and figures and so on. And there are a handful of things also that seem to aide comprehension. For example distraction - distraction is one of those things everybody's worried about - certainly every parent you know with the iPhones and people jumping on Facebook and so on.  Right.  And you know of course if you are spending your entire time tooling around on Facebook you are not studying. So that is a problem. However there is a whole bunch of science looking at problem solving. In problem solving when you get stuck you have run out of ideas. Distraction is really your best friend. You need to stand up let it go walk around the block go to the cafe drink a beer - whatever it is. And that is really your best shot at loosening the gears a little bit and allowing yourself to take a different and more creative approach to the problem.  You know I wonder what some of these new findings mean to the current debate in education over things like Common Core and you know the idea of teaching to the test. Do you think these findings about how we learn could or should change how we evaluate what we learn?  These are - the science addresses how you learn how I learn how an individual learns. And they are independent of any policy changes. Now when it comes to standardized testing there is a story to tell. There is a lot of interesting research now looking at using testing as a study tool and that self-examination or even doing tests before a course starts are both very intriguing interesting and possibly sort of revolutionary approaches to learning.  What are some practical ways then that we can take some of this new data and apply it to our own learning methods like say - so I want to learn Spanish - which I actually do - or I want to get better at photography - which I do. What is your advice for me?  Well one of the easiest things you can do - well take Spanish first but simply move around. You do not need to stay in the same place. You do not have to have the same chair the same cubicle the same room to do your memorization. Changing context changing environment aids in retention and in this case particularly in learning Spanish words. Now photography - that is a different thing altogether. It is very creative. There I tend to think of that more in the sense of what I call in the book percolation which is an interesting thing that I think all adults who have learned something know happens. You know you are starting a very big project. You do not even really know where to start. And the science on this says just start the thing. You can quit five minutes later or ten minutes later because what happens when you do that is it activates your mind to begin sort of scavenging the environment and your own thoughts for what the relevant information is in your life.  All right. Well I am going to go back to the cake that I am baking and the math problem in my checking account and see if I remember any of this conversation. How is that? .  That sounds good. You have learned.  All right. Benedict Carey is the author of the new book How We Learn. Thank you.  Thanks very much Tess. 