 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand filling in for Michele Norris who is away this summer on book leave. The film Julie  Julia opening next month uses the love of cooking to connect its two title characters. Amy Adams plays food blogger Julie and Meryl Streep is the French food chef Julia Child.  Ms.   I am going to try to flip this thing over now which is a rather daring thing to do. Ms.   She changed everything. Before her it was frozen food and can openers and marshmallows. Mr.   Do not knock marshmallows. Ms.   Give it a try. When you flip anything you have just got to have the courage of your convictions.  Well Julie  Julia gave us the courage - okay the excuse really - to talk about film food. Here's Bob Mondello with a whole tasting menu of movies that have whetted audience appetites for something more than popcorn.  Mr.   Please sir I want some more.  Oliver Twist was hungry and he was not the only one. Audiences have been lining up to gaze at food glorious food on the silver screen since the very earliest days of silent pictures ever since way back in 1901 when an actor opened his mouth really wide in a film called The Big Swallow and ate the camera. A famished Charlie Chaplin cooked his own shoe in The Gold Rush twirling the laces on his fork like spaghetti. And in the animated classic Lady and the Tramp a single strand of spaghetti led the title characters to their first kiss.     It is a beautiful night and we call it bella notte.  Food and romance or maybe that' Cher falling in Moonstruck for a one-armed baker 18th-century squire Tom Jones seduced by a pretty wench who is gnawing on a drumstick. Movies are all about sights and sounds but directors know that to conjure up a really believable world they need to stir in some aromas and tastes.  Ms.   I miss the smell of coffee and bacon frying. Oh what I would not give for a plate of fried green tomatoes like we used to have at the cafe. I never told you about the cafe did I?  Food can be enormously useful in the creating of a cinematic world because nothing says down-to-earth and normal like a home-cooked meal. In Fried Green Tomatoes that meal was Southern. In Soul Food it was soul food. In Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom it was monkey brains. Upscale restaurant cuisine is another matter though. Take the two Italian brothers who run a failing but spectacularly good restaurant in the movie Big Night serving authentic Italian to 1950s New Jersey patrons who expect Americanized Italian.  Ms.   I just do not see anything that looks like a shrimp or a scallop but I get a side order of spaghetti with this right? Mr.   Well no. Mr.   I thought all main courses come with spaghetti. Mr.   Well some yes. But you see risotto is rice so it is a starch and it does not go really with pasta. Ms.   But I do not... Mr.   Honey honey order a side of spaghetti that is all. And I will eat your meatballs. Ms.   Yeah he will have the meatballs. Mr.   Well the spaghetti comes without meatballs. Ms.   There are no meatballs with the spaghetti? Mr.   No. Sometimes spaghetti likes to be alone.  Back in the kitchen the chef's not happy.  Mr.   Why? Mr.   She likes starch. I do not know. Come on. Mr.   How can she want - maybe I should make mashed potatoes for on the other side. Mr.   Primo look do not okay because they are the first customer to come in two hours. Mr.   No. She is a criminal. I want to talk to her.  Will not do him a bit of good. Taste is personal whether you are talking taste in sweets in the film Chocolat or taste in wine in the film Sideways or taste in garbage in the Pixar comedy Ratatouille where a budding chef named Remy who happens to be a rat gets very excited when his brother finds a stray bit of cheese.  Mr.   And not just any cheese. Tomme de chevre de paix. That would go beautifully with my mushroom and and and oh this rosemary this rosemary with maybe maybe...  Food is Remy's life which you might say is the recipe for the most satisfying kind of food movie one where cuisine is not just eaten  Eat Drink Man Woman where an otherwise undemonstrative Chinese chef creates magnificent meals for three painfully slender daughters who only pick at their food Japan's Tampopo where the quest for the perfect bowl of ramen noodles is a saga to rival The Magnificent Seven and Like Water for Chocolate where a love-struck senorita uses actual witchery in the kitchen to express her passion.     Completely sensual indeed. When she throws rose petals and a secret ingredient into her pot rooms burst into flames and rivals ride off naked to join the Mexican revolution. Food has seldom been given such power on screen. And if there have been other magical cinematic meals none has ever been more magical than the 19th century banquet lovingly prepared and exquisitely served in the Danish film Babette's Feast. It is a French cook's extravagant thank you to a tiny church congregation that has sheltered her as a refugee in frigid Denmark for years. The problem is the elderly congregation believes in self-denial believes that pleasure must be reserved for the hereafter. So while they agree to eat the meal so as not to hurt Babette's feelings they vow to each other that they will not enjoy the meal or even talk about it much to the astonishment of a visitor who cannot believe what he is tasting.    Exquisite. Quite definitely this is a genuine turtle soup.  Everyone just looks at him. From the embarrassment in their expressions it is clear that the others despite their best efforts are enjoying the meal but no one in the congregation will admit it.    It is truly the best turtle soup I have had in years.  I was actually served Babette's Feast 20 years ago when the film premiered. The studio arranged with French restaurants in a few cities to prepare the meal for critics. Nothing mock about the turtle soup quail in puff pastry with fois gras and truffle sauce astonishing French cheeses. Film criticism is its own reward of course but the rewards that day were a little more savory than usual. Still the feast did not top the movie. In the French restaurant where I ate it the food was delicious but was still just a meal. In Babette's Feast it is more  Food as a gift specifically Eucharistic in nature for a religious community that has denied itself pleasure for decades.  Old loves are rekindled long-simmering feuds are forgotten redemption has a seat at the table. It is fabulous. And whatever the virtues of self-denial on screen probably not something you want to see on an empty stomach. I am Bob Mondello.  We have got scenes from several of those cinematic banquets plus a lot more coverage of summer movies books theater pop culture. It is all there at the Arts and Life section of the new npr.org. 