 Actor Tony Danza returns to TV this Friday. It is been years since he starred in Taxi and Who is the Boss? But this time around instead of a sitcom he is in a reality show called Teach on the AE Network. He finds himself in front of a 10th grade English class at Philadelphia's largest public high school. Before he was a TV star Danza actually studied to become a teacher. And as Andy Dehnart reports the desire to teach came first  and then the TV show.  A celebrity teaching a real high school class seemed so ridiculous that a veteran teacher confronted Tony Danza right away. Mr.  He grabbed me right at the beginning of the year. He is like are you here to act a teacher or you here to be a teacher because you can make a difference -which is it? You know he was really tough.  Students at Northeast High School volunteered to be in Danza's class. But executive producer Leslie Greif says everyone was still concerned about the effects this experiment could have on the kids. Mr.  They only had one chance to go through 10th grade English and that was of paramount concern and importance to Tony.  During the first week of class students look bored as Danza reads a definition from his notes. They roll their eyes at things he says and openly mock his discomfort.   I have a question. Mr.  Oh yes please.  Are you nervous? Mr.  I am terrified.  Okay because...  The student stifles a smile as she looks down at her desk and the camera zooms in on Danza's sweat-soaked shirt. Unidentified    I do not want to embarrass you or anything but maybe you should like wear more undershirts or something. Mr.   Yeah yeah yeah I know. Unidentified   He sweats - lots. I guess he gets nervous  whatever and like if you make him raise his arms there is like all this sweat under there. It is like - you could fill up a bucket of water with it.  Cameras were not at the school for the entire year and did not seem to have much of an effect. Greif says they even caught students cheating by text message. Mr.  They are yawning. They are picking their nose. They are texting. And I am thinking do you realize the cameras are watching you text in class? But in my mind it was like all right they are going on school is school they are going to do their thing.  Katherine Kellen is a professor of English at Seminole State College who also taught at an urban high school for six years and she says Danza's experience was a lot easier than what most teachers go through their first year. Ms.  Because of having one class that was selected out because of having a mentor teacher who has an exclusive responsibility to help you because of having the principal's interest and attention for support.  But she said the series does make teaching look difficult and underappreciated. And that is exactly what Tony Danza hoped for. Mr.  I want it to show what is going on in an American high school. I want it to say to guys like my age hey maybe let me see what I can do. Maybe -because there is nothing like it.  There is an even bigger surprise besides Danza's passion for teaching. He is actually good at it. The show is producers paid to air- condition the library and Danza helped the school raise money. But even without all that Northeast High School principal Linda Carroll says she would hire him again because he is a gifted teacher. Ms.  Oh God absolutely. No question because he is funny he is caring he understands that before you can teach a thing you have to connect and build a relationship with a child and he is willing to do that.  Danza won over his colleagues too. Their approval meant so much that he chokes up as he flips through the school's yearbook. Mr.   Here's my most maybe my most proudest thing. I cannot -you know this is hard to take.  Mr.  This is the English department.  He points to his picture among all the other teachers and his face widens into a broad smile.  Mr.  I mean and so these people agreed that I you know deserved to be on this page. This is the greatest honor I can tell you - I cannot even tell you. And I am in front of a blackboard.   And that is where Tony Danza will be for seven one-hour episodes. For NPR News I am Andy Dehnart. 