 The writer Nick Harkaway grew up hearing a lot of stories. It was hard not to his father is the godfather of the new modern spy novel John le Carre. Le Carre is a hard act to follow hi son wrote in the British newspaper the Telegraph that it is not that Le Carre casts a long shadow it is more that it seems pointless to stand next to a lighthouse and wave a torch. Well now Harkaway is out with a new novel called Tigerman and our reviewer Jason Sheehan says it is clear the son has talents of his own.  I have caught myself pushing Tigerman on friends. I even found myself desperately trying to explain to an old lady on my train exactly why she should read a story full of witchcraft hand grenades murdered dogs and bad guys even though she told me she only reads books were nice things happen. You know you have gone off the deep end about a book when you kind of want to shake the old lady and say just shut up and read it grandma trust me. Tigerman is not just good it is shake a Granny good. The kind if good that makes you wonder why every book is not this smart and joyous and beautiful and heart breaking. It is the story of Sergeant Lester Ferris he is a soldier acting as the British consul on a doomed island basically running out the clock on his retirement. The island is polluted now it occasionally belches clouds of toxic waste. A panicked international community has decided to destroy it before things get even worse. In the meantime it is in a kind of limbo and it is become home to the type of people who seek out lawless places drug dealers gun runners journalist and spies. All of which is just fine by Lester because he is been ordered very clearly to not to care about any of it to turn a blind eye and just wait for the end. But there is this boy this smart capable street kid who becomes Lester's friend. And after he is beaten by some Ukrainian soldiers in his comic book's torn to pieces he convinces Lester to become a superhero called Tigerman. And Lester goes along with it because he loves the boy because he saves the boy once earlier in the story and then has to keep saving him as things spiraled downward on the island because this is a boy who deserves a hero. And when the hammer falls which it of course does the reader can see it coming from a mile off. Can dread the approach of real evil to this island and know that things are going to go badly for everyone and worst for those with love to lose. But for all the strangeness that lives in Tigerman Harkaway never loses his grip. This is a brilliant postcolonial novel and it maintains an exquisite balance between the ugly and the beautiful the action and the result between a boy and the hero he so badly needs.  The book is Tigerman by Nick Harkaway. Our reviewer is Jason Sheehan. His latest book is Tales From The Radiation Age. 