 When you think of reality television drama like this probably comes to mind...   I came here to be No. 1.  Coming up next here on NBC...  ...Screaming matches hot tub hookups contestants there to win not to make friends. But recently reality has taken a kinder gentler turn. Take the new Queer Eye on Netflix which started its fourth season with a public school teacher getting a makeover.   And I really want to celebrate you. And I also want to celebrate that I am going to be cutting your hair.  NPR's Neda Ulaby reports on reality's new nice.  A lot of Netflix reality shows tend to be awfully sweet.   That is quite something. That is absolutely delicious.  The Great British Baking Show was just one of many warm-hearted food programs on Netflix including Sugar Rush Street Food and Nailed It where contestants giggle over epic failures in decorating cakes. On the Netflix dating show Dating Around you will see hardly any jerks. And on Tidying Up With Marie Kondo the Japanese organizing guru gently guides Americans into discarding stuff that does not spark joy.   Does this spark joy for you?  We say spark joy now for everything.  Brandon Riegg is the Netflix vice president in charge of unscripted series. He says the streaming site has more than a hundred reality shows including some in the works and many of them are based on people being kind to each other.  In the beginning it was not an intentional strategy. When we decided to get into original unscripted programming it really was a blank slate.  So why not he said try something different? Namely - being nice.   You are so nice.  Actually both of you are so nice.  Those are the hosts of Nailed It. That show and Queer Eye were both so successful Netflix decided to make positive reality programming central to its brand. Since Netflix does not release audience numbers we do not exactly know what successful means. But Riegg says the trend of sweet-natured reality television has spread across the industry.  Everybody's noticing. Viewers are more drawn to that. There is an appetite for that.  NBC may have helped start this trend years ago with The Biggest Loser along with ABC's  Home Edition which Riegg helped develop. Andy Dehnart runs the website Reality Blurred.  As a critic as a fan of reality TV I love it. It makes it a lot easier to watch to write about and to just enjoy.  Plus Dehnart says there is shows families can watch together. Of course there are still mean-spirited reality shows out there including ones on Netflix. But generally we may be seeking a break from people being rotten to each other says Tara Long who runs a number of reality shows including Growing Up Hip Hop and Siesta Key.  We actually have production meetings when we start and say we do not want fighting.  A profound shift Long says from when reality relied on people flipping tables for drama. I asked Long if people like her who make reality television might be trying to change the cultural conversation after 20 years of toxic reality shows.  A hundred percent. I think we want to create this content and tell these stories to try to course-correct for some of the type of shows that have been done in the past.  At a moment when the tone of public discourse feels so lowered Long says maybe it is time for reality television - yes reality television - to lead a push toward civility and respect.    Be nice.  Neda Ulaby NPR News.    Be nice. Be nice. 