 Now to an afterschool program that hits the beats instead of the books.   At the North Community YMCA in Minneapolis kids can enroll in tumbling the art of dance and a program called Beats and Rhyme.   This song Hot Cheetos and Takis is the latest production from the Y's Beats and Rhymes class. There is also a video.  In it the kids who call themselves the YNRich Kids dance on a playground as they celebrate their favorite snacks. Though the faces have changed over the years as kids cycle in and out the Y program has produced eight albums since it started in 2006.  A local production company shot and produced the Hot Cheetos and Takis video while the kids - most younger than 12 - wrote the lyrics themselves. Alicia Johnson is director of the North Community YMCA.  To them it is perfect. It is their vision. And like they can actually see it and they can hear it. It is their art so they love it. And they' Now everybody gets to see like what we do which has been really phenomenal.   The video has more than a million views on YouTube and has been making the rounds on music blogs. Rolling Stone gave it four out of five stars. Rembert Browne covers music and pop culture for the website Grantland and dubs Hot Cheetos and Takis the jam we have searching for all summer.  I think it is refreshing that they are just talking about you know snacks 'ecause I mean snacks were so important to me when I was that age. I just wanted money from my mom to have snacks. That was it.  So did director Alicia Johnson says the kids are not sweating their new fame but it does give them some bragging rights when they head back to school.  It is great to be able to say hey you know when your teachers says what did you do this summer all they can be like well we made this really amazing video that went viral. And how awesome is that?  One postscript to this story for those of you who have spent the last two minutes wondering what are takis? They are rolled corn tortilla chips that come in several flavors including Crunchy Fajita Fuego and Nitro.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 