 The relationship between grandparents and their grandchildren can be a special one. But it can also be challenging especially when it spans cultures and sometimes language.  .   So what is new Grandpa?  A new picture book called Drawn Together colorfully bridges the divide between a young boy and his Thai grandfather. It is written by Minh Le and he joins us now in the studio. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  So the illustrations to this book are done by Dan Santat and I want to bring it up because he is Thai. You are not right?  That is correct.  What is the connection here?  So I am actually Vietnamese-American and I wrote the manuscript from that perspective. But with a picture book you want the illustrator to kind of like take it on and make it their own. I wrote it based on my relationship with my grandfather but he had a personal connection with his grandmother that was very similar.  Walk us through the basic plot of the book. What happens?  OK. So in this story a boy goes to visit his grandfather. And they have dinner. They watch a movie. And they - but they struggle to connect because of a language barrier. So it is only when they discover a mutual love of art that they are able to connect and find that common ground. And then the relationship kind of takes off from there.  Tell us a little bit about your grandparents when they came to the U.S. And how old were you when you first kind of had a real relationship with them?  My parents came over right before the war got really bad in Vietnam and my grandparents came shortly thereafter. So we grew up in Connecticut. And my grandfather was also naturally a man of few words. I keep telling people there is no question in my mind that he and I knew how much we meant to each other. But we were not quite able - I was not quite able to like convey that to him through words. That distance that you see at the beginning of the book was very much something that I grappled with throughout my time.  And that distance is embodied by silence right? We have panel on panel of this little boy kind of going about his day unpacking his backpack and the grandfather in the background and them looking at each other kind of furtively I would say.  Is that a good description?  Yeah no. Dan did an amazing job since there are very few words of capturing all those little moments in the facial expressions or like a slump of the shoulders and just kind of really capturing the depth of emotion without using words which is - for a book about the power of relationships and a world beyond words that really comes through in the illustrations I think beautifully.  I want to zero in on another moment where they connect. And I was wondering if you could turn to the page where the grandfather goes to his own sketchbook.  So up to this point there has not been any narration. That was kind of done on purpose to kind of like build up that tension and that awkward silence. And then once the grandfather comes back with the sketchbook and they kind of discover that connection the narration kicks in. And it says right when I gave up on talking...   Right when I gave up on talking my grandfather surprised me by revealing a world beyond words. And in a flash we see each other for the first time.  So in the book the boy draws a picture of himself as a wizard like one of the heroes of his imagination. And the grandfather sees that and has this like epiphany. He runs to his room and grabs his own art supplies and draws a picture of himself as one of the heroes from his childhood. And for me when you turn that page it is almost like peeling back the layers of their identities. And they see each other for the first time.  And the adventure they draw involves a dragon and - right? - like and fights.  Yeah I wanted to have a book that was both like emotionally resonant but also exciting for kids and like that had that like dynamic element. So there is a dragon that appears and he is very ferocious. So for me like to see the grandfather as oh he has these like amazing imagination like hopes and dreams...  Right. He imagines himself as this warrior basically - right? - with this huge sword. And in the - on the other page you have got the little boy and he is got his magic wand and his cape.  Yeah. So to have that connection and to kind of find those similarities on that page I thought was important to the story.  Yeah. I mean it is so interesting when you have - when you are an immigrant. I am too. My grandparents who are no longer with us were back on the island. And yeah you - you are just this American kid and you do not always really know who they are.  Right. And I think sometimes like - because I have grandparents in Vietnam as well. And it is like sometimes it is a literal physical distance. Like here you are halfway across the globe. Sometimes it is a more metaphorical distance of like just like not being able to connect. You start to question the depth of your relationship if you cannot speak in the most basic ways right? What is been great if you do not mind me saying is other people say I spoke English with my grandparents but we just could not connect for the longest time until we figured out some other way to bridge that gap. So I feel like it is been very gratifying to have a story that is very personal and very specific resonate kind of like a cross-cultural experience and have those universal themes that kind of are - resonate with people.  Well Minh Le thank you so much. It was a beautiful story.  Oh thank you. Thank you so much for having me.  Minh Le - his new picture book is called Drawn Together. It is illustrated by Dan Santat. Earlier we heard two readers. Anot Tanta Sunthorn  was reading the part of the grandfather and Thomas R. Groves  read the part of the grandson. 