 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Errol Morris is considered one of the most important filmmakers. Roger Ebert once called him a magician as great as Hitchcock or Fellini. Morris is best known for his documentaries The Thin Blue Line and the Oscar-winning Fog of War. But before he was a filmmaker Errol Morris was actually a private detective and he is always been interested in uncovering the mysteries of photographs the things you cannot see in the image the things outside the frame. He is now written a new book exploring the truth behind a series of well-known photos. It is called Believing Is Seeing. And he says his photo obsession began when he was a young boy.  I lost my father. Father died when I was only 2 years old. Do not have any memory of him at all. But there were photographs of him all over the house. I remember looking at these photographs - this is someone that I should know probably should remember but this mystery who is this man who is really central to my life in so many many many ways but also absent?  Errol Morris you open the book with a story about one of the most iconic photographs in history certainly war photographs. It was taken during the Crimean War in 1855 by Roger Fenton who was a photojournalist and it shows a gully. And there were two photos actually one which shows all these cannonballs on the left side of the picture the other showing about a dozen more cannonballs on the right side of the picture. And it led a lot of people to think this was staged this was fake. You were so obsessed with finding the truth you actually went to the Crimea. You actually went to the site. What did you find out? I mean was it a propaganda photograph to get people in Britain to support what was becoming a very unpopular war at the time?  I walked away thinking I really do not know and I came away thinking a lot about the whole question of staging. We all know that staging it is that big no-no in photography. I would call it a fantasy that we can create some photographic truth by not moving anything not touching anything not interacting with the scene that we are photographing in any way. Part of the book is the argument that every single photograph ever taken is posed in some way. If you think you are going to create an unposed photograph think again. There is no such thing.  I want to ask you about another series of photographs you looked at and this deals with the FSA the Farm Security Administration. And during the Great Depression President Roosevelt his administration sent out all these famous photographers right these iconic photos of the Great Depression. And it was discovered at the time that some of these photographs were actually staged and this caused a huge controversy. What happened with those photos?  One of the most controversial photographs taken by Arthur Rothstein is a photograph of a cow skull. Then they found out he had taken multiple photographs of the cow skull and clearly it had been moved. Well people opposed to the Roosevelt administration seized on this. They became outraged. They felt manipulated deceived allegations that Rothstein actually had brought the cow skull with him from Washington.  I should say he took this in North Dakota to sort of show how bad the drought had gotten in that area at the time.  The strange ironic ridiculous part of it there was a horrible drought going on.  Indeed. Right. Right.  Whether the skull was posed or not seems supplanted by an even more complex issue. Was he trying to deceive the public? Was he trying to use the photograph for propaganda? If not him was it the newspaper editors who placed it in their newspapers? And it goes into that whole question of what is propaganda? Can any photograph be used for the purposes of propaganda? It is a very interesting to me still a fascinating question.  There is also photographs taken by Walker Evans at the time where you know he moved furniture around when he was photographing a certain family to show how bad poverty had become. That was also controversial also you could say staged but you would say that is not the whole story.  When I first started years and years ago as a documentary filmmaker I was accused of making documentaries the wrong way. People would say you are not supposed to use Phillip Glass music. You are not supposed to use re-enactments. And my answer then and it is still my answer over the years is that style is not what guarantees truth. There may be no such thing as a true photograph or a false photograph or a false photograph. They may have nothing whatsoever to do with truth or falsity. But what we can ask of our documentary filmmakers our photographers our journalists is that somehow they are engaged in the pursuit of truth. That to me is the important thing.  That is filmmaker Errol Morris. His new book of essays is called  Observations on the Mysteries of Photography. Errol Morris thank you so much.  Thank you for having me on. 