 Each week for the last few months we have been bringing you reading recommendations based on the news. Well today a break from what is been a heavy news cycle and some thoughts instead on the new season upon us. As we bid summer goodbye - the first day of fall is Tuesday - we asked poetry critic Abigail Deutsch to give us this week's Must Read.  This time of year always reminds me of a wonderfully autumnal poem - How To Like It by Stephyn Dobyns begins with the line  these are the first days of fall. It describes a man whose summer is long over. Old memories weigh on him and new adventures seem impossible. But still he has dreams. He envisions taking a road trip. The dusty smell of the car heater the pine trees by the edge of the shoulder the triumphant moment when Dobyns writes  at dusk he will crest a hill and there filling a valley will be the lights of a city entirely new to him. The fantasy is so rich you can see how badly he wanted to come true. It is heartrending. The man imagines all this movement while standing still in front of his house with his dog. The dog can talk and even though the man does not speak his desires out loud the dog verbalizes its wishes. There are a lot of them. Let us go downtown and get crazy drunk it says. Let us tip over all the trash cans we can find. Let us dig holes everywhere. Maybe the animal is revealing its owners most shameful desires. But the man generally ignores the dogs hopes. A poignant reflection of how he ignores his own as well. Dobyns ends with a final instruction from the pet  the dog says let us go make a sandwich. Let us make the tallest sandwich anyone's ever seen. And that is what they do and that is where the man's wife finds him staring into the refrigerator as if into the place where the answers are kept - the ones telling why you get up in the morning and how it is possible to sleep at night. Answers to what comes next and how to like it. This poem is an unsettling account of an unsettled man and as chilling as autumn weather.  The poem is How To Like It by Stephen Dobyns. It was recommended by writer and critic Abigail Deutsch. 