 Joseph Gordon-Levitt has grown from a child actor on TV's Third Rock From The Sun to a movie star in The Dark Knight Rises and Inception. And now he is adding a few new skills to his resume. He not only stars in the new comedy Don Jon he also wrote and directed the film. Critic Bob Mondello says Gordon-Levitt did both as if he would been doing them all his life.  Jon Martello would be the first to tell you he has life all figured out which should probably tell you something else. He is not a deep thinker.   Yup you heard that right his porn. Jon's New Jersey buddies have nicknamed him Don Jon because he is a real Don Juan with the ladies - a fresh conquest every night lots to confess at confession. But after sex he is kind of done while his conquests generally want to cuddle. And he figures maybe when the right girl comes along. But in the meantime pornography offers sex without cuddling which truth be told he prefers. Then the right girl comes along.   She is perfect and knows it as embodied by Scarlett Johannson. And she plays the seduction game as well as Jon does.   Barbara will not go to bed with him after one date or even after one month. She insists on meeting his parents.   And to his horror she wants him to do couples stuff.   Jon of course likes a different sort of movie. And once he is finally sealed the deal and he and Barbara are more or less living together...   ...he returns to old habits.   These two are playing at adult relationships but they are not terribly grown up. And that it turns out is what Joseph Gordon-Levitt wants to explore in Don Jon. He has clearly been paying attention to more than his own lines as he is transitioned from TV to indie dramas to big-studio blockbusters. Don Jon  smooth funny and with a terrific cast. Not just Johannson vamping in that thick Jersey accent but Glenne Headly and Tony Danza as the parents Jon dreads bringing her home to Brie Larson as a little sister who barely looks up from her cellphone but somehow takes in everything and Julianne Moore fragile and slyly funny as the one thoughtful adult among all these cartoonish types. Gordon-Levitt keeps things riotous for the film's first hour and if he eases into an ending that is a little Hollywood-standard after having so much fun tweaking form and content I am guessing audiences will cut him some slack. Just as Don Jon is learning the ropes after all so is the guy who dreamed him up. I am Bob Mondello.  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 