 From the studios of NPR West in Culver City California it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Arun Rath.    They told me - son you are special. You were born to do great things.  When BioShock came out in 2007 a lot of people in the videogame world flipped out. Here was a blockbuster videogame that went beyond saving the princess or beating the bad guys. Sure there was first-person shooting. But it was set into a deep narrative with philosophical themes set in a darkly imagined underwater Ayn Randian dystopia.   Is a man not entitled to the sweat of his brow? No says the man in Washington. It belongs to the poor. No says the man in the Vatican it belongs...  Before BioShock came out critics were skeptical that anyone would be interested. Four million sales later even non-gamers acknowledged that the medium could be art. Ken Levine is BioShock's creative director.  There is a tendency for publishers and developers to underestimate the audience and what they are interested in. And they are really no different you know than any other audience. You know there is plenty of movies that are intended for people who are not that interested in political philosophy - whatever those themes are - and there is plenty that - that are.  And he says that status quo was self-perpetuating. A lack of games that appealed to the intellectual set meant the intellectual set did not find games appealing.    Brother the only way to Columbia is through rebirth in the sweet waters of baptism. Will you be cleansed brother?  The latest BioShock sequel BioShock Infinite came out last year. It delivers more storytelling based philosophically infused action. But like its predecessor it is also incredibly violent.   Now it is not like BioShock Infinite is unusual for its violence. The E3 Gaming Convention recently in Los Angeles was lousy with blood and gore. You could not get away from the sound of gunfire. But some critics expected better from BioShock Infinite. One even called the game - a case study in unnecessary violence. I presented that critique to Ken Levine.  You know I think that it is - it is not particularly more violent than BioShock one. And BioShock one was a very very dark game. I think the conversation in the game space was changed a little bit. And I think that people used Infinite as a launching point to talk about the changing nature of games in that can you make successful games that do not have violence and things like that? And now one of the reasons there is been a lot of violence in video games is because it is relatively easy to simulate. And generally it is been - like action movies you know there is an easily perceivable market for it. So I think when people are looking at BioShock as you know OK could they have done it without violence? We got that question asked a lot after the game can out. A nd you know it is an interesting question. I like games myself. Like I have always liked gamey things. So I was not terribly interested in telling - in making a game that did not have a game component...  But by games though I mean specifically a violent game component though.  Right. And actually - so I think you know when you have nonviolent components - it would have been odd. I would not have known how to make a game like for instance like Mario which is - I want to know how to take this kind of story and turn it into a game about jumping on blocks. Or you know a Pacman - you know eating dots. Or even you know there are games like The Walking Dead which do not have - they have some violence but they are mostly - they are mostly about making decisions...  Right.  ...Like go - you know remember the old Choose Your Own Adventure books when you were a kid?  Yeah.  But you know I think the reaction to the violence is more an expression of people building confidence in the industry's ability to express itself in more diverse fashions. And I think to some degree that is - we were able to do that with BioShock one. We were able to say OK well things can be more diverse. And then after Infinite they came back and said cannot you do it without the shooting maybe? That is not something we were able to contemplate at that stage because the game was done already. But it is certainly an interesting question in retrospect.  There have been other games aside from BioShock that have come out - had these really rich narratives. But also always still having this first-person shooter quality to it. Is that like a formal requirement? Is it like you know a sonnet needs 14 lines a game needs shooting?   I do not think it is a formal requirement. I think forms - art forms of all kinds have evolved through a series of accidents - or a series of requirements that evolve over time. And sometimes the form does not realize that something was sort of an artifact of a certain requirement. Like for instance video games traditionally were very very difficult to play. And the reason they were difficult is that the original games were arcade games. They were there trying to eat quarters. So they really wanted the games to be difficult so you would keep pumping quarters into it. So when we started making games that did not require quarters - that you buy and you - you know when you play it took us - it took me a long time to realize like wait a minute. Why are our games so difficult? And it was because we just grew up with difficult games because they had that quarter mentality. And I think shooters to some degree are the same way. You know we started - I started games by thinking about what is the game play mechanics of this? And a shooter was sort of - answers a lot of questions for you. It is sort of OK well the main mechanics can be - you have this gun. You have weapons and you have enemies. You have conflict who are coming at you. And as we got more power with the systems and more art we were able to bring more things into it - like all the narrative that you see in Bioshockand all the visuals - like so much of the stories told in the world - right? - the visuals of the world. You could not have that 10 15 years ago. Then all of a sudden we are like wow people are not really - I assumed people are coming for the shooting when we made the game originally. I think now we have a little more confidence that - especially when you do not have to appeal to 8 or 10 million people. If you can just digitally distribute things like you can now. You can do that because you do not need - you do not need to spend the money to put it on trucks to get it to a store and deal with retailers and the shippers and all that. So you can - you can really try to really have a one-to-one interaction with a smaller more dedicated fan base and give them the thing they want. And you could not do that 10 years ago when I started - you know 20 years ago when I started - same thing you see happen with cable TV. Years ago you had either - there were three networks and you had to make things that would appeal to you know a broad - I do not want to say the lowest - but the broadest common denominator. And then when you started having cable - when they had you know they could make more artisanal products like The Sopranos or like Mad Men and things like that because you did not have to hit those kind of audiences. You were able to do those more kind of experimental things. And I think that is what you are seeing with games now is we realize we can experiment more and because we do not have to hit such a broad common denominator.  That is Ken Levine. He is the creative director for the game BioShock and BioShock Infinite. Ken I am really excited to see what you come up with next. Thank you.  Thank you very much.  