 It is a holiday. A lot of you may be on the road and ready for some sing-along fun.    Hello can you hear me?   This is from a story I did back in March about James Corden host of The Late Late Show. The British actor was relatively unknown in the U.S. when he took over from Craig Ferguson more than a year ago. More people know Corden now thanks to a segment from the show that has broken records on YouTube. It is called Carpool Karaoke.    So hello from the outside. At least I can say that I have tried.  James Corden drives along with celebrities in a car with a few mounted cameras singing along to the stereo. This video with Adele has now been viewed more than 114 million times. There are about 20 other Carpool Karaoke segments with musicians from the Red Hot Chili Peppers to Elton John.    My gift is my song and darling this one's for you.  Oh this is so much fun.  The Wall Street Journal called it one of the most successful YouTube franchises of all time. Hi.  Hello.  I am Ari.  So sorry to keep you waiting.  Not at all. My producer and I met Corden at his office on the CBS lot in LA where he tapes The Late Late Show.  All right let us light a camera shall we?  What is the scent here?  I do not know which one this is. But three open-minded broad-minded guys kicking back with a candle right?  Dim the lights a little bit.  Yeah that is right. Let us do it.  The candle was a masculine scent like leather-bound books. Corden's T-shirt exposed his new temporary tattoo - Cookie Monster courtesy of his young son. James Corden told me the idea for Carpool Karaoke came out of a segment he filmed with George Michael for a charity back in the U.K. but he could not get anybody in the U.S. to sing along. Finally he tried Mariah Carey.  It was a chance meeting with a lady at Mariah Carey's record company who was here in our office actually. And I pulled her in here to this very office that we are sitting in now and I played her the clip of me and George Michael singing. And I was like it is joyful. And that is what people want. You want to see the joy in people and you want to see the person that always dreamt of being a star you know? You want to see people having a great time. So Mariah Carey is a huge fan of George Michael. She said if George will do it I will do it. Let us do it on Sunday. So we are like OK .   Give me some sugar.  You give me the...  Give me some sugar.  All right one...  Give me some sugar.   You did me kind sweet destiny.  So you recorded this first Carpool Karaoke with Mariah Carey. And then what happens? The phone starts ringing off the hook with Justin Bieber and everyone else?  The second person we did it with was Jennifer Hudson and that went through the roof.   Jennifer Hudson's going to sing my order is that OK?   I want a - I want a...  Cheeseburger.   Girl give me a cheeseburger.  And then there is just been a couple of moments where - we did the one with Justin Bieber which kind of went crazy and I think is at like 65 million views on YouTube right now.   Chilling by the fire while we are eating fondue.  Now that is the line where I do not know - where I am out...  Why?  ...Because fondue is not a good date food.  Yeah it is.  No it is not. You end up with cheese dripping down your face.  I do not know what kind of fondue you have but in America we have this thing called chocolate fondue.  I think you put fondue in there just 'ecause it rhymes with whatever...  Yeah you are right.  .  It just sounded good.  Both Justin and his manager were like that is me. That is the real me in that car. That is me who you are seeing on TV.  I wondered whether this is to some extent - I do not know if you want to call it personality rehabilitation but when people are in that car it feels so much more relatable.  Well because...  Everyone comes off feeling so nice. And there are people who have been in that car with you who have a reputation for not necessarily being relatable and nice.  But sometimes you can have a reputation for not being relatable and nice because you had a bad day once. That is the thing. You know I think that is particularly pertinent with Justin because like you just forget how young he is. When he gets in a car with me and I feel that about him - and I did not want to ever make a show which is snarky or trying to do someone over or trying to make it about me somehow. Like all I want is our guests to shine because if our guests shine our show shines. And if our show shines then I shine. But I do not ever want to come out and make anything about me. I want to make it about them make it the best that it can be. And the whole thing is a collaboration those carpools. Stevie Wonder did it...  Right.  ...And Stevie Wonder doing it was a massive turning point because he is Stevie Wonder. Like there is no one else in the world who can go I do not really want to do it. And you go oh so it is good enough for Stevie Wonder but it is not good enough for you?  He made you cry.  Yeah.  He called your wife.    I just called to say James loves you.    I just called to say how much he cares. I just called to say he loves you. And he promises to me that he will let me be on his show for an hour .   You know if that was an auction prize it would just go for hundreds of thousands of dollars. And here am I seemingly being paid to do such a thing for my job. I mean it is crazy to me.  Will you show us how you prep for them? I mean you spit lyrics like you have been singing them for decades.  Well I mean I do not really prepare for them. I...  I do not believe that. You know all of those lyrics to all of those songs?  Well no I would listen to them because the biggest thing with the carpools is they have to have a lot of hits and I have got to be a fan.  Have you ever had a there is a bathroom on the right moment like where you get lyric wrong? There is a bad moon on the rise?  Oh for sure. Oh yeah yeah yeah...  OK tell me about it.  ...With Chris Martin.    Now a few cherished little bells are ringing.  What are you singing there?  What is it?  You said huge erushelu  bells.  No a few cherished - is it not?   Oh fine man if...  No what is it?  A few cherished...  Little bells are ringing.   Yeah let us go with that.  No what is it though?  It does not matter.  No it does. What is the lyric?  But it does not. That is music.  Oh no I hear Jerusalem bells are ringing?  Yeah that is what I sing.  That is the lyric. That is what you sing.   You can sing whatever you like.   I hear Jerusalem bells are ringing Roman cavalry choirs are singing.  And that should be proof that I do not study them.  Did you when you were a kid dream of being a pop star...  Of course.  ...A theater star? Like...  To be honest all I wanted to do all I ever ever wanted to do - I just wanted to perform. I just wanted to perform in whatever capacity whether it was acting singing dancing you know comedy. Like whatever it is I just loved it and felt at my absolute happiest when I was performing for people. And if that is what you want from a job then this is the best job you could ever do.  Well James Corden congratulations on your anniversary. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Well thank you for even caring. I really - truly means a lot. You are an adorable man and I am - this has been a lovely amount of time to spend in your company. Truly I could it for the rest of the day. It means a lot. Thank you. Cheers.  That is James Corden from a segment that first aired in March on the anniversary of his taking over as host of The Late Late Show.    And the Crocodile Rocking was out of sight.  Here we go.  .  