 The director Luca Guadagnino has taken audiences to Italy before in his summer romance Call Me By Your Name three years ago. His latest project is a coming-of-age story that gives audiences a different view of Italy.    Supermarkets in military bases are the same all over. Same aisles the same stuff. Everything's in exactly the same place. They say they do that so we do not get lost.  It is about two American teenagers who live on a U.S. military base in the town of Chioggia. This eight-part series for HBO is also the first time Luca Guadagnino has ventured into TV.  I did not talk about this is going to be TV it is not cinema. I just thought that if this storyline or at least the narrative arc was what I wanted to do. If the way in which we could do this was not about the plot but about behavior that I would be going to be OK. And also if I could direct everything.  The show is called We Are Who We Are and Luca Guadagnino joins us from Sicily. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you. Thank you for having me here. I am very happy to be here.  Let us talk about your two main characters. It centers on two 14-year-olds Fraser and Caitlin. And we meet Fraser first. His family arrives at the base because his mother who is played by Chloe Sevigny is the new commander.    The houses need constant maintenance. Col. McAunty is very concerned with tidiness.   Sweetheart is not this great? We are in Italy the cradle of art.  And the cliche would be an archetypal teenager who audiences can easily fall in love with. But Fraser is not easy to love. At age 14 he drinks a lot. He gets physically violent with his mother. Why did you take the character in this direction?  It is an interesting question. I think about the characters but I do not - I almost immediately forget that they are characters in brackets and they are people to me. So you know like Fraser is the son of Maggie and Sarah - actually the biological son of Sarah. And he has this kind of craving for finding his place in the world and in particular in finding who his father is. And so what a kid like that who has a very powerful mother and who has been misplaced - how does a 14-year-old behave? Fourteen-year-olds in general are not likeable people.    Careful I almost cracked my head open.   Oh my God you are so dumb.   What? It is true.  They do not know how to deal with the death of their infancy and the birth of their adulthood. It is a very complicated age. Likeability is for teen comedies. But I do not think this is a teen comedy.  Well why is Caitlin the right foil for someone like Fraser?  I believe in love at first sight if you allow me this kind of sugar candy expression.   Of course.  I think he sees her and he sees in her something that opens like a gigantic passage for him to go for her and for her to go to him. And also Caitlin unlike him who is very opinionated is someone who almost does not know anything who almost needs to know more and more. And so they balance each other. But in a way she is wiser than he is. So it is about you know like how you can trade places all the time with the person you really love or love in the sense of brotherly love friendly love or love in general.  I was going to say it is a kind of love that we do not often see depicted. There is this very sweet moment in the third episode.    What do they say about us?   They think we are dating.   I think they think we are weird.   Does that bother you?   We are never going to kiss. Deal?   Deal .  They are so protective of each other and so close to each other. But it is not teenage love between 14-year-olds that we often see depicted.  Well because they are subjects. They are not again prototypes. So they have all the possible ways of feelings that we do as adults. Of course they are probably confused. But they are somehow able to risk more than we do as adults. The sense of risk of a teenager is greater and even if it is more dangerous somehow delivers better outcomes.  Because your work so often returns to this kind of wistful teenage moment I am curious what that period in your own life was like. Can you tell us about what you were like as a 14-year-old?  Yes because it is NPR. Otherwise I am shy.   Very kind of you.  I do not know. I was a loner. I was a loner and I was a dreamer. I was someone observing a lot. I always loved to have that position in reality like putting myself on the edge of the center and looking at things happening or people in particular happening. And this in a way was the foreboding of what I became - a filmmaker.  And so the representation of teenage life that is bloody and messy and people crashing into each other physically and metaphorically sounds like that is not a recreation of what you lived but maybe a reimagining of what you might have lived.  I learned that it is quite a revolutionary age in a sort of universal way so that a teenager from China to Nigeria from America to Belarus almost feel the same sense of self. And I do not think I will withdraw from the age. I think I will make more stories about it about that age.  OK forgive me for asking this question. But I could not help but notice that there is a romantic scene involving a peach cake.    I baked a cake for the team. I know how important it is for you.  And given that one of the most talked about scenes in Call Me By Your Name features a peach I have to ask whether you are financially supported by the big peach lobby.  That is a cheeky question of a cheeky decision I made on the set. Because I have to say arrogantly enough that all the food in the show is very rigorously supervised by me and by my consultants. I hope it is very precise to the people and the social classes and the environments they live into. So when we discussed about what Jenny could prepare for the boys and her husband the idea was pies because that is very American. And she wants to be American because she is Nigerian. And we - it was - the season was like June July. So there were many different choices of fruit. And I said no it has to be peach to make a little bit of self-referencing.  Well Luca Guadagnino thank you so much for talking with us about your television debut. We Are Who We Are is on HBO.  Thank you. Thank you so much. 