 More than 800 million. That is how much money the videogame Grand Theft Auto V earned in just one day. The last version of the game released back in 2008 made a measly 310 million on its opening day. Grand Theft Auto V is also now on track to outearn the summer's biggest movie blockbusters in only a few days. So what is going on here? We are joined by Peter Rubin a senior editor at Wired to find out. Hi there Peter.  How are you Audie?  So the first Grand Theft has been around since 1997 and the plot is you the player basically gets to be the criminal right? You rob banks sell drugs arms with the goal of being the kingpin. And I want to understand the math here. How much does it take to produce a game like this and market it in order to make a profit?  Well for a game that is known as a AAA game as we call them in videogames which is the highest-profile releases of which Grand Theft Auto games certainly are prime examples we are looking at tens dozens sometimes more than 100 million all told between technological development and promotional costs.  And so making 800 million in this case is actually still pretty good even though you have spent say 200 million to produce the game and several years.  Oh certainly. Certainly. I mean in one fell swoop they are able to kind of get back three four five years of RD.  Now in the movie business those big summer blockbusters are called tent-poles right because they prop up the rest of the year's films. Is it similar in the videogame industry?  It is somewhat. With the Grand Theft Auto franchise the development studio which is known as Rockstar Games is owned by a larger parent company Take-Two Interactive. Take-Two Interactive has a number of extremely lucrative developers in its portfolio that make a number of very high-performing games from hugely successful basketball franchise the NBA 2K series to the BioShock games to The Elder Scrolls role-playing game saga. So they have the time and the money to allow the game developers to take a little more time like Rockstar to take their time and do it right.  Now in just a few months there is going to be the new Xbox and a new PlayStation game console. And we are reading that they will not be compatible right...  That is correct.  ...with these games including Grand Theft Auto V. So why buy a game that you will not be able to play on a new console in just a few months?  Well I think the easy answer is people are going to buy this game and they are going to spend X weeks of their life finishing it. And then they will put it aside. But even putting that to the side for the time being the fact that a game is coming out at the very end of a console's lifespan does not mean that those consoles are going to be immediately decommissioned from gamer shelves. PlayStation 2 continued to sell extremely well after the PlayStation 3 was released. So while the first sales are this initial rush of first-day and first-week purchasers you are going to also be looking at a slow burn as a legacy title.  So Grand Theft Auto has always been incredibly controversial because of the violence because the players and people have argued children are essentially kind of acting out violence against women whoever. Are these big numbers a sign that Grand Theft Auto has outlived its detractors or is just mainstream?  I think I am going to go with mainstream on this one. Certainly Grand Theft Auto has its share of detractors. Even now with the new game people are up in arms about this and about that. But 800 million is a testament to the fact that at the very least 12 million people were willing to go out and buy this on the first day which if you put it next to the music industry albums do not go diamond on their first day. Albums do not go diamond period. So the fact that they have been able to penetrate the zeitgeist at large is very very telling here.  That is Peter Rubin a senior editor at Wired talking about the release of Grand Theft Auto V. The videogame poured in more than 800 million on its first day. Peter thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 