 The drought may mean higher food prices and withered crops and lawns. At the movies drought can be a metaphor for much more. Here's Katharine Hepburn in The Rainmaker.    I dreamed we had a rain a great big rain. UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    Did you Lizzie?   The lightning flashed and the thunder rolled up and down the canyon. Whoo it was wonderful.   Drought's drought and a dream's a dream.   It was a nice dream Noah.  Hollywood's dream factory has long used drought as a symbol. But how it does that has changed with the times according to our critic Bob Mondello.  When a fast-talking Burt Lancaster swore in The Rainmaker that he could conjure moisture from a sky that has not seen a cloud in months sharp-tongued Katharine Hepburn wanted no part of him.    I read about a rainmaker. I think it was Idaho.   What did you read lady?   I cannot remember whether they locked him up or ran him out of town.   Might be they strung him up on a sycamore tree.   Might be.  The movie was set in the Depression but was made in the 1950s a time when post-war Americans were convinced all obstacles could be overcome - evidently including the suspicions of a middle-aged and metaphorically dried-up spinster. So when Hepburn finally loosened up...  UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    Got your hair down.   Yeah she sure has changed.  Moviegoers knew the sky would soon open up.   UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    Jimmy for Pete's sake stop beating that drum.   I as not beating no drum.  UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR   It is raining.   Yes it is. Rain! UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    Rain!  Now this even at the time was kind of silly. Movies from the previous two decades being closer to the disastrous droughts of the 1930 had treated dry spells far more seriously.  UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    That corn is dying. I do not know what we are going to do.  King Vidor's political allegory Our Daily Bread was released in 1934 during the most catastrophic drought in American history. And a few years later came The Grapes of Wrath John Ford's wrenching portrait of a generation uprooted when the Great Plains turned into a dust bowl.    The dusters - blowing like this year after year. Blowing the land away blowing the crops away. Blowing us away now.  This was drought for an audience that had just lived through one. But as that experience faded into memory Hollywood felt freer to improvise. That love story in The Rainmaker was one direction it took. Another was science fiction. Whole worlds dried up in Dune say or The Man Who Fell to Earth - he fell to Earth to find water for his dying planet. There was also the western in which man's frontier conquests were often sidetracked on dusty trails where Mother Nature proved as deadly as any bullet.  UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR    Do not move. I will be right back. I will get the water. Do not die like that pig. And Blondie here's water. Water Blondie?  More recently Mel Gibson gave us Apocalypto a historical allegory in which the Mayan civilization combats drought with human sacrifice. And last year an animated lizard by the name of Rango tackled a very contemporary environmental disaster. This drought is caused not by nature but by corporate and political greed.    Someone is dumping water in the desert. I seen it with my own eyes!    Water in the desert! Was this during one of your special times?   No.  Different as these storylines are they share a common thread one that audiences can identify with whether they have suffered the deprivations of hot dry weather themselves or only ever thirsted on the way to the refreshment stand. That common thread is resilience. In real life drought is the absence of water. On screen it stands in for other absences - love strength political will family support - the essentials that help us cope when our environment is unforgiving. And what drought films - from Rango to The Grapes of Wrath -  inevitably show in that lonely figure trudging down a dusty highway or that tuft of grass defiant in a barren landscape is the tenacity the simple stubbornness of life.    We sure taken a beating.   I know.  That is what makes us tough.  I am Bob Mondello.    Rich fellas come up they die and their kids as not no good and they die out. But we keep a-coming. We are the people that live. They cannot wipe us out they cannot lick us. We will go on forever Pa 'ecause we are the people. 