 Randy Turner is one of them. He is an eighth grade English teacher at East Middle School in Joplin and he joins me now. Welcome to the program Mr. Turner.  Thank you.  Now this law goes into effect at the end of August. That is just in time for the start of the school year. Why is becoming a Facebook friend with one of your students important to their learning experience? What does it add? And is this something that you have done in the past?  Yes I was a little bit reluctant at first to do it because I am an older teacher. But once I realized the value of being available for things as simple as having them send to me a first draft of one of my writing assignments and me looking it over and tell them if they are heading in the right direction to you know having some kind of concern that they have at home about our work and you know not wanting to put it out there for everyone to see but wanting to get some feedback from the teacher.  And do you have to do that via a Facebook by friending someone? Could not you just use email?  Well what I have found is - and you are absolutely right we could and probably a couple of years ago that would have worked. But kids are rapidly abandoning email. Facebook is - at the moment at least - the thing that they do and very few of them are of communicating via old-fashioned email anymore.  So if you are on Facebook or one of these other social networking sites who asks whom to be their friends? Do you first friend the student or do you make contact with the student if they reach out to you? And is there some protocol for that?  Personally I will not ask a student to be a friend on Facebook. I will accept any student who wants to be a friend on Facebook.  If a teacher were to make direct contact with a student through one of these social networking sites it would happen in a private space. And would a parent feel comfortable if a teacher was calling a student on a cell phone rather than calling the home where that call might be monitored or something like this? I guess it is a question of something happening in daylight as opposed to darkness.  And you know if I were to look at this and say well this is going to protect a lot of kids it would be foolish of me to be against it.  Randy Turner thank you very much. All the best to you in the new school year.  Thank you very much.  Randy Turner is an eighth grade English teacher at East Middle School in Joplin Missouri.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 