 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. The director Kevin Macdonald is probably known for his films like The Last King of Scotland and State of Play but last year he took on a project without a cast or crew or even a script. He posted an appeal on YouTube and he asked anyone interested to record video of anything on a single day July 24 2010. And people in more than 190 countries responded and they uploaded 4500 hours of footage to the site. MacDonald spliced it together and made a feature-length film without any narration the arc of one single day. It is called Life in a Day and it begins as the world is waking up.    Soon in everywhere from Guatemala to Kenya  coffee and eggs.   The result of all that footage is a powerful and often moving window into the life of ordinary people in every corner of the world.  We were looking for stories which resonated and which had some kind of artistic element perhaps to the way they were filmed or more that kind of served as a metaphor for something bigger in life.  One of the characters is a Japanese father and his young son and it is so touching. They are going through the morning routine. That is when we first meet them.       There were a couple of clips that I saw very early on within the first couple of days of things being sent in - because people were asked to film only on this day the 24th of July but they had a week to upload or send in material to us. And one of the first things I saw was this clip of a Japanese father and son going about their morning ritual. And you slowly realize as the clip goes on that they are living alone that the mother in the family is dead. And the little boy says good morning to a shrine to his mother with a picture of her and rings a little bell...   ...lights an incense and say good morning. And then he goes and he sits on the sofa and he drinks some juice and he watches TV. And it is a really heartbreaking little moment but it is also filmed in practically one shot. I think we put a single cut into it. It is a masterful piece of filmmaking maybe unintentionally but it sort of highlights I guess what I would call the aesthetic of amateurism that actually there is a beauty in the kind of the home video style. And as cameras get better and better as we all have better cameras on our cell phones or just at home we can produce something that is sort of you know great high quality and great beauty.  Another one of the standout characters in the documentary is a bicycle rider a Korean cyclist.   My name is Okhwan Yoon. I was born in Korea. I am traveling around the world by bicycle.  He is a sort of patron saint of the film in a way traveling around the world for nine years. He is visited I think also 190-something countries so pretty much the same number of countries that we received clips from. And he utters these very gnomic kind of phrases and he - and one particularly memorable moment is when he is sitting looking at a saucer full of tea and a fly that is landed in the tea and is sort of drowning and swimming around.   I have seen many different size of fly. In North Africa smaller fly than here. But this size is same fly in Korea and in Japan in China. So I feel very emotional.  The fly makes him feel homesick for Korea because it is the same kind of fly they have in Korea. So it is really comic but also touching.  The thing about this film is that not a whole lot happened on July 24 2010. And in fact there is a character who says at the end of the film that not much happened. But then  the birth of a giraffe and a child being breastfed by his mother and a young boy learning how to shave and all these different things happening around the world at the same time.  Yeah. It is all happening at the same time. And I think in some ways watching the film is quite a philosophical experience. You know it makes you change the way you see the world and it certainly has changed the way I see the world and made me realize I suppose the cultural differences which are the things we are mostly preoccupied by it seems you know that this religion versus that religion you know this political problem. Those things are actually the superficialities of life and that when you ask people what do you love everyone loves their family and their children. Of course. It seems banal but it is actually like the heart of what life is.  That is true. Yeah. Yeah.  And likewise you know we all are going to go through the same basic experience. We are all going to be born. We are all going to experience childhood. We are all going to experience loss. We are going to get ill and ultimately we are going to die. And that is what we are frightened of. And those are the same things - those fundamental building blocks are the same everywhere in the world and that is what I kind of learned from it.  That is director Kevin MacDonald. His new documentary Life in a Day opens Friday. Kevin thank you so much.  Very nice to talk to you. 