 Spike Lee's new movie BlacKkKlansman is believe it or not based on a true story. It is about an African-American police officer who in the 1970s went undercover to infiltrate the Ku Klux Klan by joining it. Critic Bob Mondello says the film is both funny and pointed.  Colorado Springs is about to hire a new police officer. His name - Ron Stallworth.  ISIAH WHITLOCK JR.  There is never been a black cop in this city. We think you might be the man to open things up around here.  Open things up he does. Looking through a newspaper at his desk he sees a Ku Klux Klan recruitment ad. There is a phone number so he calls it.    This is Ron Stallworth calling. Who am I speaking with?   This is David Duke.   Grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan - that David Duke?   Last time I checked. What can I do you for?   Well since you asked I hate blacks. I hate Jews Mexicans and Irish.  Every head in the precinct has now turned to watch Ron.    But my mouth to God's ears I really hate those black rats and anyone else really that does not have pure white Aryan blood running through their veins.   I am happy to be talking to a true white American.   God bless white America.  As the camera lingers on the faces of the white policemen director Spike Lee gets the laugh he is looking for - not the first and certainly not the last since Stallworth played by John David Washington is quickly invited to a meeting of the Klan's local chapter which presents an obvious problem.    We need a white officer to play me when they meet face to face.   Can you do that?   With the right white man you can do anything.  The right white man turns out to be Flip Zimmerman played by Adam Driver who attends the meeting...    Are you for the white race friend?   Oh hell yeah.  ...And tries to get the lay of the land...    What kind of stuff do you guys do?   Cross burnings marches.  ...Attracting attention in the process.    You ask too many questions. Are you undercover or something?  This is not a comic question obviously. There is serious tension in BlacKkKlansman's situation and the film embraces the shifts in mood with shifts in filmmaking style Lee actually couching his arguments in a kind of shorthand history of Hollywood's treatment of race. He includes scenes from Gone With The Wind and Birth Of A Nation has characters discuss '70s blaxploitation films and gives his hero a bit of Shaft's swagger. And in grander scenes he shift gears entirely sometimes to deliver cathartic broadsides...    We must unite and organize to fight racism.   All power.  ...Other times to evoke a gentler sort of power as when in this very speech civil rights activist Stokely Carmichael talks of internalizing white standards of beauty and the screen fills with Lee's quietly devastating response - close-ups of the young black faces looking up at Carmichael halos of soft light caressing cheekbones. Identity is central to BlacKkKlansman and not just black identity. Flip Zimmerman Ron's partner in the police ruse initially thinks his identity is not a factor.    For you it is a crusade. For me it is a job.  But being Jewish he has a reckoning of sorts.    You are taking this Jew lie detector test.   They hate you. Does not that piss you off? Why are you acting like you as not got skin in the game?  Lee's point of course is that we have all got skin in this game. He may depict '70s Klan members as bozos with hood fetishes - hateful yes but amusingly incompetent. He does that though to soften us up for some harrowing juxtapositions chief among them Stallworth's Klan induction intercut with an excruciating recounting of a Klan lynching. Lee uses that look back to setup a head-spinning flash forward to the Trump era. There is a reason BlacKkKlansman is opening this weekend one year nearly to the day after the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville. If hate groups were insidious four decades ago argues Lee in his most ferociously entertaining and just plain ferocious film in years how much more dangerous are they today? I am Bob Mondello.    Segregation determination demonstration integration aggravation humiliation obligation to my nation. Ball of confusion. 