 I am Robert Siegel.  I am Melissa Block. And this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  Please forgive me Lady Perriham he said. He pecked at each word in a remote academical fashion like a fastidious bird pretending to despise the seed it eats. That is a line from a murder mystery called The Empty Chair that is being serialized by The Strand magazine a quarterly that bills itself the magazine for mystery and short story lovers. They are the words of Graham Greene the great 20th century English novelist who died in 1991. Greene left behind boxes of yellowing manuscripts in which he had written in longhand. And The Empty Chair was written in 1926 when he was 22. It was never published and apparently completely forgotten until professor Francois Gallix found it in one of those boxes. Professor Gallix is professor emeritus of contemporary English literature at the Sorbonne in Paris. He now joins us along with Andrew Gulli who is managing editor of The Strand. Professor Gallix and Andrew Gulli both welcome to the program.  Hello Robert and Andrew. Nice talking to you. Mr.  Hi Robert.  First Professor Gallix The Empty Chair was written in 1926. Is it fair to say that this is not the work of the mature Graham Greene who wrote novels like The Power and the Glory or The Human Factor? Prof.  Certainly not no. It is the work of a young man of 22. But this is one of the first surprises the qualities that are already there that mean that obviously Greene was already using this short story as a sort of laboratory. It is extremely well-constructed. It is a puzzle. And there are links between the various pieces. There is a lot of humor as well. Most of the novella is written tongue-in-cheek.  Professor Gallix you found this story in a place that I did not know it is where all of Graham Greene's papers are in Austin Texas. Prof.  Yes. I got a Fulbright fellowship for Austin and I looked at all his manuscripts. And I found this manuscript that had been forgotten by everyone because it is not mentioned in any of Greene's biography.  And yet for all of these hints of the novelist Graham Greene who is yet to come the first chapter is set at dinner at an elegant English country house where the body of one of the guests is found upstairs in the bedroom. It is a clich of an English detective story. Prof.  Well it is a constraint. That is the whole point of detective stories. So obviously we have much more than just an Agatha Christie novel. The setting is there certainly.  Andrew Gulli your magazine The Strand magazine is serializing The Empty Chair. How many chapters of Greene's own work do you have? And how many issues will that take to publish? Mr.  We have five chapters. The first four chapters are about 4000 words each but the fifth chapter ends rather abruptly. It is only 900 words. So we will be publishing it in the next four issues of the magazine. And Chapter 4 and 5 will be published in the summer issue of next year. They will be combined.  And then you are actually as I understand it you are going to find someone to finish this unfinished Graham Greene detective story. Mr.  Well the talk is either about having a contest where people will -writers will submit their own ending to the novel or of having a professional writer complete the novel.  Who are those writers who come to mind? Mr.  Well I was thinking of either John le Carre or a writer like Alexander McCall Smith.  Professor Gallix after you had found this story the manuscript at University of Texas in Austin the first chapter was published last year by The Times of London. And at one point  Can you guess which famous writer wrote this first chapter? And I just wonder if you had not found it in a box of manuscripts among Graham Greene's papers but rather had been presented with it and been asked the same question would you have guessed a-ha it is the young Graham Greene? Prof.  That is a very good question. Well in fact The Times asked three experts and very well-known experts from the various prizes to give their opinion and nobody guessed. One of them even said Greene? Certainly not. But no myself I would have had - it is unfair. It is very difficult of course because he was 22.  Well Francois Gallix of the Sorbonne and Andrew Gulli of The Strand magazine thanks to both of you for talking with us about it. Prof.  Thank you for inviting me. Mr.  Thank you.  Francois Gallix spoke to us from Nice and Andrew Gulli from Southfield Michigan. They were talking about the publication the serialization in The Strand magazine of the recently discovered Graham Greene detective story called The Empty Chair. 