 Movies generally take a couple years to get from concept to screen so when a film seems timely that is almost always a matter of luck. Critic Bob Mondello says by that measure the film She Dies Tomorrow is very lucky.  Amy has just bought a house and has been getting her life together - or so her pal Jane thought until Amy says she wants to be made into a leather jacket when she dies tomorrow.    I want to be useful in death.   Here. Drink that.   I do not want that.   You are going to die if you keep relapsing.   That is not what is happening.  To be clear Amy is not sick or suicidal or even particularly depressed. She is just possessed by an absolute certainty.    I am kind going to die tomorrow.   I cannot sit here and watch you get wasted. I am going to leave. And you are going to call me tomorrow.   There is no tomorrow for me.  Jane goes home. But within the hour she is doing the calling because whatever Amy's got...    Yeah hi...  ...It is catchy.    I feel like you put this idea of dying in my head and now I am paranoid. And you are not calling me back.  Feelings of mortality spread by physical proximity. Talk about capturing the moment. Capturing it let us note with moody atmospherics hallucinatory flashes of color unsettling editing and surprisingly often humor as when Jane shows up at her sister-in-law's birthday celebration.    Hey. I thought you were not coming.   No but then I decided to come.   You are wearing your pajamas.   Yes. Well they are floral.  Yes well she is rattled. And by the time she leaves the party guests are rattled too. Imagine how rattled filmmaker Amy Seimetz must have been when she realized that to reach audiences her movie about existential dread gone viral would have to overcome existential dread of a virus.    Going to happen for me.   You do not know that.   Yeah I do just like I know if I drop this it is going to break.   Seimetz knows from broken when it comes to movies. Her only previous feature won an IndieWire Critics Poll for Best Undistributed Film a few years back. She brought this one to South by Southwest in March hoping to find a distributor only to have its premiere canceled with the rest of the festival. The universe laughing? Well if so the filmmaker gets the last laugh. You cannot watch She Dies Tomorrow in drive-ins this weekend and streaming next without experiencing an anxiety that bleeds right into the anxiety we are all feeling these days about a plague that spreads from person to person when you get too close and about fear that festers when you are alone with your thoughts as all of us increasingly are. I am Bob Mondello. 