 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am David Greene. There is not a whole lot Danny DeVito has not done in show business. He was - of course - the crass despicable yet strangely lovable cab dispatcher Louie De Palma in the '70s sitcom Taxi.    I have one very firm rule in my life. I do not eat at the same table bet on the same side or climb on the same airplane as losers. Be gone Iggy.   When Taxi went off the air in the early 1980s DeVito continued acting in films and he also tried his hand at directing also producing. Pulp Fiction and Erin Brockovich are just a couple of the films he had a hand in. Then just a few years ago Danny DeVito went back to the small screen to a little foul-mouth cable show about five self-centered misfits - four young and one old - who run a bar in South Philly. It is called It is Always Sunny in Philadelphia.    Try this on for size. Your mother is dead.   What?   Oh my God.   No she is not dead. We are getting divorced though.   Why? What?   Well why would you say that she is dead?   That is a business tactic. You drop the bomb then you soften the blow. You never tried this?   That is a terrible business tactic.   You are a horrible father.  To mark the show is new season on FX and to find out a little bit about what drew Danny DeVito back to television I reached out to the actor. He told me he just felt this connection to the role the show offered him of Frank Reynolds.  I have got a reputation already a little bit of like you know just being out and saying things whatever come out of my mouth.  No.  They said it was a character - that it is a guy who is done a lot of things in his life right who is been very successful. It was a guy who wanted something new something different. He was kind of in a rut in a way. Looking for something that is like challenging yet get your feet out of bed in the morning and feel like boy I cannot wait to take the bull by the horns and have a great time today. I found it paralleling my life in a really interesting way. You know I still like you know producing movies. I still like acting in a movie and you know if a movie comes along that I want to direct today - I am offered to direct I still want to do that. That is really a lot of fun. I have a lot of dough. I have got a nice house. I have got great kids. I have got a great wife. I have got a great life period. Now all of a sudden this thing comes along which is like a gift and it is the show where you can let your hair down so to speak. I only have hair around the sides of my head but I do let it down.  I see it. It is sticking out there in the show.   Yeah it is sticking - yeah. And it is like you know - and there is an energy that some people recognize - and a lot of people do - about being around young people. Like you get into your 60s and you are allowed to play in a creative way. And it is been you know just a blast. It is just like...   ...it is crazy.  Well I want to - we are having this sort of calm conversation about Frank your character but I want to play just a little bit of it to show our listeners how...  Oh sure.  ...absolutely insane he can be in the show.  Mm-hmm.    How you feeling?   Annoyed.   It is not kicking in yet?   What are you talking about the beer?   No the acid.   I did not take any acid remember?   Oh yeah you did.    What are you talking about?   I put a  of it in your beer.   What?   Yeah.   Is that what all those little pieces of paper were floating in my beer? I drank all that  dude.   That is okay.   There was like a ton of acid in there.   Yeah.   Why would you do that?   I do not want to be the only one tripping.   Oh my God man.  I mean Danny you are tripping. You are drunk.   I mean this guy is kind of crazy. But you are saying...  Yeah.  ...it is a fun release.  You know I think I am the only one on the show - in 1967 when the Summer of Love was going on you guys were not even around. I mean I was you know in the middle of it all coming out to California - you know running around like I was in Midsummer Night's Dream or something.   You know? So I was - I am probably the only one up there who is ever tried the little tablet or the wonderful door-opening acid.  Yeah. But let me ask you about - I want to hear you talk a little bit more about hanging out with these 30-somethings on the show. I mean do you guys get along? Do they look up to you like a father?  Oh yeah we get along.  What is the...  Well it is not...  ...what is the dynamics?  No there is a great duality. First of all they are artists. They are really - it is really like they are very - and I would tell you in a second and I would not be having a good time if they were not totally dedicated to the work. I guess the first time I knew I was in another arena was when Glenn Howerton tweaked my nipple.   You know it is just like well...  That did not happen back in the Taxi days?  No. There was nobody walking around tweaking nipples. It is like a kind of a thing that people do nowadays. You know there is a lot of like kind of - there is a lot of sexual innuendo.  There is a generational gap?  It is a little bit of a gap but not you know - I mean we did - you know I was of the '60s the sexual revolution. That was the Summer of Love man. What the hell are you - well you cannot say what it really was - the summer of lust. But the idea is that to do it like you know just walk up to somebody and say hey good morning and grab your nipple - it is like something you know you did not do.  You have got to get used to that.  But I got used to it now. I really like it. I look forward to it.  Are you doing it back to them?  Oh yeah.  Good.  Yeah. Good morning. Tweak. Yeah.   Take a bow.  Well I have heard you talk about a movie like Pulp Fiction I mean a huge blockbuster and you decided to have faith in Quentin Tarantino. And you said this is a young director I want to support a young director and help him you know really explode. I mean is that what you are doing here in some ways? Are you trying to pass on a gift to the next generation and then...  Well...  ...help them sort of get their footing?  I will tell you what it is. It is like you are - and I do not mean to sound like you know humble pie and all this kind of stuff but you really are given a gift. With Pulp Fiction I was given a gift and I knew it was something special and I wanted to be part of it okay? I knew it was a guy's vision Quentin's vision and I wanted to be part of it and...  And you produced the movie which is -  Yes. Yes. And I helped get it made. And it worked really well. And it worked - it was a - this is the same - it is a similar kind of thing. But I am really getting a double satisfaction about you know not only am I with them every day you know pitching and having a good time I am also up there on the - I am on the screen. I am on the - I am in the show. And that is really important to me.  Danny DeVito you and your wife Rhea Perlman - of course you were Louie in Taxi she was Carla in Cheers. I mean it is tough...  That is right.  ...to think of more enduring characters in...  Mm-hmm.  ...American sitcom. I mean to what extent does this at least give you a sense of you know hanging on? You know you are late in your career and you are...  Oh man. Oh God it just gives you a sense of you know personally you are proud of it all. You love being part of the community. It is that old thing. You know somebody says what is it like? It is like a big cathedral. I do not know who said it. And what you are doing is you are putting your brick into the cathedral. You are very fortunate to have those things happen to you and you have a good time doing it. And I keep saying it is a gift and it is.  Danny this has been a real pleasure. Thank you for talking to us.  Thank you so much.  That is Danny DeVito. The new season of It is Always Sunny in Philadelphia premieres this Thursday on FX.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 