 Lake Bell has acted in the movies It is Complicated What Happens in Vegas No Strings Attached. She is been on television on HBO's How to Make It in America and the TV series Boston Legal. And she is now starring in a movie that she has written and directed. It is called In a World as in...    In a world...   ...where a hybrid breed of mutant male savages...  ...are feeding on the barren lands of Mother Earth...   ...a time where mankind has been replaced by womankind.  That is right. In a World is a comedy about voicing movie trailers and Lake Bell's character Carol is roughly the voice-over is what Rocky was to boxing. And Lake Bell joins us now from NPR West. Welcome to the program.  Hello and welcome.   I suppose I am actually selling you short with the Rocky analogy. This is a moving story of female empowerment that you have written.  Indeed indeed. Though I personally am not someone who likes to be preached to so I always hope that you know if I do have a message that perhaps it is with a good sense of humor and not too soap-boxy just a little suds on you to get the message across.  But the idea of actually being the voice that would do movie trailers like the late Don LaFontaine who is famous for the phrase in a world.  In a world.   This was actually a past ambition of yours or current ambition of yours.  Clearly it is still an ambition. I get in front of this microphone right now and I get very excited. But I was always interested in the idea that the omniscient voice was always considered male. This sound that is telling you what to buy what to think how to feel about what bank to have or what kind of car or what movie to see. So I thought it would be an interesting protagonist to have a female vocal coach who would sort of aspire to take on this world.  I want to ask you about one scene in the film. We will play a little clip from it. Here your character is approached by a young woman who asks her as best we can make it out where she can find a smoothie.    You know where I can get a smoothie around here?   I am sorry. I...   Sorry. I did not hear what you said.   I said I do not know where you would get a smoothie around here at all. I am so sorry.   Oh. OK. Thanks so much.   Yeah. No worries.  Later you tell her that she talks like a squeaky toy.  Yes. OK. So here OK small soap-box moment. I have been personally ruptured and unsettled by the trend the vocal trend that I call sexy baby vocal virus talking. So it is this is - not only is it pitch so really high up but it is also a dialect. It is like a speech pattern that includes uptalking and fry so it is this amalgamation of really unsavory sounds that many young women have adopted. It is a pandemic in my opinion.  And if you put all those together it would sound like?  It would sound like this and like we would just have this way of speaking. And it is not necessarily that I am like stupid. It is just that what I am saying makes me sound less than. And so for me I find that - like I cannot have people around me that speak that way and mainly because I am a woman and I grew up thinking a female voice and sound should sound sophisticated and sexy and a la Lauren Bacall or Anne Bancroft or Faye Dunaway you know? Not a 12-year-old little girl that is submissive to the male species.  Lake Bell was actually born Lake Siegel Bell. Her father is named Harvey Siegel but she says her mother got the last name in the divorce settlement. Her father bought auto racetracks in Virginia and New Jersey giving her enough experience of fast cars to write reviews of Porsches and Maseratis for the Hollywood Reporter. She once wrote when I was a little girl my dad always told me I should never settle but he was referring to high-performance vehicles and not the more sentimental topics that another might address. Bell studied acting in England where she honed an uncanny gift for voices.  I do not know if you hear someone who has a telephone voice you know and people are saying hey yeah hold on let me - yeah I am going to get to you in a second let me just - I got to take this call really quick. Hello. Hey. How are you? OK cool. I will call you back. Sorry. So what were you saying? It is amazing. There is a full octave goes down once you get off the phone. We have voices for different people. For me when I do interviews I speak lower than I would elsewhere especially if I am on a panel with a lot of guys I end up speaking like down here.   It is so physical it is crazy. But it is an amazing tool and I always loved the idea of voice-over being this blind voice. It is like you can be different sexes. You can be different nationalities. You could be you know it is incredible. It is the ultimate acting in a way.  Well Lake Bell it is been a pleasure talking with you.  Thank you so much for having me.  Lake Bell directed wrote and stars in the new film In a World or I should say in a world. And you know it is not as dramatic as saying in a world  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. Would you have oblige us and possibly you know say it in a way that might make the BBC envious?  Oh. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.   That was very good.  Look I will do 12 others for you.   What about you are listening - how about like south east London?  Sure sure.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  You could do it in the squeaky toy voice.  Oh yeah. I could totally do that. Let me - hang on. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 