 Now to the world of television. Cameron Crowe the director and writer behind the film's Almost Famous and Jerry Maguire returns to the music business Sunday for his new Showtime series Roadies. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans watched the first episode of Roadies with real life roadies.  As a critic I am usually crafting stories about what I think on a television program. But for Cameron Crowe's new comedic drama Roadies centered on a group of technicians for a fictional rock band I thought it might be best to hear from people who actually do the work. Doug Redler who is worked as a guitar technician for the B-52s Hall and Oates Slash and currently the Dixie Chicks had a pretty succinct review.  Unfortunately I found the show completely unrealistic and it was really difficult to watch. It really had nothing to do with the ins and outs of what takes place on the show day the hard work it takes the long hours that make a rock show happen.  Redler had problems with the show from its very first scene which features Luke Wilson's tour manager Bill Hanson hooking up with a young lady who is the promoter's daughter.    You.   Hey you.   No you you. You are probably the oldest person I have ever  and I loved it. I mean like I love how you are not just some young dude you know? You are like one of those old lions at the zoo.   You can stop there.  You know so immediately you made us look like that is our prime purpose you know and the sole purpose for being on the road. It is not like it used to be back in the days and I think it is just the time's just not - just not the business.  One of the show is key characters is electrician Kelly Ann played by Imogen Poots. She tells road manager Phil played in a wonderfully crusty cameo by Ron White that she is decided to leave the roadie life for film school.    I do not hear the music the same way. I do not feel like it is mine anymore.   Well I feel the same way about my dog but I am not giving her away. It comes and goes sweetheart.   I have to be a fan of something or I am useless. My whole belief thing is - it is just starting to crack.  That is just - it seems completely inaccurate.  That is Shawn Khan a technician who works with jazz fusion guitarist Al Di Meola.  There have been bands that I have toured with that I do not really like the music but I still love the job. You are not there to be a fanboy or a fangirl. You are there to work.  Khan who was a criminal psychologist before he became a roadie does say the show depicts people drawn to the travelling lifestyle which also happens in real life.  I do feel like there is a certain level of escapism in being a roadie and being somebody that is constantly traveling. And it is an escape from what I would call like the mundane stuff in life.  Carl Hughes a technician who is worked with Bruce Springsteen and Megadeth loved Roadies partly because the Kelly Ann character is just like him. He also thinks the show explains a bit of the job for those who do not get it recalling a Christmas card a fellow roadie got from his mother.  And she is like after 45 years I wish you would get a real job. I still do not know what you do for a living and how you get your money. Like they said most people never know what we do.  I had my own problems with Roadies. It had too many topless women throwing themselves at men too many obvious plots and stuff about the authenticity of music that felt sappy and inauthentic. As my panel of technicians noted Cameron Crowe got some of the little things right even if the series overall was a bit of a mess. And for workers who toil in the background unsung maybe a show that gets a few things right about their lives is better than nothing at all. I am Eric Deggans. 