 Thanks for listening. It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Eric Westervelt. When actor Philip Seymour Hoffman died of a heroin overdose in February he left behind several unreleased films. His most significant role - the haggard German intelligence agent Gunter Bachmann in the spy thriller A Most Wanted Man. Here he is in the scene with actress Robin Wright.    You ever ask yourself that question - why we do what we do?   Sometimes. But I always come back to the same answer.   And what is it?   Make the world a safer place.  Hoffman's character leads a fictional intelligence unit that is tasked with recruiting informants within the Islamic community to uncover terrorist plots. The film's based on the 2008 John LeCarre novel by the same name. It is set in Hamburg Germany more than 10 years after 911. It is a riveting spy thriller but one without explosions chases and kung fu fighting. Director Anton Corbijn says one of his goals was to capture the mundane intensity in the art of spycraft.  People get so used to spy films being like Jason Bourne or James Bond. And of course they make great action films that way. But it is not so close to reality.  The film comes out at a delicate time following revelations of NSA spying on ordinary Americans civil liberties concerns and Germany's recent expulsion of America's CIA station chief for recruiting agents within the German government.  One of the reasons that I wanted to make the film is that after 911 I think the polarization of the world has taken another pace. And what worries me is that we judge people so very quickly you know as to be good or bad. is scary. And in the movie we look at the person and think well if 1 percent of this person is bad does it make the person 100 percent bad? And some people in the film think that is the case. And other people - it is difficult when there is no middle ground anymore where we can judge people properly.  In real life Anton Mohamed Atta and other 911 conspirators did plan and plot attacks based out of Hamburg. They sort of hid in plain sight in that city. In your movie A Most Wanted Man I mean is that embarrassment sort of still hanging over the characters in the film?  Yes. I think that is why there are two secret services working kind of together. They split the secret services up in order to avoid missing these kind of signs. And the main character Bachman played by Philip Seymour Hoffman is a sort of alternative if you like - part of the secret services that has its own way to do things.    Your choice is between us and nobody. The clock is ticking.  The film stars the late Philip Seymour Hoffman. And you are relatively new to feature film directing. I mean how was it working with Hoffman? Did it click right away or did it take a bit of work?  Great actors all have their own way of working and their own insecurities. As much as directors have I guess. So you always have to feel each other out as it were when you start working together. But after a while we knew exactly where we were standing I think. I so enjoyed working him and it was such a delight to watch him take on that character. You know as a photographer I guess I could watch him for hours just smoking a cigarette.  Right. I want to play a clip for you of Hoffman talking about working with you from a promotional video.   If I need to go to him for help he will give what he can. But he also will let me do what I need to do to kind of get where I need to go. He just does not get your way and in fact he lets you run with the ball.  I mean were there things that he needed help with that he came to you for Anton?  Probably small things you know. It is not unlike my photography - I direct to a degree and let people be themselves. So Philip knew that character better than anybody. I think maybe knew him better even than John le Carre. It was scary how he inhabited that person so fully. In a way it was more a sign of an amazing actor to make the ordinary extraordinary rather than creating an eccentric figure.  Well it is a terrific performance and in your film he plays this intense hard drinking agent sort of on the edge of a wipeout. And he is looks pretty you know physically rough in the movie. How much of that was for the role as an actor versus what we know now as his real-life demons and problems?  Well I mean the physicality is what he did bring to the role. I always wanted the Bachman character to have a physique not unlike Philip's. And there may be are some similarities to how he lived at the time which makes it a little harder to watch for me knowing that in hindsight. But for the character it was fantastic of course. Maybe he let some of the own life spilling through that character.  Well I found it all the more poignant and powerful knowing that this was his last role. And it is hard not to look at his performance through the lens at least a little bit of his own personal struggles. But is that unfair for viewers to look at Hoffman's art in part through his personal life?  Well it is very hard to erase something that you know. But I like to think that Philip's performance is amazing full stop whatever happens. And it is worth watching just for the performance alone.  It seems like your work as a photographer obviously deeply affects how you approach directing films. But do you ever find these two things less than incompatible where you are the sort of photographer self wants to linger longer than say producers would want you to?  Yeah. Yes. yes. You know I am a very European kind of director. And as soon as Americans get involved my films start to be called slow. But especially with this film I wanted the film to have an urgency. And I used handheld camera. But a step from being a photographer to a filmmaker was harder and much less logic than people assume I think.  So you have done several terrific films but you feel like you are still learning still growing as a filmmaker?  Oh I like to think so yeah.  Film director Anton Corbijn's new film is A Most Wanted Man. Anton thanks so much for talking with us.  Oh my pleasure.  And for Saturday that is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. Thanks for listening. I am Eric Westervelt. 