 It all started with A Is For Alibi then came B Is For Burglar C Is For Corpse and on and on through the alphabet for mystery novelist Sue Grafton and her main character the spunky female detective Kinsey Millhone. And now Sue Grafton has her latest book out Y Is For Yesterday which by the way is out on Tuesday leaving only one more letter one more novel to wrap up 35 years Sue worth of murder mayhem and mystery. Sue Grafton joins me from member station WFPL in Louisville her home town. Thank you for joining us.  You are welcome. It is fun.  Well I guess my first question is why Sue why? Get it like you know the letter Y. Sorry.  What was I thinking? Well I got into the alphabet. I do not know if you are aware of this. My father wrote crime fiction. He was an attorney here in town but he was crazy about detective novels. So he wrote and published two of a projected eight-book series. At any rate I was reading an Edward Gorey cartoon book called The Gashlycrumb Tinies. And that is little pen-and-ink drawings of Victorian children being done in in various ways. A is for Amy  who fell down the stairs. B is for Basil  assaulted by bears. C for Claire  who - you know and on down the alphabet. I thought what a keen idea. So I sat down and wrote out as many crime-related words as I could think of. But I was not even sure I could sell A Is For Alibi. And if I sold it I was not sure anybody'd be interested in B Is For Burglar. So it was a crapshoot but I would been working in Hollywood for 15 years. I thought I have got to get back to solo writing. So the detective novel's the perfect way to launch myself.  Yeah solid writing. You actually stuck with the same character for all these books a female detective named Kinsey Millhone. Tell us a little bit about her for those who do not know her.  I will do. So for one thing it dawned on me early that if she aged one year for every book it was going to start looking silly. And so she ages one year for every two and a half books. So when I started she was 32 and I was 42. Now she is 39 and I am 77. So there is a little bit of injustice there but she is single. She is been married twice. She has no kids no pets no house plants. She has one dress that she thinks is perfectly suitable for funerals and weddings and trips to the library. So she is very unpretentious. And she is very grounded. She is actually my alter ego. She is the person I might have been had I not married young and had children except she will always be braver. I am really appalled by violence and avoid it at all costs.  Has she changed over the decades?  Some people claim she has mellowed. I do not have a way to make that judgment because I write from the gut and from the heart. So she is - I think she is pretty consistent which is to say jaded and sassy and cussing like a sailor.  Which of course you do not do.  Oh no absolutely not.  Well let us talk about the latest book Y Is For Yesterday. Walk us through the plot.  Well the origin was a case that happened in Santa Barbara where a kid was picked up because his brother owed 1500 to a drug dealer. And eventually he was shot and killed up in the mountains. Second part of the plot was from a case down in Orange County where some kids - always kids - assaulted a girl and filmed it and then circulated this bunch of photographs which she knew nothing about until somebody told her. So they ended up going to court. So I juxtaposed the two.  So you have drawn this story your fictional story based on true life events?  Which I do not often do. True life real crime is so stupid. It is without subtlety. It is usually alcohol-fueled and impetuous. And people are not as smart as they think they are but people get killed anyway.  Sue what is it about these stories do you think that grabs readers the most?  Well I hope - my intention is never to write the same book twice. I read series. And after book two or three I can see what the setup is. So that kind of spoils it for me. But if I repeated myself I would be considered shallow and not very imaginative.  Well we are heading towards the end of the alphabet here Sue. One more letter to go.  I know. Please.  How do you feel about getting to the end of the alphabet?  I am looking forward to it to tell you the truth. Everybody I know is retired and I am still plugging along. I think it will be interesting to have a day and a week and a month and a year that is not already spoken for. The last actually 38 years I have known exactly what I am doing next. And this is a little moment of freedom if I can come up with a storyline for Z Is For Zero which remains to be seen.  Z Is For Zero. So that is supposed to come out - what? - a year and a half or so?  Yeah. Well good luck. We will see if I figure out how to do it. But I am always in this position. I am always wracking my brain trying to come up with one more interesting storyline. So having done it 25 times all I have to do is one more.  That is all you keep telling yourself right? One more.  Yeah exactly.  It has been a hoot talking with you Sue Grafton. Her latest is Y Is For Yesterday which is out on Tuesday. Sue thank you so much for taking the time out.  You are welcome.  