 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. This is what flying sounds like.  Three two one see you.   Almost a year ago Mark Sutton climbed to the peak of the Eiger in Switzerland and jumped. Instead of falling Sutton glided. He was wearing a wingsuit that expanded making him look like a giant flying squirrel. After several minutes he landed among friends in a field far below.  Hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo my God. These suits are just amazing.  Mark Sutton was an experienced sky-diver. He was also the stunt man who flew into the Olympic Stadium in London during the opening ceremony dressed as James Bond. Sutton died earlier this month on a wingsuit jump from a helicopter in Switzerland. Since then at least two more men have died in wingsuit jumps Mario Richard and Alvaro Bulto. Clearly this kind of wingsuit jumping is an extreme sport. But just how dangerous is it? Well Dr. Omer Mei-Dan is an orthopedist who specializes in sports medicine at the University of Colorado Medical School. Dr. Mei-Dan welcome to the program. DR.  Hey how are you?  You have addressed this question of how dangerous it. How common is death in a wingsuit?  Unfortunately very common. In the past month or so we have seen more than 10 fatalities. The majority nine out of 10 were using wingsuits.  You actually have written a scholarly article about this and looked at 39 deaths of people who were using wingsuits. And I gather that death was as often caused by hitting a cliff or in one case a building on the way down as hitting the ground at the end of the jump.  That is correct. And one of the main thing with proximity flying meaning jumping off a cliff with a wingsuit and trying as opposed to fly away from the cliff fly next to the cliff and trying to out-fly various geographical features you have to judge the flight path way before you are actually getting there and trying to out-fly that specific feature. And if you have like the smallest mistake you can actually impact the cliff quite easily.  How faster people falling in that descent?  Anywhere between 90 to 140 miles per hour.  I should say here BASE jumping the BASE here is an acronym which describes the fixed points people jumped from. BASE is buildings antennas spans and the Earth. You have done this?  Oh hundreds of hundreds of times.  And how would you describe the sensation of doing it?  Oh it is almost indescribable. It is something that you really have to try - even so you know it is very hard - to understand what the feeling you get once you are free-falling just next to a cliff or next to a building in the middle of the night. And the problem with BASE jumping specifically with proximity flying with a wingsuit is there is no second chance. There is no margin for error at all whatsoever. So the slightest mistake would be a death.  In one of the YouTube videos about BASE jumping in these wingsuits or squirrels suits a jumper named Jeb Corliss has a near fatal accident jumping off Table Mountain in Cape Town South Africa. His friend and fellow jumper Joby Ogwyn says and I am quoting All of our friends are dead from climbing or BASE jumping or wingsuit flying. They have all been wiped out. It is kind of just a few of us left. Does this story fit into the category of when bad things happen to crazy people who are taking ridiculous risks?  It is very hard for me to relate to crazy people or ridiculous risks. And Jeb Corliss is one of my best friends. We have been jumping together for almost 15 years now. And the thing is that most of these guys are guys with a lot of knowledge and experience. But sometimes like every extreme sport out there they are trying to push the envelope. And when you push the envelope and you do not have again margin for error you pay for it.  You can stay comfortably inside the envelope in this sport and still be doing something incredibly dangerous.  Well you know everybody obviously perceive it to be differently. You can find BASE jumps which are more casual and less put you into a position where you can actually die. And we usually when we look at a new jump we look at the percentage - how we perceive that percentage of surviving that jump. Jeff and myself jumped the Eiffel Tower and it was a very dangerous jump but we both managed to survive it because we planned it well.  When we speak of Mark Sutton and Mario Richard as people who died doing this are they two out of thousands of people who do this sort of thing or two out of a couple of hundred people who do it? How many people are engaged in this?  We do not have like an actual registration of how many people are doing it. But we assume you know with personal communication with the guys who are actually manufacturing these wingsuits that there is about 3000 BASE jumpers. And I would say that maybe out of these less than 10 percent actually utilize wingsuits to jump off cliffs.  You are talking about about 300 people or so...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...of whom there are commonly deaths.  Yeah we lose about six to seven percent a year.  You are a father of three.  Yeah I am a father of three.  Have you push the envelope as far as you care to push it? Or would you still try to make your jumps higher faster farther?  I have definitely modified my jumping regime since I had my kids. I keep one jumping but yeah I can definitely say that having a family having kids made me look at things a little bit differently.  Well Dr. Omer Mei-Dan of the University of Colorado Medical School thanks a lot for talking with us.  Thank you. 