 A lot of people have complicated relationships with their parents and we are going to hear next from someone who is still coming to terms with that seven years after her father's death. This was her dad.   Let me tell you about endangered species all right? Saving endangered species is just one more arrogant attempt to buy humans to control nature. It is arrogant meddling. It is what got us in trouble in the first place. Does not anybody understand that - interfering with nature? Over 90 percent - over - way over 90 percent of all the species that have ever lived on this planet - ever lived - are gone. They are extinct. We did not kill them all.  G.  They just disappeared. That is what nature does.  That is George Carlin. He was called a giant among comedians. Kelly Carlin called him Dad. And in her new memoir she writes about what it was like growing up in the shadow of a comic genius. The title of the book is A Carlin Home Companion but her childhood was unlike anything you would find in Lake Wobegon as NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports.  March 2008 Santa Rosa Calif. George Carlin is taping what will be his last HBO special ranting about overprotective parents.  G.  You know what it is? These baby boomers these soft fruity baby boomers are raising an entire generation of soft fruity kids who are not even allowed to have hazardous toys for Christ's sakes. Hazardous toys. .What ever happened to natural selection? Survival of the fittest? The kid who swallows too many marbles does not grow up to have kids of his own.  G.  Simple as that.  I would sat in the audience listening to this going well of course this disgusts him because you know he was the ultimate laissez-faire parent.  That is putting it nicely. In Kelly Carlin's new book there are some harrowing moments of her as a little girl alone with her mom and famous dad George both of them wasted on drugs and alcohol. K.  We had spent the entire day in the bar in Lahaina so my dad could score some coke and weed.  Here Kelly is 11 years old in a hotel room with her parents in Hawaii. K.  The coke was running low. Mom wanted more and dad would not share. They fought threatened divorce and argued about every trespass they would ever committed against each other in their 14 years together. Then Mom picked up a kitchen knife and Dad did too. I screamed and hurled myself between them. Stop. Stop. Please just stop this.  They did and little Kelly became the adult. K.  I wrote out a U.N.-style peace treaty that stated I George CarlinBrenda Carlin will no longer buy or snort cocaine drink alcohol or argue with each other for the rest of the vacation. The undersigned agrees to these conditions so that we can all have a perfect Hawaiian vacation. I even drew those little lines with their names underneath and they both signed it.  And they both broke it almost immediately. Kelly Carlin writes she spent the rest of the vacation as far away from them as she could and pretended to everyone she met that she was having the perfect Hawaiian vacation. She says very early on she became an expert at figuring out what drugs her parents were on. K.  I could tell. Was Mom drunk? Was she just waking up and have a hangover? Had Dad been up for a few days with cocaine or was he just smoking some weed and he is just you know kind of mellow? Have they been arguing? Are they getting along? Walking on egg shells does not even begin to explain it.  Meantime George Carlin's career was soaring. In the 1970s he was selling out shows on college campuses. His albums were best-sellers. He was a regular on TV like here on The Flip Wilson Show.  G.  Baby what is happening? Que pasa? How is the hippy-dippy weatherman with all the hippy-dippy weather man?  He was stirring up trouble and making history with seven words and became the very first host of a new show called Saturday Night Live.  G.  Football is played in the stadium. Baseball is played in the park.  G.  In football you wear a helmet. Baseball you wear a cap.   George Carlin was high a lot in those days but he was also a perfectionist who worked at his craft incessantly. Jerry Hamza was Carlin's manager and best friend for 35 years.  I would tell people well where is George? He is up in the trees because what he wanted to do was write. He wanted to go away be by himself and write.  When Carlin was not writing he and Hamza were on the road.  I spent more time with him than his wife or his daughter.  At the same time Kelly Carlin says she has many joyful memories of her dad. You can imagine how much fun it would be to watch TV shows like Carol Burnett and Wild Kingdom with George Carlin. K.  Especially the fun animal shows because he would do all the voices and it was way more entertaining than the actual show.  They also bonded around music. K.  The early Stones and Cream and early Van Morrison and The Band was big to Dad.  The first song Kelly Carlin learned to sing was Bungalow Bill from the Beatles' White Album. K.  Because you know there were kids in it you know?  All the children sing. I mean I remember skipping around the house singing the words at the top of my lungs - hey Bungalow Bill who did you kill? Having no idea what that was about.    Hey Bungalow Bill what did you kill? Bungalow Bill.  Reading A Carlin Home Companion you get the sense that growing up the daughter of George Carlin was both a dream and a nightmare. Kelly Carlin writes about her own drug use and the years it took to find her own voice - not easy when your dad's voice is one of the most distinctive in the country. K.  This book has always felt like unfinished business. I wanted to tell my survivor's tale of how I found my way through the chaos.  When George Carlin died in 2008 Kelly says the outpouring from her dad's fans was overwhelming. Comedians who worshiped him shared their grief with her - Garry Shandling Richard Bowser Lewis Black and Jon Stewart among them. K.  My father was gone but I was not alone. I did not have to fear falling down a rabbit hole of grief because these men were stretching out their hearts and declaring we are here for you. I realized that these men were in some ways my father's other children. He had inspired shaped and determined their lives as much as he had shaped mine. They too were his heirs. I felt an instant kinship with them. They were my brothers and uncles. I felt a net of love and light catch me and carry me forward.  Today Kelly Carlin hosts a radio show on Sirius XM. She wrote and performed a one-woman show also called A Carlin Home Companion. She and George Carlin's longtime friend Jerry Hamza are very much the keepers of his legacy. And you can believe she is got a great sense of humor - small wonder with a dad like that. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  G.  I am new wave but I am old-school and my inner child is outward-bound. I am a hotwired heat-seeking warmhearted cool customer voice-activated and biodegradable. I interface on my database. My database is in cyberspace. So I am interactive I am hyperactive and from time to time I am radioactive. 