 It is a big day for Bruce Springsteen fans. The rock star has just released a memoir one of the most anticipated of the year. It follows a compilation album featuring some Springsteen's earliest recordings and some victory lap concerts with his E Street Band. Our critic Will Hermes went to his first Springsteen show in New York City in 1978. He has this review of the book which naturally is titled Born To Run.   How you doing out there tonight?   That is good.  Bruce Springsteen is a master storyteller and if you have ever seen him live you know that his between-song banter can be as riveting as the songs.   When I was growing up me and my dad used to go at it all the time over almost anything.  For this reason I am not surprised that the language of his memoir often sings and leaps off the page with alliteration and pulse especially when he is rhapsodizing about rock 'n' roll like the passage where he describes watching Elvis Presley on The Ed Sullivan Show. He writes  then in a moment of light blinding is a universe birthing a billion new suns there was hope sex rhythm excitement possibility a new way of seeing of feeling of thinking of looking at your body of combing your hair of wearing your clothes of moving and of living. Now I have read plenty of well-researched Springsteen biographies but none have such a compelling voice or this much detail on his formative years in New Jersey his Italian and Irish heritage and his early bands like The Castiles whose recordings appear on the recent compilation CD Chapter And Verse.    Baby I do not need your loving no more. Baby I do not need your kisses no more. Baby I do not need your tender touch. Baby I...  Springsteen's songs show remarkable empathy for their working-class characters. But what is truly remarkable here is the empathy he shows for that character Bruce Springsteen. The book's big reveal has been its frank discussion of the singer's battle with depression including decades of therapy and struggles with medication. As those of us who have gone through this know well it is not easy stuff to talk about for men especially. That one of the world's biggest rock stars writes about it so nakedly makes this memoir important. And that is one reason why this book is not just for Springsteen's super fans. There is also plenty of blue-collar folk wisdom and celebrity rubbernecking opportunities. One involves Frank Sinatra. One involves Mick Jagger and I will not give them away but suffice to say they portray Springsteen as a super fan himself more evidence that he is one of the most relatable rock stars in history as well as one of the greatest.    I was opened to pain and crossed by the rain and I walked on a crooked crutch. Well I strode all alone through a fallout zone and came out with my soul untouched. I hid in the clouded wrath of the crowd but when they said sit down I stood up - oh growin' up.  Bruce Springsteen's memoir is called Born To Run and his compilation album is Chapter And Verse. Our critic is Will Hermes.    I had a jukebox graduate for a first mate. She could not sail but she sure could sing. I pushed B-52 and bombed them with the blues with my gear set stubborn on standing. We broke all the rules and I strapped... 