 A new novel out this month takes readers on a journey through Colombia starting in the late 1960s.  plane crashes drive-by shootings Peace Corps hippies who wind up in some legal trouble and even a loose hippopotamus.  Despite all that there is actually not much plot to this novel. This is more of a metaphysical detective story a book where the events that matter most occur inside the characters. The Sound of Things Falling by Juan Gabriel Vasquez takes place in and around Bogota during the years that buffer the bloom of the drug business and the rise of kingpins like Pablo Escobar. Bogota is cosmopolitan but cold weary from so much corruption and crime. People do not trust one another particularly strangers. Everyone's got a secret. And the book at first seems to function like a potboiler only one that is set to simmer which is too bad. Our narrator Antonio is a junior law professor. He kills time in a pool hall where he meets a mysterious stranger Ricardo Laverde. Turns out Ricardo was a pilot just out of a prison. Why he was jailed though he will not say. Then tragedy strikes. Ricardo was killed. From there our pseudo-gumshoe' backwards into Ricardo's history and forward into its consequences. Our focus is drawn to offbeat particulars not the kilos a trafficker moved but how many elephants he kept in his private zoo or how a single assassination can make headlines. But it is those headlines that terrorize a nation. The Sound of Things Falling is that unique detective story where we are more interested in the narrator's inner life than the mystery surrounding him. Plot-wise this did not turn out to be much of a whodunit at all. But Vasquez has taken the psychological novel and made it political turned mystery fiction into contemporary history. I am usually pretty good at guessing how a book will end but not this time because there is no fancy trick to how Vasquez wraps up his story only a testament to the endurance of flawed ordinary human souls.  The book is The Sound of Things Falling by Juan Gabriel Vasquez. It was reviewed by Rosecrans Baldwin. His latest book is just out in paperback. It is called Paris I Love You but You are Bringing Me Down. And for more updates on books and authors throughout the day you can like NPR books on Facebook and follow us on Twitter. That is nprbooks.   This is NPR News. 