 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. The summer movie season is sputtering to a close. It was a summer of blockbuster sequels that set box-office records. But that does not mean more people went to the movies. Fewer people went and paid higher ticket prices. Well now comes the cooler weather and as our critic Bob Mondello tells us the autumn movie outlook is about to turn more somber especially for one segment of the audience.  Let the grieving begin. Not for everyone just for the loyal fans who will see November as the beginning of the end...  Mr.   Bring him to me.  ...the last novel in the series.  Mr.   I must be the one to kill Harry Potter.  And though Hollywood stretching like mad turning Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows into two movies the end is coming.  Mr.   The boy who lived. Come to die.   Remember when he was just a little tyke playing quidditch? They grow up so fast. So did the troubled teenager sitting in Liverpool in the late 1950s all the time hearing his teachers his aunt everyone tell him he was going nowhere. He is a real nowhere boy named John Lennon.  Mr.   I am going to start a rock 'n' roll group. You have been picked to be in my band. Unidentified Man 1   We do not know how to play. Mr.   You do not have to know. What is important is I have chosen you. I am John. Unidentified Man 2   Oh. Unidentified Woman 1   John your little friend is here.  Nowhere Boy tops a substantial list of true-life stories this fall including Fair Game about Valerie Plame the CIA agent outed by the Bush administration Carlos about the international assassin popularly known as The Jackal Secretariat about the owner of the triple-crown-winning racehorse and perhaps the most eagerly awaited true-life story Social Network about a nebbishy Harvard student who grows up to be a billionaire because of a little thing he cooks up on his computer in his dorm room.  Mr.   I need to do something substantial in order to get the attention of the clubs. Unidentified Woman 2   Why? Mr.   Because they are exclusive and fun and they lead to a better life.  The something substantially he comes up with he calls Facebook.  Mr.   People want to go on the Internet and check out their friends. So why not build a website that offers them friends pictures profiles? I am talking about taking the entire social experience of college and putting it online.   That got 2200 hits within two hours? Mr.   Thousand 22000.  Social Network is a true Facebook story in fictional form and Catfish is a true Facebook story that only feels like fiction. It is a documentary about a guy who becomes Facebook friends with a young artist and her family then decides to take the friendship offline.  Ms.   Hello? Mr.   Hey Megan? Ms.   Hi how are you? Mr.   Your voice is not at all what I expected.  Only to have things take some odd turn.  Unidentified Man 3   Drive into the driveway. Unidentified Man 4   What do you mean?   Do not back into it.   Why not?   Because we can see we cannot see what is in front of us. Unidentified Man 5   I am a little scared. Unidentified Man 6    giving me the creeps. Unidentified Man 7   Let us go.  Catfish was the most talked about documentary at this year's Sundance Festival and it has lots of fall company including Gerrymandering about the politics of geography Wasteland about a sprawling landfill where garbage is transformed into art I am Still Here about actor-turned rapper Joaquin Phoenix Inside Job about the causes of the Wall Street meltdown and Waiting for Superman about fixes for an education system that even its defenders say is broken.  Unidentified Man 8   Among 30 developed countries we ranked 25th in math and 21st in science. And almost every category we have fallen behind except one. Kids from the USA ranked number one in confidence.  Mr.   Do not want to be an American idiot.  Too much reality? Okay forget documentaries. How about a musical showbiz saga? Burlesque with Cher as a diva offering tough love to a small town girl who wants to be a star.  Ms.   I can do this.   And it is sweet that you think so. Ms.   Just tell me what you want.   I cannot tell you. Nobody can tell you. You got to make me believe that you belong on that stage that it is yours and that nobody can take it from you. Now you want to show me something? Show me that.  So she does.  Ms.    Oh.  Because she is Christina Aguilera.  Ms.    Oh.   Hold it. Ms.    Yeah.   Raise the curtain. Ms.    It is a  and emotion. It is .  Also focusing on women part three of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo trilogy Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest and a sophisticated high school comedy called Easy A. That is smart enough to see the literary connections when its heroine gets an undeserved reputation as the school tramp.  Ms.   Ironically we were studying the Scarlet Letter. This girl named Hester Prynne has an affair with a minister is besmirched and made to wear a read A for adulterer. Unidentified Woman 3   Perhaps you should embroider a red A on your wardrobe. Ms.   I am not proud of this.  New look - big red A.    I want to hold them like they do in Texas please. Ms.   No judgment but you kind of look like a stripper. Ms.   Mom. Mr.   A high-end stripper for governors or athletes.  Several of the season's other comedies are odd couple stories. Robert Downey Jr. and Zach Galifianakis are hoping for a Hangover vibe in a road trip movie called Due Date. Mismatched friends are bringing up a baby in Life as We Know It. And there is a media mismatch in Morning Glory where a lightweight TV personality Diane Keaton meets her new co-host hard news anchorman Harrison Ford.  Ms.   What is going on now?   Mike is offended by a word in the next story. Ms.   It is about Easter chicks. Mr.   I am not saying the word fluffy. Ms.   I suppose I do not have standards? Mr.   Sure you do. When you got your pap smear on air you wore a silk robe. Ms.   Okay. Mr.   Classy touch.  Other guys doing their macho thing this fall include Denzel Washington trying to halt a runaway train in Unstoppable mountain climber James Franco hacking off his own arm in 127 Hours Ryan Reynolds struggling to escape death in a coffin in Buried and Michael Douglas slithering back to Wall Street as Gordon Gekko in Money Never Sleeps.  Mr.   I once said greed is good. Now it seems it is legal.  Speaking of guys behaving badly let us note that the titles Knucklehead Douchebag and Jackass will be on multiplex marquees this fall bait presumably for teenagers. For actual children there is 3- Tangled which is Disney's take on the Rapunzel fairy tale an adventure with feathers called  The Owls of Ga'Hoole and a comedy about a super villain who calls himself Megamind.  Mr.   In the eternal struggle between good and evil good has always prevailed. But this time evil has a secret incredible  me. Hit it.   And if all this sounds less than substantial do not despair. Clint Eastwood is going all meditative and ethereal in Hereafter which explores notions of the afterlife. Royal elocution lessons are the subject of The King's Speech. And believe it or not poetry will rear its cinematic head in Howl about beat poet Allen Ginsberg and also in For Colored Girls a celebrated stage classic that is taken more than three decades to travel from Broadway to the screen - all of this before Thanksgiving and the rush of Oscar hopefuls which qualifies as cause for hope. I am Bob Mondello. 