 Seth McFarlane is best known for creating writing directing and voicing characters in the animated TV show Family Guy. Now for the first time he is jumped to the big screen. McFarlane has created written and directed the movie Ted and though it is a live action picture he does the voice of Ted. Here's our critic Bob Mondello.  I was resistant at first I have to say.  eight-year-old Johnny getting a teddy bear as a Christmas present one that talks when you squeeze it. SOUNDBITE OF   And making a wish on a falling star as he is falling asleep that night. SOUNDBITE OF   And being more than a little surprised when the wish comes true. SOUNDBITE OF   Teddy comes to life startles parents briefly makes headlines and then as happens with many instant celebrities the world loses interest. Johnny grows older. Ted does too. Their voices deepen and we catch up with them 27 years later. SOUNDBITE OF   Johnny's now 35 with a job an apartment a teddy bear and a girlfriend. SOUNDBITE OF   Well there is that. Now at this point I am still not really buying in. Johnny played pleasantly by Mark Wahlberg in his own Boston accent seems real enough. Mila Kunis is appealing as Lori and tolerant beyond words. And I guess Ted is animated persuasively but despite this movie's boozing profanity and bong hits it is all striking me as a little precious. Then Lori insists that she and John need space. SOUNDBITE OF   And the practicalities of that are what finally won me over. Ted obviously needs a job which means he needs to put on a tie. SOUNDBITE OF   And go out in the world and out in the world he starts to - I do not know - actually exist. Something about other people acknowledging him I guess. And once you stop fighting his reality Seth McFarlane makes Ted really funny romancing a trampy checkout girl at the supermarket carousing with hookers downing shots with Flash Gordon which would take way too long to explain. It is all idiotic but not any more so than say Hangover's bachelor party gone wrong and at heart it is actually kind of the same story about that transition point where overgrown kids have to finally grow up but get sidetracked by a boorish course consistently inappropriate fuzz ball who makes the growing up difficult. SOUNDBITE OF   Dirty is the operative word here. Ted is profane enough that it is not a movie real kids should be allowed anywhere near but it is a movie about a teddy bear that MacFarlane has somehow made safe for overgrown kids who would not normally be caught dead at a movie about a teddy bear. I am Bob Mondello. 