 Lawrence Osborne is a writer whose life and work are deeply connected to places. He has set books in Morocco Cambodia and France and he has lived in half a dozen countries all over the world. He joined me from a studio in Bangkok which is his home base now. As he was getting settled he shouted a few words of Thai to the audio engineer.  Hello.  - yes.  When he sat back down I asked if he learns the language of every country he lives in. He said bits and pieces.  You know learning language is actually quite amusing. I think if you are a writer it is actually very interesting to learn languages because you are exploring how a language ticks how it works what its architecture is.  His latest novel Beautiful Animals is set on an idyllic Greek island Hydra. And there is a phrase in Greek that comes up again and again. It is a toast.  .  Death to death as in may death die.  My pronunciation in Greek is probably terrible. But I am sure that is sort of more or less . And charos  is of course - charos is where we get the word Charon the guy who takes you across the river Styx when you die right?  Oh right the boatman...  It is I assume - yeah the boatman. So it is like death to charos basically.  It is darker than most toasts and also totally unattainable.  It is pretty dark is not it? It is pretty dark .  Beautiful Animals is a sun-drenched summer novel with that shadow of death hanging over it. Early on Lawrence Osborne describes the island of Hydra in passages that sound like they could come from a travelogue.   30 butterflies dance around the crooked fence poles bumbling across slopes of gleaming hot and tart figs and disappearing into thin air when they felt like it. Like primitive armor prickly pears grew along the low walls and the paddles were finely robed with tiny cobwebs. It was hushed even near the houses. They could smell fresh hay and coffee. And from the coves came the ghostly repetitions of little waves.  It is so idyllic and at the same time they are walking towards the Four Seasons resort .  Yeah well that is Europe now you know? You know I have not written about Europe for a very long time if ever really because my books have been set in more far-flung places. So it is a sort of homecoming for me in a way. And these landscapes I know from my childhood. I know them very well. And there is a sort of emotion to even writing these very short descriptions of these landscapes that surprised me when I wrote them. They meant a lot to me when I was writing them. They were sort of - memories came up from deeper places which I had not expected.  So you have created this world that is familiar to you as a young person that is a kind of homecoming to Europe. And then you introduce an outsider somebody who washes ashore this mysterious character. What did you want to bring in there?  You know I was not - I did not want to have some sort of political program with having a Syrian refugee. I did not want to go too heavy on that. But this is something which is happening in the eastern Mediterranean so I thought it was perhaps an opportune moment to explore this phenomenon that has arrived in the last two or three years.  This character is the only refugee we meet in the book the only Arab person we meet in the book. And I wonder whether you felt any pressure to make him in some way representative of the millions of people who have gone through this - you know whether he is a good person or a bad person whether he is fleeing war and tragedy or plotting to harm people in the West.  Well there is pressure to do that. And I think that is a pressure that has to be resisted. So I thought the most - in a way the most subversive thing to do would just to be - make him - to make him normal. So I thought to myself I will make him as much like me as I can in a way.  There is a scene where your character Naomi who is a sort of spoiled teenage girl spending the summer on this Greek island she is deciding whether or not to help the man she is discovered on the beach. Will you read this passage?  Yeah.  She was the savior and she relished the role. It made her vital in a new way. To save another person it was not nothing. It was not exactly an achievement but it was a small shift in the balance of power towards the weak. Such shifts were the substance of one's moral life. They made the intolerable tolerable.  Do you think that is generally true of philanthropy and good deeds that you know you do it so that you can relish the role? You do it for self-interested reasons almost?  Yes. Oh for sure. Yeah I think so. I think that is just human nature. It is not to say that they do not have - such people do not have other altruistic motives. Of course they do. Human beings are complex. But there is a certain amount of grandstanding as well. I think that is just - it is in the human way is not it?  Well part of the story of this book is something that is intended as an act of good goes awry.  Yes. And I think that is what attracted me to that story because at the beginning I thought what if this character was just out to rip off her parents and using the refugee as a kind of pawn in doing that? And that was my original premise. So it was quite a sort of dark premise. But then I thought no a person might have mixed motives. They might have that at the back of their minds but not at the forefront of their minds. That is the way human beings work. There might be guilt atonement white guilt all kinds of things that are going on in this - in the mind of someone like that. So I wanted a complex character. I did not want a person who was just doing something evil all the time or doing something good all the time. The two things are intertwined at every moment.  She is complex but I did not find her especially likeable I have to be honest .  Well she was not supposed to be likeable no. I have got everything against likeable characters. I think likeable characters are usually completely forgettable and we do not really care. I think we love villains and we like unlikeable characters precisely because they show us these disturbing complexities that I do not think nice characters do.  This book weaves in themes from Homer's The Odyssey. And at one point a character even explicitly says is not Odysseus just like the refugees today tossed on the stormy waves destroying himself on the barren sea the foiled journey home? And then the same character says it makes you think about how it is all the same. Nothing ever changes. Is that your point of view?  In a way yes. I think humans are migratory animals. The Odyssey is a great poem to refugeedom  if you like. Odysseus is not entirely a refugee in one sense obviously but he is somebody who is blown off course. And the entire book is an exploration of that theme.  He is so heroic.  Yeah. Well The Odyssey's a very strange book in many ways. You know it is a much more - I read - you know I reread it every year.  Really?  I do not think - that is not as surprising as it sounds because it is a rip-roaring book to read. It is a rip-roaring story.  If you read The Odyssey every year was it inevitable that someday you would write a novel about somebody who washes up on a Greek island?  Yeah because I think that probably goes into your subconscious year after year. It is amazing to think in Greece - and this is something that is always surprised me about that country. I will tell you I was asked to go to write a piece about the house of Patrick Leigh Fermor the great British travel writer in Mani in the Peloponnesus a few years ago. And he positioned his house so that he could look over towards Pylos where - he wanted the most Homeric landscape he could possibly find in the 20th century. And what is amazing when you sit in the garden of that house and you look out over the sea is you realize the landscape has not changed one molecule since - well it has obviously changed a little bit but it has not changed very much in 3000 years. So there is something haunting to me in the idea that this story could recur in the same landscape.  Well Lawrence Osborne it is been a pleasure talking to you. Thank you so much.  My pleasure.  The new novel is Beautiful Animals.  