 The first time Melissa McCarthy worked with director Paul Feig she had a bit part in his comedy Bridesmaids. The second time they worked together in the police comedy The Heat McCarthy got equal billing with co-star Sandra Bullock. Well today the movie Spy opens with McCarthy finally billed over the title. Critic Bob Mondello says writer-director Feig has crafted a globetrotting action comedy that proves to be an ideal star-vehicle.  CIA agent Susan Cooper may have graduated at the top of her class but 10 years in she is at the bottom of the espionage heap literally in a vermin-infested basement surrounded by high-tech surveillance gear talking into another agent's earpiece half a world away.    No keys Coop.   You can hot-wire it.   I cannot get to the wires.   OK. Then stay down and hold your ears.   Oh how I hear your beautiful voice.   Stop being adorable and get down. Fire now.  Indispensable and unsung her guidance is what makes this guy played by Jude Law a 007 of sorts.    Nice drum work Coop. I could kiss you.   Oh  well I would - I would accept that with an open mouth.  Melissa McCarthy's Agent Cooper may be his secret weapon. But like the rest of the agency he condescends to her and that is still true when an assassin blows everyone else's cover and the agency needs someone unknown to track a nuclear device. Coop plans the assignment but not the glamour. Her alias frumpy housewife from Iowa. Her secret gadgets things a frumpy housewife from Iowa might carry in her purse.    Each of these are filled with chloroform.   Wow that is an unsettling amount of hemorrhoid wipes. Makes me kind of wonder what exactly is going on back there.   I would not know. I do not have the problem.   I do not have that problem.  Happily out in the field Coop comes into her own glamming herself up on her own dime and going head-to-head with Rose Byrne's femme fatale...    You are delightful.   As are you.  ...While fighting off help from Jason Statham's meathead of an ally...    .   I am saving you.  ...And fending off an amorous CIA driver.    . Hey como estas?  Paul Feig's cheerfully feminist script makes only as much sense as it absolutely has to while providing McCarthy with chances to crack wise show vulnerability and class and do some of the more elegant pratfalls you will have seen in a while always in character. And though Spy has clearly been designed around her talents it also makes room for a nifty supporting cast - Allison Janney 50 Cent and Miranda Hart as a slender Laurel to McCarthy's full-figured Hardy both of them a little envious of a more glamorous agent.    Karen Walker super spy  - perfect hair perfect face. She probably cries herself to sleep every night.   I do not think she probably does.   She probably does. And not like sort of cute little tears like but really sort of you know silent kind of big - .   I do not...   Like sort of an upside down kidney bean . This is what I look like when I am asleep.   Shut up Nancy. Shut up. Be quiet.   Hi. Hey Nancy. Hi Susan.   Hi.   Hi.  In short Spy is not a solo show. It is a generous smart sexy comedy surrounding this generous smart sexy star and about time too. I am Bob Mondello. 