 Fans of the Norwegian author Karl Ove Knausgaard can be practically religious in their devotion to his work. Knausgaard wrote an autobiographical series called My Struggle. It was six volumes. He now has a new book called Autumn. It is a slim collection of short studies each on one subject. I asked him to read an excerpt from the first one Apples.   For some reason or other the fruits that grow in the Nordic countries are easily accessible with only a thin skin that yields readily covering their flesh. This is true for pears and apples as well as for plums. All one needs to do is bite into them and gobble them down while the fruits that grow further south like oranges mandarins bananas pomegranates mangoes and passion fruit are often covered with thick inedible skins. Normally in accordance with my other preferences in life I prefer the latter both because the notion that pleasure must be deserved through prior effort is so strong in me and because I have always been drawn towards the hidden and the secret.  Knausgaard writes about the texture of daily life - wasps fingers forgiveness. These writings are something like essays or poems or meditations. And interspersed between them are letters to his unborn daughter. She is now 3 and a half.  She is at the age where she is full of questions. You know she is questioning absolutely everything.  So that is one of the best ages.  It almost feels like that is some of what you were trying to do in this book ask questions about why a tin can is the shape that it is why an apple tastes the way that it tastes things that we all take for granted every day.  Yeah it is true because I feel normally kind of numb almost in the world and not very curious about things. I do the same things every day. And - but through writing and through reading it is like it is the only way I can open the world up. And that is what I am  - what I am trying to do. You know like opening all the things up - what they really are what they could mean.  And once you open something up once you see autumn leaves in this fresh new way and you write about them does it immediately close back up again? Or are you then able to break out of the numbness?  No it is only when I am writing. And so it is very much the process that is important for me. It is not the result. It is the being in that place where you are questioning the world or where you see the world or where you are creating something out of elements from the world that I am looking for. And that is the place I want to be.  You chose to write about some things that are very concrete and specific like badgers and some things that are very abstract and amorphous like forgiveness. How is it different writing about these things that are tangible and these things that are intangible?  It is easier to write about the concrete world and especially things that are not much written about because then there is just a joy in describing it because you know not many people do describe these things because they are so insignificant.  Give me an example.  Q-tips for instance. That was a wonderful world to write about. Toothbrushes was also very good and thermos.  Let us turn to the page about thermos flasks which comes late in the book.   Thermos flasks. The steel thermos looked like it was designed to be fired like a projectile. And it is not dissimilar in shape to an artillery shell or a shell casing. It is very beautiful. I do not find artillery shells or casings beautiful perhaps because they are generally seen in large numbers and because there is something machinelike and one-dimensional about them. Steel thermos flasks on the other hand almost always appear singly and in surroundings with which they form strong contrasts - at the bottom of a soft leather satchel in the side pocket of a backpack on a table in a builder's shack.  So wonderful .  But the challenge - and it is much much harder you know if you have a page and you have to write about love  than it is to write about the steel thermos. It is easier somehow.  You write about a lot of unpleasant things in non-judgmental ways - toilet bowls lice things...  Yeah.  ...That many polite people would shy away from.  So it is a way - it is a way of challenging our gaze of the world. Not in a you know very deep or philosophical way but just a little bit you know? And then it is great fun to write about the toilet bowl you know?  .  It is - I think I end it by calling it the swan of the bathroom which is - yeah that is what it is you know ?  Well I wonder if there is also something of the 12-year-old's fascination in the forbidden you know writing with dignity about something that most people dismiss.  Yeah yeah definitely so. It is a very childish gaze at the world because also curiosity and what it is not to know something is very much a part of a child's reality. And the problem for us is that we know so much you know so we are not interested in the toilet bowl anymore. We know what it is and we are done with it.  Was there anything that you chose to write about that you tried again and again and again and it just was not coming out right it was not working you were not able to see it in the way that you wanted to?  Yeah many things. And they are all in the book because I did not - everything I wrote is in these books. I did not throw out anything. I did not edit anything out. So...  Really?  You know if a painter doing a watercolor you cannot redo anything. It is the first take.  There is one text about birds of prey that begins with an almost inability to write. And then this creature comes swooping down like some kind of deus ex machina. It does not sound like you set out to write about the bird of prey. It sounds like you set out to write and the bird of prey intruded upon the writing process.  Yeah that was really amazing these I - basically I am writing about things that surrounds me. I do not - I do not think I go more than 20 meters away. So then all of a sudden a huge bird is just you know coming down in the garden just two meters away from me and then leaves. And it is like everything has changed. It is like what was that? What is going on? And that transformation of the world something is showing itself and then disappearing again you know that is what art is about. That is what religion is about. There is something revealing itself and the world is changed.  And you end that piece by saying the birds outside those that are always here - magpies thrushes sparrows - now appear with a new sharpness which I guess is the purpose of this whole project it seems.  Yeah I think so. For me it is. Rainer Maria Rilke the poet the German poet described music as being lifted up and then put down somewhere else. And I think that is a very good description of what everybody who do these things who writes or make music or whatever is trying to do. This - and this book is a very very small scale. You are not moved many centimeters. But it still is a movement I think.  Well Karl Ove Knausgaard thank you so much for talking with us about your book.  Oh thank you. It was a pleasure.  The book is called Autumn.  