 The biggest film festival in North America is in full swing. The Toronto International Film Festival shows more than 300 films in just 10 days to hundreds of thousands of movie viewers and to lots of critics. Among those critics are NPR's pop-culture blogger Linda Holmes and our movie critic Bob Mondello. They join us from CBC studios in Toronto. Hello Linda. Hi Bob.  Hello.  Hey.  I take it that you are seeing movie after movie there - hard work if you can get it. What is an average day like at the Toronto Film Festival?  So far my high is six movies in one day. And that makes for a long day. It is not working in the mines but it is a long day.   Although I saw a movie about miners. So it is sort of like working the mines. My first day was five pictures. It is that kind of experience. It is really great fun.  OK - sounds rough.   Let us talk about a few movies that you have seen and that you have seen and liked. And we will begin with one that I know you both enjoyed - a film called Whiplash.  J.K.   Were you rushing or were you dragging?   I do not know.   If you deliberately sabotage my band I will gut you like a pig. Oh my dear God. Are you one of those single-tear people?  We are hearing there a drummer and his teacher. Obviously this is not your normal teacher-student relationship.  No it is not. That is J.K. Simmons who is a wonderful actor as the teacher and Miles Teller as the student. And it is sort of one of these movies about the punishing mean teacher who is trying to be the maker of men. And it maintains a lot of ambivalence throughout the movie about whether it is some kind of tough love or whether he is just a horrible horrible person. And it plays with that balance quite effectively. We liked that movie a lot.  Yeah it is pretty great. And both of the actors - Miles Teller is the student who actually - his fingers bled while he was playing the drum 'ecause he was playing so hard and apparently that happened in real life as he was practicing. So it is a remarkable picture.  Now the Toronto Film Festival is one place where Oscar buzz begins for actors. Let us talk about a few performances. First Steve Carell in the movie Foxcatcher.    Athletes need role models. Like anyone they need people to look up to. I want more than anything to win a gold medal. And we have someone who could do that.  Linda he does not sound funny.  No. You know that was a funny thing about that screening. There were some people I think in the theater who when they see Steve Carell - particularly he is got a fake nose on and he is - his physical appearance is quite different. And I think for some people they were looking for a comedy. It is not a comedy. It is a very very sad story. A young wrestler who gets connected to this millionaire who is played by Carell - the young wrestler is played by Channing Tatum. His brother is played by Mark Ruffalo. And those are all we thought really outstanding performances.  Amazing performances - really terrific. And Carell is going to - I think for sure going to be nominated for an Oscar for this one.  It is really wonderful.  Do not you feel like we have seen all the best actor nominees maybe already?  Yeah we have certainly seen some really good performances I think.  Yeah. Jake Gyllenhaal is giving a phenomenal performance in a picture called Nightcrawler. He is another sort of psychopathic character but he is very unnerving and very scary. And then I saw a picture that I just flipped over called Mr. Turner which is about a landscape painter. And Tim Spall - he spends the entire picture snorting and growling and you know just - and it is the strangest performance. But the audience was just so with it. It is gorgeous. In addition to which the light in that picture is so beautiful - the kind of thing that you do not usually comment in films. But if you are going to do Turner landscapes you kind of have to get the light right.  I understand that some of the most high-profile movies are being shown later in the festival. What is yet to come?  Tomorrow we have the Jon Stewart film Rosewater which is the one for which he took a long absence from The Daily Show last year. And that will be playing here this week as well. And what else Bob? We have also got Wild.  Wild which is the Reese Witherspoon picture that is getting a lot of notice. And there is also a picture called The Imitation Game and Benedict Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing in that. It is supposed to be terrific - another probably great performer.  Is there anything that you might call a small film that you would like to give a boost to here - a dark horse perhaps that you think could break out this year at Toronto?  Well I do not know that it is a small film but it is not necessarily a conventional festival film. I saw a romantic drama that I really loved called Beyond The Lights which is by a director named Gina Prince-Bythewood who also directed a fantastic and sweet film called Love And Basketball in 2000. It is about a young woman who is a pop star who meets a cop and it is extremely satisfying. And I was really happy to see how good it was.  And I saw this remarkable picture that you would - I cannot believe it actually got a distributor. It is a film from Ukraine. It is entirely in sign language. At the beginning of the picture they put up a legend on the screen that says this film is entirely in sign language. There are no subtitles no voiceovers no translations. And one of the critics in front of me went what? And the whole audience laughed. But nobody got up. Everybody stayed through this picture. It was phenomenal. And it was showing late at night - a real discovery - The Tribe.  That NPR's Bob Mondello and Linda Holmes speaking with us about the Toronto Film Festival from Toronto. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  It is great to be here. 