 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The longest-running drama in broadcast history is going off the air. On Friday the soap opera Guiding Light will end its 72-year run. The soap has served as a launching pad for Hollywood stars including Kevin Bacon James Earl Jones Calista Flockhart Ruby Dee and Christopher Walken. Guiding Light began as a radio soap in 1937. It moved to TV in 1952. In recent years ratings for soap operas have been going down and as Jesse Baker reports that is the reason for Guiding Light's cancellation.  Unidentified Man 1   If you try. In all probability he will die .  For the past 54 years though divorce deaths job losses and the growing pains of raising twins Julie Soloway Poole has counted on one thing to see her through. Ms.  Always when I have had difficult things going on in my life I had Guiding Light.  She remembers watching the show with her mother in black and white when an entire episode lasted only 15 minutes. Ms.  I just cannot imagine it ending because these are real people in my mind and in everyone's mind. So how could it come to a close? They have been here my whole life.  From its early radio days the Guiding Light was a pioneer of soap operas.    Finest Duz you have ever seen.  For advertisers it was a way to sell laundry soap.    D-U-Z does everything.  The new Duz brings you The Guiding Light created by Irna Phillips.  Irna Phillips was the birth mother of the modern soap opera. She invented things like using organ music to transition from scene to scene. She was an early adapter of the dramatic cliffhanger endings that kept her audience tuning in for more.  Unidentified Man 2   What more did you want me to say Meta? Ms.   That you love me. That you would give Chuckie your name.   Meta you knew what was in my mind. You knew how I felt about you.  Many of today's characters can be traced back through family trees to the original characters Irna Phillips created. Take for example the role of Phillip Spaulding the adopted son of the ex-husband of the great-granddaughter of the show is original patriarch Friedrich Papa Bauer. If you did not follow me totally okay. The actor Grant Aleksander has played the role of Phillip Spaulding off and on since 1982 and even he cannot keep it straight. Mr.  I think it is seven marriages and let me see is it four kids or five? I think it is four.  You were shot once yes? Mr.  Yes shot.  And dead right? You were gone for a couple years. Mr.  Yeah. It was a murder mystery that took me off the show last time and they ended up resolving it that his father Alan had shot him but to save him from himself.  Over the last six months Phillip has been dealing with a terminal illness and the audience watch as Phillip's life slip away as the show does the same. Guiding Light co-head writer Jill Lorie Hurst. Ms.  The hardest thing was how to condense stories into which should have maybe been a two-year story into a four-month arc and leaving them in a place where the audience will feel satisfied and then they in their own heads can kind of think about where these people are going to go next.  Starting October 5  A new incarnation of the game show Let us Make a Deal. For NPR News I am Jesse Baker.  And you can go back in time and listen to episodes of The Guiding Light from the 1930s at npr.org. 