 If you missed the news on Monday President Barack Obama and his former vice president Joe Biden were spotted out at a Washington D.C. cafe rekindling their Oval Office quote-unquote bromance catching up over sandwiches and fennel salad - for real. But there is also word of another meeting between the two former running mates in which they team up to solve a murder. OK maybe that part did not happen but it is the plot of a fun new book  An Obama Biden Mystery. Andrew Shaffer is the author and he joins me now from Lexington Ky. to tell us more - but not too much of course. Spoilers you know. Andrew Shaffer welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me Don.  Let us start with a little reading because I think it will really give the audience a sense of the noir gumshoe flavor of this book. You open with Joe Biden former vice president of the United States sitting at home in Delaware with nothing to do basically and seething with envy over Obama's awesome post-presidency vacation pics with the likes of Richard Branson and Bradley Cooper. I will have you pick it up from there.  I called to my wife I am letting Champ out. She did not answer back. I could hear the TV playing in our bedroom - Law  Order. I should have been watching with her. Instead I opened the back door. As soon as I did Champ raced across the lawn and tore off into the woods. The motion light over the back porch should have kicked on but the bulb was burnt out. It was an old one I guess. Old bulbs were meant to burn out. The moon was full enough to light up the backyard. Our 7000-square-foot lake house sat on four acres of property. Late at night it was possible to imagine you were all alone in the world. Tonight however I was not alone. A head in the woods was the pinprick of light. And now I smelled tobacco a familiar brand Marlboro Reds. Do not get your hopes up I told myself. Hope is just a four letter word.   OK. That is the arrival of course of Barack Obama into the pages of your book.  Of course. That is - it is a dark mysterious arrival of the former best friend. And the book is really about two people sort of reconnecting after they have had a little bit of time apart.  The entire book is first person told by Biden himself. Why Biden not Obama?  I tried to get into Obama's head but you just cannot do it. You think there is so much going on in there. And as soon as you start poking around it just sort of demystifies that and he becomes you know just a regular guy. And we spent eight years watching him in the White House not as a regular guy. But to me Joe Biden has always been a regular guy. That is part of his own mystique - is that hey I am just Uncle Joe. I am Amtrak Joe.  The Biden-Obama relationship has been described as a bromance. When did it occur to you that it would make a good foundation for a full-length whodunit like this?  You know I thought about it for years - doing just a book about Joe Biden nor a narrator. You could imagine him in the vice presidency with nothing to do sort of daydreaming a Walter Mitty-like existence through his aviator shades. But that really never got off the ground. And it was not until they were out of office for a week that I was like oh well I need to have them together because those bromance memes had been going around the Internet where it was Joe Biden like pulling pranks on the incoming president in the White House and Obama going Joe stop it. Joe. And so you really had to have them together I realized to have a compelling story.  And the basic premise of this plot is that an Amtrak conductor from the Wilmington Station - Delaware Biden's home state - is mysteriously murdered or found dead.  Right. So you have someone who is close to Joe in the story is found dead and then Obama shows up mysteriously one night and says oh I have some information here that you may want to hear about.  And even though we are talking Amtrak here and the mystery that surrounds this death you keep the book away from political third rails. You are not touching anything too controversial.  Yeah. Yeah I think you know some of the most controversial stuff in the book might be the defense of Amtrak that Joe Biden gives in it because he is very passionate about that. But yeah like I said it is really down-to-earth. And it does not go over the top. I mean although there are parts where you know Joe Biden might be hanging off of a speeding train by three fingers. You know it does go to some sort of wild places like that.  Surely that is happened .  Surely at some point. They do not call him Amtrak Joe for nothing.  All right. Andrew Shaffer. His latest book is  An Obama Biden Mystery. Thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you Don. 