 You may have heard that Hollywood's been having a sad summer. Even though Wonder Woman smashed records so many other films fizzled that the box office totals are down nearly a billion dollars compared to last summer. In our fall movie preview NPR's Bob Mondello lays out the industry's game plan for bouncing back - lots and lots of the tried and true.   Stop me if you have heard this one.    So much has happened since I last saw you.  No do not because you have heard this one.    I lost my hammer like yesterday so that is still pretty fresh.  Marvel's Thor is coming back because...    Hela the goddess of death has invaded Asgard.   Oh I have missed this.   We need to stop her here and now to prevent Ragnarok the end of everything.  OK Ragnarok sounds new.    So I am putting together a team.  And while he is doing that in the Marvel Universe guess what Batman's doing in the DC Cinematic Universe?    I am putting together a team.  Recruiting among others a super-speedy kid named Flash.    You see I believe enemies are coming.   Stop right there. I am in.   Just like that?   Yeah. I need friends.  Flash will have plenty in Justice League including Wonder Woman Aquaman and Cyborg. Speaking of cyborgs - well replicants anyway - and yes I know they are not the same - guess who else is coming back...    You are a cop. I had your job once.  ...Harrison Ford as Blade Runner's Rick Deckard...    Things were simpler then.   What do you want?  ...New guy Ryan Gosling...    I want to ask you some questions. What happened?   I covered my tracks scrambled the records. We were being hunted.   By who?  By whom? Clearly they are not teaching grammar in the future. Blade Runner 2049 picks up 30 years after the original story. Other sequels are not waiting quite so long.    I hope you are ready for what comes next.   The Golden Circle picks up almost immediately with its tale of dapper secret agents. And writers for a pair of comedy sequels seem to have had the same idea at the same time. In Bad Moms Christmas the Bad Moms' moms show up for the holidays.    I do not think I can do this sober.   You guys want to get drunk at the food court?   Oh yeah.   You are a mom. Moms do not enjoy. They give joy. That is how being a mom works.  In the sequel to Daddy's Home it is the dueling dads' dads. There are also remakes - Bruce Willis in a new Death Wish a fresh crew of med students bringing the dead back to life in Flatliners and a train full of celebrities bringing Agatha Christie back to life in Murder on the Orient Express.    My name is Hercule Poirot and I am probably the greatest detective in the world.  It is not just fiction that is traversing familiar territory this fall. The Cineplex will be crammed with history lessons - Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse battling over electricity in The Current Wars  Vincent van Gogh creating masterpieces in Loving Vincent where every image is an oil painting and Britain's Queen Victoria broadening her horizons in Victoria And Abdul.    What is a mango?   The queen of fruit.   I would like a mango.   They only grow in India.   Well I am empress of India so have one sent.  Another Brit Winston Churchill will refuse to negotiate with Nazis in the Darkest Hour.    When will the lesson be learned? You cannot reason with a tiger when your head is in its mouth.  And mid-century American politics will inform three intriguing biopics - Marshall in which Chadwick Boseman plays the young lawyer who became America's first black Supreme Court justice.    This here's Mr. Thurgood Marshall. The man is an attorney. You will treat him with the respect that he deserves.  Woody Harrelson will play Lyndon Johnson in LBJ.    Delegates are meeting with Kennedy right now.   Jack or Bobby?   Teddy.   Christ this place is infested.  And Liam Neeson plays a famously anonymous Watergate informant in the Nixon-era drama  The Man Who Brought Down The President .    There is a nickname for you at the paper - Deep Throat.  Less political but still familiar figures who get the biopic treatment include serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer in the high school drama My Friend Dahmer and 1970s tennis rivals Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King in Battle Of The Sexes.    Bobby Riggs - I had a great idea - male chauvinist pig versus hairy legged feminist. You are still a feminist right?   I am a tennis player who happens to be a woman.   Do not hang up.   And by the way I shave my legs.  For literary folks the Cineplex will host a famous writer's mini-festival of sorts - A.A. Milne in Goodbye Christopher Robin...    Winnie the Pooh.   It is rather...   Inexplicable.   Yes.  ...Also Charles Dickens in The Man Who Invented Christmas the man who invented Wonder Woman in Professor Marston And The Wonder Women and the man who invented Holden Caulfield in Rebel In The Rye.    There is nothing more sacred than story. How does that sound Mr. Salinger?   Through the course of my fascinatingly dull life I have always found fiction more truthful than reality.  Even kid flicks will be channeling familiar stories. The Star looks at the first Christmas through the eyes of animals in the manger.   There is also My Little Pony...    I am Princess Twilight Sparkle and this is my home Equestria.  ...LEGO Ninjago...    You cannot catch me Green Ninja.   Watch this.  And Pixar's Coco the one kid flick that goes somewhere U.S. audiences might not expect. It visits Mexico's Dia de los Muertos the Day of the Dead.    Miguel what is going on?   Remind me how I know you.   They are your family.  Miguel has crossed over accidentally.    We have to get you back home.   This is not a dream then. You are all really out there.  Really out there is a phrase you could use in a slightly different way to describe a few films that head off in unexpected directions. Not everything this fall will be tried and true. George Clooney for instance is directing a bizarro comedy written by the Coen brothers called Suburbicon.    Any progress on the investigation?   A mobster got killed a couple days ago.   I am sorry for his loss.   Of life - yeah I guess he probably is too.  Also comic book dealing with death is Three Billboards In Ebbing Missouri  about a woman who is put up signs to pressure the police to investigate her daughter's murder.    We have had two official complaints about those billboards.   From who?   A lady with a funny eye and a fat dentist.  .   You did not happen to drill a little hole in the dentist today did you?   Of course not.   Huh?   I said of course not.  Films about childhood also seemed to inspire offbeat takes this fall. Todd Haynes's Wonderstruck weaves together colliding timelines the lives of two children born 50 years apart. And the guy who made the award-winning film Tangerine on his iPhone has a new film called The Florida Project about kids who may be on the verge of being homeless but who are not about to let that slow them down.    Could you give us some change please? The doctor said we have asthma and we got to eat ice cream right away.   Here you go.  Noah Baumbach has assembled a high-profile dysfunctional family for The Meyerowitz Stories - Adam Sandler Ben Stiller Emma Thompson and Dustin Hoffman often at each other's throats apparently. Meanwhile suspense fans will have Stephen King's It Darren Aronofsky's Mother! and Happy Death Day a recurring nightmare that is sort of Groundhog Day reimagined as a horror flick. And for those who wait all year for awards season there'ill be film fest favorites like the arts world satire The Square and the coming-of-age-slash-coming-out drama Call Me By Your Name.    Is there anything you do not know?   Boundless by the time I cry...   If you only knew how little I know about the things that matter.  All this before Thanksgiving after which the things that matter at least to Hollywood will be brightly wrapped Christmas presents including The Last Jedi and The Greatest Showman. But we will save those for next time. I am Bob Mondello.  