 The video game franchise Madden NFL has sold close to 100 million copies. At midnight tonight that number is going up. That is when Madden NFL '13 goes on sale. It is named after John Madden the former pro football player turned sportscaster and it is made by Electronic Arts or EA. As NPR's Sami Yenigun reports the game is big business for an enormous tangled web of interested parties.  EA Sports. It is in the game.  Tonight' Kareem Moustafa versus his buddy Tommy Mullings.  All right Kareem where were you on that one?  Xbox controller in hand Mullings leaps off his bed every time there is a big play.  No.  Yes.  Across nearly every square inch of his walls are team pennants football posters. Right now he is laying the smackdown on Moustafa driving down the field easily with the Jacksonville Jaguars. Mullings is a beast at this game. He craves football.  Yeah like after the football's done like I cannot get enough football. So I will go like Sunday nights I will usually watch football all day and then at night I end my Sundays with a couple of games of Madden.  And that addiction to football is exactly what EA and the NFL are teaming up to feed. For Mullings Madden is a video game. But for Peter O'Reilly VP of marketing at the NFL it is like an ad for all 32 of his professional teams. PETER O' It is been such a signature title that brings young fans and older fans closer to the game and allows them to - because it is so realistic allows them to understand the game and gives them a year-round way to experience the NFL in their living room.  Tommy Mullings is playing with Maurice Jones-Drew the running back for the Jaguars. Jones-Drew is 5 foot 7 in the game and in real life. If he has a lousy day in Jacksonville Mullings will not run as well when he plays with him online.  For the leading rush in the pro he is not doing too much right now.  Mullings has been playing Madden for years. He admits the gameplay does not change all that much with each version but he still buys a new game every year for the rosters and playbooks. EA has negotiated an exclusive deal with the NFL to make this game which comes stocked with logos and player likenesses. Beth Cianfrone is a professor at Georgia State University who studies advertising in video games.  Having a new game every year gives all the gamers a chance to see the new changes with their teams. And rather than play with last years team that does not have a new quarterback or new offensive system they are able to sell a new one each season.  Cianfrone adds that playing these games over and over makes gamers even more aware of the NFL brand. And that is how the Madden franchise has grown for years with the NFL. As EA Sports sells more games gamers know more about the sport and then tune in to watch more football on TV. Anthony Stevenson is the director of marketing for EA's Madden franchise.  When you go watch ESPN's SportsCenter how often do they lead off the show with hockey? Maybe during the Stanley Cup Finals maybe?  ESPN is the third sports titan in this web of cross-promotion. Raphael Poplock V.P. of games and digital partnerships at ESPN says that even though their big red logo is not featured in this year's game they still invested in Madden's success.  There is a huge halo effect. If more people become fans of the NFL whether it is through Madden or any other vehicle then clearly that is going to help our business. Whether it is more people watching our live games or our studio programs or our content across any platform that obviously helps.  So ESPN promotes the Madden brand. Take the virtual playbook. ESPN uses graphics from Madden to explain football's X's and O's on their sports news shows. And Madden fans went to the ESPN website to vote for the player to be featured on the cover of the game.  Letting fans dictate some of the content in this case deciding who is going to be on the cover has been a huge success for us.  A success for ESPN that breeds a success for Madden that breeds a success for the NFL. It is a team effort luring Tommy Mullings to wait in line year after year for the next 60 game in the series. He says he does not even see any downsides.  Besides your girlfriend getting mad at you for staying up all night playing Madden.  Considering that more and more women are tuning into football games maybe Mullings should ask his girl if she is down to play. Sami Yenigun NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 