 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. In these dog days of summer let us get cold really cold. Mr.  It is July 1st and 51 degrees above zero. That chill gust runs through me as I stand shirtless on the water's edge wearing nothing but swimming shorts in the wind and rain.  That is Bill Streever a biologist who works on Alaska's North Slope and a writer. Here Streever is bracing to dive into the arctic waters of the Beaufort Sea. Mr.  The only way to do this I tell my companion is with a single plunge. No hesitation.  Bill Streever's new book is titled Cold naturally. It is filled with vignettes about frozen arctic explorers killer blizzards icicle frogs and it starts with that arctic plunge. Mr.  I go in head first. The water temperature is 35 degrees. I come up gasping. I stand on a sandy bottom immersed to my neck. The water stings as if I am rolling naked through a field of nettles. I wait for the gasp reflex to subside. My skin tightens around my body. My brain part of it that I cannot control has sent word to the capillaries in my extremities - clamp down my brain has commanded and conserve heat. I feel as if I am being shrink-wrapped like a slab of salmon just before it was tossed into the deep freeze.  Well Bill Streever what was it that prompted you to jump into 35 degree water in nothing but your swimming trunks? Mr.  Well you got to do it right? It is the Beaufort Sea you are there you have to jump in. I think the real question is what prompted me to stay in for five minutes.  Well yeah there is that question to too.  Mr.  So the real question why would I stay in for five minutes? Well when I did that little episode in my life I was thinking about writing this book. And I was still playing around with some different ideas and learning about aspects of cold and just wanted to experience for myself what it would be like to be in the water and face you know at least the beginnings of severe hypothermia.  How did you know when you should come out? Mr.  Oh I put a preset goal at five minutes. I thought that would make me miserable enough. I suppose I could have stayed until I lost consciousness or something and had somebody pull me out. That did not seem too wise. So I thought five minutes was a nice number. And it turned out to be the case you know after five minutes it was probably time for me to get out. You know I would say that there is lots of people that run around saying things like you will only survive two minutes in the water on the Beaufort Sea and this sort of thing. And I think where people are mistaken about that is when you hit the water you start to gasp and you have this gasp reflex. And if you get a lung full of water while you are gasping then you sort of done you are drowning. You actually have quite a long time before the next problems start to arise. And the very next problem is that your muscles start to seize up. So if you are actually swimming you lose the ability to swim. And that takes under most circumstances much longer than five minutes.  You made me think about something that I do not think I would ever really considered before which is why we shiver. And I would have thought that this was purely a reaction to cold. But it actually - it is serving a purpose when we shiver. Mr.  Well it is serving a purpose. Sure it is trying to warm you up. The hypothalamus in your brain is saying your temperature is starting to drop we need to do something about that. So we are going to shiver for a little while and see if that warms us up.  And the shivering would help how? Mr.  Just like doing jumping jacks or running in place or walking towards you know just setting a goal to walk quickly will warm you up. So will shivering it is muscle activity so it generates heat.  And that is also as you write how ground squirrels hibernate? They are shivering throughout the winter to warm themselves. Mr.  Yeah that is right. I love ground squirrels. They are very common in Alaska up in the mountains around Anchorage and further north in the lowlands. They are very common. And they look like little prairie dogs. They stand on their hind legs and they look around. So people are used to tree squirrels or grey squirrels - they are a bit different than our arctic ground squirrel. But in the winter he crawls into a burrow and hibernates. And as he hibernates he begins to cool off. And in fact cools off to a temperature that is just below the freezing point of water. And when he hits that temperature when one would think that this animal is for all practical purposes dead that its neurons are not firing and nothing's going on in this animal he spontaneously starts to shiver. And I do not think it is very well known. In fact I do not think it is known at all what triggers him to shiver when everything's sort of shut down. But if he did not shiver his temperature would continue to drop and eventually he would in fact freeze. So he starts to shiver and as he shivers his brain goes into a standard sleeping pattern. And he starts to dream and he has squirrel dreams so maybe dreaming about summer is what many people suggest. So he shivers for a while and dreams for a while - maybe a day - and then he starts to cool off again. And he goes through the cycle of cooling off down to a freezing point and then shivering and et cetera all through the winter until summer arrives. And he crawls out of his burrow and starts eating nuts.  Hmm. And who knows what he has been dreaming about? Mr.  Who knows that is right.  Bill Streever what do you think it is about cold that has intrigued you so much to really well literally and figuratively dive in like this? I mean what is your relationship with cold? Mr.  Well I guess it is two things. And the first thing is that especially living in Alaska cold is sort of all around you all the time. And it seems like a subject that is been forgotten. You do not see a lot of writing about cold as a particular topic. And I thought that was something that was missing out there something that is so ubiquitous and yet not really considered in and of itself. So I thought it was an important topic to have a look at and an exciting topic and full of drama with people dying and being hurt and explorers surviving or not surviving and this sort of thing. The other thing that attracted me to it is that I always felt like cold has gotten sort of a bad rap you know. I actually grew up in the Eastern and Southeastern United States and there cold is just something that people dread. And they turn the thermostat up way too high and wear sweaters when it is actually pretty warm and are constantly worried about getting cold. And in fact in my experience cold helps you feel alive. You know you walk outside on a brisk day and it is - nothing like getting a good breath of cold air and suddenly you are awake. It is better than coffee it is just great.  You embrace the cold. Mr.  I embrace the cold and I think others should embrace the cold too.  Mr.  In fact I think a lot of people do embrace the cold.  You are clearly living in the right place in Alaska. Mr.  That is right. That is right.  What is the coldest place you have ever been? What was the temperature? Mr.  Somewhere below minus 40 plus wind. So when I say plus wind the feeling of cold was probably closer to minus 90 or so.  And where was that? Mr.  In the Alaskan Arctic. And that is not uncommon for people who work in the Arctic on the North Slope or up near Barrow. Wintertime and even springtime temperatures are often hovering down around minus 40 and then a wind comes up and it can be - it can be what most people would call pretty cold let us say.  You know I was up in Barrow in the summer and I had every possible layer on and I was still cold and that was in July.  Mr.  That is right.  So I do not think I am coming back in January. Mr.  That is right. Yeah well if you are dressed right it is not as miserable as it might seem although you do start to feel like you know Charlie Brown on a winter day when he is all bundled up and he can hardly move. If you dress warmly enough for minus 40 with wind you will feel like Charlie Brown on a winter day.  Immobile. Mr.  Somewhat immobile...  Mr.  ...yeah that is right.  Bill Streever thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you Melissa.  Bill Streever's book is titled  Adventures in the World's Frozen Places. You can read an excerpt from this book and many others at the new npr.org. 