 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. A slick summer action movie opens this weekend about a sexy CIA spook who may be a double agent.  Mr.   The name of the agent is Evelyn Salt. Ms.   My name is Evelyn Salt. Mr.   Then you are a Russian spy.  The character Evelyn Salt was originally named Edwin. The part was written for Tom Cruise. He dropped out and the equally glamorous Angelina Jolie took the part. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports on gender switching in Hollywood.  We are not talking Sandy Dennis playing Peter Pan here. We are talking about when a role is specifically written for one gender but then reworked for another. Gender switching generally goes in just one direction says pop culture commentator Alyssa Rosenberg. Certain male characters can become female. Ms.  You can be really tough or you can be really funny. And if you are one of those two things you can occupy a man's slot in a plot.  Here's the funny.  Ms.   Do you have any weed?  In the movie The 40 Year Old Virgin screwy store manager Paula scores pot from one of her own employees before a vacation.  Mr.   So where are you going? Ms.   I am not going anywhere. I am just staying in my apartment. Mr.   Just going to get baked. Ms.   I want to be baked the whole time. Watch TV. I will probably re-watch Gandhi. Mr.   Gandhi baked is good. Ms.   Yeah is not it?  Mr.  That was written as a guy.  Mr.  It was Paul.  That is Seth Rogen and Judd Apatow commenting on the DVD.  Mr.  We had so many - we had a lot of guys come in to read for the manager.  But casting Jane Lynch was actually the brainstorm of star Steve Carell's wife. The part was largely improvised and now it is hard to imagine anyone but Lynch as the bad-boundaries boss. Similarly Sigourney Weaver so owns the part of Ellen Ripley in Alien it is hard to believe the part was not written with a woman in mind.    Hey Ripley. Ms.   Right here.   We are clean. Let us in.  Director Ridley Scott has this commentary.  Mr. RIDLEY SCOTT  The idea of making the hero a heroine I think was a masterstroke because we truly expect Sigourney probably to be the first one to go.    Casting a woman in this role meant playing against certain Hollywood meanings and symbols. That is something director Robert Schwentke bumped up against when he could not get Sean Penn for the starring role in Flightplan. He cast Jodie Foster instead. Mr.  Interestingly enough when you are dealing with a main male protagonist - and I am now really talking about mainstream studio movies - there is a certain iconography that you can use.  Images that work as an established shorthand that help tell the story quickly. Mr.  When this was a male he was walking down the lonely boulevards at night in Berlin and his coat was sort of blowing and you look at it and yeah you know that is a stand-in for loneliness.  When you put a woman in the exact same shot  Mr.  You just go 00 in the morning all by herself on a street?  So Schwentke opted for a montage that set up Flightplan's implausible plot. Jodie Foster's daughter vanishes during a trans-Atlantic flight.  Ms.   You have got to search the holds now. Ms.   Julia? Julia? Are you in there?  In Flightplan and Alien the action is all in tight enclosed spaces. Blogger Alyssa Rosenberg points out the heroines are not out roaming around. They are defending a tiny confined piece of turf. Ms.  You know women are allowed to have their backs to the wall but not to go out and conquer things. I am sort of facetious here but I do think that with men you know you are allowed to be sort of expansionary. Go out. You can conquer things.  A very few roles written for women have been switched to male actors but they are smaller parts. And interestingly they tend to be lawyers. Rosenberg says it is hard to think of even one leading female role that a big Hollywood studio could manage to gender switch. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 