 Steven Spielberg's latest movie The BFG is based on a children's story by Roald Dahl. Dahl of course wrote other classics like Matilda and Charlie And The Chocolate Factory. BFG stands for Big Friendly Giant. And for NPR film critic Bob Mondello it calls up memories of another classic.  Nineteen eighty-two - a big year for initials. Steven Spielberg releases E.T. and Roald Dahl publishes The BFG. Spielberg has told interviewers that he read The BFG to his children when they were small knowing that to them he was kind of a big friendly giant. Now with Mark Rylance in the part we all get to hear how Spielberg tells the story. Turns out it is a little scary.    Please do not eat me.  And also pretty charming.   You think because I am a giant that I am a man-gobbling cannibal? .  Melissa Mathison who wrote the screenplay for E.T. also wrote the screenplay for The BFG and there are some similarities. E.T. is about a boy who encounters an outcast - an alien - in his backyard. The BFG - about a girl who encounters an outcast - a giant - in her back alley. The alien eats Reese's pieces and speaks with some difficulty. The giant eats snozzcumbers  and speaks with great originality.    There would be a great rumple dumpus  would not there? And all the human beings would be rummaging and whiffliffning  and they would be locking me up to be looked at with all the squiggling hippodumplings and crocadowndillies  and giggyraffs .  Where the girl is kidnapped by the BFG the boy kind of does the kidnapping of E.T. But in each case when child and outcast join forces they triumph over bullies adversity and any adult silliness that might otherwise complicate a commonsensical resolution to problems. This is not to suggest that the two movies offer equivalent levels of enchantment. E.T. is a masterpiece. And while The BFG may well be one on the page on screen it comes across as an attractively-produced-but-overblown fable. Spielberg is good at finding the visual magic in sequences that might in other hands feel like time wasters - an evening of dream catching that will make adults recall nights spent chasing fireflies...   ...And a breakfast at Buckingham Palace the feels in terms of scale like a child's tea party in reverse. But at close to two hours the story drags possibly because it is more a collection of incidents than a narrative with forward momentum. Mark Rylance brings subtlety to what Dahl calls the big guy's gigantiousness . And Spielberg makes the rumple dumple's  technical effects pretty fantabulous  which will doubtless enchant the kids even if it strikes their folks as it did me as somewhat strenuous whimsy. I am Bob Mondello. 