 Usually a couple hundred TV critics would be in LA right now hearing about the new shows coming to the small screen in the fall. This year the TV summer press tour went virtual like so many other gatherings. Actors producers and network executives showed up in panels over videoconference. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans was in virtual attendance and he is here to tell us about the most interesting programs arriving this fall. Hey there Eric.  Hey.  Before we talk about the shows what was this virtual gathering like after you have attended it in person for so many years?  Well it was really odd. I am used to sort of networking with people network executives even other critics. You cannot do that. But there were two virtual events. PBS had one in late July and then this organization called CTAM that represents cable TV channels and streamers had one that started August 3. And we got to see a bunch of different people from a bunch of different shows via video chat and we could ask questions. And they even gave us credits for food delivery apps like GrubHub so that we could have meals together at the same time.  Well you mentioned PBS and cable and streaming but you did not mention the big three networks. Are they in trouble? I mean are TV producers in trouble generally because production has basically been shut down since March?  Yeah. I think anybody who has kept an eye on showbiz news knows that there are small efforts being made to restart production but the networks have mostly stopped. Almost everybody around television has mostly stopped production. And the shadow of the pandemic loomed pretty large over the stuff that we saw in this press tour. Cable channels and streaming services - they still have some new shows in reserve where production was all or mostly completed before the pandemic started. So that is like the stuff that we saw. Some platforms like AMC were bringing over shows from Britain because those shows have already aired. They are already completed. We saw a few things from streaming services that were really interesting. But some shows did not even have premiere dates 'ecause I think these platforms are still trying to figure out when they want to debut stuff depending on whether or not they might be able to create some new shows to help out.  All right. So for the stuff that is coming in the fall did it feel like they are scraping out the bottom of the barrel...  .  ...Or is there stuff to look forward to?  Sometimes it did. And now I would say I was really impressed for example by the presentation from NBC streamer Peacock. They showed off a new series from The Good Place creator Mike Schur and The Office alum Ed Helms called Rutherford Falls that was set in a small town in upstate New York. And it features a lot of Native American characters. And they had - they talked about how they involved a lot of Native American people in the production process including having a lot of Native American people in the writers room. The big news I saw at Peacock - they have two new late-night shows. They have got one starring Amber Ruffin who is somebody that you might have seen on Late Night With Seth Meyers and Larry Wilmore who used to host The Nightly Show on Comedy Central. They are both Black performers who are well-known for speaking out really well about social issues on television. And so that is going to add a lot of diversity to late night. I cannot wait to see what they come up with.  Just based on Emmy nominations it looks like Netflix and HBO are the two big hitters. Do they have anything exciting coming up in the fall that you are eager to see?  So the shows that I am looking forward to - Netflix has a show called Ratched which is executive produced by Ryan Murphy.  Oh yeah. Sarah Paulson - right? - playing Nurse Ratched.  Yeah Sarah Paulson as Nurse Ratched - tells the origin story of that character from One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. Cannot wait to see that. Lamorne Morris - now you may remember him from the cast of the New Girl. He is starring in this show for Hulu called Woke where he plays an African American cartoonist who gets roughed up by the police. And then because of his PTSD he starts imagining inanimate objects talking to him the way they do in his cartoons...  Wow.  ...And it makes him much more socially active. He becomes woke. So I cannot wait to see that.  Sounds wild.  Yeah.  That is NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Thanks Eric.  Thank you.  