 The play Shakespeare called Hamlet has been reimagined as a new film called Ophelia. Critic Bob Mondello says its leading lady sees the world a little differently than the sweet prince did.  The first images are of what appears to be a young woman's corpse floating in a pond - unnerving if you know Ophelia goes mad and drowns in Hamlet. Then we hear her voice reaching us perhaps from that undiscovered country from which no traveler returns.    You may think you know my story. Many have told it.  Shakespeare included. But this time she is doing the telling. So we flashback to way before Shakespeare even thought about Ophelia a whole new backstory about her as a little girl chasing after her brother as he goes to a class that is only for boys.  CALUM O'  Come back Ophelia.   But think of all the books. O'  I will teach you later.  And he does. But she is already a clever girl as she proves when she sneaks past her father Polonius into a palace going-away party and hears the king's brother offering a toast.    Prince Hamlet leaving us for the great University of Wittenberg 15 years old today apple of his mother's eye. Of course it was an apple that tempted a woman in the Garden of Eden.   I had always thought it was a snake.  Claudius is flirting and the queen has taken the bait. But the party crasher is more skeptical.    I think the apple is quite innocent in the matter.   Ophelia.   What is an Ophelia?   The exact copy and very picture of her departed and much lamented mother. My Ophelia my daughter my treasure.  The queen about to be an empty-nester is intrigued.    A treasure most in wanted polishing.   This is ladies' work to polish such a treasure. And alas I am no lady.   Alas indeed.   I may be a lass but there is no call for such lassing. I would not want to be a lad.   Then she shall be one of my ladies and we shall see to the raising of her.  So while Hamlet us away the girls will play. The others in the queen's retinue sneer at Ophelia's common birth. But what is not common about her is that Laertes did teach her to read so her wit is sharp when a cultish Hamlet returns from college...    I remember this is an excellent place to fish.  ...And catches her now played by Daisy Ridley bathing in that pool near the castle.    A wondrous fish indeed inhabits the grove.   The fish would like to come ashore.   Well the fish is very welcome.   No fish comes willing to the fisherman.   My Lord it is one of the queen's ladies in waiting.   Then she will not mind waiting until I catch a fish.   Of all the ladies I am least fond of waiting .  Australian director Claire McCarthy pictures Ophelia as far more assertive than she is in the play Queen Gertrude too made downright ferocious by Naomi Watts. The film script weaves a tale around these women that upends Shakespeare's version while including plenty of nods in his direction. You do not need to know the bard's work but you will have extra fun untangling the movie's plot threads if you do. There is a long-separated twins storyline you might call a tragedy of errors a sleeping potion scheme straight out of Romeo And Juliet and conversational renderings of all those Hamlet scenes where Ophelia is present - her dad's advice to her college-bound brother for instance with a less poetic neither a borrower nor a lender be.    Now remember keep your own counsel. Do not be familiar or vulgar. And do not fight or if you do win. Dress well but do not spend too much. Do not borrow any money or lend it. And above all be true to yourself.  To thine own self be concise. What the bard's Polonius took 24 lines to say this Polonius manages in fewer than 20 seconds. Brevity is the soul of wit and sumptuousness the soul of costume drama which the movie Ophelia quite extravagantly is. The images are gorgeous the feminism gratifying. And wait until you see that mad scene. Daisy Ridley's Ophelia is not mad. She is furious. I am Bob Mondello. 