 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris. This is a big big week for broadcast television. Forty-four returning series are having their season premiere and 14 new shows will launch in a span of seven days. Commentator Andrew Wallenstein says that running premiere week this way does not make a lot of sense for the TV business. It just makes for a traffic jam on your television.  Of all the new shows coming out this week the hype does not come any bigger than for Simon Cowell's new vehicle The X Factor.   The X Factor is a singing competition with a twist. It is very difficult describing how different it is going to be until you see it.  If you are going to watch that then you got to make sure to record another buzz-worthy new entry ABC's Charlie's Angels.    You know why Charlie calls them angels because they show up when you need them the most.  And do not forget that one hour later X Factor goes head-to-head with the new CBS drama Person of Interest.    I want you to figure out what is going to happen and stop it from happening.  And you will need a DVR that can record three shows simultaneously if you also want to watch NBC's new comedy Whitney.    Does the bride think the groom is going to get confused and marry me by accident?  Feeling overwhelmed yet?   Yeah.  Well so are the networks. Is it any wonder of the dozens of shows introduced last TV season only 23 percent survive to a second year? The reason so many TV shows fail in the fall is they cancel each other out. One human cannot watch more than a fraction of 58 premieres over seven days. And yet the industry has clung to the same front-loaded fall schedule since the 1950s. It began that way largely because September was the time of year that auto advertisers TV's biggest spenders traditionally launched their latest cars. TV just followed suit and the schedule has stayed the same ever since largely due to inertia. First is the industry's own production cycle. Altering it would be like changing tires on a moving vehicle. Then there is Madison Avenue which is loath to leave a business model that allows them to spend billions of dollars in one gulp. It would make sense to scatter the shows over 12 months  work harder year-round. Yeah. Sorry for the inconvenience folks. No wonder many of the most anticipated shows this year have actually been reserved for the midseason when there is less competition. The Fox drama Alcatraz from J.J. Abrams will not be seen 'til January.    The worst criminals this country has ever known are coming back and no one's going to be able to find them because they do not exist.  The broadcasters must experiment more with launching shows later in the year. Until then they are just putting the fall in falter. If only they would learn to pace themselves.  Andrew Wallenstein is an editor at Variety. 