 Hollywood has been saying for months that Christopher Nolan's time-bending thriller Tenet is the film that will bring audiences back to movie theaters. It has a title that is a palindrome spelled the same in reverse and a trailer suggesting the plot moves forward and backward so the movie seems to provide a lot to think about. And critic Bob Mondello says now that most of the country can finally see Tenet they can argue about it too.  I thought they said Tenet was going to be complicated. I mean come on. I am no genius and within the first five minutes I could tell you exactly what - I am kidding I am kidding. Tenet is so complicated I could not spoil this movie even if I wanted to.    All I have for you is a word - tenet.  Technically it is an old-fashioned spy flick with a new-fashioned gimmick as the protagonist who is called The Protagonist discovers when he arrives at a headquarters he may or may not have been to before and meets a woman who explains that she cannot explain anything but she can show him something. They go to a firing range where there is a pockmarked concrete target and a gun with an empty magazine.    Aim it and pull the trigger.  One of the pockmarks on the target seems to heal itself.    Why does it feel so strange?   You are not shooting the bullet. You are catching it.  He opens the empty magazine and sure enough there is a bullet inside. And there appear to be other objects that also move backwards through time while the rest of us are moving forward - lots of them a whole warehouse full.    What do you think we are seeing?   The detritus of a coming war.  Ah the light glimmers. These objects have been sent back from the future maybe. This occurs to someone else too.    Time travel.   No - inversion.  OK back to square one. But remember I said Tenet was an old-fashioned spy flick? Well that is something you can hang on to for dear life as the film globetrots...    Well try and keep up.  ...To Mumbai and Russia London and Ukraine for action sequences that are not strictly speaking sequential but that are loud pulse-pounding and thrill-packed many of them involving what one character calls technology that can reverse an object's entropy.    Do not try to understand it. Feel it.  Good advice for The Protagonist and for the viewer as we watch him dodging cars that are un-crashing on freeways. Writer-director Christopher Nolan may be dealing with concepts...    This reversing the flow of time...  ...That are reality-shredding.    ...Does not us being here now mean it never happened?  But he is a big believer in reality on-screen - no computer effects if he can manage an effect in-camera. So protagonist John David Washington and his co-star Robert Pattinson learned to un-throw punches and even talk backwards. And when the film goes for a big set piece...    You want to crash a plane?   Well not from the air. Do not be so dramatic.  ...The producers acquired an actual jet.    Well how big a plane?   That part is a little dramatic.  A 747 - because if you are going to do something in a Christopher Nolan film you do it big and loud and possibly when it comes to dialogue not entirely comprehensibly with people getting drowned out by explosions or Ludwig Goransson's seat-rocking score. Now in fairness to the dialogue I saw Tenet under unusual circumstances - socially distanced and wearing a mask like everyone will with just six other critics in an IMAX auditorium that can seat almost 500. That is great for safety during a pandemic but may have mucked with the acoustics a bit. Still Nolan wants Tenet seen in theaters. And presumably his fans will want to see it in theaters - easy to see why. It is huge. And even when it does not make a huge amount of sense it is frenetically entertaining not to mention challenging - a bit like solving a Rubik's Cube and a physics paradox while doing gymnastics. After six months in lockdown that might be just the ticket. I am Bob Mondello.  