 Jeff Bridges became a cult hero playing The Dude in The Big Lebowski but he is made a career in movies set in the American West. He was Rooster Cogburn in the Coen Brothers True Grit and had an Oscar-winning role in 2009's Crazy Heart. His latest film Hell Or High Water adds to that but with a modern twist. It is a present-day Robin Hood tale that unfolds across the sprawling plains of West Texas. The story centers on a pair of brothers driven to robbing banks that want to foreclose on their deceased mother's home. Jeff Bridges plays Marcus Hamilton a career lawman tasked with capturing the brothers for his final assignment.    It is reckless is what it is. It is tweakers I am telling you.   I do not think these boys is reckless - damn sure as not tweakers. They know exactly what they are doing.   I do not know how you are going to survive without somebody to outsmart. You need a hobby and quick.   Maybe one of these bank robbers is going to want a gunfight and I can dodge my retirement in a blaze of glory.  Jeff Bridges joins us now from Santa Barbara Calif. Welcome to the program.  Oh thanks for having me.  So what drew you to this film?  Well it was the old you know - the reading of the script. It rang so true to me. I felt that the writer Taylor Sheridan - he must know this world that he is talking about - Texas and lawmen. And I find out after meeting him that his uncle is a marshal down in Texas and that really helped. I got to talk with him and add his authenticity to the whole experience. Also I mean you know after reading the story the ambiguity really drew me in. You know this is examining right and wrong which is not really such a black-and-white issue. It is a pretty gray area.  In terms of westerns you obviously have played the lead role in True Grit the Coen Brothers' version. There was a John Wayne version and there is been a whole arc of westerns throughout American cinema history. And in this film it is set at a moment in time where people have been hit hard by the economy. There is questions about what gun culture means and how to valorize or not you know - how weapons are used so how did you come to think of this western compared to westerns that have come before?  Yeah. Well one of the themes to many westerns is the times they are a changing whether it is here come the automobiles kicking horses to the curb or in this sense banks owning up private property or you know - you go back to another western that I was involved in - Heaven's Gate had kind of a similar theme you know. In those days it was not big oil companies but it was cattle barons that ruled the land. And this is a story that is always timely.  Your foil in the film is the character Toby Howard played by Chris Pine who is the face of the newest Star Trek franchise. And Howard has turned to robbing banks in order to help his family. So what was it like working with Pine and how would you describe for people who have not seen the film the dynamic between your two characters?  Chris was just so wonderful to work with. You know one of the things that I enjoy so much about what I do is working with actors and so many of them approach the work kind of like I do. A lot of us go into this situation knowing that we have got a lot of hard work to do. We have got a time element involved and so we have got to get to be friends so we can relax. And I find that the more relaxed I am the work can flow through me in a more truthful way. And so Chris and I approached the work that way. We really you know became friends in a fast sort of way. David Mackenzie our director did something wonderful to facilitate this camaraderie. Every weekend he would invite all of us to a cabin in the middle of Albuquerque where they were editing the film. And he would show us an assembly of the work that we had accomplished that week and we would have a party and just hang out. And we would you know break out our guitars. I - speaking of that I - you know my partner in the film - most of my scenes are with Gil Birmingham who is a wonderful guitarist. And we spent many hours jamming you know - just playing music is a great way to get together and know each other.  Well you have made a lot of westerns over the course of your career but you have also played a huge variety of roles you know in the cult classic Tron The Dude in The Big Lebowski. So answer this - which of the characters that you have played in your career would you most love or hate taking a cross-country road trip with?  Well that is a very difficult one. As far as characters I would want to travel with - oh my gosh. Well you know The Dude comes to mind you know that would be sort of like talking to myself maybe in a way. I do not know. Playing the president - President Jackson - he was kind of an interesting guy. You know I do not know. I have a fondness for all my characters. I play some pretty evil you know bad guys too. I do not know if I would want to hang out with those guys too much. But all of them are pretty cool cats. You know The Fabulous Baker Boy guy you know I could pull over into a little saloon or something. We could do some jamming get him on the keys. He plays a lot better than I do.  Jeff Bridges we are so glad to speak with you. Thank you so much.  Nice hanging with you.  That is actor Jeff Bridges and we caught up with him in Santa Barbara Calif. His new film Hell Or High Water is out now. 