 NPR reporters do not do all the work overseas especially in war zones. And the same could be said of reporters for newspapers and television networks. We all rely and rely heavily on people called fixers. They are locals with good English who drive our reporters around interpret for them set up interviews sometimes even do the interviews. And they assume an immense amount of risk in exchange for little recognition but a decent paycheck.  A documentary airing tonight on HBO tells the story of one of these locals in Afghanistan. It is called  The Taking of Ajmal Naqshbandi. NPR's Graham Smith has seen the film and talked with its director.  Fixer opens with grainy television footage shot by the Taliban.  It is spring 2007 an Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo is on-screen a hostage.  He is pleading for help from the Italian government. And then the tape stops rewinds and you notice this voice off-camera in English asking do you have any message for your wife and mother?  Mr.  Do you have any message for your wife and mother?  The text on the screen informs us that it is the voice of Mastrogiacomo's fixer Ajmal Naqshbandi. It also says he will be murdered. Mr.  I basically found out for the first time that Ajmal was in fact kidnapped through that footage.  That is Ian Olds the filmmaker who shot and directed Fixer. Mr.  Very quickly that footage that starts the film appeared online and I heard that voice off-camera and I knew right away that it was Ajmal.  Olds had been in Afghanistan six months before researching a feature film about the relationships between journalists fixers and Afghans. He joined Christian Parenti a reporter for The Nation and Ajmal Naqshbandi his longtime fixer for interviews and chats over lunch. Mr.  So we can do it in three days? Mr.  Yeah yeah in three days. We just need to  Much of the footage is shot as they drive from place to place strategizing. Mr.  and instability. Okay. Mr.   and they come by. Mr.  And you can call ahead and have your friend to fix some of that stuff for us? Mr.  Yeah yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mr.  Do you think that is possible? Mr.  Yeah it is possible.  Naqshbandi also worked with other journalists developing a reputation as a risk-taker. Mastrogiacomo hired him to get a big-name insurgent for an article but something went wrong. Director Olds dropped his idea of a fiction film and made this documentary instead. Mr.  What it is seeking to do is take this off-screen presence this hidden class of labor the fixer on the edge of the frame put them into the center. You always see the journalist you know as the one who people focus on who was kidnapped. But to stop there and go back and say this story is not about this journalist you see it is about the unseen voice on the edge of the frame.  The images in Fixer come largely from Olds' camera footage shot before the kidnapping and interviews with Ajmal's family and friends after his murder. But he also incorporates video shot by the Taliban for propaganda purposes. It is some of the most compelling footage in the documentary. This is where Ajmal Naqshbandi's round kind face is most clearly in the center of the frame. Mr.    Accused of spying for the West he looks into the camera. His sparkling sad eyes implore. Mr.    He tries to reassure his family God willing there is not any problem. These are all our countrymen. Mr.    NPR's longtime Kabul fixer Najib Sharifi spent hours on the phone with his Taliban contacts trying to convince them to release Ajmal a close friend. Sharifi was my fixer when I was in Afghanistan this spring. I watched this film with him here in D.C. where he is visiting on a journalism fellowship. He remembers how the Afghan government secured the Italian's release via prisoner exchange but not Ajmal's. Mr.  We saw that neither the Afghan government nor the foreigners did anything to help him. So that is quite demoralizing and quite disappointing to view.  Sharifi found the film painful to watch but he appreciates that his friend's story and in a way his story is being told. He also says that since the killing fixers in Afghanistan have been much more cautious. Mr.  Their life is always at risk. The Western journalists go there and they spend some time there and they come back. And they run the risk the whole time because they live there. And if the Taliban want you know they can always find them.  In its best moments this documentary reveals humorously and tragically  what gets translated what gets softened how money and friendship journalism and pragmatism are balanced. Director Ian Olds says he hopes viewers take away new insight about how news is gathered and about this war that is so often an abstraction here in America. But he is also gratified to hear that fixers like Najib Sharifi connect with the film. Mr.  That is really really great for me to hear because you are in this editing room and you are trying to construct or reconstruct some version of the truth some experience and try to do justice to these human beings. And so to hear those kind of response from people who feel how difficult it is to watch but feel that it somehow got something right makes me feel like I at least did a part of the job I wanted to do.  In appreciation of all the fixers who help NPR News do its job I am Graham Smith.   The Taking of Ajmal Naqshbandi airs tonight on HBO. 