 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  This summer for our series On Location we are revisiting movies where place is so important it might as well be a character. And today we take you to the Ozarks of Missouri.    Way down in Missouri where I heard this melody when I was just a little baby on my mama's knee.  As NPR's Neda Ulaby reports the movie's vivid sense of place is due in large part to one man.  The story follows the travails of a 17-year-old girl whose father a meth cooker goes missing while out on bail. A local sheriff breaks the bad news.    Where you all come into this is he put this house here and your tin-breakers up for his bond.   He what now?   Jessup signed over everything. If he does not show at trial see the way the deal works is you all are going to lose this place.  Ree Dolly must find her father to save her family from homelessness. Her quest leads her into a harrowing underground where blood ties offer no protection from the drug trade's brutality.    What are we ever going to do with you baby girl?   Kill me I guess.   That idea's been said already. Got any others?   Help me.  Last year the director of Winter's Bone Debra Granik told ALL THINGS CONSIDERED that the movie never would have happened without a man who lives in Hayneedle Missouri near where it was shot.  The fate of this film was tied to a local fixer if you will or guide. His name is Richard Michael and he sort of paved the way for us to make it happen.  Meet 51-year-old Richard Michael.  I am a bus driver boat captain and pretty good liar.  This part though is true. Michael's sister worked for the Missouri Film Commission. She called to see if he could help some New Yorkers who were trying to adapt the novel Winter's Bone.  I did feel like I was sometimes the translator between hillbilly and New York.  But Michael says the filmmakers were quick to understand the area's beauty.  The landscape here in the Ozarks there is something special about it. It just becomes a part of who you are.  When Richard Michael started working on Winter's Bone filming would not begin for two years. He started by finding locations - ponds caves burned out old buildings that really were former meth labs.    He is known for knowing what he is doing.   Well you cook long enough this is bound to happen.   You are saying Dad's out there burnt to a crisp?   That is what I am saying.   I am going up for a look.   No!  It is poison. It will rip the skin off your bones.   If Dad's up there I am bringing him home to bury him.   Ree.  He also found the home Ree Dolly fights so hard to keep in the movie. In real life the hand-built house belongs to a man named Frank Layson and it is rich in visual details.  Frank is a recycler you might say. He would not let anything go to waste and so there was a lot of things there that he had used or would use down the road anything from old school buses for storage to old mobile homes that were going to be recycled for metal.    Ashlee Dawn come inside.  Little Ashlee Thompson was a natural. In fact Michael says she is the most realistic part of a scene that is still embarrassing to him where the kids shoot and skin a squirrel.  I always said they butchered the butchering scene.    Now get your fingers in there. I will get mine in. I am just going to slit it down here. Now get in there and get them guts out.   I do not want to.   Sonny there is a bunch of stuff that you are going to have to get over being scared of.  Michael says the actress who played Ree Jennifer Lawrence almost lost her nerve when she had to teach her onscreen brother how to disembowel that poor squirrel. You can tell watching the little local girl playing their sister.  You look at her face and she was actually in disbelief at their inability to skin a squirrel.  Michael went from finding places to shoot to finding props - chainsaws rusty old trucks Christmas lights even the coarse burlap bag covering Ree's head in one climactic scene where she learns her father's fate.    You can go on and take that sack off now.  The prop department came up to me and said that we have got to have a burlap sack. Where in the world can we find a burlap sack? I said oh over at the mall in Branson they have a store Bags R Us. Oh really? Oh good. Can you give us the phone number? And you know so I am pulling their leg. That is what we do but anyway they were swallowing that hook line and sinker but I said I have got a burlap sack for you. It is okay. Calm down.   The Ozarks landscape of Winter's Bone is cultural too. Lots of banjo playing.  Everybody said oh you cannot have a banjo in a movie about the Ozarks not since Deliverance. You know you just cannot.  The local musicians in the film and on the soundtrack would beg to disagree.   One of the musicians Marideth Sisco spent this past summer touring as part of the Winter's Bone Band. Sisco says seeing her part of the world come alive on film was deeply meaningful.   I know that the Ozark highlands are underlain by the St. Francis Range which is one of the oldest mountain ranges on earth.   And so what you have is very thin skin of soil and trees and stuff on top of this massive granite and limestone.  Hardscrabble country she says that shapes the bodies and lines the faces of the people who live there people wary at outsiders until they get to know them.   Outsiders are probably rare in this shabby roughneck bar where Richard Michael makes his one appearance in the movie. He is an extra in a scene where Ree and her uncle try to gather information. She comes in cautious right next to Richard Michael.   There is me standing there in a black stocking cap and brown coveralls and props comes over and they stick a cigarette behind my ear and I got a big bushy black beard.  Neda Ulaby NPR News.   There you will also find stories about the places behind Touch of Evil The Shawshank Redemption and Giant all for our series On Location. 