 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. This summer comic book movies have earned one and a half billion dollars here in the U.S. That is more than triple the sales of actual comic books for all of last year. The comic book industry is trying to figure out how to expand its audience and part of the answer is probably digital but nobody has landed on the perfect comic equivalent of the eBook MP3 or streaming internet video. Noah Nelson of Turnstyle News brings us the story of one man who is trying to solve the problem. Mark Waid superhero scribe by day digital comics revolutionary by night.  He would not make the claim but when it comes to comic book writers Mark Waid is one of the greats.  I pretty much hit all of the pop culture bases.  Batman Spiderman even the Incredibles have had their adventures dreamt up by Waid.  January 26 1979 was the most important day of my life because that is the day that I saw  The Movie.  Waid was 15 years old.  And I came out of it knowing that no matter what the rest of my life was going to be like it had to involve Superman somehow.  He made the D.C. Comics miniseries Kingdom Come into one of the definitive Superman stories the ultimate what-if tale.  What happens when Superman retires and the next generation of heroes come along and make a mess of things and Superman has to come back and set the world straight?  Mark is not that what you are doing right now?  You know that is kind of what I am doing right now.  Waid has begun remaking comics for iPads and similar gizmos stories that use simpler pictures and bigger text that read well on any size screen. He is found new storytelling tricks like captions that shift over a static piece of art.  That does not change the image but it completely changes the context of what the story is.  Take the comic Waid wrote for Marvel's new Infinite Comics line. A hero hurtles through space a red-orange blur behind him. When the reader swipes the screen the page does not turn. Instead the image shifts focus. The blur becomes the fiery cosmic Phoenix the X-Men's most deadly foe.  I got news for you. I have been doing this for 25 years and this is the hardest writing I have ever had to do.  Others have tried to adapt comics from print to digital but it has not been easy. One attempt was a hybrid cartoon comic called Motion Comics. Those failed to really take off. So far the biggest hits have been apps from a company called Comixology. These put issues of paper comics right onto phones and tablets. They are good but not perfect. Waid says it is like what happened when movies went to VHS and were hacked to fit TV screens.  That seemed unacceptable to me. It seemed to me like the smart money is to go the reverse and create things specifically for a digital medium.  Waid is betting the Kent family farm on it selling off his personal collection 40 years worth of comics to fund his new venture Thrillbent.com building an audience by giving away the work for free. If he can find a way to make Thrillbent pay Waid will take that cash and then make print collections of the stories for stores.  And hope that you know enough store owners have not hung me in effigy in the meantime where there is not a market for that stuff.  Hanging in effigy was not really part of my plan.  That is Robert Hennessey.  But...  Although...  Yeah but now that you mention it...  He is co-owner of the Santa Monica comic book store Hi De Ho Comics. Hennessey dreads the end of print comics when stores like his are no longer the center of the comic book universe.  OK. Here's my fear is that what happens is that we get comics out there digitally and that they become either free or so nearly free that it starts to cannibalize the audience for print comics.  But some see that change as inevitable. Glen Weldon is a critic whose book on the history of Superman is due next year and he is a contributor to NPR's Monkey See blog.  The weekly superhero comic is not long for this world. The other thing to keep in mind is that it is really surprising how much - how easy it is to get comics nowadays digitally.  But that does not mean they are selling. In June Comixology revealed they would pulled in 19 million in sales in 2011. For perspective that is less than what print comics make in a month which leaves Waid with a never-ending battle to make the digital world safe for creators fans and the comic book way. For NPR News I am Noah Nelson.  Noah Nelson is a reporter for TurnstyleNews.com a project of Youth Radio. 