 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audi Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. In the new Woody Allen movie Colin Firth plays a 1920s stage magician who is also an expert at debunking spiritualists. And during filming Firth ended up debunking some myths about Woody Allen. Firth's character in Magic In The Moonlight is named Stanley. He takes on the case of young woman played by Emma Stone who is a supposedly adept medium.    It is all phony. From the seance table to the Vatican and beyond.  Spoiler alert - the dead do not really show up at sances. Colin Firth joins us now NPR West. Welcome to the program once again.  It is a pleasure to be here. Thank you.  First of all there is I believe one scene in Magic In The Moonlight in which two characters talk about your character. But apart from that is there any moment when you are not on screen or about to be on screen this film?  I think there are very few. It is very much from my point of view.  It is all you all the time.  Yeah. There was a lot of - when I first read the script there was an awful lot of ink under the word Stanley. And it was a little overwhelming actually because it is the first time I would been approached by Woody Allen. And then to see that I was going to be carrying an awful lot of what he would written was flattering and daunting.  Daunting but you also say flattering. It sounds like something that would make a project attractive.  Well it did. I had heard all sorts of stories about Woody Allen's directing - directorial approach. And some of them turned out to be myth. But one of them was that he does not rehearse and another was that he does not really direct if he does not like it...  He just cuts it out of the movie?  ...Yeah he cuts it out of the movie or even replaces you. And he does not talk to you. You know we did not have - we had a very brief phone conversation which I thought he would asked for and he thought I would asked for. It became apparent as we spoke and it lasted all of two minutes I think. So there was no discussion about what the convention of the film is going to be whether this was theatrical or naturalistic. Whether it was going be big small you know. How he was going to shoot it. So I tried to build what I could just in the homework that I was doing. Because another thing you hear is that he only lets you see certain pages but that was not true. He let me have the script and I just thought well I must come armed as best I can and have as much up my sleeve as I can. Which at least means really knowing the lines. I do not normally like to learn lines in advance too much I find my choices and decisions get a little bit too set.  Hm. You mean the alternative is to learn them day by day shot by shot? You rehearse what you do that day?  Yes well I tend - you know I of course I will learn them. But I do not want to sort of embed it too much. I could not afford to do that with this. There was just too much. Then I got onto the set and I - you know the first word he said to me was probably Action.  . It is all business is what you are describing.  It is very much business yes.  Yeah.  But - and it was not just action it was - Action we are going to shoot this whole scene one shot. And then what you find is that those takes are the rehearsal. He rehearses in front - he rehearses on camera - and he did direct that was another thing that turned out not to be the case. He was a very very involved and meticulous director. So that came as a great relief.  We spoke several years ago when you were in a remake of The Importance Of Being Earnest. It struck me that this is the first comedy you have done a few years is not it? You have been doing some pretty serious parts of late.  Yes the comedies are coming less thick and fast than they used to.  Why is that?  It is partly choice. I feel more comfortable in drama. Comedy's is a high-wire act. I find it stressful. It is a precision science in a way. And when you are filming the thing comedy depends on becomes a much more difficult commodity. The thing you depend on is spontaneity.  Yeah.  In filming you are waiting. You are waiting for lights. You are waiting for people set things up. And when you are not waiting you are repeating. And neither is conducive to spontaneity you know. Comedy makes you very very neurotic because you think I - but did I nail it?  In your character by the way in Magic In The Moonlight there were moments I felt moments of Henry Higgins coming out. Did that resonate at all with you?  Very much so. It is interesting actually because I was - I did not talk to Woody Allen about that because I - again we did not have any conversations about why the - or any conversations.  . Or of the extensive preparation you went through with him. That is funny.  No my preparation was a somewhat lonely experience. But he mentioned Henry Higgins once in that very very brief phone call. He said it obviously has something of a Henry Higgins about it. But listening to him at the press conference in New York he said he was not conscious of referencing that even though he considers Pygmalion to be possibly the most perfect comic play ever written. That is not what he was interested in pursuing. It was - it came from somewhere else for him. And there are themes we have seen over the years as sort of motifs that come up his interest in the need for escape from reality the pondering of death.  Love death - the basic Woody Allen themes.  Yeah very much so. They are kind of agonizing about you know existential hopelessness and that sort of thing. And making it very funny. And I think lifting the angst a little bit you know laughing off things that otherwise torment us and keep us up at night.  Well I have one other forward-looking question for you which is when I interviewed Jonathan Teplitzky who made The Railway Man with you I pointed out that while this is not a documentary. It is a film based on a true story. But one of the liberties which he took was to take events that unfolded in Eric Lom - in the real Eric Lomax's life when he was in his '70s and have them played by you in your '50s.  Yes.  And he said well you know he gave me an answer about real life in the movies. And I am just curious do you think they are going to be lots of parts for men of an older age coming up over the next 10 or 15 years for you?  I really cannot see ahead. I do not know. I will say that I have been fascinated at how much more interesting the roles have been for me in the last few years. And I do not know whether it is films like The Single Man or The King's Speech or even this one there is one thing that they have in common - are that they are about a man who is made up his mind about life in a certain way. Or has made up his mind about himself. And something gets overturned. And I think that is fairly specific to someone in middle-age. And then something happens to you or you find yourself in unlikely encounter or an unusual relationship and something revolutionizes. Now you know being in middle-age means that you hopefully still have a significant enough future for that to really count. So it is a very interesting time. And there have been several times when that is happened and I do not think those things would have been available to me in my 20s. And it will not be the same story if I am you know 98.   I think one is pretty well - pretty well made up at that point. Colin Firth thank you very much for talking with us today.  It was a great pleasure. Thanks.  Colin Firth stars in Magic In The Moonlight which opens this weekend. 