 When the first season of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt dropped on Netflix all anybody could talk about was the theme song.    Unbreakable they alive damn it. It is a miracle - unbreakable.  Now that the show is in its third season fans have another obsession - the character Titus Andromedon Kimmy's best friend and roommate.    Ladies like that are trouble. They collect gossip like Tituses collect expired deli meats. And when it all comes out the result is just as toxic.  The actor who plays Titus Andromedon is named Tituss Burgess. He had a successful career on Broadway before this role. And while he usually plays larger-than-life characters Burgess told me he is actually a quiet person who does not seek out the spotlight. He grew up in small town Georgia. So I asked - when he was a kid did he see someone on TV or in the movies who gave him the confidence that he could become who he is today? He did not miss a beat.  Lena Horne.  Really?  I saw The Wiz when I was in the seventh grade. I do not know why this woman always does this to me. She - the authority with which she sang Believe In Yourself.    If you believe within your heart you will know.  Watching her telling Dorothy you know how exactly to get to where she wants to be. And the way she looked down the barrel of the lens you could not tell me that this woman was not singing to me.    That is why I want you to believe in yourself. Yes right from the start you have got to believe believe in the magic right there in your heart.  This one piece just was so electric. And I felt for all intents and purposes that whatever it was I was going to do there was absolutely nothing anyone could say or do to stop me. And it has proven true.  The characters that you have played have always been showstoppers. You were Sebastian in The Little Mermaid on Broadway. You were Nicely-Nicely in the 2009 revival of Guys And Dolls. And now Titus Andromedon in Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt basically steals every scene that he is in. So for a person who describes himself as a homebody and the exact opposite of a showstopper how do you bridge that gap?  Oh that is easy dude.  Did you just call me dude?  Oh sorry yeah.   I am an only child so I had a great deal of time by myself. And I love being by myself. That also means a great deal of time sitting back and observing the world. I had a huge family but believe it or not there are personalities in my family that are far more larger and grandiose than Titus Andromedon.  Oh really?  Oh yeah man. And that is like how - that is...  I did not think there were people on earth more grandiose and large than Titus Andromedon.  Oh it is a colorful world out there.  .  And I just filed those personalities away. And when I pick up a script I go oh I know that person or I know who that is or I recognize this sentiment or I recognize this selfish trait. And it is not that difficult to humanize and figure out who these people are and what is going to make them pop and flashy and grounded all at the same time. So that is how I do it.  Did you ever worry about making him too big and losing the grounding?  No. However large or into the stratosphere they wrote him I would find the one thing in the scene that he needed.  Can you give me an example?  Well sure lemonading .  Your character essentially plays out the Beyonce visual album scene by scene song by song in a jaw-dropping way that is the thing everybody's talking about this season.    I loved you like a Patti LaBelle pie so sweet and flaky I could cry. Sometimes pop songs do not really rhyme.   Sometimes pop songs do not really rhyme.   This will sound fine to your mind.   This will sound fine to your mind.  The deeper the well of emotion the deeper the cut the deeper the wound the larger the cry. So it made perfect sense that this is how he would exercise his emotionally heartbroken demons.  But was there also a moment of I am sorry you are asking me to do what?  No because everything they ask me to do is ridiculous.   So I am past that.   So - but that is how I keep it grounded and grandiose at the same time.  The jokes in this show come so fast and furious that sometimes...  Who you telling? Who you telling? I do not understand half of them .  OK that is what I was going to ask about because sometimes I have to rewind sometimes I turn to the person next to me sometimes I realize what the joke meant three beats later and realize that I have missed two jokes in the middle of it. Like how do you deal with that as the guy who has to deliver all of them?  I spend a lot of time on Google.  Really?  Yeah man. It is so multi-layered so many levels. I have to - I find myself trying to figure out - what exactly are they talking about? And then of course I just go to them. You guys I do not understand what you are saying.  I am imagining like lesson time with Tina Fey the writer explaining to Tituss Burgess...  It is true. It is true.  ...What the joke is. We here at NPR were pleased to get a little bit of a shout-out.    Take your incomplete college application and go wherever white folks go to finish stuff - a farmer's market a dog park maybe a live recording of Wait Wait... Do not Tell Me.  Tell me you did not have to look up the reference to Wait Wait... Do not Tell Me.  I did.  Oh no really ?  I am so sorry. I did. But that is just because I do not listen to podcasts a lot or a great deal of NPR.  Oh just twist the knife.  No no no it is not - but now I will though.  I have heard a narrative about LGBT characters on TV. And I know you are familiar with this. It goes look how far we have come. It used to be that every gay character on TV was an effeminate flamboyant best friend and now America's moved past that. And your character is an effeminate flamboyant best friend. And there have definitely been people who have said you are not helping the cause.  Sure.  How do you respond to that?  They are not watching the show. Titus Andromedon is more everyman than any other character on that TV show. He is broke. He does not have money to pay the rent. He cannot keep a job. He gets racially profiled. I mean so what that he adds a couple of S's to the words he says or you know wears women clothes? If how someone moves about the world on the spectrum of masculinity to femininity is a measure with which the cause or LGBT characters have either moved forward or regressed if that is what they are basing it on then what kind of two-dimensional world are they living in? So the question sounds ill-informed already and I tend to not answer it.  Well Tituss Burgess it is just been so wonderful talking to you. Thank you for coming in and having this chat with us.  You are so welcome. Thank you for having me Ari. It is so nice to meet you.  You too.    Is this what I deserve? I took you at your word. You know I am not too feminine to cut me up a nerd. What is worse? Being heartbroke or roach bit? Hearbroke or roach bit? 