 War and poetry may be equally ancient. Some of the earliest known poems celebrate and lament organized killing. America's recent wars have created a new generation of war poets none more distinguished than Brian Turner. In poems about his experiences in Iraq like The Hurt Locker R and R and What Every Soldier Should Know he spoke for a lot of young people trying to make sense of what they saw and felt. Turner's latest book is prose but it certainly reads like poetry. My Life As A Foreign Country is a memoir in which Turner reveals how war once experienced becomes a permanent part of who you are.   Mosul is inside me - all of its buildings all of its smoke and pollution its 1.7 million people the university district and the bridges over the winding river barbershops and ice trucks and sheep grazing in the ruins of Nineveh minarets water buffalo in the eucalyptus groves where the rotting uniforms of Saddam's military continue to disappear the dead Canadians out by the television station the Kurdish Peshmerga standing guard behind sandbagged machine-gun emplacements stationed around their regional political office old men staring from the automotive shops the birdlike bodies of their grandchildren chasing after us through the neighborhoods the ghosts rising from the mist along the river the slow-moving ghosts in the streets and alleys of Mosul the many ghosts returning to their homes each night to sleep with the ones they love.  Brian Turner comes from a long line of warriors. His father served during the Cold War. His uncle fought in Vietnam - his grandfather in the Second World War - his great great-grandfather in the First. I asked him why he struggles with answering the simple question why did you enlist?  For years people asked me after poetry readings for example why did I join the Army? And I would give them a shorthand which was that I come from a long military tradition. But I realized that there are layers and levels within that answer that I was not really meditated into - I did not really have access to. So that was the prompt for writing this book. And then what I found was that it is something I am still grappling with and I am not quite yet able to answer. And the book itself lead me into other questions that were unexpected.  Now I have heard plenty of accounts of growing up in military families but none like yours Brian. Your...   You know your dad built a martial arts studio in the garage. And you guys mixed napalm - as best as I can tell - for fun.   Well we would wait for - we lived in Central Valley California. And it is near cattle range land and great vineyards. And on foggy days in the winter it was perfect. We would go out there. And no one could see us. My dad made an igniter. And we had a proper you know distance away from it we thought. And for a boy it was kind of perfect. But now looking back on it it does seem pretty bizarre to think we were making napalm and blowing things up in the backyard.  One of the things that is very - so fascinating in this book is the way that your experience of war connects you with your family - your father your uncle your grandfather even your great-grandfather's experiences.  Yeah. I wish the women in my life - my mother my grandmother - you know in my family - they are connected to this conversation just as deeply. But this particular book I really tried to follow one vein and try to see the - see masculinity in war and the development of myself as a man. But I think there is probably another book in the future that will look to the other side of the house and learn a great deal.  You write with this deep awareness of multiple perspectives on war. I mean your writing in this book at times from the point-of-view of families caught in the crossfire bomb-makers in Iraq as well as the kamikaze pilots who fought your grandfather. And it just seems strange. Because I always thought one of the things about war is that if you are fighting - if you are a warrior you cannot think of your enemy as having an identity in that way.  In the very moment when bullets are in the air - that kind of thing - you are right. I mean it is more primal and much more dependent on fear. And people say training - for me it was just fear. . And - but outside of those moments the vast majority of the experience that I had when I was in Iraq for example I would often wonder about the people who had shot at us prior - maybe the day before - the people whose houses we were about to raid that night. One of them could take me life. Or there is a chance I could take theirs. And I wanted - I wanted to understand them.  And when you are under mortar fire you write this phrase someone is hunting for your soul. Soul is actually a word that pops up in this book a lot.  Yeah. It is something my squad leader said to me one time. You know men we are in the job of hunting for people's souls. And of course the contract that goes with that is that others will hunt for our own.  Flipping back and forth in time in this book - it feels like to me it is more than just a narrative device - that there is - it is a way in which these experiences really stay with you and pervade your life you know years later.  Part of me hopes that through some of these moments they might be completed in the reader in a way that the war might come home. And I know that is very difficult. You know I do not want to sort of inflict pain or indict you know the citizens around me. But this is a part of our time. And I want to be in a dialogue with people about it.  Imagine you have a grandson and you know he was thinking about joining the infantry taking on part of the family tradition. Is there something that you would say to him that you wish that your grandfather had said to you?  There would be two things. The first and most fundamental would be do you want to live a life in which you have taken part in taking someone's soul - taking the last breath of their life and placing the dirt over their grave? Can you walk into the rest of the days of your life with that weight? The other thing I would say is - encourage them to go to a foreign country and live in a foreign country for a year to experience the space itself but also to be able to look back from another part of the globe and see America with a certain remove and see - maybe see its place in the world. I think they would be much richer in their lives for that experience for one. And the second part of that is that if they still want to join the military then they know they are fully committed to this idea and that they will be better soldiers for it.  Brian Turner is best known as a poet. And his new memoir is called My Life As A Foreign Country. Brian thank you so much.  It is an honor. Thank you. 