 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel. And my guest in this part of the program has brought oracular authority to a three-month fill-in stint on Comedy Central this summer. With Jon Stewart off directing a film the anchor chair at The Daily Show has been occupied by the show is senior British correspondent John Oliver whose own stand-up show on Comedy Central starts its fourth season tonight. And John Oliver joins us from New York. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much for having me on the program.  Thank you for slumming with us. How do you like being an anchorman so far?  It is a pretty weird experience sitting behind that desk. Yeah. I knew that I was going to have some almost comically oversized shoes to step into. But yeah I definitely feel like a child wearing a full adult clown pair of shoes.   You have had a very good run of material. The world has obliged you. Edward Snowden trapped in the transit lounge of the Moscow Airport.  Right.  Anthony Weiner returns to...  Anthony Weiner is the gift that cannot stop giving.   He gives and he gives and he gives.  You did have the - on the more serious side - the George Zimmerman trial the Detroit bankruptcy.  That is right. And you can throw some Supreme Court rulings in there as well the Voting Rights Act and gay marriage. So yeah it has been - summer is usually a slower time. I was definitely prepared for it to be slower and it has not worked out that way in any shape or form. So yeah I am grateful as a comedian and slightly demoralized occasionally as a human being.   And those two things are always very different.  Well let us take a listen now to the story of all stories. Lucky you the British - the senior British correspondent were anchoring the program to tell America about a royal birth. Here is some of your reportage and analysis of that story.   It was a boy. And finally we have a member of the royal family with an actual excuse for being a toothless petulant useless human being. That one could get me into trouble back home.  It is now being chained into the famous golden easel in front of Buckingham Palace.  Ooh the golden easel.   Do not look directly at it. You will make it dirty with your peasant eyes.   Incidentally when there is not a royal birth announcement that easel is traditionally used to hold the nude portrait of the queen.   I think legally I can still be killed for that.  John you obviously felt the special burden to represent the United Kingdom in your stay...  I sure did. I anticipate that my knighthood will be in the mail. I think I just wait right? I think it just makes its way over here after that. You know I definitely felt that it was important to voice you know a true emotion at the greatest baby being born in the history of human civilization.   All of the British interviews with you that I have read note that your Birmingham - your Midlands accent is it a Brummie accent that you have...  Yeah.  ...plays over here - who cares? You sound just like the queen to American ears.  Yeah. You are basically - you are sonically racist Americans. You think we all sound the same. Yeah whereas in fact I have a - I have definitely a mongrel accent. My family are from Liverpool so I have some twang there. I have a Midlands accent and I was raised about an hour north of London. So my voice is a mess although yeah to American ears it sounds like the crisp language of a queen's butler.   Is it true that you were recommended to Jon Stewart for a job by Ricky Gervais?  I think it was. I have never looked too closely into that for fear that you know we always have an impostor syndrome whenever you are given your dream job. So yeah I have never looked too closely into it in case it turns out that they got the wrong person.  And when you came over here to work on The Daily Show this was the beginning of your experience of America?  These were - I would never been to America before. So yeah I mean it was the beginning of my physical experience of America. But you know as someone who lives on Earth I have had multiple experiences of America culturally and politically over my lifetime. Your influence spreads wide.  We are unavoidable you are saying.   You are unavoidable again in a physical and in an emotional sense.  So what is actually surprised you? Living here marrying an American woman now being very much a part of American media what is it that still makes you feel this place is not quite real when you live here?  Well I definitely believe that this place is real. I do not think the realness of America is in question. You know you only need to see a car drive past with an American flag and an eagle on the back of it to realize that you are dealing with a high level of reality when it comes to America. No I love it here. I deeply love it here. And you know I guess the tone of jokes is often you know at best irreverent but it always comes from a place of deep love. I do not want to leave here. That is I cannot make that clear enough to immigration authorities that...   ... I do not want to leave. So please do not make me.  And you have a green card now. So...  I have a green card yeah. But they can take that away. That is - they can take that away at any moment. So please do not. Please let me keep it.  Your stand-up show resumes tonight. Is it different? I mean now that you are so identified with being the anchorman of The Daily Show does it change the way you think an audience receives you when you stand up?  I do not think so. I do not think it changes the way they respond to me. And people I guess generally come to see me do stand-up with a working knowledge of my broad sense of humor on The Daily Show. So no. I think it is pretty much the same. And yeah I do not think anyone would mistake me as an actual anchor. I think I am just a summer fling that people will soon forget.   The stand-up show is I guess on Friday at the same time at 11 p.m. Eastern as The Daily Show.  Yeah this is - yeah exactly.  That is because...  I we have just taken that slot on a Friday now.  The Daily Show - on The Daily Show you are on guard for news 244. I mean you are...   Twenty four-four indeed or 30-minute four.  Thirty...   It is slightly less catchy.  Has anyone thought about expanding The Daily Show beyond four nights a week?  I do not know. I do not know. I guess that is a business decision. And like with any business decision if they thought it would be profitable they would do it without thinking about it.  I see.  So yeah I have no idea if they are thinking about going for the 245. Can it be done? I am not sure.  OK. Well John Oliver how much longer do you have on The Daily Show?  Well hopefully a long time.  No I mean as the...  I am hoping not to get fired Robert if that is what you are alluding to.  No I mean as the anchor...   As anchor I have another three weeks of the show then we have two weeks off and then Jon is back at the start of September. So I have three weeks. And then I am hoping upon Jon's return I am not going to be fired. I am hoping that. And hearing you especially your voice saying that has given so much more weight to that anxiety in my mind.  I am...  I did not - I did not mean to imply any such thing and...  I trust your voice. That is the problem. That there is a gravitas to your voice and hearing you say how much longer do you think it will be that you are working there? It shall not be long for sure.  In that case John Oliver a man with obviously a very long career ahead of him...   ...at Comedy Central's The Daily Show has been talking us. His own stand-up show resumes tonight. Thank you very much for talking with us.  It is a pleasure. Thank you very much.   This is NPR News. 