 You know that feeling sometimes when you are wondering is it all just in my head? Well that unsettling feeling takes on a life of its own inside the mind of Mrs. March a woman who has spent her entire life adhering to the rules of high society on the Upper East Side of New York. One day her tidy respectable life is thrown into disarray when a shopkeeper wonders out loud if Mr. March a famous novelist based the main character of his new book on his wife. Mrs. March is aghast at this because...   The main character - is not she - Mrs. March leaned in and in almost a whisper said a whore?  That is Virginia Feito the author of the new novel Mrs. March a story that walks a sometimes blurry line between what is real and what is imagined. Virginia Feito joins us now. Welcome.  Thank you so much for having me. I am so excited.  We are excited to have you.  Thanks. That was my drama degree speaking before by the way.  I love it.  So sorry.  I love that you channel your inner actress. So first just set us up with a portrait of the marriage at the center of this story. Like what are George March and Mrs. March like as a couple?  Well I do not think they are a very happy couple for starters. So he is a very successful author. She is his doting prim pretty anxious wife. And they have been married for quite a few years. But I mean they do not seem to know each other very well at all. This might be I think both their faults. Mrs. March has been pretending to be the best version of herself she can possibly kind of put on for him ever since they met and George just does not seem super-interested in her to begin with either.  And it becomes really clear at the outset that Mrs. March is also this woman who is obsessed with appearances. Like her mother taught her quote a healthy marriage is built from the outside in not the other way around. What do you think her mom meant by that?  Well firstly that is kind of the opposite of what my mom has always told me. You know marriage is hard work. And you should always focus on the important stuff what is inside and emotions and feelings and talk it out and whatever. And obviously Mrs. March's mother has taught her the very opposite. You know maybe the important you know therapy side of it - feelings and talking and all of that - is not really worth it. You know it is more about what people can see.  Well you know I have to say at first I wanted to feel sorry for Mrs. March because she is like this woman who is really weighed down by people's expectations. But then as you are reading this novel it becomes very clear that while she is afraid of judgment she also kind of revels in judging others does not she?  Oh absolutely. She is not a very nice person at all.  No.  I love to see how sort of far I could push it so - to see you know how much sympathy people could feel for her in the end. I mean to me she is absolutely unredeemable by the end of the book. But there are a lot of people who are finding her very sympathetic. And I mean I understand. You know it is not her fault. She has not been taught you know how to live basically. And she is so insecure. And her mother has taught her all these very horrible misguided things about marriage and lives and relationships. So I do feel for her. I do. And yet you know I also stuffed her with like all of my horrible qualities that I dislike about myself and blew them up and did not give her any of my - what I hope are my redeeming qualities. So I really just really dislike her. So you know I am glad you do too.  Well you know what happens over time after this suggestion that the main character of her husband's new book is based on her is that Mrs. March starts to lose her mental faculties. And can I just say I was trying to picture this character as a man like a man with the same brittleness and paranoia. And I struggled to picture that because unfortunately the Mrs. March archetype is so recognizable as a woman right?  Yeah. It is so funny you say that because it would be - I would love a Mr. March sort of remake of it and see what problems he faces in the surrounding - you know and the pressures that men face I guess in the privileged world sphere. But yeah absolutely I can recognize you know a lot of her insecurities and traits in women that surround me and in myself as well. They are very feminine - are not they? - to do with their weight and their bodies and their...  Right and the whole reliance on a man for stature and belonging. I am just wondering now that we are in a post-MeToo world how do you want readers to take in a character like Mrs. March today a woman like Mrs. March?  That is interesting you say that because I did have the MeToo thing in mind when I was writing it because there were a lot of books that were being written - I do not know quite how to say this without - no spoilers I guess. But you know there is a lot of literature that was being written that had this trope about the woman who is kind of going crazy. And you know it is revealed more often than not in the end there is a man behind it and she is innocent. And I kind of - I knew I wanted to set out to write a book that was a little bit different that will maybe set those tropes a little bit on their head. I did not want to have the female character driven crazy necessarily by a man. I thought you know we do not need men to gaslight us. We can gaslight ourselves.  But when we are talking about the archetype that Mrs. March represents I mean is that a woman in control or totally out of control? What kind of power do you think she does have?  Definitely she has been a victim of her upbringing and you know very cold distant relationships throughout her life that have not taught her how to establish any true connections. I mean they say that scientifically very young children and babies do not actually form physical connections in their brain when their relationships are not warm enough throughout their childhoods. So there is that for sure. But also you know I think Mrs. March has come to a point where she kind of could be taking control of her own life a little bit or her own decisions and could kind of say  this. You know I am going to therapy. I am going to save myself. And actually there is a reason that I put Mrs. March in front of a mirror constantly throughout the novel repetitively because I am kind of - I am trying to get her to look at herself and to kind of see that she can save herself. And she repeatedly walks away from the mirror or she stops looking at herself or she avoids her reflection altogether. So I think there is definitely a mix. She is not just a victim here. You know she is also kind of played into this victimhood and she is refusing to crawl out of it basically.  Yeah. Well you do not give Mrs. March a first name until the very last sentence of this book. Why was that?  Mrs. March is defined throughout her life by well first her father when she is a young child and then her husband. And of course she is named Mrs. March throughout the entire book even in flashbacks to her - to scenes from her childhood. And it is only when her very real very core identity finally comes out the real Mrs. March - that is when we finally learn her name because that is her. That is the one we have not seen throughout the whole book. And unfortunately she just comes out at the very very end. So I guess maybe I should write a sequel now  as - like to show the how her personality finally only then comes out.  Only then emerges - it was such a delicious read. Virginia Feito's new book is called Mrs. March. Thank you so much for being with us today.  Thank you so much for having me. I am so excited. Thank you.  