 The late North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il was a movie fanatic. In 1978 he kidnapped a South Korean actress and her movie director husband and forced them to work for him. A new documentary tells that story. NPR's Neda Ulaby spoke with one of the filmmakers.  It is just too bizarre to be real.  Ross Adam is one of the two directors who tracked down actress Choi Eun-hee. Now she is nearly 90 years old. In the documentary she remembers getting lured to Hong Kong with an offer to star in a movie.    There was no reason to be suspicious.  Choi went to visit a home by the sea she thought was owned by a producer.    There was a speedboat with three or four strong men. All of a sudden a guy grabbed me by the arms. Before I knew it I was onboard. All the blood drained from my head to my toes.  Choi was drugged and dragged to North Korea. She awoke as a captive of Kim Jong Il.    He had a projection room in every house so he could watch movies any time. Having seen very many movies he wanted North Korea cinema to be just that great. But he thought his comrades were too simple. To me he seems like an artist who loved films.  And he intrigued documentary directors Robert Cannan and Ross Adam.  We are equally terrified but also attracted to dictators and their inner world and their particular kind of ego.  Kim Jong Il's ego is captured secretly on tape by the actress as he complained about North Korea's underwhelming film industry.    Why do all of our films have the same ideological plots? There is nothing new about them. Why are there so many crying scenes? All of our films have crying scenes. This is not a funeral is it?  It is compelling to hear Kim Jong Il's voice partly because we think of him as a powerful visual icon.  Wearing his glasses wearing this ridiculous Maoist suit.  Suk-Young Kim studies North Korean film and teaches at UCLA.  And you can really hear the dilemma that he was facing.    Let us show the West what we are capable of.  Over the course of eight years Kim Jong Il forced his pet actress and her director husband Shin Sang-ok to make nearly 20 films - historical traumas martial arts movies even a North Korean version of Godzilla and more as actress Choi Eun-Hee says in the film.    In North Korea there were no love stories. Films were about loyalty dedication and hard work. But we made the first love story in North Korean history.  After these movies made their way to film festivals mostly behind the Iron Curtain Kim Jong Il started allowing the couple to travel.  Shin and Choi were his prize toys and he wanted to show them off to the world.  Director Ross Adams says in 1986 at a film festival in Austria the two escaped to the U.S. Embassy. But even though Choi and Shin escaped their captor some people wondered how the director in particular had ended up in his clutches to begin with.  Like many South Koreans I have my doubts about Shin's true motivation to go to North Korea.  Professor Suk-Young Kim says Shin was a rebel a political dissident in South Korea. And although he was then its most celebrated filmmaker his movies had started to be censored by the military government. Some believe he defected to North Korea on purpose. Shin died in 2006 and the whole story may never be known. But coming to it as outsiders was useful says British documentary director Ross Adam.  We had no kind of ulterior motives or no preconceptions about the story. We were going to approach it with an open mind.  And that is apparent says film professor Suk-Young Kim. She is seen lots of interviews with the documentary's only surviving main character actress Choi Eun-Hee but this one felt surprisingly honest.  There was depth to it. I mean you could really hear what she was going through.   .  Choi Eun-Hee says it so well. There is acting for film and there is acting for life. And in North Korea those could be one and the same thing.  Suk-Young Kim says North Korea remains a highly cinematic society a stage set of sorts for another dictator obsessed with spectacle and drama. In that way the documentary The Lovers And The Despot is a movie about a movie she says but one whose unwilling actors will mostly never escape. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 