 The Los Angeles Film Festival is in full swing in Culver City Calif. For more than 20 years the festival has highlighted independent films. And it is known for fostering diversity in the film industry. Nearly half the movies at this year's festival are directed by women or by people of color. To hear more we called Los Angeles film critic Carla Renata and I asked her to tell me about Stephanie Allain the first woman of color to direct the festival.  Stephanie Allain is an amazing woman of color. She was a studio executive. She is worked for such studios as Columbia where she was a senior vice president of production there Fox Warner Bros. the list goes on. But Stephanie brings to the festival the fact that she is very passionate about bringing all types of groups of people together. As a matter of fact at the festival this year the film is opening with a Latino film. It opened with a film called Lowriders starring Eva Longoria from - everybody knows her from Desperate Housewives and...  Sure.  ...Devious Maids.  And it is closing with a Latino film. They have also have films dealing with transgender people films dealing with the opiate abuse situation that is happening right now and that is really at the top of everyone's list because of the recent passing of Prince.  Tell us a little bit more about the film you mentioned Lowriders which opened the festival with a very mainstream well-known star Eva Longoria. What is the story there?  The story is about the East LA culture which deals with lowriders and the fact that lowriders is not just a car. It is a culture it is family it is tradition. And Lowriders deals with a particular family their relationships. It is just a wonderful wonderful film.  I have got to ask you know as you make your way around the festival and talk to people how the conversation about diversity is playing out because this is one that is played out in mainstream Hollywood of course when we all followed the controversy at the Oscars the hashtag oscarssowhite. So how is that conversation playing out at the LA festival this week?  It is interesting you brought that up. Last night I attended a panel moderated by Stephanie Allain the festival's director with Nate Parker the director writer star of Birth Of A Nation which is due to come out on October 7. And someone brought that subject up to him. And people are really kind of talking about the diversity thing right now this week in particular because Roots was on television this week. We have got WGN's Underground on TV. There is like five or six slavery movies coming out in this year alone and people are just like really? Enough.  Help me understand what you are saying. Are you saying that people would like to see people of color represented on screen but it does not always have to be about slavery? It can just be about people living their life today as it is unfolding?  Yes and no. And I can only speak for myself. I cannot speak for the masses. I personally would like to see people represented the way they are in real life. Like I think Shonda Rhimes does an excellent job of that - How To Get Away With Murder and Scandal and Grey's Anatomy. It is a diverse cast. You see women of color in positions where they are not playing a prostitute where they are not playing some downtrodden ghetto mother or whatever. They are playing real people people that middle-class black people in America can relate to. So yes we are having a conversation at the festival about let us include all people of color - Latinos Asians black people disabled people LGBT everybody. Let us include everybody. This is a melting pot that is comprised of a variety of different types of people from all over the world. It does not have to just be one narrative of one type of people.  That is Carla Renata. She is co-host of On Air With Tony Sweet on ubnradio.com telling us there all about the LA Film Festival. And Carla Renata hope you have got your popcorn and hope you see a lot more good stuff this weekend. Thanks for talking to us.  Thank you so much for the opportunity to express. 