 Melissa McCarthy is now a certified action hero. Her new movie Spy led the box office over the weekend. She joins a number of other women who have led major movie hits this year. NPR's film critic Bob Mondello has been doing some counting and he finds that that is not at all a common thing.  I fielded a bunch of distressed tweets a couple of weeks ago when I noted that  Fury Road could reasonably be regarded as a feminist film.    You are sitting on 2000 horsepower of nitro-boosted war machine.  That weekend's opening were already a battle of the sexes - the nominally masculine Mad Max versus the girl-power musical Pitch Perfect 2.    We are going to kick your a.  And indeed Pitch Perfect came out ahead at the box office so pointing out that Tom Hardy's Max was taking his cues...    You done this before?  ...From Charlize Theron's Furiosa...    Many times.  ...Inspired furious-ity as it were from some men's rights groups. They were fighting a rearguard action though. Having a feminist focus this year is nothing special though in most years it would be a crazy anomaly. It is a truism that male stars dominate Hollywood in salary in number of movies in box office clout. But look back through three decades of box office grosses and how much men dominate becomes clear when you focus on the very top of the charts - just the top 10 movies each year. In 13 of the last 30 years not a single top 10 box office hit was centered on a female character. And in the other years there were never many - just one per year for eight years and two or three in the others and that largely because of the Twilight and Hunger Games franchises.    There she is - Katniss Everdeen the girl on fire.  In total I count only 31 female-centered pictures at the top of the charts in 30 years and I was pretty generous in what I labeled women-centric. I included Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct for instance though both are arguably more about Michael Douglas than about the women who torment him. I also included a bunch Disney princesses.     My power flurries through the air into the ground.  This year though is different. We are almost at the midpoint of 2015 and as of right now more than half of the top 10 box office hits - six of them - center their stories on female characters. Besides Mad Max there is its archrival Pitch Perfect 2.    Who run the world?   Girls.   Who run the world?   Girls.  Also Insurgent with its combative heroine Tris.    I think you might be overestimating my character.  Fifty Shades Of Grey.    Rope tape cable ties - you are the complete serial killer.  The animated kid-flick Home in which a little girl saves the planet from invading aliens.    Drop the bubble guns.  And Disney's live-action Cinderella.    Where there is goodness there is magic.  Not all of these feminine characters are empowered exactly but they are feminine which is no small thing - remember it is just three years ago that Pixar's Brave was called brave simply for being about an action heroine - nor are these gals going to be alone at the top for long. They will soon be joined by the heroine of Pixar's Inside Out and by Katniss Everdeen in her Hunger Games victory lap.    Turn your weapons to the capital.  Now a couple of caveats - only two of these pictures were written or directed by women but hey baby steps right? And while all of them have muscled their way past he hundred-million dollar mark some will likely slide outs of the year's top ten as they are passed by the dinosaurs minions and storm troopers that'ill soon be rampaging through multiplexes. So this gals-ascendant moment at the top of the charts may prove fleeting. Still that will not make it any less remarkable - unprecedented for at least three decades in Hollywood - did not want that to go unremarked. I am Bob Mondello.    Who run the world?   Girls.   Who run the world?   Girls.   Hey bring it on baby - all your friends. You are the ish and I love that body. 