 Thanks for listen to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Arun Rath here at NPR West. At a time when teacher effectiveness can mean losing tenure in places like California and New York there is increasing debate over the type of teachers schools should keep or let go. Author Elizabeth Green spent time observing good teachers at home and in Japan. She says a big problem here is the pervasive idea that great teachers are born rather than made.  There is this assumption that you are either good are your bad right from the get-go that it must be a matter of maybe your personality or some kind of charisma that you have with the students but in fact when you break down what it is that teachers are doing - they are using techniques. And those are specific skills that we can teach people to do.  You talk about how some of these techniques are being used really effectively in Japan. So say in a math class can you talk about how a Japanese teacher would ask a math question as opposed to what you typically see in this country?  One of the differences is the number of problems in a single class period. So in this country we focus almost exclusively on answer getting strategies right? Ways to find the right answer. And so we have maybe 15 practice problems or even 20 or 30 in one lesson and the student just tries again and again to practice the same strategy. In Japan there is a single question per lesson. And that allows students not only to practice how to solve the problem and get the answer but get at some of the deeper mathematical ideas.  One of the things that you write that is also worked well is mentorships. This is also something that happens in Japan where teachers spend time working on their craft.  Right so another thing that holds our country back is that we have this culture of privacy around teaching. They spend all of their day only with their students and they do not have exposure to their peers. In Japan it is quite the opposite they have this practice called Jugyou Kenkyuu - which really turns teaching into a public science. So as many as 1000 teachers come from all across the country to watch a single lesson and then dissect it afterwards. Japanese teachers working together in this way have been able to decipher what is the best math problem for teaching subtraction with borrowing you know when the bottom number is bigger than the number on the top. And through trial and error and experimentation and discussion together they have all settled on 13 minus nine. That is the kind of detailed finding that it would be really useful for American teachers to be able to work together to come to.  One huge hurdle that teachers face is the problem of misbehaving students. Can you talk about Doug Lemov? He is a teacher that you write about who offered some advice.  The instinct for most adults when you are faced with students who are talking out of turn is to tell them to be quiet right? Say shhh. But Doug realized that shhh is actually the worst possible thing a teacher could say. It is very unclear. Are you telling the students to stop talking or are you just telling them to talk more quietly?  You write how there is more shushing in American classrooms and the Japanese classrooms sound practically raucous by comparison.  That is right. I went to Japan and expected to robotic drill-and-kill obedient students. And that you know even the Japanese have that idea about their country versus our country - that the U.S. must be a place of incredible creativity. But in my book I write about a Japanese educator who comes to the U.S. expecting to find that utopia and instead finds that all the teachers are telling their students to be more quiet and there is this pervasive silence.  And something else that is odd as you write that ideas that are being put into practice in Japan came from America.  Yeah. So the U.S. is like the world's greatest producer of amazing educational ideas but we are one of the worst at putting the ideas into practice. We do not treat teaching as something that people need to help learning how to do. So we say this great idea but we just mandate it. We say do this tomorrow and figure it out on your own. And that is really ludicrous once you understand just how complicated the science of teaching is.  Elizabeth Green is the author of Building A Better Teacher. Thanks for joining us.  Thank you. 