 Comedian Phoebe Robinson is one of those multitalented people who seem perpetually busy even during a pandemic. She may be best known for her podcast Two Dope Queens but she is also an actress a producer and the author of the books You Cannot Touch My Hair and Everything's Trash But It is Okay. And now Phoebe Robinson has launched her own imprint a curated line of books. It is called Tiny Reparations Books. Our colleague Sarah McCammon spoke with her about it.  Phoebe welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me.  So tell us more about the title Tiny Reparations. First of all why Tiny?  Yeah . It just - it really just sort of started as a joke. I would always say whenever - you know I am not going to get like the big fat financial reparations check. But like the little moments in my life that are good or surprising I would call them tiny reparations. And then when I was thinking about this imprint and what I wanted to do and because it is a highly curated imprint where we are not publishing you know 100 books a year it is going to be probably around three to five I felt like my - like each book that was published under this imprint is like my way of giving back. So I was like yeah that is a tiny reparation too.  You are a comedian. You have produced acted written books. What inspired you to go in this direction with an imprint and specifically this imprint?  I mean that was always - to be honest that was always the goal. When - I met my lit ag at the end of 2014 Robert Guinsler and you know he was like what do you want to do? And I would say I want to write a book. I want to have an imprint. I want there to be a space where I can help you know sort of provide a platform for other people to write the stories they want to write and represent their point of views and get their voices out there and feel like they can be the you know protagonists in their own stories. So we just really got excited about how I can be just one link in a chain that can help sort of change the way that publishing is right now.  Right. You wrote on your Instagram that you were honored that this project could be part of a moment to quote uplift and center voices oft disregarded discredited and disrespected. What kinds of voices what kinds of writers will you be publishing?  I mean I really went to run the gamut of women people of color people in the queer community. You know of course men are also welcome. I am not going to say no to men but I think you know when I look back at when my first book came out four years ago and five years ago when we were shopping it around and just the nos I would get and most of the nos were like oh well no one wants to read an essay collection from a black girl or this is too niche. Like she is not relatable. Like no one outside of America is going to care about some black girl story. And that is five years ago which is ridiculous that even just five years ago the notion that like the life story of a black woman is not interesting to anyone. So if people could see this imprint and that helps motivate them to write their own stories then I think that that is great.  And on the same token who do you see as your audience for this?  I mean it is always tricky to say because it is like with anything I do I do not necessarily think about a certain demographic. I just want to do things that I believe in and that I think will resonate with people. Maybe whether it is funny or whether it is more emotional I just want people who love books who love a great story who love really distinct and powerful and interesting and quirky voices like I think that is one of my calling cards as a writer not that I am like that famous or anything but if you know me and you read something without my name on it you would be like oh yeah that sounds like you. So I really just want people who are attracted to that kind of style of really vibrant storytelling. And you know our focus is our essay collections literary fiction and nonfiction. So I am really - you know I want to find that next Kiley Reid. Like I really want to publish like that next Samantha Irby or just all these sort of amazing talent out there. And I want to be able to help bring in some more people.  That is author comedian actress and producer Phoebe Robinson telling us about her imprint Tiny Reparations Books. Phoebe thank you for joining us.  Thank you so much for having me. 