 At the end of the Marvel movie  Infinity War there were a lot of unanswered questions. Now the question where was Ant-Man - that was maybe not the most urgent question. But our critic Bob Mondello says the answer to that question does figure in the new movie Ant-Man And The Wasp sort of.  Did we know that Ant-Man was under house arrest?    Can I just wait inside? 'ecause I am not supposed to be out here.  ...For the last two years apparently. I am not going to pretend I remember the original Ant-Man movie all that well. What I do remember is that it was pretty funny and that Paul Rudd's Scott Lang made a nice kind of unassuming change from the broad-shouldered superheroes elsewhere.    I seem to mess it up almost every time.  Super-confidence - not his strong suit. But give him a good enough reason and he will shrink to the occasion. What gets him going this time is multiple bad guys or gals and a mission to head for the Quantum Realm which is subatomic. And well there is a lot of plot virtually unspoilable because it makes so little sense. So why do not we let Ant-Man's pal Luis handle it?    You opened up the Quantum Realm. That is when this crazy creepy ghost who like walks through walls and stuff stole your tech. Now she wants to take over the world or whatever.  That is pretty much it which means the first half hour is really slow as they are laying everything out and digressing which when this movie is not shrinking things to ant size is pretty much what it does.    Help yourself.   Hey what is up with the fancy pastry? We got to keep the food budget down. T.I.  Well what are we supposed to have for breakfast?   The oatmeal packets. T.I.  Oatmeal packets.   It is insult.   Why is it an insult?   Because it tastes like sand.   Put some cinnamon put a little honey and whatever you want...    Guys guys guys guys guys guys. Come on man. We got bigger fish to fry. Is that my desk?   Yeah.   Why do I have such a small desk?   Well 'ecause you were not there when we were choosing desks.  There are also fights and chases involving micro cars macro Pez dispensers and since Ant-Man unlike the Wasp is wingless and has to call in flying ants when he wants a ride hungry seagulls.    Oh sorry. Sorry. Hey not cool. Come on man. One time please. Yes. I am going to call you Antonio Banderas.  Alas another seagull.    No. No. No. Antonio.  Paul Rudd's amusing especially when he gets to channel his inner Michelle Pfeiffer and Evangeline Lilly's exasperated Wasp is easily his equal.    You go low. I will go high.   I have wings. Why would I go low?  The others are mostly smarter than the jokes they are asked to sell. Director Peyton Reed and his army of screenwriters have not made Ant-Man And The Wasp a terribly clever movie but it is clever enough to keep you from reaching for bug spray. And in the summer Marvel has apparently decided that is all that is required. I am Bob Mondello. 