 Close to 200 films in 10 days - we are talking about the Toronto International Film Festival. This festival is often a springboard for Oscar contenders and breathless awards season buzz. This year some of the most buzzed about films include an adaptation of the bestselling sci-fi novel of all time. That is Dune.    My father rules an entire planet.   He is losing it.   He is getting a richer one.   He will lose that one too.  Also Jessica Chastain starring in a story of televangelism The Eyes Of Tammy Faye.    Tammy Faye. What'd you do?   Hello mother. This is Jim Bakker my husband.  And a musical about a high school misunderstanding spun out of control Dear Evan Hansen.    Even when the dark comes crashing through...   Connor's mother and stepfather are here to see you.   ...When you need a friend to carry you...   Connor wanted you to have this.   ...When you are broken on the ground.   Dear Evan Hansen - he wrote it to you.   His last words. Connor took his own life.  Well NPR contributor Bilal Qureshi and our film critic Bob Mondello have been gorging on movies from this festival. Hi you two.  Hey.  Hi.  So this is alas the second pandemic edition of the Toronto Festival and I gather it was both virtual and in-person. So you two had very different festivals. Bob where were you watching?  Well I was at home in my living room. Bilal made it to Toronto. I am insanely jealous. Although he sent pictures earlier today and it looks like we in a way had the same festival because there was not anybody there.  Oh. Bilal?  Yeah it was a most isolated and desolate experience in the cinemas of Toronto which usually are packed. Yeah. No I was at the cinemas. And to be honest with you it kind of really echoed this existential angst facing cinema in general you know with so many things available to stream at home. To stream or not to stream was also a question for critics and many chose not to come. But they still had you know some major major films that were not available virtually because the studios and the directors chose to do that. So lots of tests lots of vaccination records being shown and no hassle finding a seat.  Yeah.  That is so bizarre. You know I am - half of the experience being up there is standing in line and it looks like there were none.  Small silver lining then. You did not have to hassle to find a seat. All right. Let us get to the actual films. What did you each see that you liked? Bilal.  Well the big film at Toronto this year was the IMAX premiere of Dune and it premiered at the Venice Film Festival. And then this adaptation by the Canadian director Denis Villeneuve has been one of those movies that the whole industry is watching. How does it do? Do people come out in cinemas to see it? It was phenomenal. It was also phenomenal in a massive IMAX theater. There are other literary adaptations that I really loved. One was a movie called The Forgiven with Ralph Fiennes and Jessica Chastain and Mothering Sunday another kind of period film about memory and love that was really beautiful. So all of those films from books into movies for the big screen.  I have had a really good fest watching films I would not even heard of. I am Your Man which is a German rom-com about an archaeologist who is been asked to test drive an android who is supposed to be her ideal man. It is going to be remade in English in a nanosecond. I also saw a Mad Woman's Ball which is Melanie Laurent's film about a woman labeled hysterics and placed in French asylums in the 1800s because they had the temerity to express opinions to men.  God forbid.  Also - exactly. And then I also saw Encounter which is a sci-fi-inflected thriller starring Riz Ahmed - who is my new choice for the next James Bond - as a dad so desperate to protect his kids that he kidnaps them.  Anything you hated? Top thing that disappointed you? Bob.  Well Dear Evan Hansen we played in the intro that has the original Broadway star Ben Platt. He is fantastic and so is the film for about 90 minutes. Unfortunately it is 137 minutes long.   OK so before I let you go bottom line - hybrid festival you know some in-person some virtual - thumbs up or thumbs down? What did you think?  I mean thumbs in the middle I suppose. I guess the point is that it just feels like that existential angst question of like will things be in the theaters? Are they better in the cinemas? Are they just better at home? You know of course in a movie like Dune the answer may be a little clearer. But I definitely felt for smaller films. It seems that the immersion that you get in movie theaters really is - there is no comparison to that when you are kind of easily distracted by your phone at least for me. So I feel you know one is hopeful that maybe we can go back to cinemas but a weird time.  I so miss cinemas. I want this to be a film festival. And I want the experience of going back to the theater with audiences. I really miss it.  Amen to that. That is NPR film critic Bob Mondello and contributor Bilal Qureshi talking to us about the Toronto International Film Festival. Thanks you two.  Thank you.  Thank you. 