 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Robert Siegel. Inherent Vice is the tendency of material to deteriorate because of its own essential instability. It is also the title of the latest novel by Thomas Pynchon. And Alan Cheuse has our review.  Let us hear it from the mysterious Mr. Pynchon known for his bloated masterpieces. This time he is written a deliciously composed dark comedy and he brings it in under 400 pages. The book is a noir detective novel about Southern California in the late '60s early '70s and it plunges ahead full steam with a story about the abduction of a millionaire developer and the short and stoned hippie private eye named Doc Sportello who goes in search of him.  She came along the alley and up the back steps the way she always used to. Back then it was always sandals bottom half of a flower-print bikini faded Country Joe and the Fish T-shirt. After reading those opening lines I found myself charmed and pleased with the way Pynchon meets the genre square and fair. The woman in question in that opening paragraph is Shasta an old girlfriend of private eye Doc Sportello the psychedelic detective whose company is known as LSD Investigations. LSD stands for location surveillance detection. She leads Doc on a merry chase even as he is pursued by the cops and accompanied by a cohort of hippie-dippy characters. Of course in the Pynchon tradition there is an overarching menace a spy-outfit-turned-drug-cartel known as the Golden Fang. And keeping with the tone of the genre to which Pynchon is paying homage there is a running mostly mock discography of '60s music from surfer songs to power Beatles tunes and the lyrics of a number of other songs Doc picks off his radio stuff like a parody of a black surfer song that he calls Soul Gidget. I will give it a try.  Who is that strolling' down the street high-heel flip-flops on her feet always got a great big smile never gets popped by juvenile. Who is it? Soul Gidget. Whatever you think of the '60s or maybe you do not think anything about it this book may sing to you too.  The novel is Inherent Vice by Thomas Pynchon. And when Alan Cheuse is not trying to sing he teaches writing at George Mason University. 