 Actress Emma Stone made her film debut in Superbad where she showed she could do comedy and also take a head-butt.  I could see falling for her. Now Stone has got a starring role in Easy A a new teen comedy with roots in a 160-year-old novel. Our critic Bob Mondello says the young star shines.  Olive is a great kid. As played by Emma Stone she is smart smart-alecky and confident enough to not worry too much about her reputation when her best friend comes to her with a proposal after being bullied at school for being less than macho.  Mr.   Do you want to go out with me? Ms.   Brandon just a couple hours ago you told me you were Kinsey Six gay. Mr.   True but you said I should pretend to be straight so... Ms.   Yeah I did not mean with me.  He puts on puppy eyes  At a party they will fake - loudly behind a locked door - a pretend deflowering that'ill make him seem like the class stud.  Unidentified Man 1   Is that Olive with Brandon? Ms.   Now grunt and make it convincing.  Ms.   Do not stop. Mr.   I am not going to stop! Ms.  Are you ready to fake the grand finale? Mr.   Yeah what?  Ms.   Yeah. Mr.  Thank you.   Whassup?  Brandon' No more bullying. The problem is this little exploit gives Olive a rep too and not just with the kids at school who are fooled by it but with her parents who kind of see through it - but only kind of. Ms.   He seemed a little incredibly gay. Ms.   Dyed-in-the-wool homosexual that boy is. Ms.   I dated a homosexual once for a long time actually a long time. Ms.   Dear God dear Lord tell me you did not marry and have children with him.  Ms.   No. No no. Your father is as straight as they come a little too straight if you know what I mean girlfriend. Ms.   I do not.  Support is less forthcoming at school where the rumor mill has pretty much everyone calling Olive a tramp especially the religious abstinence crowd.  Unidentified Woman 1   There is a higher power that will judge you for your indecency. Ms.   Tom Cruise?   I hope for your sake that God has a sense of humor. Ms.   Oh I have 17 years' worth of anecdotal proof he does.  Olive's quips aside she is starting to feel the joke wearing thin and you can see we are headed straight into Breakfast Club meets Sixteen Candles territory  They are doing a satirical take on appearances and moralizing that takes its cues from novelist Nathaniel Hawthorne.  Ms.   Ironically we were studying The Scarlet Letter. This girl named Hester Prynne has an affair with a minister is besmirched and made to wear a red A for adulterer. Unidentified Woman 2   Perhaps you should embroider a red A on your wardrobe. Ms.   I am not proud of this.  Bright red A's sewn into her bodice prove just as attention-getting as you would expect. Now Easy A - the title's a nice pun no? - does not take its literary notions as far as say the teen flick Clueless which was an actual adaptation of Jane Austen's Emma. This film just uses The Scarlet Letter as a jumping-off point and more or less abandons the connection in the last half-hour or so. But in most high school comedies the high jinks tend to be so lowbrow that even a nod in a literary direction deserves extra credit. And when it comes in a picture as witty and as smartly cast as Easy A the temptation to grade on a curve is overwhelming. I am Bob Mondello. 