 The writer Paula Hawkins likes to take walks near where she lives in London which happens to be near the region's canal where a lot of houseboats are moored. As she walks Hawkins is looking around scouting for the perfect place to dispose of a body. A body does indeed turn up in London and on a houseboat in Hawkin's new summer thriller A Slow Fire Burning. You may already know her work. She also wrote The Girl On The Train. Paula Hawkins welcome.  Hi. It is great to talk with you.  Allow me to hope that your hunt for the perfect spot to stash a body is purely in the service of your fiction.  Yes. Well for the moment in any case. You know I do not actually think I am alone in doing this. I think it is something that all crime writers do. But as you wander around wherever you are you look at places yes to dispose of a body maybe to get away with murder. You know...  I am going to object and say that my walks are interesting  but I do not think I am looking for a place to stash a body. But perhaps that is why you keep coming out with thrillers with murders at the center of them.  Yeah it is difficult these days because getting away with murder is not what it once was. There is so much you know there is so many cameras around. And everybody's got bones. So we have to work harder to make our plots work I think. So that is why I am always kind of alert to the sort of thing.  Well take us on your walk. I want to kind of get a picture in my head. Where exactly are we? Where are walking? What do we see?  Right. So we are walking up through the heart of London through Clerkenwell in Islington and we get to Regent's Canal which Regent's Canal cuts all the way across London. And - but there is a section in the middle which is the section I am talking about. And there are houseboats there. It is one of the bits of London that was quite bombed during the war so you have old houses and new. You have rich and poor mashed in together cheek by jowl. So it is a great milieu for a novel and particularly for a crime novel I think where you have the powerful and the powerless rubbing up against each other.  And then talk about how you spun that into the opening chapters of this novel.  Well as I was wandering around looking for my places to get rid of someone I noticed that there was a couple of the boats on the canal that are really - they have looked like they have not moved for years. They are sort of slightly sinking into the water. The windows are grimy. It did just strike me that pretty much anything could be inside and you would not necessarily know. And that is kind of what set my mind going. And I would also been thinking about a character for quite a while. And this is something that I do that I live with a character for a long time before I write them. That was certainly the case with with Rachel from The Girl On The Train. And that was the case with one of the key characters in this novel which is a woman called Laura a young woman who has had a lot of difficulties in her young life. And she - in the - at the opening chapter of the book spends the night with somebody on a houseboat. He then turns up dead and she is the chief suspect. And that is where we kick off. And then I sort of built a little cast of characters around these people all of whom are in -  Right. You set up kind of three central female characters any one of whom depending on where we are in the book we might be thinking oh it totally was her. It totally was her. And then you read the next chapter and you are like I do not know. It might go the other way here.  So yes we have Laura who is in her 20s as I mentioned. Then you have Miriam who is an older woman. She is in her 50s. And she is one of the inhabitants of houseboats. She has a very nice houseboat just along from where this body was found. When we start to sort of find out a bit more about her there seems to be more to Miriam. She is definitely not telling the truth to the police. And she has something very very dark in her past. And she is carrying a lot of anger and bitterness around inside her. And the other character is the aunt of the murdered who again had suffered a terrible loss a tragedy in her personal life.  Stay with the point you just made about the characters who are just carrying a lot with them because there is tragedy in this book beyond the murder with which it opens. There is the loss of a child. And several of your characters are wrestling with grief over that are destroyed by grief over that. Other of your characters seem to me to be trying with somewhat more success to heal from awful events in their past. And I wondered what you are saying here about loss or about relationships.  Well I think - the way I tend to build characters is I tend to have in my mind something which scars them or marks them or is a fundamental event in their lives. And they are all fairly ordinary people really on the surface of it. But I am interrogating how tragedy and trauma affect us and what - the different ways in which we respond to things whether we try to avenge ourselves or whether we try to forgive and what that actually means for us as people and whether in some circumstances these things are even possible.  I mean I wonder have you come to any conclusions about why some people whether it is real people or characters who you are building why some people survive great tragedy great loss and others do not and are destroyed by it?  I do not think I have a simple answer for that. And I think because so much depends on your individual character on your support network. But I think perhaps how open you are to seeking help I think sometimes is probably a big part of it. I think my characters in the novel have not maybe necessarily sought help in the ways they ought to. They have sort of turned inside and tried to hold everything inside. And it is that holding everything inside that is eating away at them. Having said that I think that not all of us seek help easily and that is not necessarily our folks either. It has to do with upbringing and you know the way we are taught and that kind of thing. So I think there are just so many different factors in there. But for me and my characters in this I think it is partly the way they have turned inside and tried to hold everything inside instead of perhaps being more open and dealing with it.  The Girl On The Train was famously narrated by an unreliable narrator. She is telling you things and you are not sure whether to believe her or not. And it does occur to me in this book where you have a number of main characters and we are seeing different pieces of what may have unfolded through different people's eyes. But for the most part I found myself kind of buying their accounts and believing in them. And I am curious what made you feel like you were ready to write a novel like that?  Well I mean I still believe that all of us are at some point on a scale of unreliability when we are telling our stories. So yes I guess Rachel was fairly extreme and that had to do - in her unreliability - and that had to do with a very specific thing with her. And it was the fact that she drank too much. And sometimes she could not remember what she would done. And she filled in blanks and that sort of thing. So she had a particular problem. For me that the way that I narrate is actually quite sort of realist is people shaping their stories. Nobody really tells the whole truth do they? None of us do that on a regular basis every day. We are always kind of shading some things out and dropping things in. And so I think you know we are all on a you know on a scale of some sort there. But yes they are more straightforward but that is partly to do with the fact that they are not all drunks.   Yeah it helps.  .  You are reminding me of - what is it - Hemingway who said write drunk but make sure you edit sober.  Yes exactly.  That is Paula Hawkins talking about her new novel A Slow Fire Burning. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 