 I am Ailsa Chang with All Tech Considered.   We are looking this month at the gap between how we portray ourselves online and who we really are. A new movie nails this disconnect. It is called Searching. And it is told entirely through screens. The plot unfolds on computer screens phone screens TV screens. What director Aneesh Chaganty wanted to do was tap into how familiar it is to scroll through life this way.  Basically the opening of the film is a six- to seven-minute montage that takes you through 16 years of this family's life as told through the family's desktop computer.    The four and the one - that is your two. There you go - four one four one - and then five. When you are ready you can switch to five.  And as time goes by you know websites change. The kid grows up. The family kind of evolves. We see their relationships develop. And it ends in a little bit of tragedy but we kind of watch it through the eyes of our technology.  And through that lens we then watch the father David Kim who is played by John Cho searching for his teenage daughter. The film explores how we use technology and what it does to us.  We had this idea - like OK what if we make this movie set in a world where everyone is connected. And at the heart of it is a father and daughter who are disconnected. And the entire film is basically about how to kind of reconnect those wires.  I was also struck by how well you were able to generate suspense with just technology - like the dot dot dot that pops up when someone's writing a text message and you are just waiting to see what the words are. Or there'ill be like a pile of missed FaceTime calls you wake up to in the morning. And I can relate to the panic that that would generate if I saw that first thing in the morning. You guys just seem to key into what counts as suspense now in online culture.  Yeah thank you. I mean it is - you know it was not the easiest thing to kind of do that. But you know I think for us - well anytime - you know we live our lives on screens. And I think because we live our lives on screens we experience a range of emotions on them. You know whether it is happiness or love or fear or intimidation like we kind of experience all of those things. So for us you know when we were writing this we basically just looked at every single button on a computer screen and on a laptop screen or a tablet or a phone and just asked ourselves what each of those things makes us feel. You know what do those three dots bubbling come up - when they go away and they disappear for like 10 minutes like what does that mean to us? What does it mean to delete trash or empty trash?  Yeah the finality of that.  Exactly. Every one of those has emotional significance to it. And for us we wanted to just sort of like exploit each of those underlying meanings.  Ultimately this is a film about how disconnected life onscreen is from real life. They are like parallel realities. You talk about how the father and daughter at the center of this movie - I mean they seem so close when they are chatting on their devices. But he actually does not know a lot about her. Like there is this moment in the movie when John Cho's character David is trying to call up his daughter's friends. And he is just going down her Facebook friend list.    She has friends right?   Define friends.   Do people invite her to things?   I think people occasionally invite her to things.   She just never comes.   She keeps to herself a lot.   She is quiet.   I did see her eat lunch alone.   On Thursday?   Every day.  At that moment I just thought what does that feel like when you are discovering your daughter is this really lonely person and you had no idea?  I know. It was this idea that you know online everyone that you know is technically a friend. It is not a contact list. It is a friend list. And for us you know what is the difference between an online friend and a real friend - not to the crazy level of like every person online hates you - but just a level of like are they actually your friends?  The thing is I feel like we can all accept that there is this fiction that happens when we curate who we are online versus who we are in real life. But when you visit that disconnect when a father and a daughter confront it like head-on it is heartbreaking. That is what this film taught me.  Yeah I guess so. You know it is - yeah it is tough. But you know this film is really about how much technology can disconnect us. I would say yes and I would also say no to that. You know I think while technology in this film is the root of the problem it is also at the heart of the solution as well. And I think for me you know as a former Google employee you know I think technology gets a genuinely unfairly bad and consistently bad rap in media. I think we are always consumed with information telling us that we are addicted to our phones. We are obsessed with social media. You know technology is going to kill us. Buy canned foods right now and hide.  .  You know it is - you know I think there is a pervasive negative kind of connotation that we have with technology. But it is like looking at any tool - let us say a hammer - and saying the hammer is bad when in reality like the hammer is bad hammer is good depending on the way that you use the hammer. And I think what we wanted to do with Searching was kind of for once show a more holistic perspective of technology.  Yeah. There is also this whole subtext that spoke to me about growing up Asian-American in Silicon Valley. That describes who I am. I grew up in Silicon Valley. I read that you grew up in San Jose. I am curious. Why did you choose to center this story on an Asian-American family in Silicon Valley?  The Silicon Valley part has a lot more I think importance to me on this one. And I will explain why - because the Asian-American part to me - the answer is why not? The Silicon Valley part you know - the film takes place on screens. I think why not set it in the heart of Silicon Valley where all of these tech devices and websites that David is actually interacting with - we are like literally set in the world where these were all created in. But the Asian-American element to it is - you know it is important as well because like for us when we had an opportunity to make this film we realized like why not give this to - have a character and a family at the heart of this that is a group of people that we have always wanted to see on screens which is a version of ourselves?  What I liked about is this extra layer of you know - Asian Americans kind of blend in really well in Silicon Valley because there is so many. So if you wanted to pick a family that people think they know about but really there is something totally different going on beneath the surface I feel like the Asian-American family in Silicon Valley is that character you know?  Perfect. Yeah perfect. No I am glad that there is additional meaning there. That was not part of the - that was not part of the discussion early on in the creative. But I mean I am glad that there is extra meaning. I think to us it was just like this element of why not. You know this is a movie that does not actually address any element of being quote unquote Asian-American or quote unquote Korean-American in the plot of the movie.  Well the photo of her Korean mom hovering over her while she was practicing piano - I am like that is an Asian picture right?  Sure sure sure yeah yeah. We get comparisons on that one. But again if we change this - if we cast a Japanese-American family an Indian-American family an African-American family like we would not have changed anything in the script apart from the last name.  Aneesh Chaganty is the director of Searching. Thank you very much for being with us. This was a lot of fun.  Thanks Ailsa. This is so cool to be here.  Searching is out later this month. 