 Tessa Thompson is one of Hollywood's fastest-rising stars. With big parts in  Ragnarok Creed and Westworld she is gone from that actress you know from somewhere to the kind you stop on the street.   Yeah it also does not help currently that I am on the side of a lot of buses.  And part of what got her to this strange place is a sci-fi movie that came out in 1997 when she was 14 years old. It was called Men In Black.  I was - I still am but then - was a massive Will Smith fan. I grew up watching The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air. And it is easy to take for granted now but what Will Smith did at that time becoming sort of the global movie star that he did and bringing his identity his black male identity to those spaces and being so loved is hugely impactful.    So hand over whatever galaxy you might be carrying and step away from your busted-a vehicle. And put your hands on your head. VINCENT D'  I will put my hands on my head.  I am not sure that if I did not grow up watching him on television I would have thought it would even be possible for me to do what I am doing now.  What Tessa Thompson is doing now is starring in  International the latest installment in the franchise. She plays Agent M. And together with Agent H played by Chris Hemsworth she travels the world fighting intergalactic invaders.    Come on. The world's not going to save itself.   I am driving.  The role brings her back together with Hemsworth her scene partner in  Ragnarok. And like Ragnarok it is got aliens and explosions and all the trappings of a Hollywood action movie. Tessa Thompson though first broke through with more subtle films - the racial satire Dear White People the civil rights drama Selma. When I caught up with her I asked her what she liked about working in big movies.  I really just wanted to work in those spaces because they present real challenges as an actor particularly when you are working with green screen and you are talking to things that do not exist. It is pure imagination so I kind of wanted to see if I would be up for the challenge.  Can you give an example of that like the kind of green screen moment? I do not know if in Men In Black...  Oh my God. There is so many. So for example in Thor when I have these great scenes with the Hulk who is played by Mark Ruffalo I cannot look at Mark Ruffalo. I have to look at a tennis ball that is affixed to this weird sort of thing that is maybe you know four feet above his head - so just the mechanics of doing that. You know there is sort of a steep learning curve with some of that stuff or the stunt work. You know I would never done that because I would come so squarely from these like tiny movies that I would almost paid to be in  because they were made on such a shoestring. And then also you know bless but the crew is working so hard. Sometimes you are playing these very emotional scenes or intense scenes and you know all these big fans are on to create wind. And you see people off in the distance just eating sandwiches. I mean you really have to suspend your own disbelief and...   That does undermine the idea of the wind blowing in your hair. Now you have really taken me to a different place now with those scenes.  It does. I mean the truth is that what you do as an actor is you make yourself believe first. And thereby you convince the audience. And it is hard to do when you are in a room that is just green.  You are a calming space in a sea of craziness a lot of times in these projects.  Is that true?  Well I mean for someone who is been in a lot of funny things you are not Will Smith right? Like you are not...  I would like to be even though I am not.  You would like to . I do not know how to explain it. How do you think about how to bring any kind of realness to I do not know the wackiness around you?  Yeah I guess I do not know how to do it any other way. I sort of work from a place of just trying to find the truth and trying to find something that I can anchor myself you know in and make sense of. In terms of this you know  International and looking at the old Men In Black films I love the stillness of Tommy Lee Jones. I mean of course it is fun to be the live wire of Will Smith. And you sort of you know people love that and are attracted to it. But I think what Tommy Lee does in those films is so brilliant. And you cannot - there cannot be a Will Smith without Tommy in terms of tone. They have to foil each other in a way. And I like being the straight man.  And you have a partner. I mean it is actually pretty rare to have any kind of comedic or I do not know partnership of any kind in Hollywood. The last thing I thought of was maybe Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling.  Yeah that is true. They have been able to do it a lot. And it used to be the way in Hollywood all the time. It used to be something that you could watch two actors over the breadth of their career work together. And I love that you sort of have a rapport. And what I think is dissimilar to what Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling do - I would have called them by their first names but I do not actually really know them .  It is OK.  It is always funny in Hollywood when people do that.  We do think it is a big high school and that you all know each other. So I appreciate that.  We do not all know each other. We do not all know each other. I would like to know them. But dissimilar to what they have done Chris and I never - we are not romantic you know counterparts. And I think it is actually really rare. So I sort of love that about what we have been able to do.  I think one thing that is key to that is you have to have someone who respects you as an actor as well right?  True yeah.  And has to be willing to share billing. And I have talked to actresses who are on the A-list who say it is actually not that easy to find someone who even will be in a movie with you right?  That is true. Yeah that is true.  Is it changing a little bit? Is he unusual? Help me understand.  I think it is changing. I think he is unusual but I think there is plenty of men that are up for the challenge. And I think also they just need to be asked you know? Something that we were able to do inside of Time's Up this past year is issue this challenge called the 4 challenge that has to do with the fact that in the last ten years some of the top-grossing studio films that have been made women represent only 4 of the directors in that space and so asking people to make a pledge to work with a female director in the next 18 months. And I got on the phone with you know some big sort of Hollywood stars that are men and some were a little reluctant because they did not want to sign up if they did not feel like you know if they were not going to work for a bit or they could not commit. And others like Armie Hammer were like of course. I cannot believe you know I am just working with a female director now and I have been working as long as I have. But I do think it requires people to make a concerted effort. I do not think that inclusion happens by mistake. It does not just happen.  What are some of the obstacles for those of us who do not know the business?  Well there is this idea for example that they do not exist in the pipeline. So me saying that you know only 4 of those films are directed by women there is a misconception for some people in Hollywood that that is the pool of talent. And you see that in the indie space women represent maybe 28 of films that are made. So it exists in the pipeline. People are making a conscious decision not to hire those women or not to put them up for projects. Also there is still this language that I really hate which is - with the studio movie - that we took a risk. And I do not think that that language is used you know. I mean you look at someone like Taika Waititi on Thor. He is a brilliant filmmaker who had made all indie movies and then Marvel said you would be fantastic for this film. And they were right. And I think we just need to see more studios doing that with women.  So you are saying the language around that though was not look at the risk they are taking with this little-known director.  Yeah - because it was not a risk. He had made so many brilliant films. And there are plenty of women that have done the same.  Well Tessa Thompson thank you so much - much appreciated.  Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.    Here come the Men in Black.  Tessa Thompson - she stars in  International out today.    Here come the MIBs... 