 It is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. South Florida has been irresistible for crime writers - Carl Hiaasen Edna Buchanan Harry Crews are just a few who come to mind. But novelist John Dufresne had not really tried his hand at the noire genre before. Now he brings all his gifts for humor and pathos to Eden Florida the imaginary setting for the family slaughter that begins Dufresne's new novel No Regrets Coyote. It is a gripping read and off-kilter. He hails from Massachusetts originally but Florida has gotten under his skin since a long time back. John Dufresne joins me from member station WLRN in Miami. Welcome.  Thank you Jacki. Great to be here.  It is difficult to call a murder mystery fun but No Regrets Coyote is a fun murder mystery. And yet it starts with this really brutal bloody crime. The entire Halliday family is killed in their home in South Florida and an unlikely character is called in to help solve the crime. He is our protagonist our hero. His name's Wiley Melville - nice writer's detective-type name - and goes by Coyote. Tell us more about him. He is not actually a detective.  No he is not. He is a therapist by trade and he is called in occasionally because he has what a psychologist calls robust mirror neurons. He is able to sort of look at people and look at their furniture and look at the way they behave themselves. And so to determine sass out what it is going and what people's motivations are.  One of the great fun things in this that is sort of a send-up of the whole genre is that he often has to break off from solving the crime to you know basically give someone a therapy session because he is so caring.  Yeah he - he is got - he is carrying on with his business. It is like this is - we all have our own lives that whatever trouble is going on in our life we still have to live it. He has to go to work every day and he has you know some - these clients that have various degrees of you know difficulty that he is trying to work with. And he is also got some problems in his own family with his father is suffering from dementia. And he has to take care of his father and his sister's kind of a hysteric. And he is got all - he is trying to juggle all these things together at the same time while also losing his girlfriend and maybe finding another one. In all of this life goes on for him.  So the Halliday family sadly is no more - mom pop and three kids - and the cops insist that it is murder-suicide. But Wiley he just is not so sure. Something does not seem right. This suicide note's pretty badly typed - and that is interesting it is typed - it is found next to the father. Maybe you would give us a bit of that please.  Yeah OK. So he is given the suicide note that the police have found. He is handed it too  To whom it may concern. To start off about this tragic story my name is Chafin Halliday my wife Krysia my boys Brantley 9 Briely 8 and my daughter and my precious angel Brianna 4. People have put obstacles in my way and know who they are. I am not insane. But this is no way to live like this. I have let my loved ones down. I have failed at fathership. I had to die. I deserved it. But to love them like I do and to live without them is too hard to bear which is why we are dead and why we are together on the other side. I could not leave my babies with strangers. Yours truly Chafin R. Halliday.  Right away Wylie suspects that there is just something off about all of this. So Coyote's going to set off on this mission to find out what actually happened to this family. He is got a sidekick - and all the detectives need one. This is a poker player and magician type called Bay Lettique. Tell us about Bay.  Well Bay is a professional poker player who used to run an illegal poker game and would call Wylie in to see if anyone was cheating. He could notice who it was and it usually was and it was usually cops. And they would have to pay off the police benevolent association so no one would get in trouble. And Bay was also like his real estate attorney at one time and all that and so now they are best buddies. And Wylie worries about Bay in fact that he cannot keep himself away from the poker table. But Bay is successful at it and makes his living that way.  Why do not you read to us about Bay Lettique?  OK. My friend Bay Lettique a slight of hand man does close-up magic. You can shuffle a deck of playing cards spread them face down on the table and he will pick them up in order - Ace to King - by suit or by rank your choice. He once asked me to think of a card - not to mention it just to picture it. And he not only identified the card he did it by asking me to open my wallet and pull out the 5 bill that had the rank and suit of the card written on Lincoln' Nine of diamonds. He can make a parakeet fly from his iPhone to your iPhone and from your iPhone to his shoulder. I have seen him slice a banana in half with a card he threw from 10 feet away - at least I think I saw it.  I tell you I am going to lie to you and then I lie to you and you believe it because you want to believe.  I just love that.  Oh thank you.  It just sends a chill up my spine. So John Dufresne this is your first crime novel I believe. How did this come to be? You were part of a short story collection solicited from Florida writers?  Right. What happened was you know I had been writing these - what I like to think of a - sort of literary fiction for want of a better word. And I got an opportunity a couple of opportunities actually to write mystery stories with a collection called Miami Noir and then another one called Boston Noir. I have always written about mysteries but the mystery is generally about like who are we who are these other people and what do - why are we doing what we do. And this time the mystery is - about not a venial sin in that sense but a mortal sin that there is some - there is crime and something has to be - a crime has to be solved. I got to page 250 in the manuscript and I did not know who would done it.   Does not somebody in here tell Wylie - I think he is board - about to board a plane somewhere - you know the thing about Florida it is not God's country.   I think so. Yes I think that is right. It is a state trooper who pulls him over.  Yeah I have been to Florida. And yeah I did not like it too much.  Well no it is not God's country down there.  You know I think you have given us someone here - you do not really want to say goodbye to the Coyote. I mean he is a great character. Will we see him again?  Yes we will. I am working on him now. And he is actually in Nevada right now. And the manuscript that I was working on this morning I have got him in - he is waking up in a motel in Valmy Nevada. So the trouble's going to be in the desert. And I think we may end up coming back to Florida. But he and Bay are out in - they begin in Las Vegas where Bay of course is at the poker table. And that is why they went.  Well John it has been a great pleasure talking to you. John Dufresne's new murder mystery is called No Regrets Coyote. It is great. Thank you so much.  Thank you Jacki. 