 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. From the title Animal Kingdom you might think the Australian film that opens today in New York and Los Angeles is a nature documentary. Bob Mondello says it is a story about survival of the fittest just not in the great outdoors.  When we first see 17-year-old Josh Cody he is sitting with his mom in a suburban Melbourne apartment watching TV. He is absorbed enough in his game show that until the medics arrive you do not register that his mother is not breathing. A heroin overdose probably was not much of a mom so it says something that Josh will now go to live with the family she would spent most of her life trying to protect him from - uncles for whom even a casual traffic stop with a stranger talking tough from another car...     Hey have you got a staring problem mate?  ...prompts an instinctual rush for dominance. Violence is so ingrained with this family that on his first day with them Josh gets handed a gun and told to act like a predator.    Go get him.   And do what?  Let him know who is king.  So Josh steps out of the car...    Come on come outside.  ...and points the gun.  Unidentified Man 5   Hey hey hey whoa whoa whoa brother. Just relax man. I am just going to have a chat with you all right?  Unidentified Man 5   Just chill bro. Unidentified Man 4   Get out of here man.  Welcome to the jungle  white picket fences and beasts of prey. If Josh's uncles are thugs they are wildly differing thugs. The one egging him on there actually qualifies as their class act. There is another who is forever hopped up on drugs and one who would probably be better off if doctors could get his drug mix right. They are all casually lethal. But it is their mom the queen bee of this brood you shouldn' a granny who dresses too young whips up energy shakes as her boys plot crime sprees and tops them all for sheer cold-bloodedness. She has for decades watched over her children. And no one not even this new grandchild who has come into her life can be permitted to endanger them. She makes that clear with an eerie mildness when Josh gets spirited away to a police safe house and she goes not to a lawyer but to a corrupt cop.   Ms.   Tell me if you agree with this. This boy who is being looked after - he knows who you are and you have done some bad things sweetie have not you? It should not be too hard to set up a raid on a house. There would be reasonable grounds what with all the strange activity the comings and goings day and night. One of the neighbors  a gun or something. This is your area of expertise. I am not trying to tell you how to suck eggs. I feel sick about this. I am not happy at all not one little bit but we do what we have to do. We do what we must.  Actress Jacki Weaver has not been heard of much in this country since appearing 35 years ago in Picnic at Hanging Rock but this part in Animal Kingdom may change that. The film also features Guy Pearce as a low-key detective who tries to help Josh and newcomer James Frecheville as the increasingly endangered teenager. First-time writer-director David Michod reportedly worked for eight years on his screenplay deepening its tale of a violently dysfunctional family until its gangster conventions feel as if they are in the service of a modern-day Greek tragedy - well Australian tragedy though Animal Kingdom as its title implies feels pretty universal. I am Bob Mondello. 