 When the movie Old Henry premiered at the Venice Film Festival a few weeks ago it was billed as an elevated Western. Critic Bob Mondello says pretty quickly it becomes clear that what elevates Old Henry is actor Tim Blake Nelson.  Oklahoma Territory 1906 - a quick prologue tells us that the West is still wild and the three men with badges are not necessarily good guys.    Where did he get to?   I do not know.  .  Then the scene shifts to Henry's homestead an isolated farm where the grizzled title character has settled in buried his beloved wife and raised his son Wyatt to teenagehood  more or less without contact with the outside world. That ends today when a riderless horse comes onto their property. Wyatt spots it first...    Huh?  ...And also spots the blood on the saddle.    Looky  here. What do you think happened? Some kind of robbery shootout?   Shut your nonsense. Let us go look for the rider.  Henry heads out to investigate and brings back a near-lifeless stranger with a bullet in his chest and a saddlebag bursting with cash. This is probably the moment to note that responsible father and farmer Henry looks like a no-account varmint - stubbled scrawny eyes as heavy as his Oklahoma drawl which is to say he is played by Tim Blake Nelson. But he is not a no-account. There is something in that cold stare and when those three men with stars on their chests show up - well he is not someone they should tangle with.    Can I help you?   I am Sheriff Sam Ketchum. This here's my deputy. We have been scouting for a man on the run.  You know the drill. So does Henry and he is skeptical.    Say you are a sheriff. How is it I do not recognize you?   We are from way over Woods County. You are not fixing to shoot any of us with that pistol are you?   So far I have got no reason to.   That is good news.  Ketchum played by Stephen Dorff leaves without pushing much to the surprise of the men he calls deputies.    Because of some shaky old farmer?   He did not hold that pistol like any farmer I have ever seen.  Henry's son was startled by what he saw of his dad out there too.    Who are you?   I am who I am.   But you are always preaching about being honest.   I have done things I wish I could take back - a long time before you before your mom - things that you have got no business hearing.  Things that will make the film come together with a gratifying snap though. Writer-director Potsy Ponciroli combines his redemption-by-shootout story with teen rebellion bits and myths of the Old West knowing that all those elements are familiar and time-honored but that like Old Henry himself and the old pro playing Henry they can still pack surprises. I am Bob Mondello. 