 John Green's best-selling love story The Fault In Our Stars has become a cult classic for young adult readers. Well now the movie version starring Shailene Woodley as a teen with cancer is opening this weekend. NPR's Mandalit del Barco talked with young fans who are beside themselves with anticipation.  Every tween and teen I talked to could quote their favorite lines from the book.  I only go on a roller coaster that goes up.  I fall in love with you the way I fall asleep slowly then all at once. OK? OK.  Gizelle Whaley and her classmates Sofia Lucio Chiara McDonald and Sheena Sandho are on the playground at Lincoln Middle School in Santa Monica California.  I think it is the best book I have ever read in my whole entire life.  Gizelle is 13. She says her and her friends plan to go to the movie's first screening tomorrow at midnight.  I have never reacted this way to a book. Like I have never loved the book is much as I did The Fault In Our Stars.  Really? It is bigger than like Hunger Games?  Oh yeah way bigger.  Oh my...  Yeah.  Bigger than Divergent?  Yes.  I think so.  Yes way better and bigger.  It is not a futuristic fantasy but a very real love story between two teens who meet in a cancer support group Hazel Grace Lancaster and Augustus Waters.  Some moments she will be really happy and outgoing like happy to have Gus. And in the other moments she is like I want to die already. I want this to be over with. I hate this. And then Gus will bring her back up.  He is kind of like cheesy in his own way. Yeah.  Cute and cheesy.  I want a man like Augustus Waters.  I kind of want a love story like theirs.  Gizelle Sofia Chiara and Sheena have never heard of the hit 1970 book and movie Love Story with its motto love means never having to say you are sorry. They are too young to remember when Titanic or even The Notebook first came out. Their teacher Sarah Greenfield who is 41 says John Green's novel is much better than the books she read as a kid.  It is real. It does not dumb down for the students. It does not feel like it is a kosher middle school book. I think they perceive the relationship as one that they could recognize as really happening. A lot of them also have parents or grandparents or family members who have been through an illness. And so they feel that deeply.  And they are certainly not alone. At the Children's World Bookstore in Los Angeles slightly older teens also quote from their favorite book.  Some infinities are bigger than ever infinities.  Sixteen-year-old Rebecca Adler and 14-year-old Mariko Brooks  say they are huge fans of The Fault In Our Stars. And they consider themselves to be what author John Green calls nerd fighters.  Not someone who fights nerds but someone who fights for nerds.  Anyone who wants to look at the world in complex ways.  Mariko says she is read The Faults In Our Stars at least eight times.  He is very big on not making this a quote unquote typical sick people book. And he shows that just because they do have illnesses it does not mean they are not normal people. They are completely normal people. They are spectacular people who are funny and sarcastic and have interests and hobbies just like everyone else. But they also deal with death and dying and illness at such a young age. But it is not in a depressing way.  Noah Lewis who is 15 interrupts with one last thought.  If this movie is not good they will have a lot of pissed off fans. So pressure's on them.  The Fault In Our Stars the movie opens Friday. OK? OK. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 