 Greg Louganis a magnificent diver - perhaps the best the world has ever seen. He took home a four gold medals in two Olympic Games the only man ever to sweep the diving events in consecutive Olympics. But the new HBO documentary Back On Board contrasts that success with the turmoil Louganis experienced rising to stardom at such a young age.   When I was growing up you know I asked my mom you know why cannot I be normal?  You know like do the things that normal kids do. You know it is lonely. You miss out on a lot. You know I am having my doubts. I do not know if it - if it was really all worth it.  In the pivotal moment in Back On Board we see just how far his life is from normal. He is going for his third gold medal in 1988.   And hits his head on the springboard.   Louganis hits the board. That is disaster.  I spoke with Greg Louganis and asked him to relive that moment.  When I took off the board I knew I was going to be close but usually you are worried about hitting your hands or your arms. And then I heard this big hollow thud and I go crashing into the water. And I go - what was that? And then once I realized it was my head I - the first emotion I felt - I was embarrassed because this is the Olympic Games. I am supposed to be a pretty good diver.  .  And it was like - pretty good divers do not do that. I think the real story is the following dive. They sewed up my head you know and I made that decision with my coach Ron O'Brien that I was going to continue. He was just saying well hockey players - they get 20 stitches and they get back on the ice. You got five stitches you know. We were laughing about the whole thing. But when I got up on the board and they announced dive and it was in the same direction that I hit my head on the board I could hear an audible gasp from the audience. And so I took a deep breath and I patted my chest. And then the people around who saw that started chuckling. And I started laughing to myself thinking oh my God I am not the only one who is scared you know? I do not know what is going to happen. As it turned out I mean it was the highest scoring dive I think of that Olympic Games.  And that moment then after that when you go on to win the gold...  Yeah.  ...You look just even more superhuman at that point but there is all this other stuff going on in your head in the back.  Yeah.  You know at that point that you are HIV-positive.  Right. Six months prior to the Olympic Games in Seoul Korea I was diagnosed HIV-positive. And I was training in Florida at the time. And I was going to pack my bags come back to California lock myself in my house and wait to die because we thought of HIVAIDS as a death sentence. In talking with my doctor he said the healthiest thing for you is to continue training. And so it was much easier for me to focus on the diving rather than the HIV. You know when I hit my head on the board I was paralyzed by fear. I did not know what my responsibility was because really the people who were at risk where the two doctors that were sewing up my head. That was a concern. But I was also competing in a country that - had they known my HIV status I would not have been allowed into the country to be able to compete at that Olympic Games.  After that when you came out as gay and HIV-positive that was still a pretty panicky time about infection.  Yeah.  And there was a lot of anger directed at you.  Yeah there was a lot of debate going on around the country. And - but the thing is it got people talking about it. I mean my first interview was with Barbara Walters and then on Friday on 2020 and then on Monday I am talking to Oprah. And so what I told Barbara when we did our interview - I said well all of those people who cheered for me through my Olympic career can no longer say that they have not been touched by HIVAIDS. It was important to learn how you got HIV but it was also important how you are not going to get HIV. And you are not going to get HIV through a chlorinated pool.  You stayed away from the world of diving in the years after you retired but you have come back now. You have been involved with mentoring the U.S. team. You were in London in 2012.  Yeah.  What has it been like connecting with those young people?  Yeah it is great to share those experiences. I am most concerned with aftercare because as an elite athlete you finish your career and then you are pretty young. When you retire from your sport then it is almost like you lose a part of yourself. You lose your identity.  You were retired at 30?  I retired at 28.  Twenty-eight .  Yeah. Yeah you know making that transition is not always easy. It is like OK now who am I? Who am I without my sport?  So who are you without your sport?  Who am I without my sport? Well that is a really complex question.  .  It really is because I have so many interests. You know my background is dance and performing and so you know getting back into that getting back into theater. And you know I never viewed myself as political nut just looking at my life I guess it is rather political.  Another thing that is wild about watching this documentary is the '80s and the '90s were not that long ago but in terms of gay rights and attitudes we see how far we have come how fast. I mean looking back on all this is it surprising to you?  It really is shocking to me because being legally married in the state of California having the Supreme Court ruling. You know during the ceremony when my husband and I got married you know we kind of smiled at each other because - neither one of our parents are with us but you know the kind of smiled at each other and said our parents are looking down on us and smiling on us today.  Greg Louganis - the new documentary about him is called Back On Board. It is on HBO on Tuesday. It is been such a pleasure speaking with you. Thank you.  Thank you. Thanks for having me. 