 Hell's Kitchen has for a long time been pop culture shorthand for gritty New York City.    Do you know any drug dealers?   I own a bar in Hell's Kitchen. What you think?  Hell's Kitchen is the backdrop for four popular Netflix series based on Marvel Comics heroes. Those characters - Daredevil Luke Cage Jessica Jones and Iron Fist - now team up in The Defenders. It premieres on Netflix today. NPR's Neda Ulaby hit the streets of New York to see how much the fictionalized Hell's Kitchen reflects the real one.  I went to Hell's Kitchen with Fred Van Lente a comic book writer and historian who is lived in New York City for decades. Hell's Kitchen he says was once an infamous den of crime. In the 19th century the story goes a couple of cops were policing a riot near 10th Avenue. One said this place is hell.  And the other cop said no no hell is a much milder climate. This is hotter. This is hell's kitchen. And so that is where the name comes from.  The scrappy Hell's Kitchen mythologized in the Marvel Universe is filled with bruisers and brawlers who crash in its flophouses and drink in its working-class bars. And it is got the kind of cheap crummy offices where a superhero might moonlight as a detective or a crusading lawyer.    Here you are a survivor of Hell's Kitchen the hottest place anyone's ever known a place where cowards do not last long. So you must be a hero.  This stretch of Ninth is some of the best eating in Manhattan.  Welcome to the real Hell's Kitchen today. Fred Van Lente points out a fabulous post-modern structure that exceeds anything you would see in Architectural Digest.  It looks like someone put an apartment building inside a large plastic tube.  The kind of building between 34th to 59th Street where a studio apartment could sell for close to a million dollars.   This is really really different than what you would have seen here like a hundred years ago. This is really different than what you would have seen here in the '80s.  That is when the editor-in-chief of Marvel Comics moved to New York City in the '80s. Axel Alonso met me on West 54th Street. Why is Hell's Kitchen so important for Marvel?  In Marvel comic books Hell's Kitchen sort of functioned as Mean Street Central the underbelly of society the place where there are predators and prey.  Yeah but the predators today seem a lot more like the people charging you 50 bucks for a blowout or 20 for an omelet at brunch.  We are fudging the truth with Hell's Kitchen right now. You know as you and I walk the streets we see the development the cafes.  The New York of an earlier time informed so many iconic comics. Alonso says fans would revolt if you moved characters deeply associated with New York to any place authentically grittier like Detroit. And Alonso says the Harlem of Marvel's Luke Cage has been updated much more so than Hell's Kitchen. And the Marvel Universe is making a point of weaving in stories about gentrification.    Hell's Kitchen's on the rebound Mr. Nelson. And in 18 months you will not be able to rent a broom closet at this price point.  In the Netflix show Daredevil an evil real estate mogul kills tenement activists who will not move out of their rent-controlled apartments. He is motivated only by greed.  VINCENT D'  The city and its future - seeing Hell's Kitchen to its fullest potential is very important to me.  It is smart for Marvel or any other media company balancing between nostalgia for a rough-edge New York of decades past and the playground for the 1 percent that much of Manhattan is today says comics writer Fred Van Lente. That said you have to make Hell's Kitchen something it is not in order for it to work.  Superheroes defending Hell's Kitchen as it is now filled with rich people - that is not a good look for superheroes you know? Well no I only save the rich people. It is not - you know you are not going to get a lot of good PR out of that.  There was a time when TV shows like Friends painted a picture of a New York City that was aspirational yet affordable. Funny in a New York that is remarkably safe today but that few can easily afford how pop culture is manufacturing the menace. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 