 Johnny Depp and his Pirates of the Caribbean director Gore Verbinski have already made one Western the animated film Rango. So with their latest collaboration Lone Ranger they were looking to do something a little different. Critic Bob Mondello says little is not a word he would use to describe anything about the film. But it is definitely different.   There is never been anything very lone about the Lone Ranger. He is always been accompanied by Tonto his Native American sidekick Silver his snow-white steed and the William Tell Overture. And in this version he' Monument Valley settings straight out of John Ford Westerns stunts with locomotives cribbed from Buster Keaton's The General a one-legged madam who would seem Alice in Wonderland-esque even if she were not being played by Helena Bonham Carter and antagonist-buddy routines for the lawman ranger and the outlaw Indian straight out of Laurel and Hardy.   Armie Hammer plays this Ranger-to-be as a fresh out of law school noble do-gooder while Johnny Depp's Tonto is a face-painting noble savage - that is the movie's phrase - who is forever feeding the dead crow he wears on his head. They will bond but not until Silver comes along a spirit horse to lift the ranger's soul literally from the grave. Think of it as the origin-story version of Lone Ranger where we even get a back story for the mask and some major shifts in tone.   Audiences expecting Pirates of the Panhandle from Verbinski are in from serious dry stretches. The director's been saying his Lone Ranger is sort of Don Quixote seen through the eyes of a demented Sancho Panza. And as with that tale of a knight tilting at windmills there is social commentary everywhere you look.   The script fancies itself a critique of capitalism...   ...a manifesto on manifest destiny...   ...and a saga about silver mines and the slaughter of Native Americans.   All very admirable though not a great fit for scenes of Depp communing with snaggle-toothed cannibal bunny rabbits and taking a runaway train ride or six. I mentioned Buster Keaton's train movie The General earlier. When Keaton did stunts playing pickup sticks with railway ties to clear the track in front of a moving locomotive say he actually did the stunts. The ties had weight. Here the director laid six miles of track in New Mexico and built two locomotives so he could do things with real trains that he has so digitally enhanced and implausibly staged that he might as well have done the whole thing as a cartoon. There is a couple of 100 million worth of technical wizardry up there on screen and nothing is at stake except maybe some future amusement park ride and the sequels and toys and hats and masks and piles and piles of silver if enough people lay down their hard-earned silver to hear hi-ho Silver away. I am Bob Mondello. 