 Back in the mid-'90s Emily Nussbaum was working on a doctorate in literature at NYU. But the TV on the other side of the room just kept catching her eye.  I was sitting on my sofa. I had a small junky television. I had broken the extremely rudimentary remote control. I had to get up from the sofa walk over to the television turn the big plastic dial. It made a nice clunky sound.  Well TV technology has come a long way since then and so has Emily Nussbaum. She never got that doctorate. Instead she made a career out of writing about television. Nussbaum is now the Pulitzer Prize-winning TV critic for The New Yorker and she is got a new book out - a collection of essays and previously published writing called I Like To Watch.  In a lot of ways it is a book about celebrating television as television detaching it from neurotic comparisons to books and movies. And more specifically it is about trying to explode and expand the types of television that get taken seriously so it is about basically stopping the endless focus on antihero dramas...    This is a world where nothing is solved. And someone once told me time is a flat circle.  ...Talking about sitcoms talking about reality shows...   I have been rich and I have been famous. But happiness beats them both.  ...Talking about network shows talking about the kinds of shows that people think of as corny talking about different kinds of creativity and essentially celebrating the nature of the way that TV has changed in a way that is not so burdened by the past of TV and the way that it used to be regarded as junk as the boob tube.  It is interesting hearing you talk about this because you started out wanting to become a literature professor so I feel like you must have been surrounded by people who thought it was the boob tube.  Yes that is definitely true. And you know honestly there is a part of me that went into writing about TV with a chip on my shoulder because a lot of criticism and a lot of talking about art comes out of an argument you want to make to other people. This was the argument I wanted to make early on. In a lot of ways I trace it back to the contrast between Buffy The Vampire Slayer and The Sopranos - two shows that I adored at the turn of the century which got completely different critical receptions. So for some reason I perceived it as my job to evangelize for Buffy The Vampire Slayer. And that really is what led me down this path in the end.  I think you won the argument on the Buffy front.  Yes.   People talk about that show now like it is biblical.  I know. I am never sick of it actually .    First of all I am a vampire slayer. And secondly I am retired. Hey I know. Why do not you kill him?   I am a watcher. I have not the skills.   Oh come on. Stake through the heart a little sunlight - it is like falling off a log.  You talk about The Sopranos on HBO as kind of a launch of prestige television as we know it. And you talk about this idea that this category doubled as a social class distinction. Talk about how that played out how it was talked about.  Well it is complicated. HBO itself had the slogan it is not TV. It is HBO. And The Sopranos was genuinely a radical show for television on a bunch of different levels. It visually resembled a movie. It was related to art that people thought of as high art and as gritty masculine serious stuff like The Godfather.    So you never seen Doc Cusamano go out at 3 in the morning on a call.   Do the Cusamano kids ever find 50000 in Krugerrands and a .45 automatic when they were hunting for Easter eggs?   I am in the waste management business. Everybody immediately assumes you are mobbed up. It is a stereotype and it is offensive.  Also it had an antihero in it that caused audiences to both be fascinated by him and to recoil from him. It was a given on television before The Sopranos that you could not have an alienating main character.  Right they have to be likeable.  Right. I think anybody who watches TV now knows that that is changed so I also feel like because The Sopranos had this aura around it - that it was not television that it was more like adult art and it should be compared to other art - it kind of magnetized all the attention toward it. And honestly I think the status hangover from television has continued to haunt the way that people talk about it.  Right. When I was reading the book I think it was pretty clear to me that in a way you were arguing that like fights about art kind of double as fights about what we take seriously and how that plays out in the idea of like the guilty pleasure show which frankly is often female-centered  oriented versus the gritty punishing brutal masculine antihero show which is just like by its definition better somehow.  The origins of the book were actually a conversation that I had with a younger colleague in the office. And I said to her what kind of TV do you like? And she said in this very embarrassed way well you know just guilty pleasures like Jane The Virgin. And I basically went bananas and delivered this long crazy speech about how great Jane The Virgin was how sophisticated it was how smart it was how the fact that it was warm and the fact that it was humane did not make it dumb.    Our story begins 13 12 years ago when Jane Gloriana Villanueva was a mere 10 years old.  That is the rant that I have delivered forever. And I basically wrote this book because I wanted to extend that argument outwards and talk about TV in more complicated but also more embracing ways.  Have people stopped giving you a hard time for calling TV art?  You know it is surprising. I do occasionally run into somebody who is very much of the I do not even own a TV kind of mindset. But truthfully the last five years have radically altered TV. I think anybody who sees the enormous range of shows from anthology shows everything from The Leftovers and Vanderpump Rules...   OK you are going to have something sweet. And you are going to sit here. And you are going to pull yourself together.  ...To Law   SVU to Hannibal to Adventure Time.    Hiya.   Copy.  And in order to talk about TV it is necessary to knock down the ladder of status that cause people to only talk about antihero shows. But at this point I feel like there is a passionate audience for many many kinds of TV so it is actually a good moment to be writing about this.  That leads me to the final thing you kind of discuss in the book which is us  the fans and how that relationship has changed between those of us who are watching it and the people who are making it.  Part of what fascinates me about TV is the fact that it is an episodic art form that takes place over time and is in kind of a loop with the audience. And people who create TV are under enormous pressure from fans. I think anybody who is been a fan of a show for years and sees it head toward the finale understands the kind of fraught relationship that TV creators have with their audience. But this is part of what I think makes TV distinctive is the fact that it is kind of made in front of our eyes.  And for our part we did not always used to have a way to talk back in a way that the creators and networks could hear us right? I mean yes you could write a letter or something like that. But that is very different from in the moment right?  Yeah.  Like almost participating via social media or if you are a show like Game Of Thrones to be part of an ongoing meta narrative about what your writing is doing to the program that - you know in the opinion of fans.  Yeah. I have nothing but sympathy for the creators of television...  .  ...Because people live tweet directly at them. It is not easy. But you know I am all for being part of a big mass audience talking back to TV. To me that is the power of television is this loop with the audience this relationship between the show and the fan or the critic and the way that people bond with shows. I mean there is something very specific about that.  Emily Nussbaum - her new book is called I Like To Watch. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you very much. 