 The author Amitav Ghosh often sets his books at the blurry boundary between land and water. His latest novel stops in several of those places from mangrove islands on the border of India and Bangladesh to the canals of Venice Italy. The book is called Gun Island. It is a modern retelling of a Bengali myth that Amitav Ghosh grew up with. He uses this ancient story to reflect on contemporary themes of climate change and migration. The goddess at the center of this myth is named Manasa Devi. She is not just a goddess. She is also a sort of interpreter connecting humans to the natural world.  She is the goddess of snakes and all poisonous things. And the stories around her all revolve around her curious kind of battle with this figure called the merchant. You know his name is actually Chand Saudagar  or the merchant Chand.  That is his name in Bengali.  Chand Saudagar in Bengali yes. And there is this sort of conflict between them and she wants him to become her devotee and he will not. And she sends all these kinds of terrible calamities upon him - droughts and famines and great waves. And finally he flees overseas and she pursues him overseas. And finally he comes back and he sort of you know capitulates. But it is an amazing story in the sense that I think it poses as it were - or it conceptualizes a conflict between the profit motive and nature you know?  Because the merchant wants to make money...  Yes.  ...And the goddess is sending these natural phenomena to try to get him to pay attention.  That is right. That is exactly it. I mean that is it. She wants him to pay attention to the world around him to the natural world around him. So it is a metaphor for that you might say. So you know it is clear that this basic conflict was perfectly well-understood by you know our distant ancestors.  When did it occur to you as an adult author that this story you had known as a child actually has really strong connections with what we are seeing today in the changing climate - I mean apocalyptic weather animals in unfamiliar places kind of the world turned upside down?  Well you know I wrote the book The Great Derangement which is about you know literature and climate change.  It is a nonfiction book your last book.  It is nonfiction yes about why climate change is so difficult for modern writers and for modern literature. And at the end of writing that book I decided that I needed to read more pre-modern literature. And you know there it was. I was - I suddenly saw it through new eyes. I realized that what these old legends were about were exactly what we are living through today - you know catastrophic floods droughts famines storms.  Seems like the goddess got your attention.   She certainly got my attention absolutely. And you know what really struck me what was very moving to me is that in those times they could address these issues so much more directly than we can today. At that time people could respond. You know they could create paintings. They could create buildings. I mean in Venice the basilica of Santa Maria della Salute which is its greatest landmark is actually a commemoration of a great catastrophe. You know if the plague - when we have these catastrophes unfolding around us we do not seem to be able to even imaginatively grapple with what is in front of us.  Would you read a section of the book that kind of talks about the power and importance of stories? This is on Page 141.  Yes.  At that time people recognized that stories could tap into dimensions that were beyond the ordinary beyond the human even. They knew that only through stories was it possible to enter the most inward mysteries of our existence where nothing that is really important can be proven to exist like love or loyalty or even the faculty that makes us turn around when we feel the gaze of a stranger or an animal. Only through stories can invisible or inarticulate or silent beings speak to us. It is they who allow the past to reach out to us.  Do you think you are able to do things through fiction the stories that you are telling in books like this that nonfiction that journalism that research cannot accomplish?  Well I kind of have to believe that - do not I? - because I am an author.  It is your chosen field right.   I am a writer of fiction. I live in fiction. It is my world. It is my life's work. But yes I do believe that. I do believe that fiction allows us to look at the world in a different way. And I think that is really the crisis of contemporary fiction - that it finds itself at this catastrophic time for humanity. It finds itself unable to look at the reality around us.  The characters in your book explore a tension between science and spirituality. Do you feel like you are doing the same thing here by talking about climate change in the context of myths and goddesses?  Well it is certainly very different from talking about climate change within the framework of science which is - or technology...  Yeah.  ...Which is what we normally get. But let us face it. You know I mean science and technology climate scientists have played a very very important part in alerting us to what is going on in the world. We owe them a great debt. But in a way that framing of what is happening today has also proved its own inadequacy you know? We can see that in a way we have to rise up in our hearts to appreciate the enormity of the changes that are upon us. I mean all the science communication in the world has not got us moving anywhere really. So I do think that you know we have to be able to open up those parts of our lives or those parts of our minds or those parts of our consciousnesses that can actually accommodate different ways of thinking about the world. So I am not really thinking about spirituality or goddesses or anything. What I am really trying to confront if you like is the uncanny - you know the uncanny in the world around us how it exists around us and the ways in which we relate to it.  How do you define the uncanny?  Well I will give you an example you will know. You will remember that there is a chapter in the book that is set in Los Angeles. We are in a museum and suddenly there is a wildfire that advances towards this museum. And you may remember that something like that did happen. I think it was in 2017 the Getty Museum suddenly had a wildfire racing towards it.  Yeah.  It had to evacuate and so on. But you know the really weird thing is that I had - I wrote that chapter six months before it happened.  Wait really?  Yeah. It was so uncanny.  And you set it at the Getty Museum.  I did not name it but yeah that was what was in my head. A couple of friends that had read the manuscript and they wrote to me and said how does this feel? And I could only say to them that I feel completely shaken...  Yeah.  ...You know because to see things that you have seen in your mind sort of playing out in real life it is just so disturbing you know? But that is the world that we are in. I mean the world of fact is outrunning the world of fiction.  Amitav Ghosh thank you for talking with us.  Thank you so much Ari. It is been a great pleasure.  His new novel is called Gun Island.  