 For years the American Library Association has given out a children's literature award named for Laura Ingalls Wilder. This weekend a division of the ALA voted unanimously to rename the award - this over concerns about the way that Wilder portrayed Native Americans and black people. NPR Books editor Petra Mayer has the story.  Yes Little House On The Prairie is a classic beloved by millions. But let us just take a minute to remember the awful way Wilder described the Native Americans her family encountered. She wrote that they smelled of skunk had hard glittering eyes and came constantly to the little house demanding food and tobacco. More than once her neighbors repeat that infamous slur the only good Indian is a dead Indian.  These books are painful for some readers. Because of that having this name attached to the award meant that this award had really mixed resonance.  Nina Lindsay is the president of the Association for Library Service to Children which gives out what is now called the Children's Literature Legacy Award. Lindsay says the change is not meant to erase Wilder. In fact her work is still important.  And her name is no longer the best name for this award. And we recognize both those things are true.  Lindsay says the ALSC spent months surveying librarians and readers on their feelings about Wilder and that most of her membership supports the move although some have struggled with it.  I would caution people against reading too much into this.  That is Caroline Fraser the author of Prairie Fires a biography of Wilder. Fraser says removing Wilder's name from the award does not necessarily mean taking her work off the shelves too. But she also says your average 8-year-old should not have to read the Little House books without some background. Instead Fraser says we should read Wilder the same way we read other troublesome classics.  If teachers are going to teach them in a class they need to teach them with the relevant history.  The ALSC's Nina Lindsay agrees that Wilder should not be banished.  It is precisely because people should be reading and discussing Wilder's work that we recognized that we needed to change the name of the award.  Next up she says her organization will be looking at all its other awards to see if any further changes need to happen. Petra Mayer NPR News. 