 A stop-motion samurai film - that is the germ of an idea that grew into the sprawling fantasy film Kubo And The Two Strings. It is a coming-of-age epic set in fantasy Japan about a young storyteller who makes magic with music and origami paper.    If you must blink do it now. Pay careful attention to everything you see no matter how unusual it may seem. If you look away even for an instant then our hero will surely perish.  While the Disney and Pixar brands have become synonymous with Blockbuster animated films the small Portland-based studio behind Kubo has been quietly making its mark. Since it was founded a decade ago Laika Entertainment has earned three Oscar nods for animation for its films Coraline ParaNorman and The Boxtrolls. The head of Laika is Travis Knight. He directed the film. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Great to be here.  So this character as we mentioned is a musician. He plays a kind of banjo. What is it?  Yeah it is called a shamisen. It is a three-stringed instrument kind of like the equivalent of a banjo yeah.  And when he plays the characters from his stories come to life as animated origami figurines.  That is right.  Give us some of the basics of stop-motion animation 101. Like when I look at this little character of Kubo is he a plastic model a clay model?  Yeah he is a little puppet. You know the basic way it works is that you have a puppet. And they are typically made - they have a steel armature which is like a little skeleton inside their body. And they are covered with a silicon skin. And you know they have cloth costumes. And in a lot of ways it is like a live-action production house. It is just in miniature. We still have the same departments. We have you know costuming and hair although in our hair department we are actually creating the hair. And then we - you know we move these things a frame at a time. And the thing that we have done differently at Laika is that we try to merge technology and forward-thinking innovation with this 100-year-old art and craft. And it is that fusion of those things that makes the productions look so interesting I believe.  The animation here is incredible. I mean Kubo's journey takes him through like snowy frostbitten landscapes. There is an ocean - a roaring ocean at the start of the film. And I have read that you have said that this is not the kind of story typically people attempt to tell in stop animation. What are the challenges of like animating this range of landscapes?  I mean where to begin?   Start with that water for God's sake. I am like is this real water? Am I asking this question? Like what am I looking at?  You know at the beginning of the movie you know we recognized what this film was which was it is a big sweeping epic. And that is something that is really difficult to tell in animation specifically in stop motion because the way we make these things they are effectively shot on tabletops in a crummy warehouse in Portland Ore. And you know we want to make it look like it is an endless majestic vista which is kind of absurd on its face. And so you know for things like the water we ended up using panes of rippled shower glass that we would shoot you know a frame at a time. We had torn bits of paper that we would use for cresting bits of water. One of my favorite things was we had this metal grid and we covered it in garbage bags. And we moved it a frame at a time to give a sense of the motion of the waves going through the scene. And then we give that information to our visual effects department and they start to blend that stuff with computers and with computer simulations. But when you see it on screen it behaves like water which is important for the audience to understand what they are looking at but it has a stylized look driven by classic forms of Japanese art.  I understand that the visual style is also influenced by the 20th-century artist Kiyoshi Saito of Japan. Can you talk about his style and how it influenced the look of the film? Like what period essentially are you setting this in?  It is a period fantasy so we are - we are blending a lot of different things. You know we take elements from Edo-period Japan. We take elements from Heian-period Japan. In terms of the visual inspiration from Kiyoshi Saito he comes from a tradition of you know woodblock printmaking that goes back hundreds and hundreds of years. And yet he was always heavily influenced by Western thinkers Western painters. And so he fused those things together in his art. And that is something that we try to weave into our environments as well.  At the heart of the film is this little boy character a character who is lost a parent his father. And at one point he embraces some new friends one of which is a talking monkey played here Charlize Theron.    We grow stronger. The world grows more dangerous. Life has a funny way of keeping things balanced.   Monkey do you ever say anything encouraging?   I encourage you not to die.  Charlize Theron there and Art Parkinson playing the young boy. Now how did you think about casting - because as you said this is set in fantasy Japan. Charlize Theron - not Japanese obviously.  Also not a monkey.  Also not a monkey. But other than I think George Takei it is mostly white cast. And how did you kind of think about how you are going to put this together?  I think that you know we evaluate these things in a lot of different dimensions. But I think it is important to note that acting in live action and acting in animation are two very different things with very different considerations. You know in a live-action film an actor's you know gender or age or ethnic or racial background or physical appearance are - can be character-defining qualities. But in an animated film that is not true at all.  I ask because Western animation - I mean cinema in general frankly - does not have the best reputation in terms of representing Asian countries and cultures. And so like when you are trying to set a story in a place like Japan with these characters how do you walk that line of kind of staying true to the atmosphere and the sense of place that you do so richly with the visuals without falling into stereotypes right without - without being neglectful about some of the aspects of the culture?  Oh yeah. I mean for the first two three years of a project all we are doing is developing the script the story the characters the world. And as part of that process you are you know diving really deep into regional and historical research to make sure that you are grounding your fairytale in the real world. You know for me I was 8 years old when I was first introduced to Japan. I tagged along with my dad on one of his business trips to Japan. And from the moment I set foot there it was like I would been transported to another world. It was so completely different than anything that I would ever experienced. And so for me that was the beginning of a love affair - a lifelong love affair with a great and beautiful culture.  You mention your father being a businessman. How old were you when you first started working with any kind of crafts or doing art?  Oh yeah I have been doing it my whole life. You know I was a fairly lonely kid growing up actually. I made - I made friends slowly when I made them at all. And so a lot of times I would spend alone. And you know a lot of that time spent alone I was creating. I was writing stories. I was making music. And it was just a way of expressing myself. It is something I have always been drawn to.  Is it me or do you and Kubo have a lot in common?  .  That childhood sounds oddly familiar.  We - we do have a lot in common. You know he is - he is an artist. He is a musician. He is a storyteller. He is an animator really when you think about the way he brings these things to life.  And lonely.  And lonely. And the - you know the center of his universe is his mother and that was true for me as well. And this film you know explores that time in our lives when those things begin to shift and then irrevocably change when we cross the Rubicon from childhood to adulthood and the things that we gain and the things that we leave behind along the way which can often be bittersweet. But it is a fundamental journey that we all go through.  Travis Knight director of Kubo And The Two Strings thank you so much for talking with us.  My pleasure. 