 Souls waiting to be selected for life on Earth sounds like a movie plot - right? - like a specific movie in fact - Pixar's Soul. Well it is also the premise of Nine Days a live-action drama that was a hit at the Sundance Film Festival. Critic Bob Mondello says Nine Days took him a lot more than nine days to process.  Will is a gatekeeper of sorts and a monitor. His house has a wall of vintage television sets on which the lives of people play out from their point of view. Amanda for instance is practicing a concerto unaware that Will is seeing on a screen exactly what she sees - her hands on violin and bow the conductor and orchestra - all through her eyes. Will writes in a notebook that she is practicing and that it is 10327 days since her selection. Will was her selector. It is his job. As played by Winston Duke he is an otherworldly bureaucrat who auditions souls for bodies as needed.    May I call you Anne?   Sure.  Anne is four hours old.    Do you know why you are here?   Strangely yes.   Do you mind if I say it out loud just to make it official?   OK.   You are being considered for the amazing opportunity of life. If after this process you are selected you will have the chance to be born in a fruitful environment where you can grow develop and accomplish. Would you like to be considered for this position?  Anne is one of six candidates and Will treats five of them identically.    May I call you Mike?   Yes.   Maria Alexander Kane.   Yeah.  With the sixth played by Zazie Beetz he gets a surprise. She wants to choose her own name and she questions his questions as he administers what amounts to an existential aptitude test.    No right or wrong answer. Just say whatever comes to mind.   I am really not sure if I can answer your question if you do not answer mine.  All of this is taking place in an intriguing limbo sort of a prenatal purgatory with craftsman-style bungalows concocted by first-time filmmaker Edson Oda. He is Brazilian-born Los Angeles-based and clearly a fan of all things meta metaphysical and metaphorical especially. He is come up with a nifty concept.    Do you have any questions?   Am I dead?   I would not say you are alive or dead.   Are you the boss?   I would say a cog in the wheel.   That sounds intense.   So I have nine days...   Yes.   ...Or less. After that?   If you are selected there is an extension as a newborn. If not I would say it is the end.  If the candidates have trouble puzzling out what it means to be human Will discovers there are pitfalls in trying to judge what it means to be human.    Maybe she is most likely to fall on the battlefield.   You always talk as if you are sending them to war.   And you always talk as if you have been alive to know anything.   Excuse me.   You are excused.  The film is not just a head trip. It has fun with practical effects building sets the whole magic of theatre and filmmaking. And man the fun of pulling it apart - there are bits of Plato and Sartre and Walt Whitman in its philosophizing quite a lot of Being John Malkovich in its execution which may be why that film's director signed on as producer. And if you have ever been wowed by the bureaucrats-sorting-through-memories drama Afterlife you will be thinking of Nine Days as a kind of pre-life companion piece. Happily you do not have to get all those references to get Nine Days. It is plenty rewarding just as a reminder to celebrate every moment you are given. I am Bob Mondello.  