 Sometimes the world can feel a bit uniform - the same department stores in every shopping mall the same fast food chains on every corner. Atlas Obscura yanks the rug out from under that sense of monotony.  The world is still this huge bizarre vast place filled with astounding stuff. And if you sort of tilt your view a little bit and start looking for it you start finding it everywhere.  Dylan Thuras co-founded the website Atlas Obscura and now he has a book by the same name. Atlas Obscura is a guide to the world's hidden wonders places you would not find in a typical guidebook.  You know very small museums - the ventriloquist dummy museum in Kentucky - or sometimes they include sort of wild places very far-flung like in the Turkmenistan desert there is a 200-foot-wide hole that has been on fire for 40 years. That is an amazing place. And it is kind of one of these places when you find out it exists you are a little bit surprised you did not know it existed before.  You do not have to go to Kentucky or Turkmenistan to find these places. Dylan Thuras wants you to find wonder in your own backyard so he took us on a tour of some of the wonders of his backyard - Manhattan.  So we are going to do a really fun thing that I think a lot of New Yorkers do not - I do not think they realize you can do this but we are going to take the 6 loop which - basically you stay on the 6 train after its last stop. You are able to look out the subway car windows and see the City Hall Station which is one of the most beautiful subway stations ever created. It is been shuttered since 1945 but it is this immaculate space. It is this little piece of lost New York grandeur.  Let us go.  Brooklyn Bridge City Hall is the last downtown stop on this train.  We are the only people left on the train. Like a small child I want to kneel on the bench with my nose pressed to the glass.  You should it is the way to do it. Wait here it is.  OK. Oh cool.  So there is all this like green and white Gustavino tile work there is hanging chandeliers and that is it. That is it. It is 20 - not even 10 seconds of like what was that world we just went through? That is the whole thing.  That old abandoned subway station was incredible. Where are you taking us now?  So we are going up to Bleecker Street to a place called the Earth Room which is what it sounds like. It is 280000 pounds of dirt that has been sitting in a room in a SoHo loft.  Why?  It is the artwork of Walter De Maria. I think it is going be fun.  A little sign tells us to buzz in and walk up to the second floor. Before we reach the stairs we run into a tourist from Spain named Juan Carlos Fernandez.  Well to tell you the truth I want to visit this space since 1986.  For 30 years you have wanted to see this room?  Yes but for different reasons every time we are here in the city we could not. I am so thrilled right now. You - can you feel it in my - the tone of my voice?  You must have had such high expectations.  No. I will explain why. I am a clinical psychologist. And I know if I have such high expectations the experience it does not work really well.  Was it worth the 30-year wait?  I will say yes.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  It is got like the real smell of like a forest floor.  How would you describe this room?  So it is like a full floor of a SoHo loft but every inch of the floor is covered in this like rich kind of nicely groomed-looking dirt.  Somebody has raked this dirt and misted it with water every week since 1977. After the Earth Room it is time for lunch at the kind of restaurant Atlas Obscura loves.  We are going to El Sabroso which is a small South American lunch counter in a freight elevator entrance.  Explain that. Or would it be better for us to just go experience it?  We should go check it out.  We head to Midtown and walk into a sort of loading dock. There is a counter and behind it the cook tends to eight pots bubbling on a small stove. Seating consists of a long folding table with plastic chairs.  In a way there is like a history here because Midtown has always been home to like - to garment workers and people you know who were kind of working on a tighter budget. And that is still true today. So there are these sort of - there is a few kind of remaining little hidden basically like old-school lunch counters where you can get a great meal for like 6 bucks.  Yeah. Chicken stew 6. Roast pork 6.  And it is killer. It is like super killer.  Let us do it. He is not kidding. It was the best 6 lunch I have had in a long time. Dylan is the kind of traveler who will pack every minute of a day with experiences and that is how we treated our exploration of New York too. He took us to see mysterious tiles embedded in the roadway a shuttered art deco skywalk that is completely sealed off from the world and the Conjuring Arts Research Center one of the world's largest collections of books about magic. Finally our tour concluded with a hidden discovery that is audio only.  An easily overlooked little wonder in the sort of exact epicenter of Times Square Midtown Manhattan.  It is called the Times Square Hum. It comes from under a metal grate on a pedestrian island in the middle of Times Square. An artist named Max Neuhaus created it almost 40 years ago.  It is this kind of sonic secret just like tucked away. Almost nobody stops and says what is that strange noise?  Well because we are surrounded by a million strange noises. We are in Times Square.  For me it sort of serves as this wonderful reminder that in the middle of all of this madness in what I think most people would find the most commercial least sort of whimsical or magical place in Manhattan is this kind of little gem waiting for you if you are willing to sort of slow down listen and kind of start asking questions.  OK so we are going to let you hear this hum. Ignore the honking horns. Ignore the drummer. Ignore the crowds. Ignore the squeaking brakes. And listen for this low vibrating tone.   Dylan do you ever worry you will run out of things that at some point the Atlas Obscura will be so full of wonders there will not be any left?  We asked ourselves this question at the start and so far the answer seems to be it is infinite. And I think that is because it is not just about oh this is a weird place and we are just going to catalog them all and that'ill be it. It is - honestly it is a way of looking at the world.  Well thank you for helping us see the world through this lens. It is been really fun.  Thank you for coming on this like epic journey today. It is my pleasure.  Dylan Thuras is one of the co-authors of the new book  An Explorer's Guide To The World's Hidden Wonders. 