 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Commentator Andrew Wallenstein tells us why TV viewers are so interested in other people's stuff and how much that stuff is worth.  Think of It is Worth What? as The Price is Right crossed with Antiques Roadshow.    Now I have got a couple of cool things to show you. All you have to do is tell me what is worth more.  On this game show host Cedric the Entertainer has contestants guess the value of objects found anywhere from your neighbor's attic to international museums.   We are going with the gloves.  Are you sure?  We are sure.  It is Worth What? represents a cable craze crossing over to broadcast and the trend is not over yet. Another show Buried Treasure is coming to Fox in August. They join American Pickers Auction Hunters Auctioneers Auction Kings Auction Packed Cash and Cari and What the Sell. My God someone call the pun police.  The Antiques Roadshow started on PBS in 1997.    But that is not the show causing this craze.   On this episode of Pawn Stars.  It is a 1946 jukebox.  To some degree blame it on Pawn Stars which became a huge hit for History Channel a few years ago.   I see government war bonds all the time but I have never had one from the Revolutionary War.  And just like a vintage Rolex it is inspired knockoffs.   In the heart of Detroit is Eight Mile lies the city's biggest and baddest pawn shop.  Why else do you think the channel truTV would come up with a show named...   Hardcore Pawn.  Yup the worst pun yet Hardcore Pawn. Copycat shows keep coming until the ratings say otherwise. But the weird thing is very few entries in this antique category fail. The inexhaustible supply here must be striking a deep chord among viewers.  These shows project a fantasy on the back of a nightmare the kind of hardships that are too depressing for reality TV. But transforming trash into cash now that is an alchemy well-suited to this economy.  Commentator Andrew Wallenstein is an editor at Variety. 