 The largest film festival in North America the Toronto International Film Festival is in full swing. Nearly 300 movies are being shown at the festival over 10 days including some serious Oscar bait. NPR's pop culture blogger Linda Holmes and our movie critic Bob Mondello just got back after a week of high-impact moviegoing. And you guys left before it was over.  .  That is true.  It is still going on and you are here in the studio with me.  It is still going on.  Well it was an intense week. How many films did do each see?  I saw 22.  I saw 28 and I saw four beforehand.  And Bob is the winner. Thank you both for joining us.  .  No. OK so last year even before the festival started it seems like everybody was talking about two Oscar contenders. Well they ended up being Oscar contenders...  Yeah.  Right.  ...La La Land and Moonlight. What was buzzy going into this year's festival?  Well most of what was buzzy did not turn out to be very fabulous.  Good.  I mean you kind of wanted - I am hesitant to say that. Almost everything I saw was pretty good. But for instance there is a movie called Darkest Hour. It is about Winston Churchill. It is set in World War II and it sounded great.    When we the lesson be learned? You cannot reason with a tiger when your head is in its mouth.  Who is playing Winston Churchill there?  Gary Oldman and it turned out it is just a performance. He is wonderful. The movie around him is not so it was really kind of frustrating.  Linda did you find it to be a letdown too - I mean not that specific movie but generally?  Most of the stuff that I went to with high hopes met my high hopes. I had already heard about Call Me By Your Name which we will talk about...  Oh gorgeous.  ...which had come out of Sundance. I was really interested in the Aaron Sorkin movie Molly's Game which he wrote based on a book by Molly Bloom who was a woman who ran a very high-stakes poker game attended by a lot of very famous men. This is his directorial debut. I did not particularly like it but it has a lot of his kind of typical habits. And I think it did live up to what my expectations are.  Does typical habits mean like fast talking and walking down hallways ?  Fast talking - Aaron Sorkin was one of the best working writers of dialogue. He also has very bad habits in writing women. They tend to stand around and wait for men to explain things to them and that happens in this movie as well.  That is fair. On the other hand it is a gorgeously directed picture for somebody who is directing his first movie.  So what'd you both love? You both just swooned at Call Me By Your Name when Linda mentioned it.  Yes.  Yeah.  Call Me By Your Name - it is a gay love story based on a popular novel.  That is right. And it is well cast. It is beautiful. It is absorbing. It is a wonderful movie. And you know it just kind of works.  I loved Battle Of The Sexes which is about to open later in September. It stars...  Is that a rom-com?  No.  Sounds like it.  It stars Emma Stone as Billie Jean King...  Oh wow.  ...And Steve Carell as Bobby Riggs in the story of the big tennis match that they played.    Ladies and Gentlemen this is Custer's last stand.    Keep talking Bobby. The more nonsense you spout the worst it is going to be when you lose.  Emma Stone is wonderful in it. It has a terrific supporting cast. Sarah Silverman is in it - enjoyed that a great deal - also The Florida Project which is the follow-up from Sean Baker who directed Tangerine. If you remember...  Tangerine was a super-low-budget movie about trans women in Los Angeles.  Yes. And it was filmed on an iPhone. This is essentially the new film that he did. It is about very poor kids living in a motel that is kind of part of the shadow economy around Walt Disney World.  Wow.  I thought that was wonderful. There is a film called I Tonya which is about Tonya Harding the highlight of which is the performance of Allison Janney as Tonya Harding's mother.  Wow.  A wonderful performance. And then I would also - I have to mention at midnight I saw The Disaster Artist.  .  Are you familiar with The Room my friend Ari?  Is that the one about the kid who is - no that is Room.  No.   I do not know The Room.  The Room is a notoriously...  Arguably the worst movie ever made.  Really?  ...Is a notoriously terrible film made and starred in by a guy named Tommy Wiseau. If you have ever heard anybody say you are tearing me apart Lisa...  I have never heard anyone say that .  ...That is the famous line.  OK.  Very fittingly James Franco made a film about the making of that.  And that is what this disaster movie is.  And that is what Disaster Artist is.  Disaster Artist.  James Franco plays the star and director Tommy Wiseau.  Is the movie a disaster?  No it is wonderful .  The movie is funny and weird. And like I said if you can see it at midnight with a bunch of people who are obsessed with The Room - which people are in the same way they are obsessed with Rocky Horror Picture Show...  OK.  ...It is really funny.  Bob what were your favorites?  Well every once in a while you go to something and you do not expect anything of it. I went to a film - a documentary about Sammy Davis Jr. called I have Got To Be Me and came out of it feeling as if I knew Sammy Davis Jr. in ways that I had never understood him. I did his obit years ago.  Wow.  I thought I had researched him. And I learned all kinds of things from this documentary. It is just gorgeous. And then there is a picture called Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri that stars Frances McDormand. It feels like a Coen Brothers script. It is actually Martin McDonagh. This is a dark comedy that is really violent. And it is all about the American South. And it is all about race. And it is just terrific and very funny.  Thematically I am getting a lot of kind of historical fiction.  Yeah.  What were the big themes from the festival?  Yeah. We have mentioned the Tonya Harding movie the Winston Churchill movie. There is also a movie about Mark Felt who turned out to be Deep Throat a central figure in the Watergate scandal. And then one of my favorites was Chappaquiddick which stars Jason Clarke as Teddy Kennedy. I liked that one a lot.  That was one of the darkest moments in Ted Kennedy's history. Does this paint him as a tragic figure or heroic figure or what?  No it paints him as pretty awful. It is a pretty damning indictment of privilege and power and how relentlessly protective the family was according to this telling.  Interesting.  I have to say that I am starting to realize how old I am getting because a lot of these things happened during my lifetime. And I remember them from when I was a kid.  Not World War II. To be fair you were not around for that one.  Well not World Word II thank God. That is true - or the one about Thomas Edison inventing the light bulb. That one's called The Current War.  That is our movie reviewer Bob Mondello and Linda Holmes host of the Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast both back from the Toronto Film Festival - great to have you both back in the USA.  Thank you Ari.  It is good to be here.  