 At movie theaters across the country today The Social Network is opening. It played at the New York Film Festival a week ago. That was the day that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg gave the Newark New Jersey school system 100 million. Speculation had it that he was trying to burnish his reputation before the movie tarnished it. Today our critic Bob Mondello says let the tarnishing begin.  The story of how Facebook was invented almost accidentally in a Harvard dorm room  computer geeks code-writing legal depositions. But boy does it click along from the moment actor Jesse Eisenberg's cold-eyed awkward boy genius decides to get back at a girlfriend who dumps him during the opening credits. Zuckerberg's revenge? He hacks some school photo archives and enlists his best buddy in a dumb sexist online stunt.  Unidentified Man 1   We are ranking girls. Unidentified Man 2   You mean other students?   Yeah.   Do you think this is such a good idea?   I need the algorithm.  He gets it.    .  Their hot-or-not prank gets so many hits it crashes Harvard's server and the dweebs are briefly campus celebs. Mark's still obnoxious though and devious. When he is approached to work on a socializing website for a couple of golden-boy jocks he stalls and tries to develop one of his own. But it is all just names and pictures until a roommate comes to him one day with a question.  Unidentified Man 3   Mark there is a girl in your art history class. Her name is Stephanie Addis. Do you happen to know if she has a boyfriend? And if not do you happen to know if she is looking to go out with anyone? Mr.   People do not walk around with a sign on them that says...  ...their relationship status. Bingo. Mark is out the door so fast he does not even realize it snowed until his socks and sandals are ankle deep in the stuff. It is a throwaway moment but the kind that says worlds about the character's mindset. When people talk about mesmerizing speakers they often say they would be happy to listen to them reciting the phone book. Let me just say I would be happy to watch David Fincher directing the phone book. With Aaron Sorkin providing the verbal fireworks Fincher tags and pokes his way through an almost Shakespearean thicket of betrayals and double-crosses. You expect a Facebook movie to be about friending? Think again as Zuckerberg's co-founder who is given an almost visible conscience by Andrew Garfield spars with Napster's creator played as a snake in the digital grass by Justin Timberlake. Both of them think the cold fish whose approval they are fighting over actually gives a damn. But his thoughts are ever elsewhere and sooner or later almost everyone who meets him cannot stand him perhaps especially the Winklevoss twins the jocks who originally asked him to work on their campus-socializing site.  Unidentified Man 4   That was your father's lawyer? Unidentified Man 5   It was his in-house counsel. He is going to look at all this and if he thinks it is appropriate he will send a cease and desist letter.   What is that going to do?   What do you want to hire an IP lawyer and sue him?   No I want to hire the Sopranos to beat the  out of him with a hammer.   We do not even have to that. That is right. We can do that ourselves. I am 6'5 220 and there is two of me.  Though the film conforms to the general contours of the public record which in this case means the court record there is a good deal of fictionalizing going on in The Social Network. Just as an example that girlfriend dumping Mark in the opening to start things rolling? Made up. The real Zuckerberg and his fellow gazillionaires would not talk to director David Fincher and his team probably a good thing for the filmmakers as it frees them to invent character traits and motivations less good for the gazillionaires even if they can afford to buy respectability back. But hey that is entertainment right? And The Social Network is terrific entertainment an unlikely thriller that makes business ethics class distinctions and intellectual-property arguments sexy that zips through two hours quicker than you can say relationship status and that'ill likely fascinate pretty much anyone not named Zuckerberg. Oh and it sends you out of the theater buzzing breathless and eager to tell all of your friends and friended friends that you have just seen what might end up being the best picture of the year. I am Bob Mondello. 