 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.   And no you did not accidentally switch over to a classic rock station. This is still ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. And this is of course Led Zeppelin.    Oh oh oh oh oh oh you do not have to go.  That is their 1973 classic hit Jamaica. It only reached number 20 on the Billboard charts but for many Houses of the Holy was and remains a seminal album. One of those many is writer Michael Walker who claims 1973 was a game-changing year in rock music. He says it is the year that finally ended the '60s and held the era of mega tours big-arena concerts and even bigger money. Walker makes the case in his new book  On the Road with Led Zeppelin Alice Cooper and The Who in 1973 the Year the Sixties Died and the Modern Rock Star Was Born.  I wanted to write about this time because 1973 represents a really interesting inflexion point in the culture. The '60s have not quite resolved themselves yet. This is a year that sits astride both the '60s and the '70s. But the '70s - as they will become later sort of the big-bag disco and cocaine me decade '70s - have not quite arrived yet. So you have this little sliver of time during which both of these cultures are informing each other before they finally pull apart permanently.  And the thing is there are so many bands that hit the road on big tours or have seminal albums and you list some of them you know Rod Stewart Bob Marley. Pink Floyd has Dark Side of the Moon Elton John Goodbye Yellow Brick Road debut albums from Queen and Aerosmith. Why do you choose out of this kind of massive list and this range of music these three bands? What do they represent?  There is a very specific reason I did choose them was because 1973 unbeknownst to any of them was going to be their peak year. Alice Cooper's Billion Dollar Babies was the culmination of the band's march towards superstardom.    Million dollar baby billion dollar baby trillion dollar baby zillion dollar baby.  It finally hit number one in 1973. They had a sold-out tour of North America and they break up in 1974. I mean they did - they barely made it out of the year before they broke up. For The Who Pete Townshend was obsessed in the early '70s about The Who shedding their '60s past really kind of wrapping it up in a neat bow so they can move on into the '70s and progress as a cultural influence. And there is a song called Punk and the Godfather from Quadrophenia and it is basically this kid in the audience sneering up at the performers just saying look I made you.    You only became what we made you. Thought you were chasing a destiny calling. You only earned what we gave you. You fell and cried as our people were starving. Now you know that we blame you.  Quadrophenia turned out to be the last great Who album and Pete Townshend pretty much admitted it over the years. Led Zeppelin unbeknownst to Led Zeppelin as well was reaching their peak with Houses of the Holy which was a really great eclectic and fun album.    Singing in the sunshine laughing in the rain. Hitting on the moonshine rocking in the brain. Got no time to pack my bag my foot's outside the door.  But after the '73 album Houses of the Holy and the subsequent tours they went off the road for 18 months and they spent the '70s in a long decline. They never really got back out of it.  There are some major shifts in how these bands go about stardom right? And you argue that these are major shifts from the '60s. Number one change in relationship between the audience and the rock star. What is going on there that is so different?  Well it happened in the '60s. There really was no barrier between audience and performer. That was part of the ego deflection that was going on in the '60s. There was a collectiveness.  You said there is generational solidarity.  Yes generational solidarity is happening. And what happened was Woodstock happened.   Thank you very much indeed. We will now play a song called My Generation.     People try to put us down. Talking about my generation. Just because we get around. Talking about my generation. Things they do look awful cold.  And the record companies got a look at 300000 people showing up on a meadow. And Peter Rudge The Who is road manager and co-manager in 1973 said the minute they got a look at that the record business which had up until then been kind of a cottage industry suddenly realized there was lots and lots of money to be made here. And so the concerts started getting upscaled from ballrooms and old theaters like The Fillmores East and West in New York and San Francisco into essentially sports arenas that held 14 or 15000 people. At the same time when these tours are morphing into these big tours in big arenas the backstage pass becomes a necessity. This whole hierarchy of backstage and front of house started to reveal itself. And the audience began to be less in tune with the performer and more sort of a supplicant to the performer.  Another shift is self-indulgence in the music itself.  Yes the indulgence really started to reveal itself you know in concert. Led Zeppelin was famous for this.   John Bonham the drummer who was one of the great rock drummers of all time nevertheless would sometimes take a solo that would go for 40 or 45 minutes. Jimmy Page's guitar solos would go on and on and on and on.   Now this leads to something else. This distancing you are talking about is also the introduction of the kind of here's us posing in front of our jet image right?  Yeah yeah.   Here is us you know getting in and out of the limo which I think - it sounds like you are saying in a previous generation that would not have been so cool to do.  Yeah. The previous generation definitely roll around in limousines. The very first Crosby Stills  Nash album there is a picture of them standing in the snow in Big Bear California. Well they would all ridden up in a limo that day from L.A. So the limos were there but you did not flaunt it. On the tours in '73 Bob Gruen took this iconic photograph of Led Zeppelin in front of their plane which was called The Starship. And The Starship was a converted 707-720 which had transcontinental range. It could haul about 180 people normally. It had been completely renovated into this strange-flying pleasure dome with shag carpeting and this huge long bar and an electric organ and a bedroom with a circular waterbed. And my favorite touch was this sort of gothic fake fireplace room where the English musicians could pretend they were still in their manors back home. So there was a lot of flaunting of wealth as opposed to trying to hide it.  Michael Walker in the end is there a particular moment or song for you that really puts a nail in the coffin of the '60s?  Yeah. I mean from the three albums that the book addresses the Alice Cooper band from the beginning they were all about trying to explode the hippie myth. You know we were into switchblades and girls and limousines and guns and we did not apologize for it. We liked it. So there is an Alice Cooper song called Elected and it was actually issued a little bit ahead of the Billion Dollar Babies album in 1973 to coincide with the 1972 election.  I am your top prime cut of meat. I am your choice.    I want to be elected. I am Yankee Doodle Dandy in a gold Rolls Royce. I want to be elected.  This is as far away from peace love and understanding as you can possibly get in a single song.    I want to be elected.  Michael Walker thank you so much for speaking with us.  Well thank you for having me.  Michael Walker. His new book is called  On the Road with Led Zeppelin Alice Cooper and The Who in 1973 the Year the Sixties Died and the Modern Rock Star Was Born.    Elected yeah. Elected yeah. Elected...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 