 The most popular series on television is in tumult. In the last couple of days two of the three judges on American Idol have quit. Watching the judges criticize the singers and each other is a big part of Idol's appeal. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports without Steven Tyler and Jennifer Lopez American Idol is seriously short on star power.  Today's drama began with a phone call.  Jennifer?  Hi.  Hi it is Ryan.  Ryan Seacrest is American Idol's host. He called up Lopez on his radio show and after a few minutes of stagey sounding chitchat mostly promoting her upcoming tour Lopez confessed she is too busy to continue as an American Idol judge.  Something had to give. Something has to give.  So does that mean we are co-workers or not?  Oh...  Jennifer Lopez was only a judge on American Idol for two seasons.   The whole thing just came together on that one for you. Well you asked me about that last week and that is it. I said find the right song and you are going to just murder it and you did.  Lopez's exit seemed strange to TV critic Eric Deggins. After all he says American Idol was probably the best thing that happened to the brand known as J-Lo for quite a long time.  She was putting out movies that a lot of people were not going to see and putting out records that a lot of people were not buying. I mean maybe she is figured that she can like fly on her own now but I think that would be kind of egotistical.  All this is news because Fox has lost two of the most important people it relies on for the lynchpin of its programming. Steven Tyler of the band Aerosmith said he is leaving American Idol yesterday. As a judge he was a compellingly skanky grandpa figure.   You know what? You ought to be arrested for that voice. Do you have handcuffs?  No actually.  OK I am just you know...  Steven...  It is obvious that him doing the show has been a real sore point with the other guys in the band in Aerosmith.  The question now is who can carry the biggest series on television. Rumors about possible judges are rife with names like Mariah Carey and Adam Lambert but Deggans says he would vote for another contestant that American Idol turned into a star.  Kelly Clarkson.   However American Idol has found its own powerful competition and singer Kelly Clarkson is already a big part on an American Idol knockoff show on a rival network. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  