 Crowd-funding began as a way to support the arts on the Internet. Musicians filmmakers and other artists could go online to pitch a new project in hopes that thousands would give small amounts. Now the idea has expanded to entrepreneurs. On Kickstarter the largest crowd-funding site a handful have raised millions of dollars more than they would expected by selling products they have not made yet. But as KQED's Aarti Shahani reports financial backers have no clear way of getting a refund if and when these entrepreneurs fail to deliver.  Julie Uhrman loves playing video games the old-fashioned way in front of the TV. While sales of consoles like the Nintendo Wii are down Uhrman believes TV games are not some retro thing of the past. She cites her four-year-old as proof. One day a controller was lying on the table.  And then to see my daughter pick up the controller and say Show me how to do this just meant that this is something that is going to be around for a really long time. And I...  You got excited when you saw your daughter glued to the TV?  Yes. I am sure my daughter's preschool will not like that.  Kickstarter liked it a lot.   In July Uhrman released her online video promo for a game console she calls Ouya.   The first letter O stands for open source. Unlike the Nintendo Wii it is open for developers in the Android operating system to make games and...  It is open for hackers that want to tweak the box and make it their own.  Uhrman raises an eyebrow and flashes a mischievous smile about this big undertaking.  Effectively we are trying to disrupt an established industry. It takes a lot of guts and courage..  Uhrman asked for 950 thousand - much more than the average project. A month later her Kickstarter campaign closed with 8.6 million. About 57 thousand backers expect an Ouya console by next March.   I visit Uhrman in San Francisco where she is meeting with a dozen designers to hash out Ouya's boomerang-shaped controller. During a break  Would you have to give money back to your backers if you were not able to deliver? Uhrman takes a deep breath and pauses before answering.  Technically from the Kickstarter perspective I actually do not know the answer to that. But from a doing the right thing perspective we will treat our backers you know the best possible way.  And that is a Kickstarter policy question I think.  Yeah I do not know the answer.  That is Uhrman's PR agent Tiffany Spencer saying it is a Kickstarter policy question. So I call Kickstarter founder Yancey Strickler. If Julie Uhrman is not able to deliver the consoles then does Kickstarter get involved?  You know that would be new ground. I do not know. I mean I - no. I do not think that we would. But certainly the kind of thing you are talking about is not a bridge that has been crossed yet. Someday it will. And you know I think if something did go awry it would be - it would not be my favorite day.  When Kickstarter launched three years back it was primarily fans giving money to little-known artists. Today the most lucrative projects are goods that customers pre-order from would-be merchants. Comments on Kickstarter campaign pages indicate that backers expect product delays.  By creating a system where it is just a series of open and direct exchanges between people with ideas and projects and people interested in supporting them you have everyone on the same page and everyone understanding what is going on.  Almost everyone. One entrepreneur who raised 10 million to build a Smartwatch that streams e-mail and text messages just missed his first delivery deadline. One of his backers demanded a refund to no avail.    Hit it. Huh-uh. What huh...  Another entrepreneur David Barnett released a Kickstarter video where he bounces and steps to raise money for PopSockets a snazzy iPhone case with a headphone cord wrap.   Did you see that? My cord did not even get tangled. And with all that dancing.  A year later still no PopSockets and the money has all gone in fees to prospective manufacturers and lawyers. Barnett - whose day job is philosophy professor at the University of Colorado Boulder - decided to pay back 40 of his 500 backers.  Oh I think it sets a bad precedent. Once I did that I could tell that it started creating the impression in some of my backers that they had purchased an item. And I think as Kickstarter grows there is more and more of an impression that it is just a big store for people to go get deals.  That is the conflict at the heart of Kickstarter. While company policy says creators have to give refunds on failed projects the website does not have a mechanism to do it. Barnett used PayPal.com to process 1300 in refunds. As entrepreneurs come online Kickstarter and hundreds of similar platforms will have to sort out if each transaction is a donation or a purchase. For NPR News I am Aarti Shahani in San Francisco. 