 We take a leap now from the real to the fictional but we are still staying at the Charlotte Motor Speedway.   A maw of dusk was yielding to thunderheads mounding like enormous eggplants. The evening was electric with the feel of an impending storm. The speedway was another hatter's tea party of noise and turmoil. The sweaty buggy air reeked of hot rubber exhaust sun-baked flesh and fried food. Amplified announcements barely carried over the ear-splitting whine of engine screaming around a mile and a half of asphalt.  That is author and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs reading from her latest Temperance Brennan mystery Flash and Bones. You might be familiar with Temperance Brennan. Her adventures form the basis of the FOX TV series Bones. Brennan's latest case kicks off with the grisly discovery a body stuffed in a drum full of asphalt tossed into a landfill by the racetrack just as the biggest racing event of the year is about to start. And Kathy Reichs is with us now in our New York bureau to talk about her creation. Thanks so much for coming in.  Well thank you for inviting me.  So you live in Charlotte which is...  I do.  ...a very big racing town - cannot really get away from NASCAR in Charlotte. And normally I would ask you something like why set your book at a racetrack but actually what I want to ask you is why did it take you so long?  Well that is what my friends kept saying. I have some friends that are big fans and follow - or friends of the drivers and follow all the races. And every time I start a new book they say put it in you know put it in NASCAR. So they finally wore me down and I am glad. It was fun.   You say that you prefer to send Temperance to places that you are familiar with. But you were not that familiar with NASCAR. What was that like?  I was not. I am familiar with Charlotte obviously but I had to do a lot of research. So I contacted all of these people I know. I contacted drivers and crew chiefs and owners and peppered them all with questions.  And you got a tour of the racetrack. You went and...  I did. I got a tour of the racetrack from Marcus Smith who runs the Charlotte Motor Speedway. And I think the whole he was trying to show me all the wonders of the track I am looking at this landfill next door saying wait a minute. Tell me about this dump because I am thinking this is a great place to put a body.  A body.  Yes.  And that is where the body ended up...  Exactly.  ... the book. What about Bones - the show Bones which is based on your books and CSI - you know do you feel like there is so much criminal science that goes on in these cases that - and that is how they are solved you know is by - does it give people a misleading idea of how a lot of these murders really are solved?  Yeah. And not just murders. I mean it is called the CSI effect. I just addressed the American Bar Association on this topic. The idea that jurors have way way too high an expectation of science that you are going to find that one scrap of skin in an acre of corn or something and that is going to crack the case. And not only that but I think there is also the CSI effects if we want to call it that impacts - I was just involved in the Casey Anthony case - and I think that also involves attorneys as well as expert witnesses in that expecting too much of science and pushing science way too far to the margins of where they should be presenting it in court.  What were you doing with the Casey Anthony case?  Well I was the official forensic anthropologist on the defense team. I was reluctant initially but I watched some of the media develop and I was offended by how some of the media convicted this woman prior to her day in court. And that is not how our system is supposed to work. You are supposed to be convicted in court in front of a jury of your peers. So I did agree to - I did a full examination of the skeleton and visited the scene where the body was discovered.  When you are looking - as a forensic anthropologist when you go examine bones of something what are you looking for? What exactly do you do?  When I am brought into a case usually at the request of the pathologist and that is because the body's compromised - it is burned mutilated mummified decomposed dismembered or it is just bones. For some reason they need the forensic anthropology consult. It can vary what they want.  who is it? If we have a completely unknown I will give them the age the race the sex the height any physical characteristics I can so that the investigating officer can then match that profile against missing person's reports. Then we have a name. Then you can go out and get DNA or dental records or whatever. But you cannot use those in a vacuum.  Did you get a lot of the details from this book and from most of your books from your actual work as an anthropologist?  Yes. I take ideas for my stories from either cases I have done or cases I have witnessed coming through our lab or our autopsy room or maybe talking to colleagues attending professional meetings.  Did any of the storylines in Flash and Bones come from real cases?  Well we have done bodies in barrels in cement. Never done asphalt but I figured you know I could figure that out so...  And there was a lot in the book about how the body would decompose or not decompose because of that asphalt. And the hand was sticking up out of the asphalt so you could tell it was a body. Did you have to do a lot of research to figure that out?  Well actually I saw cases of bodies in cement and asphalt works pretty much the same. It is pretty good sealant. It keeps you in there.  It is just like the character in this book.  Exactly.  It was pretty much in the same solid state that he started in.  He or she.  He or she.  No spoilers.   That is right. That is right. Author and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs. Her latest book is Flash and Bones. Thank you so much for coming in today.  Oh thank you. 