 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It is been a pretty busy summer for 3- Shrek 4 Toy Story 3 and now an animated comedy without a number in its title Despicable Me. The film has hundreds of what look like corn puffs serving a comically devilish character voiced by Steve Carell. Bob Mondello has a review.  Gru is despicable on purpose. He means to be the biggest villain in the world. But he is not very good at villainy and he is got competition so he gets no respect. Not even from his mom who calls him in his jet car just to bug him.  Ms.   I just wanted to congratulate you on stealing the pyramid. That was you was not it or was it a villain who is actually successful?  Mr.   Just so you know Mom I am about to do something that is very very big very important. When you hear about it you are going to be very proud. Ms.  Ha good luck with that.  Gru's evil plans are big and inordinately complicated involving shrink rays bank loans rockets and most of all minions.    He is got hundreds of minions little helpers who look like really big smiling yellow pills and who do their thoroughly misguided best to help him -with results that are usually not quite what Gru intended and that often result in disaster for at least a few of their minion buddies.    For reasons complicated enough that you will want to discover them for yourself Gru also gets involved with three little orphan girls. Technically he adopts them. But practically speaking they are in control even when he is making the rules.   Mr.    You will not touch anything. Unidentified Girl 1   Uh-huh what about the floor? Mr.   Yes you may touch the floor. Unidentified Girl 2   What about the air? Mr.   Yes you may touch the air. Okay  You will not bother me while I am working.  You will not cry or whine or laugh or giggle or sneeze or burp or fart. So no no no annoying sounds. Right? Unidentified Girl 3   Does this count as annoying?   Adorable right? And with an overlay here that is nearly as odd as Steve Carell's accent. Despicable Me  white picket-fence suburbs rounded characters sleek and modern - but with a retro afterglow.  a jet car that looks sort of steam-powered cookie robots that skitter like insects. It is as if Jules Verne somehow got into the Pixar toolbox. The film does come from a French animation studio so it makes sense that it would feel a little different  villains with mommy issues and daddy trouble shout-outs to Jaws and Spy vs. Spy. It takes some tricky visual turns too including a ride on a roller coaster that if you see it in 3-D will for sure give you vertigo. Actually do not leave when the end credits start or you will miss the minions doing a nifty little deconstruction of 3-D. Judging from the mishaps they have during the picture I would have said these little yellow dudes were kind of dim. But they establish while the credits roll that minions understand 3-D a heck of a lot better than the folks who made Last Airbender or The Clash of the Titans. Maybe they should try directing. I am Bob Mondello.  We have reviews of other movies opening this weekend including Predators and The Kids Are All Right at npr.org. 