 Etgar Keret is a master of short fiction - super-short fiction really. He has a magical ability to spin profound meaning from the smallest things. And as I found out from the moment I sat down to talk with him he does the same thing in conversation. Great - and say your name for me. I want to say it as close to your pronunciation as possible.  Oh wow you know even I cannot pronounce it properly. It is Etgar Keret. You know it is funny because it means - in Hebrew etgar means challenge and keret means big city so my name is urban challenge which is...  .  ...A pretty good name for sneakers and a pretty strange name for a human being.  After 25 years of writing only fiction Keret is publishing a memoir composed of vignettes as short as his stories. It is called The Seven Good Years. Those would be the years between the birth of his son and the death of his father.  I wrote my first nonfiction piece the day my son was born. I think that suddenly I had this kind of sense of future this idea that I am not only living in this kind of never-ending present but maybe one day my son would want to read it or you know that there is something out there that I have some kind of commitment and responsibility to. And I just kept writing those nonfiction pieces never thinking that they would come out in a book. And only when my father became terminally ill I suddenly had this urge to turn it into a book you know and in a way kind of create maybe some kind of a living tombstone for my father and for the family that he was able to have you know after passing the Holocaust.  Over the course of this period you learn - you learn lessons from both your son and your father. You call your infant son the first enlightened person you have met. Can you explain that?  Well I think that I am a very stressed person. And I am always living both in the past and in the future in that sense that I am kind of feeling guilty of all - for the many things that I have done and I feel great anxiety for all the stuff that is going to come you know? And suddenly when you have a baby or a child and you see how they can be 100 percent in the present - you know they do not really care about what happened before. You know they could have cried for an hour but in one second you know you give them ice cream and they are there you know? They are enjoying the ice cream. Whatever happened is behind him. So this ability to be in the present was something that I kind of discovered through my son. And I actively tried to imitate him but I am afraid I am not very good at it.  In Israel teaching your children well means teaching them for instance what to do during a rocket attack. And there is this kind of beautiful but terrifying moment in the book where you have to apply some creativity to that with your son.  Yes the thing is that the moment that you hear the alarm if you are in the middle of a street then you have 30 seconds you know to find a hiding - or if you do not have a hiding lying on the ground. And I was with my wife and son when the alarm went off. And it was like the first time in his life that he was in the missile attack. And we asked him to lie on the ground. And he said you know if it is too dirty to deep to eat from it - you know when something falls on it - then it is too dirty to lie on it. And you find yourself that you have kind of - I do not know - 25 seconds to convince your son to lie down. And you do not want to be stressful you do not want to shout at him. So I have suggested to him a game called Pastrami Sandwich in which my wife lies on the ground and he lies on her and I lie on him and together we form this pastrami sandwich. And he kind of liked it because it was warm and cozy. And after the missile attack he asked me if I can promise him there would be more missile attacks so we can play the game again.  Getting back to your dad and the lessons learned from him. You mentioned of course that he was a Holocaust survivor and he had this amazing reaction when he learns that he has terminal cancer.  Yes. Well I think that the thing about him is that he really really wanted to continue living and - but at the same time he felt that - you know that life had given him a fair deal. You know he died when he was 84. He survived the Holocaust you know losing his sister and losing many people who were close to him. So I think my father in many ways - he was kind of like a Yoda for me you know giving me all kinds of lessons that were not always clear. But I always kept with me. I remember that when I was 10 years old I asked him what was the things that he was most proud of in his life. And he thought for a moment and he said to me the thing I am most proud of was - is the fact that I fought in six wars all of them in the front line all of them in the infantry and yet I have not hurt anybody. And I remember as a kid I said OK I want to be like this man but I did not really know what it means you know? How can you fight in the front line and not hurt anybody? And I guess my father had this talent you know not to run away from fights and still be super compassionate and maybe not be a very good shot you know?  This book was published in Europe last year. It is out here in America this week but it is not publishing in Israel. It is not going to be published in Hebrew. Why not?  Well I think that you know when you publish a work of fiction people can tell you that your book is boring or your book sucks. But when you write about your family people can tell you that your family is boring or that your family sucks. And I feel that there are many intimate details in the book that - it is easier for me to share overseas you know? It is kind of like those stories that you feel comfortable to tell somebody in a bar or on a train but you will not tell your next-door neighbors. So - so I do not know like maybe one day I will publish it in Israel. But right now it feels a little bit too scary and too personal.  That is Etgar Keret. His new memoir is called The Seven Good Years. It is out on Tuesday. Etgar thank you very much.  Thank you. 