 There was a time when movie studios just added Roman numerals to sequels. Think Rocky II Rocky III Rocky IV. Well not anymore. This summer we have had 22 Jump Street the follow up to 21 Jump Street and X-Men - Days of Future Past with no mention that it is either the six or seventh X-Men movie depending on how you are counting. This got our movie critic Bob Mondello thinking about the art of sequel titling.  Do you suppose they stopped numbering sequels so we would not do the math. Touting up time spent dollars spent watching the same plot play out with variations. Five Die Hard's Seven Planet's of Ape's nine elm street nightmares a dozen Star Trek's going boldly where pretty much everyone's gone by now. It makes since a studio might want to downplay that make things at least sound fresh. As with the Harry Potter and the movies where book titles get our hero from preteen to young adult. Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets Prisoner of Azkaban Goblet of Fire until the last couple where they settle for Deathly Hallows - Part One and Two which I guess they figured was better than Harry Potter and the male partner baldness.    Why Harry you need a shave my friend. You know at times I forget how much you have grown.  Sometimes just using numbers for titles make sense as with Steven Soderbergh's Ocean's Trilogy about an ever expanding gang of con-artists staging ever more elaborate casino heist.   All right gentlemen's down to three number combination 11 12 and 13.  But if you are not going to go with numbers sequel titling has rules. For an action picture you want to up the ante each time Die hard Die Harder Die Hard With A Vengeance or with the Bourne Identity raising to Supremacy and then to Ultimatum then simulacrum or what ever that last one was without Matt Damon. If it is a horror flick you want to add to the dread Resident Evil's follow ups were called Resident Evil Apocalypse pretty dire then Extinction more dire and then Afterlife which was pretty much the only place they could go after extinction.   What was that?  We are going to need more ammo.  Comedy sequels get to have the most fun with titles  Naked Gun 2 for instance. And give the Dumb And Dumber folks credit for coming up with Dumb And Dumberer and for the threequel title that they have got coming in a few months Dumb And Dumber To spelled T - O. Kind of meta. Other just go with puns like  The Squeakquel    And eat you for dinner with some fava beans and a nice Chianti.  There are occasional movie franchises where it does not much matter what you call the episodes. The series that has the most popular sequels in movie history    Nobody does it better.  23 and counting .    Live and let die.  Does not acknowledge in its titles that the pictures are sequels.     presumably on the theory that with 007.     Titles are forever except of course for the impenetrable Quantum Of Solace impenetrable because Quantum Of Solace is both meaningless and perplexing and the one thing you do not want your sequel title to do is raise questions. Awhile back when producers were abbreviating everything  Impossible II for instance had posters that read M - colon - I - hyphen - two. There was a horror flick that wanted to try that a sequel to Halloween that was supposed be taking place 20 years after the first one. So the poster had Jamie Lee Curtis's face and great big letters saying H20. It looked like she was selling a really sinister brand of bottled water.    Able to talk to one could stare.  Everyone's entitled to one good scare. Another title that raised all the wrong questions was for a story about the king from whom we won our independence in 1776. In Britain the stage was called The Madness Of George III spelled George three in roman numerals. But when it was turned into a film the producers worried that Americans would not know who George III was so they added the word king The Madness of King George while dropping the Roman numeral at the end for fear that audiences would think they would missed parts on and two.    I am the king of England.   No sir. You are the patient.  What is the best sequel title ever? Well reasonable people will disagree. But my vote goes to the Alien sequel Aliens.   This is unbelievable.   How many?  Cannot tell lots.  First time around just one of those critters was plenty scary. This title promised and the movie delivered a whole planet's worth. It is not always easy to know whether a sequel has a good title until the movie arrives. I cannot say that  Age Of Ultron means much to me at the moment. No doubt it will next summer when the advertising is in full roar. Not sure what would be right for the rumored sequel to Shakespeare In Love Woody Allen's already made a Midsummer's Night's Sex Comedy love's Labour's found maybe? There is one upcoming title though that I am prepared to say feels right. Playing off nothing more than affection for a character who swam her way into audience hearts about a decade ago.    Just keep swimming just keep swimming just keep swimming swimming swimming what do we do we swim swim.  Back then she was looking for hatchling named Nemo.    Dory.   I love to swim and when you loooove to swim.  know she is apparently lost herself.   See now I am going to get stuck with that song. Now it is in my head.   Sorry.  So the title Finding Dory just about perfect. I am Bob Mondello.  You are Listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 