 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. If you are the poet laureate of the state of Montana you could carry out your duties several ways. You could spend a lot of time talking to schoolchildren or promote poetry through the local libraries perhaps talk to civic organizations. Well Henry Real Bird decided to get on horseback at one end of the state and ride halfway to the other handing out books of poetry along the way. And we caught up with Mr. Real Bird as he is been doing just that. Exactly where are you right now? Mr.  I am Havre Montana along the Milk River. Tomorrow I saddle up and I drift off into the Bear Paw Mountains and I end up over in Rocky Boy Montana my final destination.  Who are you traveling with? Mr.  I am riding with my Hidatsa brother Levi Bruce from Berthold Indian Reservation. As a Crow Indian I am a Hidatsa. Hidatsa and Crow were one tribe and so our language is still the grammar is still the same and it is still pretty close. Like he says biri for water and I saw bira.  Could you do me a favor? We always hear about those big skies of Montana. What is that sky look like today? Mr.  It is so big that you cannot really put an edge to it. That is how it is today in a vast sea of buffalo grass.  Henry Real Bird tell me about the books that you are handing out and the reception that you get. Mr.  Oh the books that I am handing out are my books of poetry. I surprise some people like at a cafe in Nashua a guy that he had two boys there young boys high school boys I mean just so much promise and so much future. And I just gave them the books so they can read that poetry. That plus once I give them out and other people  Where is my book? And I just hand them a book from atop the horse and everything. And so I just want them to think to move along in thought.  To move along in thought. That sounds wonderful. Now when they open up the pages of that book could you just give us a small sample of what they would find? Would you mind reciting just a small bit of your poetry? Mr.  Oh a little bit of it okay. Sunrise quarrels recapitulation of sunrise quarrels thoughts of man civilization recedes waves on shore of sand attached to a reality now touches in life's span  beginning of end strands scratched thoughts drawn on rock of cave preserve our humble beginning recorded in computer reserve. We question wonder learn origin and beyond shifting winds up the canyon walls no barrier. We yawn from the constant vigil of progress that marches toward both ends of the spectrum cloning to nuclear arches. We give life and take life like them.  You say we question wonder and learn. I wonder what you are leaning as you travel across the state and travel across some of the parts of the state where your ancestors lived. Mr.  Yeah I can see life itself out here in Montana on a trail of the buffalo that now goes between elevators going to Cirrhosis Park. And all of the drinking that is on the Indian reservation that I do not want to see but I do because that is life and yet I wait for coffee at the convenience store at Fort Belknap and all of the workers - they are going to work for the day. And so to be able to see the young families full of promise and hope and then to go along and to pick up words like Fur Cap Mountain. That is the Indian word for the little Rocky Mountains. To be given all of these things I mean people come by and they feed me dry meat bannock bread. They crush choke cherries and give them to me. It is a beautiful place when people come and they hug you and they bless you to continue on and asking for a safe journey.  Well safe journeys to you. It is been a pleasure to talk to you. All the best. Mr.  Okay may you ride in beauty too covered with love for many winters to come.  we will see you.  That is Henry Real Bird cowboy member of the Crow Nation and poet laureate of the state of Montana. 