 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. I am sitting in for Michele Norris while she is on book leave. The new movie The Hurt Locker is about American soldiers who defuse bombs in Iraq. Unlike many war films it is not obsessed with action or violence but with the tension just before. At the center of The Hurt Locker is Will James. He is an expert bomb technician who does not like to follow the rules. He is played by Jeremy Renner.  Mr.   Right here is a perfect vantage point outside the blast radius to sit back and watch us clean up their mess.  You want to go out there? Mr.   Yes I do.  I could stand to get in a little trouble. Mr.   No man this is . You got three infantry platoons behind you whose job it is to go Haji-hunting. That as not our  job. Mr.   You do not say no to me Sanborn. I say no to you okay? You know there are guys watching us right now. They are laughing at this okay and I am not okay with that. Now turn off your god damn torch because we are going.  Jeremy Renner playing Will James in The Hurt Locker. I spoke with Jeremy Renner earlier. He told me that they shot the movie in Jordan last summer with temperatures as high as 130 degrees. Jeremy Renner said that he and the other actors spent a lot of time living like real soldiers. Mr.  It was hell. I am not going to lie. You know it was one of the hardest things I have ever had to do always trying to check myself realizing like I am just shooting a movie. But it is so hard to think clearly even in that kind of heat and then with the bomb suit on and then I could not explain the hell that we all went through for those three months. I could not do it. I can only talk to Brian Geraghty and Anthony Mackie and  Your co-stars. Mr.  Because we had a very difficult time especially Brian and I coming back to the States. I mean I did not leave the house for three months. I had a hard time getting acclimated back into watching girls paint their toenails and get their lattes. It was really tough for me and it was one of those things - you do not see cameras. The sets were a square mile. You never knew who was in the movie who was not. So it felt as real as it possibly will ever feel except I never felt that my life was on the line.  Well were there moments when you were in that hell as you call it where you thought I cannot do this I do not want to do it anymore? Mr.  Every day. Every day. It was an absolute challenge and a different challenge. You know it is an independent film. There happened to be one outhouse and everyone's sick for 200 people. And there is always - presented different challenges every day. And I had a few breakdown moments but privately in my own room back at the hotel. It tested everybody on a personal level. I mean divorces were happening and it was chaos for a lot of people. It was no smooth sailing by any means. And would I ever do it again? I doubt it. I do not know if I have the strength to. And we are just shooting a movie right? I am just some silly actor in a silly movie. Not so much in this experience.  Did you meet real bomb technicians and talk with them about why they do what they do? Mr.  Yeah yeah. Everybody at Fort Irwin was really gracious with their time.  Fort Irwin is a training camp here in California that mimics a lot of the conditions that the Mr.  Yeah they even have little - a small Iraq village there where they sort of kind of train guys to get used to the idea of what it might be like over there and I was training with the guys that were about to be deployed. So I had a lot of opportunities to learn how to be a pretty good bomb-maker so I knew how to render them safe. The suit informed me a lot of those - all those things. It is about 100 pounds. You know it is pretty much all Kevlar and you know I did not think about walking a specific way in that but apparently I did. When I put the suit on I had this sort of almost sort of strut in it - I did not know. I did not plan that.  And are there any - do you remember any particular conversations you had with some of these expert bomb technicians that made you go wow? Mr.  Yeah. I would ask a lot of questions  It is top secret cannot tell you. Then they would just kind of throw out a few random things. So once they got a little bit more comfortable with me after about a week or so they say we put one of our dog tags in a boot. And then I ask why do you put a dog tag on your neck and one in the boot? He is like well you know when someone gets hit with an IED you always find boots. I am like oh. And he is like yeah you do not find a lot of the other parts but for whatever reason you always find a boot. I mean he is just saying it like just over a sandwich.  Like a matter of fact.  Mr.  Yeah. I am like okay. That is good. That is how it is huh? Okay. So I thought that was kind of telling and in volumes  Yeah. Mr.  just one sentence you know? So that sort of almost veneer of like accepting what the job is. And I do not know it spoke volumes to me.  And then that is the persona that your character has that he is a man doing his job doing it really well. Mr.  Yeah. Yeah there is not a lot of room on the field of battle for fear or insecurity or a lot of other things you know? You have to make it happen get it done.  Well as an actor how do you portray that? A lot of the movie is silent. A lot of the movie takes place without a lot of dialogue and you can -have to convey a lot of what is going on in your character's mind. So how do you portray that? Mr.  I think that sort of plays into my strengths as an actor you know? And just as a human being I would rather just say very few words. And I am just a simple simple man. So there is a lot of me in that aspect of him. But to be able to convey conflict or - I do not know I guess that is just part of acting I suppose. And that is why I love my job.   Your character has a pivotal scene with Anthony Mackie the actor who plays Sanborn the closest guy that you have there. Mr.  Yeah.   I mean your character does not make a lot of friends. Mr.  Right.  And Sanborn breaks down at one point and he says he does not know who will miss him when he dies. Mr.  Oh yeah.  Your character that does not seem to ruffle him.  Mr.   I mean how do you do it you know take the risk? Mr.   I do not know. I just - I guess I do not think about it.  I mean it just struck me that this movie is really an existential movie. There is no meaning in it other than you defusing a bomb. Mr.  Mm-hmm. This is why I approached James with the idea of would he -if he stayed home would he be a good father and be a good husband? Yeah but he was born to do this and everything outside of that seems so trite I suppose. Not that raising a family is trite but to be acclimated back to okay do I now drive a whether a forklift for Costco let us say or when I was saving lives. And you kind of  But he gives up a lot for that. Mr.  Yeah you give up a lot for that but you are not giving up anything really in my mind or especially in the character's mind when you know the answer. You know what you are supposed to be doing. It absolutely feels right. And then some people initially on page you know when you first meet James is that oh he is just a thrill junkie and that was one of my first questions. Is he just an adrenaline junkie? Is he suicidal? Is he all these other things? But you know it is a hard pill to swallow for some but then that is exactly where that man needs to be.  Jeremy Renner stars as Will James in the new movie The Hurt Locker. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you appreciate it.   For more on The Hurt Locker and lots of other summer movies you can visit the arts and life section at the new npr.org. 