 There've been a number of movies about the war on drugs but the new film Sicario takes the war part of that phrase very seriously.   Emily Blunt plays the lead in this movie about an FBI agent recruited into a U.S. anti-drug operation that works with Mexican security forces to take down drug cartel kingpins but it crosses physical and moral borders to do it. And she is here to talk more about it. Emily Blunt welcome to the program.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  So going into this what was your image or idea when you heard the phrase you know war on drugs? How much did you know about it?  I mean I think I was fairly naive about it to be very honest with you. You know we hear about ISIS every day of the week and yet we do not hear about this war right at the border. And it is exponentially bigger and it is just as brutal and yet we do not hear about it. And so as soon as I started to research it to Google it to speak to people who understand that part of the world including our screenwriter who has a brother who is a journalist in that part of the world it was shocking and definitely a revelation.  And we should say this is very different from a movie that people are most talking about probably because of the participation of Benicio del Toro who is your co-star in this - the movie Traffic way back when which had agents it had people on the border. But this is seeing people in camo right? Like these are guys in this operation who have been to Afghanistan and Iraq and there is intelligence operations. Talk about the scope of it.  Yeah I think this is really really capturing the reality of the situation which is that it is a war. It is an all-out war. You see the gray matter of the situation. I think that you see that America has some complicity in it as does the rest of the world that it is coming from both sides. It is not just them and us. Who is the good guy? Who is the bad guy? I think it is a film that asks a lot of questions.  And your character Kate this FBI agent who is drawn into this I guess she is the closest thing to a moral center right?  She is. I mean I think she represents that image for the audience. I think she is also the audience's surrogate in many because she is dragged into this incoherent world even though she is a highly-skilled FBI agent. And it is daunting and incoherent to her.    I am not a soldier. This is not what I do.   Well this is what happens when they dig in. This is it.  This is a very tense and unnerving drama and you play this character with a lot of vulnerability.  Yeah.  And what is behind that decision for this person who you know out of the gate is coming off as tough?  Well I think - I think it is important to show different layers. Nobody is just tough and nobody is just vulnerable. And so you try and peel back the layers try and make it interesting but also play the reality which is that really even though she is highly skilled at running a kidnap-response team it is - she is limited to that. She is never really done any investigative work and she also is pulled into a world that is completely alien to her that she disagrees with that she resents and tries to rage against.  And she takes some hits...  She takes some hits.  ...And they are not the kind of hits where she jumps up after.  No I mean I think we have all - you know I think there are few films - and I have been in one - where you play an action heroine who could take down any guy and she is always got the perfect thing to say. I did this film called Edge Of Tomorrow where that was the part. You know you are playing a hardened warrior. And yet in this case she does take some hits. She still throws a punch but...  She does . You threw a punch .  ...I would not say that she bounces back as quickly.  You definitely threw that punch I recall. But I thought oh like I feel like I felt it when she went down. When she tried to speak up when she tried to threaten people I did not necessarily feel she was in a position of power making those threats.  That is what you want to see is you know this duel between morality and amorality and idealism and realism and how does that work? And what is the definition of strength? Is it somebody who has a gun and does bad things or is strength actually strength of character and strength of maintaining your ideals?  So this whole conversation about whether or not women should or can be the lead in action films and...  Yes.  ...Why there are not more - from your position as an actress what is the thing we are all missing here?  Well I think what happens often in Hollywood and the business is that they crunch numbers on a film that has previously brought in a lot of money. And so you have got art versus commerce here. And usually a film is geared towards the opening weekend. And it is decided whether it is a good or bad film based on its opening weekend which I think is also a terrible thing. And also a film when it is being made is usually geared towards teenage boys as they are the ones who seem to be going out and according to the numbers buying tickets. But as my mother would say well I am not a teenage boy...   ...And I do not want to see you know a film about robots and aliens. And so I think there is a huge majority of people who are not in that age group or that gender group necessarily. I just believe that we have got to just keep writing fantastic roles for women and keep forwarding this fight because I think the tides are turning actually.  Before I let you go I want to say congratulations on your U.S. citizenship.  Thank you so much I appreciate it.  And I understand you have also been baptized in the American political arguments  as well. I should - just for people who have not heard this this is about a quote you gave to The Hollywood Reporter where you joked after the Republican debate. You said  I became an American citizen recently and that night we watched the Republican debate and I thought this was a terrible mistake - what have I done?  Right.  And the folks at Fox  Friends took this very personally and I want to give you a chance to respond. Here's what they had to say.   You know what Emily Blunt just did? She just Dixie Chicked herself. She has alienated half the country that now will think twice about going to one of her movies.  Right I did not actually know who she was. I have got to go to more movies.  You have seen her in movies. You have seen her in movies.  I am sure she - OK well congratulations. You are an American citizen and you are very unhappy. Do you believe that - will Emily Blunt's feelings about American citizenship blunt the way you feel about her movies?  Oh boy.  Wow.  OK so welcome to America.  Yes thank you. Thank you.  .  I really enjoy the freedom of speech. But - no I - obviously I think it offended some people. It was definitely not intended that way. It was very much a joke.  But it sounds like - I mean you were watching the debate. That is a good thing right?  Yeah.  Like you are engaged  in the process.  Yes absolutely. And I am. I mean actually becoming an American was such a meaningful day for me. And I was thrown an American party by my husband. He sent an invites to my American party.  Is that spelled M-U-R-I-C-A-N? .  Yes it was yeah.  OK OK.  And I made sloppy joes which I would never made before...  .  ...Which were really fun . And some mac and cheese which he made which was fantastic.  This is very impressive .  Thank you.  Diving in head first. Well Emily Blunt thank you so much for speaking with us...  Thank you very much.  ...And best of luck with the film.  I appreciate it. Thank you.  Sicario opens today in New York and Los Angeles. It will be in more theaters October 2. 