 Here's a job title it sounds like it could come out of a summer blockbuster film - planetary protection officer. NASA just posted a notice saying they are looking to hire a planetary protection officer. So before we submit our applications we thought we would better find out what the job entails. Dr. Michael Meyer is on the line. And can we say your title is former planetary protection officer?  Well that is correct.  Well if I want to be a planetary protection officer what am I going to have to do?  So it is an interesting job in that - I mean besides having such a cool title it actually has a fair amount of responsibility in protecting the Earth from extraterrestrial contamination from spacecraft exploration. And also you want to protect the planets that you are exploring so that you can still do future science from other planetary bodies.  What are some places that Earth spacecraft are going that we could potentially contaminate?  So certainly Mars has been on the list for quite some time because of its biological potential and Europa is one of the next targets that we are looking at.  Europa is a moon of Jupiter.  Europa is a moon of Jupiter. And - but other icy moons around Jupiter and Saturn are of concern.  What kinds of extraterrestrial contamination could actually harm the Earth?  Well so the idea is that if you are going to a place that has the potential for harboring life when you bring samples back there is the possibility that you are bringing something alive from another planet. And in which case you ought to be cautious and keep those samples contained until you can determine whether or not there is anything perhaps hazardous in those samples.  You are now in charge of the NASA Mars mission. Is the work that you did as a planetary protection officer informing the kinds of decisions you are making about a future mission to Mars?  Well certainly one of the reasons why I have become the you know lead scientist for the Mars program is in fact the potential for life on Mars. Or maybe at some point in time in the past it had that opportunity. And being clean with the spacecraft that you are using to explore Mars is extremely important because when you make your measurements you want to make sure that what you are measuring is what is on Mars not something that you brought with you.  So NASA is now taking applications for a planetary protection officer. What do you think the top qualifications should be?  The qualifications for a planetary protection officer - well they are in the ad so whatever I say should not be taken by a potential applicant as the...   Yeah but you have done the job. You know the real qualifications required.  So the challenges of the job are one you should have some background. Understand how you conduct business so that you can have clean spacecraft. How do you work in a clean room? How do you handle microbiology dealing with culturing microorganisms and that sort of thing? But the other half of it is in some ways it has to be a very diplomatic job because you are dealing with other countries that are also sending spacecraft to...  Oh because not every country has a planetary protection officer.  Not every country has a planetary protection officer. In fact I think only ESA has a planetary protection officer besides NASA.  That is the European Space Agency yeah.  Correct.  So have you ever had to tell Russia or China that they cannot send something into space that they want to send into space because it might contaminate a foreign planet?  So we are not in the business of telling other countries how to conduct their business. But we do have to pay attention to what they are doing because when we are collaborating with them it is incumbent on us on NASA to make sure they are exploring safely.  Dr. Michael Meyer former planetary protection officer and now leading NASA's Mars mission thanks for telling us about this really interesting job.  Well thank you so much.  