 When the film Beach Rats won the best directing prize at Sundance in January there was snow on the ground. The film's suntanned teenagers are more in sync with the season now. Critic Bob Mondello says one of them is still not comfortable in his own skin.  Frankie is a good looking kid late-teens tall buff bronzed a surfer type killing time at Coney Island. At night though what Frankie surfs is the web sitting in the dark experimenting with things he does not dare to by day.    Are you just going to watch?   Maybe.   Turn on more light. I cannot see you - pretty.   Thanks.   Do you like what you see?   I do not really know what I like.  As if to establish how true that is he heads back out to the beach where the flirting is more conventional illuminated by fireworks.    I think they are romantic.   Fireworks are like the opposite of romantic.   So what is your idea of romance?  Frankie will be more pursued than pursuer here. But when Simone climbs first into his Coney Island bumper car and then into his bed...    Do you think I am pretty?  ...He goes along willingly enough anything to escape his home life - a father who is dying of cancer a mother who cannot figure out what is going on with her son possibly because what is going on with her son changes by the hour.    Are you on drugs?   Right now yeah.   What drugs are you on?   Good ones the best.   Do you need help?   No. I feel so good right now. I just...  Director Eliza Hittman has set Beach Rats in a cruisy rundown working-class neighborhood that feels worlds away from the hipster Brooklyn that audiences know from TV. And she populates the fringes of her film with non-actors which gives it a rough lived-in quality enough so that you worry about Frankie as he drifts in confusion hormone-fueled but basically innocent from his beach rat buddies and their quest to stay high to his fraught encounters with Simone and with older male partners. Actor Harris Dickinson makes Frankie almost charismatic in his ambivalence intriguingly hard to read with an easy New York drawl that is so persuasive you would never guess the performer is British. He and the filmmakers have perched Frankie right on the cusp of adulthood at a moment where his conflicting desires will lead to physical conflict unless he makes choices even as it turns out if he makes choices which leaves Frankie haunted by doubts and makes Beach Rats just plain haunting. I am Bob Mondello. 