 The Toronto International Film Festival wraps up this weekend. It is the largest film festival in North America - some 300 films in just 10 days. Now many of these movies will be released widely in the next few months. NPR's movie critic Bob Mondello is at the festival and he joins us now. Bob how was it?  It was amazing. I had - actually it is amazing. It is still going on. I had the best time at this festival. I probably saw eight or nine pictures that I think could be conceivably Oscar contenders.  But this is out of 32 .  I saw 32 films in six days which is probably 15 pictures too many to see in that much time but it was great - everything from big commercial pictures to a Saudi Arabian rom-com which is a form that I would not have guessed even existed.  Now going into this festival the film people have been talking about really all year on the festival circuit Birth Of A Nation. This is the Nate Parker film that got a lot of attention when it was first screened at Sundance earlier this year. And since then rape allegations from his past have come out and created controversy. I know that this film was screened in Toronto. How did people react to it?  Well there was - it was a mixed reaction this time. It is - it is a slave drama. There have been big ones at festivals past like 12 Years A Slave for instance. And I think people were expecting it to be in that range and it falls short.  Let us turn to movies that you loved. You have a list and a lot of them either begin with the letter L or M.  .  We are going to start with the first one. It is called Loving. It is about the Supreme Court case Loving v. Virginia back in 1967 over interracial marriage. What did you like about this?  Well it is a beautiful love story that is about the marriage that turned into a case that changed the law. Let us - let us listen to just a little bit from the trailer.    Richard Perry Loving being a white person and Mildred Jeter being a colored person did unlawfully cohabitate as man and wife.   Richard?   That as not right.  Now this was happening just a few miles from Washington where I was growing up. And it is shocking in retrospect to realize that I was living through an era when that was the law. And you see the love between these people that changed the minds of the judges. It is a really terrific film.  Now another love story that you fell hard for La La Land...  . Oh boy.  ...Which is a musical and a very kind of throwback-looking one right?  Yeah it feels - especially at the very beginning it feels like Singin' In The Rain.  Only with Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling.  Right and it was directed by the guy who did Whiplash a couple of years ago. And that film was all about jazz. This one is too. The music is just - well you can hear. It is really pretty. And it is nicely acted. And it is swoonable .  So the other film on your list starting with the letter L was Lion and this is very different from the first two.  That is true. It is about a little boy in India who got lost one night on a train and ended up 1600 kilometers away from his mother. But he was five years old. He did not know the name of the city where he was from. He did not - or village really. He did not know how to get back and he ended up being adopted by a couple in Australia. And the story picks up after all of that about an hour into the picture with Dev Patel in Australia. Let us listen to just a clip.    Do you have any idea what it is like? How every day my real brother screams my name?  Even just listening to that I knew early in this film that I was going to end up in tears. I had no idea I was going to be sobbing as much as I did. It is an extraordinary effective film.  Now a very different kind of coming-of-age film that you saw and loved I have heard a lot about actually. It is called Moonlight. It is set in Florida.  Yes and it is about an African-American kid who is growing up there. It is told in three chapters kind of with three different young actors playing the kid. It is a coming-of-age coming-out story and is very moving in ways that you do not expect. It is beautifully written but it is also a surprise as you are watching it because it is so intimate and so delicate and so nuanced.  And the visuals are gorgeous. I recommend people check out the trailer alone.  It - it is exquisite. It is a - it is a really terrific film.  Now these have all been feature films but I know documentaries always get a bump out of the festival circuit. Were there any that you liked?  Well there was one based on the writings of James Baldwin - the unpublished writings of James Baldwin. It is called I Am Not Your Negro and it mixes those writings from the 1970s with events right up to today. I mean it - he is basically telling the story of three of his friends who died - Malcolm X Medgar Evers and Martin Luther King. And in the course of telling those stories and what they mean about American society he tells you basically the history of the last 60 or 70 years of race relations. It is a fascinating and gorgeous and very powerful film.  Bob so many of the films you brought us here feature people of color. And I am wondering after this last year and a half of conversation about diversity in Hollywood and the lack of diversity in much of what Hollywood puts out is this just you  - what you like or we seeing a trend?  I wondered that myself as I - as I was picking the pictures. But it would be hard to pick films at this year's festival that were not in some sense diverse. Even La La Land which has two white leads is a portrait of Los Angeles that is incredibly diverse as you look at it. I think what happens here is that it takes a while for films to get developed so that this is not a direct reaction to OscarsSoWhite and the controversy last year but it is a - an indication that Hollywood is moving in the right direction.  That is NPR's movie critic Bob Mondello. Thanks so much.  It is always a pleasure. 