 English writer Martin Amis is out with his fourteenth novel Zone Of Interest. It dares to imagine the inner-lives of soldiers and prisoners in a Nazi concentration camp. It arrived on U.K. bookshelves in August and will be available in the U.S. this month. But French and German Amis fans will have to read it in English. His usual publishers will not be publishing this book. Alan Cheuse thinks yes it is difficult but it is worth the read.  When I picked up Martin Amis' new novel and began reading it felt as though I would touched the third rail. The material - love and lust and daily life in a concentration camp - it is that electric. Angelus Golo Thomsen the nephew of Martin Bormann Hitler's personal secretary serves as the Nazi High Command's liaison with the IG Farben factory on the grounds of the camp. He is a serious womanizer and keeps up a high level of ironic banter with a few close friends - fellow officers - mostly gallows humor about the horrors of the camp. Much to the dismay of one of his friends Thomsen falls in love with Hannah Doll the wife of the alcoholic camp commandant Paul Doll. The commandant soon finds evidence of his wife's disloyalty. This sets in motion a plot that puts Thomsen and his beloved in dreadful danger and exposes to the naked eye the debauchery thievery and criminal incompetence of everyone on the concentration camp staff from the highest-ranking Nazis to the IG Farben managers and technicians down to the Jewish Sonderkommandos the complicit prisoners spared long enough to assist with the murderous work of the camp. Speaking about complicity we actually come to sympathize with Thomsen and Hannah as they delicately thread their way through the intricacies and madness of their situation - no small aesthetic feat on the part of the writer. Trumping both of them is Amis' creation of the character of Szmul a longtime survivor of the current group of Sonderkommandos.  The saddest men in the history of the world as he himself describes his ilk. I used to have the greatest respect for nightmares we hear him declaim for their intelligence and artistry. Now I think nightmares are pathetic. They are quite incapable of coming up with anything even remotely as terrible as what I do all the day. In an afterword Martin Amis meditates on the irony of writing about the unspeakable. It would be unspeakable to cheer about what he is accomplished in these pages. But I do urge you to read them.  The book is Zone Of Interest by Martin Amos. Our reviewer is Alan Cheuse. 