 What is it like to grow up with a parent with a mental illness and to be so young that you cannot even get the name of that illness right? Writer and director Maya Forbes explores that in a new movie called Infinitely Polar Bear. The name's a play on her father's bipolar disorder. He was brilliant but also a mess and in the movie he is played by the actor Mark Ruffalo.    Well needless to say I did not make it to my exam.   And they kicked you out for mission one exam?   No. The semester after that I registered for 75 courses and that is when they determined that I was not exactly Harvard material.  Actress Zoe Saldana plays the role of the mom struggling to keep the family afloat financially. After her husband recovers from a mental breakdown she makes the difficult decision to go to business school and leave her daughters with their father. Director Maya Forbes relived this story in more ways than one. She cast her own daughter Imogene to play young Maya in the movie. What was harder was finding someone to play Mayas mother.  It was suggested to me that if you - you could cast a wider net if you are willing to cast a white woman as the mother.  It was an odd request because Maya Forbes' mother is black. And while race is not central to the film Forbes could not ignore it.  I mean that is just what it is to make a personal film. It was like that is my mother you know? I mean that is my mother. It is a huge part of my experience. I cannot imagine making this movie about my family and my mother coming to see it and a white actress is playing her. It would be just completely wrong. In terms of casting the kids we were looking to cast a family that would look like a family. But my family looks very different. So my mother is black. She is a twin. She is very light-skinned. Her brother's dark-skinned you know? So I have this sort of understanding of mixed-race families and black families even as being varied in how people look.  Now Maya Forbes this movie is in part based on your childhood. Your father dealt with what is now called bipolar disorder. And you have said that he started - he suffered a series of manic breakdowns when you were fairly young. What did you think was happening at the time? Like how was this explained to you?  Well it was very confusing because I - he was - my father was around a lot and was a very fun figure a dad who liked to do all kinds of fun things with you. So it kind of got amped up super fun and then it went into a scarier place which is what often happens with mania I think. You can - you could sort of - for a moment you are the pied piper and everyone's following you around and that seems great. Even harder than that often was to see him on the other side after he would been sedated - was a scarier thing even than seeing him manic because then he did not seem like himself. He seemed sort of like a zombie.  And there are scenes in the movie where the kids and the mother in the movie they actually visit the father character played by Mark Ruffalo in a hospital.     but I am feeling much better.   You are?   Your stomach is really big.   That is the medication they put me on. It does not hurt.  Shooting that scene was very powerful for me because it just - I felt like I was right back in that moment where you would go to visit him at the hospital. It was almost like a horror movie.  And Imogene for you how much of an understanding did you have in terms of what your mom grew up with?  I really did not know a lot about my - I think - my grandfather himself so I think that was really powerful. And I really did not know about the bipolar disorder. I did not really know what it did to people.  The day we shot that one scene in the hospital I did not really tell them what Mark was going to be like so that I think it was startling for them.  It was definitely - it was shocking yeah. He just was not himself. It did not even seem like he was the character he was playing in the movie.  No it seemed like he was the character he was playing .  No I mean - no but do you know what I mean?  Yes but I hear you. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. I am just saying that he...  He was not...  Yes. But what you are saying is what I felt...  Yeah.  ...As a child.  It is very weird for me  to hear you both talking about this to hear this kind of echo of this experience. And what was it like for Maya to like relive this with someone who you know looks a lot like you - your daughter?  .  And Imogene I will have you answer this question after.  Imogene I always think - I feel Imogene is better at being me than I was.   When you make a movie it is a movie and things change based on who you put in the movie. And so it is you know obviously not exactly your life but I feel that I did learn a lot about my parents. And there were a lot of things that I appreciated a lot about my childhood.  You know we get a glimpse of this parenting style when he is with the kids. And Imogene can you describe a scene in the movie that actually made it seem fun to have that kind of parent in that moment?  I think the scenes where Cam takes the kids - all of the kids including his daughters and their friends - out on like a picnic day and he teaches them how to defend themselves and he shows them all the different things I think that really showed how amazing it would be 'ecause not all parents will do that. He just is kind of free. He is kind of like a kid himself.  Imogene I imagine you might be reading through this script and at some point kind of turn to your mom and say they did what you know like where...  Yeah.  ...These moments that really just surprised you.  I think I was just really surprised about the way they grew up because I live such a sheltered life in Los Angeles and I have really supportive parents. And not that she did not but she just had a much harder life growing up with - in a crazy apartment going to not-good schools. And before doing this I do not even think I knew what that could be like.    I am depressed.   Of course you are. Your dog ran away. Your family gives you just barely enough money to live off and you annoy people.   You are leaving out my hemorrhoids.   Where are you going?   I am meeting Kim Ali and Thurgood.   Can I come?   I guess.   Can I come?   No God. We are hanging out with our friends.   Daddy you cannot hang out with kids. It is weird.   We need to have our own life and you need to have yours.  And just to give people a glimpse like the apartment sometimes when the father is kind of in a good period can be very clean and attractive and sort of artsy.  Yes.  And when it - when he is on a kind of down cycle it is mania.  Yes the - on the edge of hoarding I think. I mean getting my father to throw anything away was pretty difficult. He was not trying to hide who he was and he said you do not have to hide the fact that I am manic-depressive. You can tell people that is who I am. It is - explains a lot about your situation. And it what was - what was interesting about that is that coming out like that not hiding really got rid of the shame.  In the end what did you want to show about how an illness like this can affect a family?  It is very painful to love someone who is wrestling with either an addiction or a mental illness because you want the best for them. And it seems so hard and it is frustrating. And you think they are going to get it together and then they cannot. And sometimes they do and that is amazing. But that is you know - it is sort of perilous. Anyway I just wanted to write a really humane story about a family that is wrestling with this.  Director Maya Forbes thank you for talking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.  And actress Imogene Wolodarsky thank you for talking with us.  Thank you for having us.  Maybe there'ill be more projects between the two of you. What do you think Imogene?  Yeah definitely.  Oh I hope so.  I would love to work with my mother again.  I love to work with her. She is fantastic. 