  It has been nearly 14 years since Pixar's The Incredibles introduced a family of superheroes that had a hard time living quietly in the suburbs. Mr. Incredible Elastigirl and their kids are now back in Incredibles 2. We are going to talk in a minute with actress Holly Hunter who plays Elastigirl. First our critic Bob Mondello has this review.  Here's where we left off last time - our favorite suburban family crossing the street when suddenly a giant drill erupts from the pavement.    Behold The Underminer.  And here's what we have been waiting 14 years for.    Watch after Jack-Jack.   But I thought we were going to...   You heard your mother. Trampoline me.  Saving the world is hard-wired in these folks but...    Superheroes are illegal.  The good news is there is a rich guy who is thinking is gratifyingly in tune with the woman-centric times we live in to change public perception of superheroes. The key he says is not brute strength Mr. Incredible's superpower. Its flexibility.    Elastigirl is our best play.   Better than me?  So Mom goes to work.    Bye sweetie.   I will watch the kids no problem.  And Dad has a midlife crisis dealing with a teenager who wishes she could disappear and actually can a hyperactive boy who should never be entrusted with the remote and to the hilarious frustration of a territory-protecting raccoon...   .  ...A baby who is just discovering new powers.   .  Director Brad Bird in short is traipsing through time-honored comic territory with Looney Tune gag spectacular animation James Bondian music and a retro-futurist worldview that may be straight out of Ayn Rand but that is leavened by putting Holly Hunter's commonsensical Elastigirl front and center.    I know it is crazy right? To help my family I got to leave it. To fix the law I got to break it.  Actual ideas about balancing work and life in an action-packed kid flick - Marvel take note. I exaggerate not a bit when I say that parents will feel just as empowered while watching Incredibles 2 as any child.    Done properly parenting is a heroic act.  .   Done properly...  .  I am Bob Mondello. 