 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris. There is nothing new about road trip movies or wedding comedies they are Hollywood standbys. However change the setting to Cape Town and make the cast South African and well things can take a surprising turn. The film is called White Wedding and in it Elvis the groom travels hundreds of miles to get to his wedding on time. His best friend Tumi is driving and along the way they pick up a British tourist named Rose who just broke off her own wedding engagement.  Ms.   Thank God I did not marry him. I mean who gets married these days anyway? Who wants to be institutionalized? My parents have been married for nearly 30 years. They have not had a conversation in about 29. Why bother? Mr.    Well for companionship for comfort home-cooked meals raising kids together you know and knowing that you understand each other so well that you do not have to talk all the time. You can just enjoy long silences. Ms.   Sounds horrific.  I spoke with White Wedding director Jann Turner and actor Kenneth Nkosi who plays Elvis. They wrote the screenplay with co-star Rapulana Seiphemo. Nkosi told me how they decided to tackle the issue of racism in a joyful wedding movie. Mr.  We have a problem like this in South Africa. It is there and we want to make it part of this movie. But how are we going to make it part of this movie without having too preachy and talk about apartheid and how horrible it is but to have fun laugh about the situations that are there in South Africa - because it is just how it is.  You know  the racial divide of course also the divide as you say between the city and the rural culture. It also looks at the cultural divide even within the races. A big part of the tension in the film is between Ayanda the bride and her mother. Her mother so badly wants a big traditional wedding with all of her friends there. And they are going to cook all day long. And the bride wants something that is very modern. She wants to be in an upscale space in Cape Town and make a very modern statement. How real is that tension between the generations in South Africa? Mr.  It is so real. I just got married recently and I had to have this traditional wedding you know - a traditional wedding that is where my mother and her mother - my wife's mother - will then invite everybody else to come and slaughter and eat this big cow which I have spent a lot of money on. But then what happens is that later I get to do my own white wedding with my wife. Because you have got to be able to cater for all those generations. You have got to be able to cater for everybody. But it is true. It is real. There is always going to be the older and the younger conflict in terms of stuff like that.  One of the interesting things about this film as well is the overwhelming - sort of social image of South Africa that you get from this film is that there is this burgeoning middle-class with very middle-class aspirations and all the middle-class problems that come along with that. Everyone is always on the phone. And what you see is a side of South Africa that is not always evident in popular culture. Was that deliberate to show that side of South Africa? Mr.  Oh absolutely yeah. Mr.  I mean if anything we wanted to show South Africa the real South Africa and how it is right now. And I know that the whole world knows South Africa but it is all about the politics and the apartheid and what happened. And that is why it is important for us to have this movie coming here to the States. Ms.  I think it is it is part of the reason that the film did so well in South Africa. Audiences were so excited to see a film that was about us struggling with ordinary issues rather than with huge political issues and huge social issues - which are all there but it is much more about ordinary people trying to navigate their ordinary lives within that and through that.  How did you manage to weave in all the various languages and still create a film that was accessible whether or not you actually spoke the language. Much of the film is in subtitles. Ms.  Well you know that is how South Africans speak. There was no way we were going to have everybody in this film speak English because it simply would not reflect how South Africans talk to one another. South Africans use language to include and exclude each other. So translation jokes and misunderstandings are part of our day-to-day and so they are very much there in the film. Mr.  We have got 11 official languages. Ms.  That is a lot of languages. We also  as a director that was a very important decision for me because I think one of the problems that a lot of South African actors face is speaking in a language that is maybe their second maybe their third or their fourth. And you do not get a performance out of an actor who is speaking in a third language like you get out of them if they are speaking in their first language.  The scene in the bar where the trio - on their way to Cape Town for the wedding - has to stop in a bar filled with Afrikaners where there is still a whites-only sign on the door I would love to hear a clip from this. And could you help us set this up and help us understand what you did to get the cast in the right frame of mind for the scene? But before you do that let us just take a quick listen to this.  Ms.   What is that flag? Unidentified Man 2   It is a dead flag. Ms.   You mean the apartheid flag? Oh that is like flying a swastika.  This whole scene in this bar encompasses comedy but there is also a lot of tension. There are you know people are sort of looking across a chasm at each other and you are not sure how this is going to play. It could go either way. Ms.  That scene comes partly from experience that Rapsid had where he would walked into a road stop and he would gone to use the bathroom and the sign on the door was a whites-only sign. So they were prepared because it was not like I was having to explain and set up something that was unfamiliar. Mr.  But in terms of the extras that we used from that small town if anything I think we helped a lot of them you know. And I think to a large degree we helped them talk. And those people started chatting and talking about this whole situation of race. Ms.  Yeah as we traveled...  Can I just ask Kenneth a question if you do not mind? Kenneth you grew up in Soweto is that correct? Mr.  Yes I did.  Could you imagine as a very young man born in the early '70s that you would be engaged in these kinds of conversations and particularly in making a film about these kinds of issues? Mr.  Well back then my mother would have killed me if I would actually even said anything about stuff like that. So I did not even imagine that. That is why it is such a great opportunity and a great honor to have worked with Rapulana and Jann you know and taking this chain of telling stories -and stories that we love telling. And I think it is a truth for every South African - or everybody in the world - to make sure that we introduce ourselves to each other in a way that will make us want to build our country or our world and make it a better place. So me I am thinking White Wedding  Look at them meet them get to know them you might just like them.  Jann Kenneth thanks so much for coming in to talk to us. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Oh thank you very much. This was quite sweet.   That was director Jann Turner and actor Kenneth Nkosi of the film White Wedding. It opens in theaters in Los Angeles and New York on September 3rd. 