 How does a kid end up dead over a pair of sneakers? It is the kind of footnote you hear to a local crime story and it always felt dismissive and unfair to Justin Tipping. He is a bit of a sneakerhead and he knows from experience how it can happen.  Sneaker culture in general - I think specifically Air Jordans - they have an emotional weight to them. It is the social signifier of status and respect because Jordans are like the nexus of hip-hop and fashion. And the sneaker culture - a lot of kids and adults see it as a piece of art.  So when he got to direct his first movie he decided to tell the story of a 15-year-old boy named Brandon who takes a brutal beating over a pair of vintage Air Jordans. Humiliated Brandon vows to get his shoes back at any cost. Justin Tipping was born and raised in Oakland where part of the movie is set. And that is not the only thing he has in common with the film's hero. As a kid he was jumped over a pair of designer Nikes.  They were the first release of the Prestos. And it was the first time you can kind of custom ID them on like the website.  And these are like a low-top shoe kind of jazzy striping on the side.  Yeah and I had made them white on white on white on white so they could be as pristine as possible. And I had my initials engraved on them - JTIP.  You were a target basically .  Yes.  New shoes name engraved.  Right.  And then what happens?  You know I started approaching a group of kids. There was about 10 of them. And the first thing I hear is he is got the Prestos. And it was that moment I knew it was all going to fall apart for me. Up until that point I would probably avoided violence or found a way to avoid violence but in certain situations it is just going to find you. And you just get hit. You fall. You are just kind of covering yourself and slowly you just kind of give up. And yeah that is what it is like to get jumped.  And when it is over the feeling I got watching the film was just an overwhelming sense of humiliation.  Yes. You know I remember walking around school and kids would go out of their way to stop me and tell me wow you got messed up and make fun of me and laugh at me. And then specifically I remember a moment where my brother looked at me - one of my older brothers - I had black eyes and a busted lip. And he said trying to console me it is OK you are a man now.  Right. The idea is like you survive this right? He is comforting you.  Right.  You are OK.  It was a rite of passage...  Yeah.  ...In society's eyes. And for me in retrospect I completely disagreed with that idea that violence is somehow synonymous with what it means to be a man and how we define masculinity.  It sounds like you have been thinking a lot about like manhood - right? - and this idea that you can be like shamed into taking certain action or not taking action. And like has it made you look back at your childhood or high school or you know just kind of the codes you learned growing up and question them?  Yeah definitely. You know I was not the kid that was going to go after the kids that beat me up but I definitely - made me look back and say oh that was weird. I was only allowed to feel anger. Or oh that was weird. I was not allowed to be sensitive. Like if I cried then I would get made fun of. And you know the question is how do you end that cycle?  How did you think about ways to tell the story that would avoid cliches - right? - of just kind of like mindlessly-evil villainous gangbangers - right? - like no internal life literally baring their fangs.  I mean it would be easy to just - here's a thug. This is the villain and that is it. Here's one to mention. But I always think about the time getting kicked and stomped and thinking about well what drove those kids to the point of kicking me right? And you know the way Flacco is raising a son as well.  Right Flacco is the villain the kind of ringleader of the assault.  Right. And for me you know it is like these kids have choices to make. And it starts with the youngest kid and he could become Brandon. Brandon could - Brandon essentially becomes the guy he hates. Hopefully he realizes that.  Right he is in danger of becoming the bully with a gun.  And the bully could be - end up becoming Brandon's uncle. This false sage who says you know this is a dog-eat-dog world. Or he can realize the madness in his life. And all of these characters can at the end hopefully find a way to have a slight shift in their moral barometer in life and walk a better path hopefully.  In the end did this world feel bleak to you? And I ask because you know you grew up in East Bay . And like do you feel like it lands in a hopeful place?  I think it lands in a bittersweet place. Well I never wanted it to feel bleak throughout. I always wanted there to be some levity. And I think that even if you grew up there you are still a kid. And you crack jokes and you still see beauty in the world. There is just these you know events that take place that are scary but it does not always have to take away from your teenageism  which is just having fun with friends. It was just important for me to you know remind the audience and the viewers that this does happen every day and we need to continue the conversation.  Well Justin Tipping this is obviously a personal project and thank you very much for sharing you know telling us more about it.  Thank you for having me. 