 The new movie Lady Macbeth does not deal with royalty or take place in medieval Scotland. It is not even based on Shakespeare. But our critic Bob Mondello says the leading lady still lives up to the title.  We first spy Katherine at her wedding as she is looking around during a hymn. The only female voice she hears is her own. It is 1865 rural England and this teen bride does not know the wedding guests or her husband. But she is a forthright gal. When he comes to her bedroom on their wedding night she makes a stab at getting acquainted.    I like the fresh air. I like being outside.   Take it off. Your night dress - take it off.  He is settled into a chair on the other side of the room.    Face the wall. Face the wall.  Katherine may be an innocent but this is not the way she thinks her wedding night with an older husband should go. She is done nothing to upset him. So what has?    My father...  Ah his father.    ...Bought you along with a piece of land not fit for a cow to graze upon.  They are not going to get on but she said she likes the outdoors. There is still the estate.    You will remain here indoors with your prayer book.  Now this is dangerous. Close off enough options and even the most pliant person will rebel. And Katherine is not pliant. Played by a then-19-year-old Florence Pugh she seethes. She drinks and when her husband leaves her unattended embarks on an affair with a handsome stable hand. He seduces her not realizing how fiercely her freshly awakened passion will attach to him.    You know I shall not be parted from your life Sebastian. Through hell and high water I will follow you to the cross to the...   ...Prison to the grave to the sky.   I would rather stop your breathing than have you doubt how I feel.  His brow furrows as that remark sinks in. Pugh is mesmerizing. Her Katherine is uninhibited went out-of-doors as the rushing wind. Indoors though her life is a prison. The air feels close and everything registers as loud - the tightening of a corset the scrape of a chair the clatter of cutlery and crockery. The house is full of sound and then after a bit full of sound and fury.    Sit back down.   No.   Sit down.  Theater director William Oldroyd is working here from a script based loosely on the Russian novel Lady Macbeth Of Mtsensk. That 19th century book has already been adapted a few times most famously in 1934 as a Russian opera one that so outraged Stalin it nearly got composer Dmitri Shostakovich sent to Siberia. This new version transposed to Victorian England makes some intriguing alterations to explore not just the strictures 19th century society placed on women but also issues of class and race. Katherine's lover and her maid are black which goes entirely unremarked but affects how things play out when the hurly-burly's done as it were. This young wife may be abused but she is still privileged. And as Katherine unnervingly still and chilly sits at the center of rooms so sparsely furnished they seem entirely devoid of comfort you understand how a woman so aggrieved could become a Lady Macbeth the milk of human kindness no longer flowing in her veins. I am Bob Mondello.  