 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Here's some news about multitasking. A majority of TV viewers at least sometimes watch the tube and surf the Web at the same time. And so as NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports the people who make what you watch and what you surf are competing for your eyeballs.  New research shows that over half of TV viewers go online while they are watching TV. That is probably not so surprising at a time when multitasking is a given but it is a challenge for the folks who want your attention. Mike Vorhaus is president of Magid Advisors that did the study. Mr.  People are going back and forth between their email and the TV show. So for the TV advertiser for the TV programmer it is all about getting the attention of the consumer back.  Especially young consumers. So a network like MTV had to figure this one out.   Hit up dancecrew.mtv.com for all the info on auditions. And  In addition to calling out to viewers to go to their Web site MTV uses the lower and upper parts of the screen constantly inviting viewers to go to mtv.com. Stephen Friedman is MTV's general manager. Mr.  I do not think there is a show we do where we are not having our audience go to mtv.com to interact in some kind of way - because we know they are going to do it anyway.   And for the first time you can upload a one-minute video of your crew to the Web site.  Friedman says sometimes viewers who are also online can be the network's biggest boosters without MTV having to do anything. Mr.  During our movie awards we had a situation that got a lot of attention - where Sacha Baron Cohen in his persona as Bruno dropped into Eminem the rap singer's lap.  That is a polite way of putting it.  Mr.   Eminem nice to meet you sir. Mr.  Suddenly the Twitter world and Facebook and the blogs were going crazy about what had just happened on MTV. And we could see through the Nielsen ratings a massive spike. Mr.  Everyone I know is multitasking all the time. I am multitasking even as we speak.  That is Chuck Porter of Crispin Porter  Bogusky an ad agency known for luring people online. He says he is seen TV and online producers try really hard to distract one from the other. Mr.  You can have flashing sort of little billboards that come on your online or you can scream on a TV commercial and people might fall for it once but they never fall for it again.  Instead of a shouting match smart marketers says Porter need to engage with the audience. To do that his agency uses humor and provocation to get people's attention. One of their campaigns for Burger King is like a faux documentary called Whopper Virgins. People in remote parts of far-off countries taste hamburgers for the first time.   Most of them like the Whopper too.  How is that compared to seal?    But you cannot win them all.  Some people were offended by the ad and that generated buzz and so people went online to find out more. Chuck Porter says watching TV while surfing online is just one of several reasons it is easier than ever to ignore advertising. All viewers have to do is shift their eyes to engage somewhere else. A few years ago Crispin Porter  Bogusky did extensive marketing research with the 12- to 15-year-old age group. Mr.  And what we have learned is they get bored instantly. They get bored even quicker than we thought they got bored. So certainly with this audience -and I believe with all audiences - they get it you know. They see a spot and they say okay I have seen that. They want something new.  And more and more they are finding it online. In their research Magid Associates also found that a third of consumers say short videos online are just as or more entertaining as TV. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 