 This is a big week for Alexi Pappas. Tracktown a film that she co-wrote co-directed and starred in is premiering at the LA Film Festival.  I may have accidentally slept through the opening night red carpet last night...  Really?  I did. But...  But she is got good excuse - her other job. Alexi Pappas is one of the world's fastest runners. She will compete for Greece at the Summer Olympics. She is Greek-American and Pappas tells me most of the time this creative balance works.  I think it actually enhances the running because it forces me to really be present when I am at practice and take advantage of that time. And then when I come home there is a really great balance of needing to end practice every day and having something to go to that keeps me healthy. Like I do not want to get injured because I want to edit the film. But certainly you know my time goes to the running first because of this Olympic you know journey ahead.  This is actually a good segue to the film in which you play Plumb a runner who has some things in common with you. Let us listen to a clip from Tracktown.    I cannot hang out today.   What? Just skip your nap and skip stretching and come on. You will recover fine. I do not understand.   I do not skip things. You would not just leave your job at the bakery if someone wanted you to hang out would you?   No. But I also at a certain time during the day stop working. I stop working.   Running does not work that way.   OK.  Of course Plumb is not you. But there are definite similarities between the two. How much of this film would you say is autobiographical?  I would say that the film is based on my experiences and observations as an elite runner chasing the Olympic dream but it is more like a patchwork quilt of these experiences and observations. So Plumb could exist but she is not me or anyone in particular that I know.  I noticed that you framed a lot of characters as just a mouth in a scene or just legs or you would just see them as isolated body parts. And I wondered if that is because you feel that way sometimes.  Definitely. I think you know the perspective of running a race is so odd because you are on a track with thousands of people at its best in the stands and you are running you know fast and hard. And the things that you see are very limited and I think we wanted to show the perspective of what it might feel like to run a race and also what Plumb is going through. So before the race she notices the bodies around her. And there is an element of you know the female athletic body being this really different creature and one that I certainly personally did not ever think I would necessarily become when I was a young girl but also the grappling of her growing up and trying to be a normal girl when she has this very strong body.  Do you hear that a lot from young female runners? You have become such a role model for young women in the running community and also beyond the running community. Do they come to you with those kinds of what do I do - my biceps are bigger than my boyfriend's?  Yeah. You know I have had great interactions with young runners and teammates of mine and I think there are two things about it. One that it is important to talk about and say hey this is silly and that is awesome. And you are beautiful and not in a way that is coming from a place of self-consciousness but rather giving a gift of confidence to a teammate. And I think I certainly have gotten that from role models of mine who wear their bodies so beautifully and so proudly. And the fact I can you know - social media and things like that - show younger girls that I am proud of my body or I am eating this steak rather than sending out like you know - just ran 20 miles. It is like that is not going to help anybody. But to show that I am happy with what I have become and proud of who I am I think is you know contagious in a good way. I hope.  Can I ask you about the mother character in the film?  Totally.  She is played by Rachel Dratch. Let us listen to a little clip here.    I do want to be a mom to you OK? I am just a late bloomer.   I do not need a mom. That is what I came here to tell you.   But it makes me happy to come visit you.   Dad and I figured it out so you do not have to worry about it anymore you know?   That makes me sad.   No it should make you happy. You can still be in my life but you just cannot be my mom. And you have to be something else.  Your character's mother played by Rachel Dratch has mental health problems has been out of Plumb's life for a long time is trying to come back in. If you do not mind talking about it I understand your own mother took her life when you were 4-years old. Is that right?  Yes.  And I wonder how it felt playing the role of Plumb expressing the anger that Plumb feels at her mother for having been absent when of course your own mother has not been around since you were very young.  Yeah. So you know Plumb is definitely fictional but based on my experiences - and I think she is her most Plumb-self having a single dad. And I think the relationship between Plumb and Gail her mom is interesting to me because for someone to try to become you know their greatest woman-self - like I am trying to become and like Plumb is trying to become - becomes a challenge if there is not somebody to emulate. And I think Plumb does not necessarily have the exact person to latch onto and try to become.  I almost got the sense when Plumb says the line I do not need a mom that - well actually she does need a mom and she did need a mom. But having a mom is not an available option so she is going to live in the world where she does not need one.  Yeah. And that is - it is almost like an athletic instinct there where hey like you prepare as best you can for a race. You control what you can control. You eat the proper prerace meal. You get your sleep if you can. You have done all the miles. But when you tow the line like unexpected things are going to happen. And so let us say you know you are in a race and you are - the kick you want is not there. Well then you attack another aspect of the race or you kick earlier if you do not quite have the speed to close. And perhaps with her mom it is similar in that if she is not there then Plumb is going to push on like she is - she has a strength in her that I hope people see.  Alexi Pappas it is been a pleasure talking with you. Thank you for joining us.  Thank you so much.   Alexi Pappas co-wrote and co-directed the film Tracktown with her boyfriend Jeremy Teicher and she will run the 10000 meters for Greece at this Summer's Olympics. 