 When Stephanie Feldman was in college she read a novel based on the classic story. The one where a man makes a bargain with the devil trading his soul for longevity forced after that to wander the earth. Well that story stuck with her and she started noticing that immortal travelers popped up in other places including in a Christian legend known as the wandering Jew. She wanted to tell her own version of it. So she spent years weaving that story together with her own fiction. The result is a debut novel that our reviewer Ellah Allfrey says sparkles.  The heroine of Stephanie Feldman's debut The Angel Of Losses is Marjorie. She is a PhD student living and studying in New York. She spends her days in the library researching. She spends the evenings honing her thesis on the origins of that legend of the wandering Jew. She is a woman with a weakness for stories and when we meet her she seems in danger of walling herself into the ivory tower. Then she discovers a notebook belonging to her late grandfather Eli. In its pages he has written the legend of the the White Rebbe a powerful miracle performing Rabbi who is said to be an immortal cursed to wander the earth until the coming of the Messiah. And this is where we discover the treasures in Feldman's the novel. Her prose is beautifully crafted throughout but in the sections about the White Rebee it takes on the cadences of a biblical tale and offers up some of the books most memorable writing.   I was born to put the beauty on the world onto paper the young Rebbe says to his father I was born to be ascribed.  The notebook and its story is the inheritance that Marjorie has longed for. And she becomes convinced that the stories of the Rebbe will help her understand the past that haunted her grandfather in his last days. Then covering up a family secret could have made for a standard New York domestic drama and probably quite a good one. But Feldman is an ambitious writer who conjures instead a deeply moving modern-day fable that transcends the boundaries of its location and time. It is a story that is at once thriller and mystery. And a nuanced exploration of the inheritance of loss and the guilt of survival as it is passed down through generations.  The book is The Angel Of Losses by Stephanie Feldman. Our review is critic and editor Ellah Allfrey. 