 Scientists say they have found the closest place outside of our solar system that could conceivably support life. It is a planet that orbits the star nearest to our sun. There is a chance it might have cozy temperatures and even water. NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports on what we know about this nearby alien world.  The closest star to our solar system is a red dwarf called Proxima Centauri. It is so faint you cannot see it with the naked eye but it is only about four light years away. That is 25 trillion miles. Still it is our next-door neighbor and now researchers say this star has a very interesting planet.  We are talking about a planet that has very similar properties to Earth.  That is Guillem Anglada Escude who spoke to me by Skype. He is an astronomer at Queen Mary University of London. He says if you could stand on this planet's surface the sky would look alien.  It would be kind of like a late autumn sunset coloring. Everything would be orangeish  - not red just orangeish.  The planet is a bit more massive than Earth and probably rocky. It orbits its dim star once every 11 days. It is possible that the temperatures on this planet could be mild enough for any water to be liquid. Anglada Escude led the team that detected the planet by watching how its gravity made its star wobble. The researchers describe their work in the journal Nature. He says there is a lot of excitement about a potentially habitable planet that is so close.  There is a sense of proximity of finding something just out of reach that it is tantalizing to people.  Scientists now know that planets around other stars are common. They have already discovered a bunch of other possibly habitable worlds. But the nearness of this one will make it easier to do follow-up studies and maybe even get a picture of the planet to see if it has an atmosphere or signs of life. Edward Guinan is an astronomer at Villanova University. I spoke to him over Skype. He says when he first learned of this new planet a couple of months ago he doubted it could be the kind of place life could call home because it is so close to its red dwarf star and all the nasty stuff the star spews out like X-ray radiation.  I was dubious that it could work out to be habitable.  But then Guinan and some colleagues analyzed the possibilities and got a pleasant surprise.  There is a pathway for this planet to retain its water and to have even oceans.  It is no sure thing. It really depends on the history of this planet and its host star. He puts the chances that it could be capable of supporting life at maybe 25 percent. And even then that does not necessarily mean it would be inhabited. Still he says...  To have the nearest star with a possibly habitable Earth-size planet is terrific. It is wonderful. I am just really excited.  He thinks a future trip to go visit is not out of the question. Even with today's technology he says a probe could get there in about half a century. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 