 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. The fall TV season has barely started but one show is already being hammered by the critics. The sitcom Dads debuts tonight on Fox. It is about two men who own a video game company and their cranky fathers. Now the argument against the show is that it is full of racist jokes about Asians and Latinos with an occasional sexist put down. NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports the creators of Dads do not deny they are pushing the envelope and insist being called offensive is not always a bad thing.  Fox is promoting Dads by embracing the haters.   Critics may say offensive. Fans say...  I do not see how you could be offended by this. You just laugh.  Critics may say reprehensible.  Reprehensible? This is Fox baby.  It was great.  In tonight's episode the two main characters - played by Seth Green and Giovanni Ribisi - ask their Asian-American assistant to help them woo Chinese investors.    Well you are lucky your dads are American. My dad beat me with a math book 'til I was 16.   Well see there you go. That is exactly why we need your help on Friday when we pitch to the Chinese investors.   Why because of my intimate knowledge of Chinese culture?   No because you are going to dress up like a sexy Asian schoolgirl.   I cannot do that.   Oh you can. Sure you can. Here practice with me.  Former Disney channel actress Brenda Song who plays the role is forced to wear a costume and giggle coyly into her hands.    Well hello kitty.  After the catcalls one of the dads played by Martin Mull pulls out another stereotype about the Chinese being suspicious.    There is a reason Shanghai is a verb.  Wellesley Wild and Alec Sulkin created the show based on their lives with their fathers. They have written for The Simpsons Family Guy and the movie Ted and they say this show has a similar brand of humor.  It is not as if we set out to offend people. I mean I think we just were writing stuff that we thought was funny.  It was not funny for the Media Action Network for Asian Americans.  This crosses the line.  Guy Aoki is the founding president.  I mean you know we have a sense of humor. We are not saying we do not ever want to be included in the joke. We like being included in the joke. But we do not like just being the target of the joke over and over again.  Aoki asked the Dads producers to reshoot some of the most offensive scenes. That did not happen. But it is possible to make jokes about Asian-Americans says cartoonist Lela Lee. She says you call out the stereotypes not perpetuate them.  You have got to carefully craft it like who says it like how do you say it and who are they saying it to. Those are really important because if the joke is put upon the Asian character it is just not going to work. People are not going to take that. And then you are going to get backlash and I think that is what happened with Dads.  The show is executive producer Mike Scully says there was a similar outcry about The Simpsons which has had a 26-year run.  It never fails. We would get a letter at Simpsons you know for the last nine years my family and I have enjoyed your program until last night.   And maybe last night we happened to make a joke about their religion or something you know near and dear to them or gun rights or whatever it was. And that would set off whatever watchdog group handles that issue.  Scully admits animated shows may be able to get away with a bit more than live action programs. He compares Dads to a classic show with a racist character All in the Family. Here's a scene where Archie Bunker is upset that African-Americans are moving into his neighborhood.  CARROLL O'  It as not their problem. It is our problem. These people are stepping up in life and we are moving down. How much do you think our property's going to be worth with them living two doors away?   Probably more than it was worth before. They fund sociological studies and they have shown that the social economic class of the first black people moving into a white neighborhood is usually higher than that of the original inhabitants. Therefore the land values go up.  Archie Bunker's son-in-law and daughter were always around to correct his racism something that did not happen in the Dads first episode critics say. But Scully says times are different than in the All in the Family days. He defends Dads by saying there is so much racy humor on cable TV.  So you know we have to try to be edgy in our own way if we are going to compete at all with those kinds of shows. Everyone is so you know PC now and the word inappropriate just sickens me. I think if you are not offending somebody somewhere then your show is probably just very bland and boring. We are just trying to really make people laugh. I mean just watch the damn show.   Creators Sulkin and Wild say there are so many jokes they throw away in the writing room jokes that do cross the line. And they say the criticism has made them reflect on the type of humor that will be in Dads from now on. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 