 The new novel Savage Tongues is about a very young woman a man more than twice her age the summer they spent together in an apartment in Marbella Spain and how what passed between them that summer scarred the woman haunted her through her life. As the novel opens she is in her late 30s. She has returned to Marbella for the first time since that terrible summer. And if you want to start reading there...  Perfect.  The apartment had been waiting for two decades neglected and yet more or less intact. As I stood in the entryway I realized that the apartment was a map of my wound. The apartment I thought looking around in disbelief with its emptiness its dirt its false appearance as a home - this apartment where I had arranged my body exposed it to Omar's terrible desire to drink from my mouth to stroke my limbs.  That is the author reading from Savage Tongues - Azareen Van der Vliet Oloomi. Thank you for that. And I want to flag for listeners this interview will discuss sexual assault. And I also want to say welcome.  Thank you for hosting me.  Let us start with this choice that your protagonist makes because it is interesting - the decision to revisit the scene of the trauma that she suffered as a 17-year-old 20 years later. What interested you about returning to rather than running from the place that torments her?  She returns with her best friend Ellie. And in the process of this what they call a recovery journey they are really trying to disentangle the various traumas that they have experienced both sexual trauma as well as political trauma and how the two might be playing off one another.  Just to spell out Arezu is Iranian American and Ellie the best friend is Jewish right?  That is right. It is also you know a visceral evocative way to really lean into one's trauma to return and have an embodied experience of how that space may have imprinted itself upon her consciousness.  Yeah. And stay with the space because most of the novel unfolds in this apartment and inside Arezu your protagonist's mind. It is a really interesting way of setting it up because the apartment is filthy. It is dark. It is dank. And what happened to her there is dark and awful. And I wonder were you playing with that deliberately that the space and what was going on in her mind are - I do not know - reinforcing each other?  Yeah absolutely. I think part of the exploration of the trauma comes to life when she actually reenters the apartment which she has not been in for 20 years. And when she first was there as a 17-year-old she ended up being there alone in her father's summer home and he never showed up. And I think it is also kind of symbolic of the way that sexual trauma happens without the presence of direct witnesses in these enclosed private spaces that then complicate all of the dynamics of being believed of being able to explore the aftermath of the violence. And it was a really - just as a writer a really evocative way for me to capture what is going on inside of her mind.  Yeah. It also interested me - you do not describe in great detail the horrors of that summer. I mean we understand that she was raped. We understand that it was a complicated relationship. But it felt like you were less interested in the details of what had happened than the reckoning and the years and years and years that follow of reckoning with that one summer.  I did not want to sensationalize the violence that happens between them. And you know it is not so much the act of the rape itself as it is the aftermath of the way that that trauma will never really leave her consciousness will never leave her body. It is not something that she can work through. It is something that will shift with her as she gets older. At every stage of her femininity and her womanhood she is having to contend with what happened in a new way. And it is about that amoeba-like nature of memory and trauma and the way that it is always changing and evolving through our lives. And I think that is the true horror of sexual abuse. And it is the piece of it that we do not talk about as often - is the longevity.  Yeah. Yeah it struck me in a couple of different ways. I will say I got frustrated with your protagonist. Without minimizing in any way the trauma of rape and how long it can stay with you there are points where she seems almost stubbornly determined not to heal and not to try to build a better life going forward. Does that - when I say that does that sound fair to you or does that make you bristle?  It does not make me bristle but I am not sure I see it that way because to me this is as much a novel about a love story between two incredible friends. And it is about how women kind of hold space for one another in private ways and private settings and how much more expansive that conversation is than the public discourse allows for.  Yeah.  So I think it is really - they are the real love story in the book.  Yeah. And I - and it is a beautiful love story the female friendship between Arezu and her best friend Ellie. And I thought that was a really interesting choice you made that yes Arezu is not returning alone but it is with her best friend not her husband. She has a happy marriage but that is not who she needs to go confront these demons with. Why did you write it that way?  You know in the process of writing the book and talking about the book early on it became really apparent to me that when you know women whether in real life or in literature are exploring the very conflicted emotions that they might have around a nonconsensual experience there is a kind of pressure to discuss just the ways in which one might feel victimized. And I think that you know I quickly realized that that is actually part of the parameters of the social moment that we have always been in that we are now and that how different the conversation felt when as a writer and as a woman I was talking about the book with female friends or queer friends who are writers and how we could just go there and they do not flinch.  Without giving away everything that happens here I think it is fair to say that there is a reckoning that there is movement here on the part of Arezu that she went back to confront her demons. And she does. I wonder where you were as you were writing that. It is this idea obviously that trauma is going to inform your life for forever but she also is finding a way - I do not know - to reframe it to think about it to feel supported in confronting it. But where would you say you kind of were trying to land this?  Yeah. You know I think our sense of reality is dictated by what we are trying to avoid. And I really wanted to discover something I did not know something that I was afraid of facing. And I wanted to usher certain uncomfortable truths into the light. And that is why I wrote Savage Tongues.  That is the author of Savage Tongues Azareen Van der Vliet Oloomi speaking to us about her new book. Thank you so much.  Thank you. It was such a pleasure to speak with you.  