 So how is that summertime reading working for you? Well it might be a little challenging if you have got kids around. But hey you can toss them a book too. And if it is a funny one they might even enjoy it. Joining us with summer reading recommendations is Jon Scieszka. He is the award-winning kid's author and editor of the Guys Read book collections. Welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Wow thanks Audie. I like that intro.  Oh very nice. Well I really sold it now.  Yeah hard. I want to listen. Oh wait. I am talking about it.  Yeah no. That is good. So there is something in the premise of that intro which is that like maybe kids do not want to read. Do you still feel that way?  Yeah you know what? There is that classic thing of so much competing for their interests.  Right.  But that is why I love funny books. It is all about - just like instead of telling kids like hey reading is magic. Reading is wonderful.  That does not work anymore?  No that never worked. In fact that makes them suspicious - rightly so.  Right . Magic - come on.  It is like oh wait. This is good for me.  Yeah exactly.  And I do not believe in that. But when you say something like hey how about a book like Vegetables In Underwear they will go like what. What did you just say?  Which is the actual title of an actual book you are suggesting to us.  Yeah .  I am so excited. Tell me.  The best thing about it is it is just Vegetables In Underwear. And it is pictures of vegetables in different underwear.  How does that even work - like a carrot?  They are kind of beautifully done by this guy I know Jared Chapman who is the illustrator. And he just figured out how to put underwear - like little tighty-whities on broccoli...   ...Which is so good. Or the potato has underwear that does not quite fit which Jared says is kind of autobiographical. But my favorite is on the actual hardcover the case. The little pea is just running around throwing his underwear over his head. He is not even wearing it.  Now my understanding of babies is that they kind of crack themselves up. But is there like - how soon can we start tickling a baby's funny bone?  Oh at birth.  Really? It was not that funny at the time Jon Scieszka.  Oh yeah. Maybe that is a guy saying that.  A little later.  A little later - good call. Actually that is an excellent tip. Wait a little bit. But man I do not know. I have got a granddaughter who is like 9 months old or so now. And she is out there. She just finds stuff really funny.  I want to move on to early readers. You have brought us two titles. One I am going to have a tough time pronouncing. So I do not know how a little kid is going to do it - Dory Phantasmagory.  Yes.  And another one called 52-Story Treehouse.  Yeah. The great thing about both of those is they are both series which I also love to connect kids to because once they get started with something they like you just give them more of the same.  So they are bingeing basically - is what you are telling me.  And I have had kids come back and ask like do you have another book just like that but not exactly. And Dory Phantasmagory is this great little - it is a story of this kindergarten girl with imaginary friends. And she is just the funniest little character. And she is just all crabby - even about learning to read. One of my favorites is she gets a new book. And it is just like a farm animal book. The cows love to eat grass. They are happy. And here she is sounding it out. The cow love-ee  to ee-at  at ga-ga-something  garbage? Hai-pee  what the heck is hai-pee?  And it is just like this great representation of what kids do when they are trying to read. It is impossible. But it is really fun. And I have had a bunch of like first graders just take off with that - same with the Treehouse book. Little second and third graders come up to me and just say oh man you got to see all the stuff in the treehouse. It is these two guys with the most amazing treehouse in the world. And they just keep adding stuff to it. And now they are up to like - they have gone through all the different stories. They keep adding 13 more. So we have done 13 26 39 52 65 78. And now we are at 91 - The 91-Story Treehouse.  Nice there is going to be some parents out there who thank you for handing them this series.  Yes keep this. And it is a big thick book too so kids just feel so good about having read it. Like they say I just read a 200 - no - a 350-page book.  Well that is legit impressive frankly.  Heck yeah. I am impressed.  Now you also have a collection called  Funniest. Stories. Ever. And that is a compilation. Lay it out for us. What age group is this for?  That is probably older. I would say like third fourth fifth grade sixth grade on up. And it was put together by one of the most spectacular children's book people Betsy Bird who used to be the children's collection librarian here in New York Public Library. She is now in Chicago. But she just knows tons of artists and writers and illustrators. She just realized - like kind of trying to confront that old saw that like you know women are not that funny. She said oh yeah they are. I got some.  Oh god does it start that early?  Yeah it kind of does.  I thought I was pretty funny back then .  I know. And Betsy is hysterical herself. So she collected all her - like her funny pals. I mean one of my favorites in here is a graphic novel piece by Lisa Brown who is done some beautiful picture books too. And it is just like seven things that I thought were funny. But most of them happened to her brother like the time he got the Tic Tac stuck up his nose.  Is this a younger brother because that feels like it - of course.  Absolutely.  Of course.  He had to go to the doctor.   Well this is a great start. Jon Scieszka thank you so much.  Oh my pleasure.  John Scieszka is author of among others the Frank Einstein series and the classic The Stinky Cheese Man And Other Fairly Stupid Tales. 