 Recently Arun spoke to another doctor who left the hospital for a new career. Instead of saving lives in the operating room former surgeon Judy Melinek decided to investigate death in the morgue. She spoke to Arun about her new book Working Stiff - Two Years 262 Bodies and the Making of a Medical Examiner DR.  Well I first trained as a surgeon. So I was going to be a general surgeon and that involves quite a bit of trauma. But it is very different when you are working at a medical examiner's office because you get to see the cases that even the surgeons do not get to see. In fact I once went to a conference where a forensic pathologist was speaking. And the pathologist put up photos of injuries that I had gotten used to seeing - gunshot wounds and really damaged bodies. And I saw the clinicians wincing. And I thought - what is wrong with these guys? Why are they so insensitive? And then it hit me - they never get to see this stuff. This comes straight to the coroner's office.  And how do you make the transition from being - obviously you know how to dissect the human body but adding in that extra level of being a sleuth a detective in that way? How do you learn that?  That is what you learn on the job. So the reason I wrote the book is because if you watch the nightly shows - CSI Bones all the forensic dramas - they tend to give the impression that the forensic pathologist is all-knowing and springs from the womb knowing everything. And the reality is that there is a training process and it is a gradual training process. It is on the job. And we make mistakes and not all crimes are solved and not all deaths are crimes. In fact most deaths are naturals or accidents. So it is a training process and the book focuses on the training.  Now you write in the book you are not a ghoulish person but at the same time you talk about being basically fascinated and entranced with death in a way which is kind of the definition of ghoulish. How do you - how do you reconcile that?  I cannot say that I am - I would not agree with you in terms of saying I am entranced with death. I am fascinated by the human body. I think the human body is an amazing structure. It is incredible to look at how well it works and how it fails as well and to learn from that. To me that is life-affirming because when you can look at the body and after the person is already dead and they are no longer suffering you can take lessons from that body that then have relevance to the living - to the family members of the person who died and also to the public at large in terms of what hazards are out there. That is why coroners and medical examiner records are public records. Because when people die suddenly and unexpectedly there is a civic need to know. It is a public health hazard.  Are there some cases that even with a professional detachment with depersonalizing and so on that still kind of haunt you?  There are cases that really get to you personally. I mean as a - I am a physician but I am also a mommy. I have three kids so when a child dies and especially when a child dies from inflicted injury from abuse that is very hard emotionally because you know by looking at their injuries what that child had to suffer through. That said it is important we objectively document everything and that we are rigorous in documenting it because when and if that case goes to litigation whether it is criminal or civil litigation we need to be able to testify objectively to those findings.  After living in this world you are - you talk about your attitude your feelings and fears about death about dying. You know you might expect that seeing all of these deaths you might be thinking all the different - all the million ways that could kill you - because you know better than anybody the million things that can kill you.  But it is the opposite.  Right.  It is the opposite. Yeah. So basically the more you know about death - actually it demystifies it. I just realized staying alive is mostly common sense. If you are smoking - stop. If you have not started - do not start. Stay healthy. You know get exercise. That yellow line on the subway that is there for a reason. Stay away from that. Look both ways before you cross the street. The majority of deaths I saw were mundane. And just by standard health and safety behaviors we can avoid them.  I am curious because you said that you set out originally - you were going to be a surgeon. How is your sense of yourself professionally different now that you have had this career now as a death investigator?  I am thrilled about it. I think it is the most exciting job in the world. I look forward to it every day. It is really exciting to be able to work with great folks and figure things out. And then later on in the afternoon - before I came here I was on the phone with the family and I gave them answers. And that just gives me so much hope and so much satisfaction that I can help people find the closure that I can help people understand what happened. They are my patients. The family members of the deceased - they have a right to know what happened.  Dr. Judy Melinek is a medical examiner. Her book about her experiences is Working Stiff. Thank you so much.  Thank you. 