 In 2011 four men from Newburgh New York charged with plotting terrorist acts were convicted in federal court and sentenced to prison.   Investigators say the four Muslim men met in prison and hatched the terrorist plot at a local mosque.  These guys were homegrown Americans living among us and this is just one cell of many. The FBI's worried about all sort of things.  This is truly a textbook example of how a major investigation should be conducted.  That is from a new HBO documentary that airs Monday called The Newburgh Sting. It argues that all this was a case of entrapment that the ringleader an African-American convert to Islam named James Cromitie was lured into it all by an FBI informant named Shahed Hussein a Pakistani who dangled promises of money and took him for rides in his luxury car.   Put your seatbelt on.  You are talking about this? .  So we have the money here.  Yes.  The entrapment argument failed at trial and later on appeal. But using the FBI surveillance film that was collected by the informant the HBO film insists that this was no case of counterterrorism. It was a manufactured plot. And we should add that despite what the news report said earlier no one really maintains to this day that the four men were a true terror cell. Joining us are the filmmakers who made this documentary Kate Davis and David Heilbroner. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Thanks for having us.  James Cromitie encouraged inspired enabled by an FBI informant recruits three other men and they proceed in this story with a plot thinking it is real to plant what they think are bombs at two synagogues and to attempt to fire what they think is a Stinger missile at a U.S. Air Force plane. Now I understand the argument that this would not have happened but for the informant but is not it equally true that this would not have happened if any of them especially Cromitie had said this is crazy it is illegal we are going to be treated as terrorists I am out of here.  There is no doubt that these four guys are not good citizens. It is also true that they are impoverished men in a destitute desperate community who were lured and cajoled into committing a crime that they never contemplated doing on their own. But you know what makes this entire investigation so unsettling is that the FBI then turns around and says to the media and to Congress that they have indeed busted a Muslim terrorist cell and prevented a terrible attack whereas in fact all they really did was find four guys who did not know each other and talked them into committing a crime.  The judge who sentenced the men at sentencing bought the argument that these were not political or religious marketers. But she did call them thugs for hire who were willing to kill and maim and destroy for money. These are quotes. How do you answer the argument that however they were caught for whatever we are better off with guys like that behind bars?  Well I do not think that is entirely accurate that they were ready to kill. Actually in the film we have footage of them insisting that they go at night where nobody would be in the synagogues. You know they were concerned that the planes might not be empty. And so it is also important to understand that these men had no criminal records of doing anything violent. They were dangled in front of them 250000 which as one of our FBI experts says is change-your-life money.  It is change-your-life money but the argument that the extreme poverty of Newburgh New York and of these guys is an excuse for going for the money I mean that would be a defense for a tremendous amount of crime.  Absolutely. And you know what you need to understand about this case is that the FBI did not come into the town of Newburgh and find four drug dealers and say let us do a drug deal. That would make sense. But what the FBI had did is instead send in an agent provocateur who talked these guys into doing a crime of the FBI's own choosing.  As I have been told the case law on entrapment at this point says that the government - for you to win a defense of entrapment you have to show that the government really has induced a crime almost to the point of coercing not just enticing a defendant who would otherwise be completely indisposed to commit the crime. I mean which would you say is the case that the standard for entrapment that the courts are using is too narrow these days or that even this case fails to meet the current legal standard for entrapment?  Well I think this was a case of entrapment. And it is not so much the legal standard as it is the nature of what happens in a courtroom. This case was tried in New York City just a short walk from the site of 911. They carry into the courthouse Stinger missiles which are terrifying to look at. And so as a jury you sit there and go it really looks like entrapment to me it feels like entrapment but I cannot imagine letting these guys out when you are looking at these dangerous bombs and the nature of the crime seems so awful.  What would you say to the argument that a case like this has some deterrent effect and the deterrent effect is if anybody ever shows up at your mosque talking about some crazy scheme odds are he is a federal informant and you are going to end up in prison for 25 years get out of the room?  I think that the stronger argument the message this kind of case really sends is that there is a stronger link between Islam and acts of domestic terrorism than in fact exists. So I think if you look at what message this case is really sending it is one of Islamophobia and of fear.  Although I did see a study cited in the Huffington Post piece about your film that of a few hundred terror prosecutions that were studied by I think Fordham Law School about 25 percent seem to be stings. And the others actually seem to be actual plots that were hatched. That does suggest that the number's being inflated by informants and sting operations but not that it is being created from scratch.  Well in the Newburgh case it was created from scratch.  Yeah.  When we started to make this film I scoured the tapes the transcripts for what I would hoped would be the aha moment of oh the FBI really was onto something. There really was a basis for a terrorist sting here. I never found it. The argument essentially is if the FBI comes to your town and you are willing to go along with whatever they say you know you should pay the price. I think that is fine. What is not fine is to have the FBI say to the media the day of the bust where a hundred cops are called in unnecessarily 'ecause there is no bomb there is no weapons...  'ecause they are fake bombs you are saying.  Well it is a fake bomb so why do you have you know a bomb squad? Why do you have an 18 wheeler blocking off the road? This is theater. If the FBI is going to do it then they should tell the public what happened.  I mean I think you point is good about there being real cases out there and true dangers lurking. But I think that is all the more reason to question why the government would systematically create cases such as the Newburgh case when there are much more serious people to attend to. And the Tsarnaev brothers were doing their plotting while this theatrical event was taking place.  Kate Davis and David Heilbroner thank you very much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Thank you very much Robert.  The filmmakers reached out to prosecutors and police involved in this case but none would go on the record. And we asked the FBI for comment on the film. So far the Bureau has not responded. The documentary The Newburgh Sting airs Monday on HBO. 