 The famous suffragette Susan B. Anthony once said the older I get the greater power I seem to have to help the world. That is why author Susan Jane Gilman picked up a new book called  In the Footsteps of Remarkable Women. She wanted to see what she could learn from a subsequent generation of activist women now in their 70s and 80s. What she read though was not what she expected. Ms.  When Alice Dieter was an Idaho housewife her local newspaper contained a women's page. All it had was Heloise's Household Hints. Furious Dieter made a list of 25 local women whose lives offered more than housework advice. Then she wrote a profile on one of them and marched it down to the editor's office. Thus began her long career in journalism. At age 52 Sister Madonna Buder decided to run the Boston Marathon to raise money for MS research. Since then she is participated in over 300 triathlons. When she was 75 the nun became the oldest woman to compete in the Hawaii Ironman breaking the record for her age group. As a Japanese-American Elaine Ishikawa Hayes was interned at a camp during World War II. Taking advantage of a program that allowed her to attend college in the Midwest she eventually landed a job with President Johnson's poverty program and went on to pioneer the first federally funded daycare centers in America. These women are just three of the 22 chronicled in  In the Footsteps of Remarkable Women. Co-authored by Janet Lieberman and Julie Hungar this book documents the lives of the ordinary extraordinary women of the silent generation. Now in their 70s and 80s these women grew up in the epicenter of the 20th century. Born just after women won the vote they came of age during the Great Depression and World War II then found themselves thrust into the sexual revolution women's liberation and the Civil Rights Movement. Having lived through arguably the greatest period of change for women in history these matriarchs should have a lot to say. The Wisdom Trail aims to give them a microphone. To my great sadness and frustration however it does not. When the book arrived I could not wait to read it yet I was hugely disappointed. This unsung generation has a motherload of experience. Each woman's story begs to be told in depth with the eye of a historian and the sensitivity of a novelist. Instead the authors serve up a hodgepodge of vacuous anecdotes that read like self-help parables. And instead of letting subjects really speak for themselves the authors summarize with insipid platitudes. Repeatedly  Perseverance was another vital characteristic of the Wisdom Trail women. They faced plenty of obstacles but they refused to accept discouragement. Yes there is some insight. Many found that low expectations placed on women actually benefited them. Without pressure to succeed they felt free to take risks and make their own way. And being financially dependent on husbands enabled them to find their calling regardless of how little it paid. Yet overall this book is long on generalities and short on real wisdom. And it is a crime because these remarkable women deserve better. I wanted so badly to love The Wisdom Trail. Instead I found myself feeling a little like Alice Dieter must have years ago back in Idaho like I was being served something half-baked for women that underestimates our intelligence.  Susan Jane Gilman's latest book is called Undress Me in the Temple of Heaven. She reviewed the book  In the Footsteps of Remarkable Women co-authored by Janet Lieberman and Julie Hungar. 