 This next story is the sort that inspires letter writing. First off  it contains a lot of offensive language. In fact it is about offensive language. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports on a word that was once a garden-variety insult and now it might be the next candidate for bleeping.  The word is retard and it is one E. Duff Wrobbel used to use occasionally. Then his daughter was born with Down Syndrome. She was a baby when he had her in a car seat and another car cut him off. Like anyone else Wrobbel started yelling. Professor E.  And I actually said that word and then I stopped my car and got teary. And I thought oh my gosh I cannot believe I just said that.  Wrobbel started a passionate anti-retard campaign. To him it is hate speech. Prof.  I would like to get it to where it is bleeped off the television. I have written to every commissioner on the FCC. I have written to the president. I have written to Oprah five times.  And Wrobbel has made a few inroads alongside the activists who made retard unacceptable in medical and social service circles. There the term intellectual disabilities is preferred. They organize against movies like last summer's hit film Tropic Thunder. In one memorable exchange two movie stars discuss the kind of roles that can win you Oscars.  Mr. ROBERT DOWNEY JR.   Everybody knows you never go full retard. Mr.   What do you mean? Mr. DOWNEY JR.  Check it out. Dustin Hoffman Rain Man look retarded act retarded not retarded. Tom Hanks Forrest Gump. Slow yes. Braces on his legs. That as not retarded. You went full retard man.  The protest against Tropic Thunder did not have much effect on the movie. But not long ago film critic Eric Snider was reviewing a DVD for a stinker of a film called Miss March.   Hey gang we are here today to talk to you about...  Miss March is an insult comedy that is all it is. It came out in theaters last spring but Snider realized it was changed for DVD. Mr.  I noticed a scene where it is a couple of abstinence promoters are telling horror stories to middle-school students.   He got syphilis.  Then she got pregnant and because she smoked cigarettes the baby came out a crackhead. Mr.  It was obvious that the actress's lips did not say crackhead.  They said retard. Mr.  It added up to about I think about five instances in the movie where obviously they had re-dubbed it for the DVD.  And it is not just movies rethinking retard as an easy laugh. A few months ago popular sex advice columnist Dan Savage renounced his use of the word. Mr.  You know I just sat down to write the column and I would used the word retard in a column recently and I was sorting through the mail and there was a handful of letters taking me to task. And I thought all right I will not use it anymore. I will use a new word. I hope you like this one better.  The new word was leotard. As in you are totally leotarded. Mr.  It was just me being a jerk frankly. You know I have heard people now use the R word in reference to retard and it just seems so pansy-assed if I may use that phrase.  Savage is gay and he knows how it feels to be the target of insults and slurs. What is funny is that gay and retard occupy the same linguistic position when it comes to schoolyard trash talk. Mr.  To mean bad  that movie was totally gay.  Jesse Sheidlower is an editor for the Oxford English Dictionary. He traced the use of retard as an insult to a late 1950s book that refers to Playboy magazine. Mr.  And a character says well that Hefner jazz is for retarded jockstraps.  Retarded is an all-purpose putdown says Sheidlower - same goes for gay. They do not mean something is literally intellectually disabled or literally homosexual. And that differentiates those words from racist slurs. Atlantic Monthly columnist Ta-Nehisi Coates writes on issues like race and language. Mr.  I actually love the word nigger. I actually like it a lot. I do not like it used towards me in certain contexts but I think nigger's a great word. I think it is a fine word.  Coates says in order for language to become socially unacceptable it needs to be linked with the kind of bigoted behavior no one wants to be associated with. Mr.  As a young man I used the word chink all the time. Fag - another word I used. It was nothing for me to deploy that word. We referred to the corner store as the chink store and thought nothing of it. Never considered it.  And Coates says in order for retard to be considered inappropriate there needs to be a fundamental shift in empathy for people with intellectual disabilities. Mr.  What happens is if you are lucky you come to understand that those words describe actual human beings.  Until then retard may continue as a commonplace zinger but it seems people are beginning to think twice about it. Neda Ulaby NPR News.  And how do you feel about the R word? Are there other insults you are thinking twice about? We are talking about it on our Web site. You can join Neda Ulaby at npr.org. 