 When Mark Miller came to our studio he had a pretty cool situation going on - pinstriped pants plaid tie fedora the words lead pipe tattooed on his knuckles. Miller has another name - it is Fight Shark. He says he chose this same because when he smells blood he attacks. See Miller is a legendary super heavyweight kick boxer who made his name in the early 2000s. But a few other things have happened along the way - a few things Miller's written about in a new memoir that is out next week. The book is called Pain Do not Hurt. I asked Miller what it was like when he first started kickboxing.  In the early part of the decade I was 230 and I was small for heavyweight kickboxing. It is a lot of speed and power.  So what does it sound like when somebody like that is... M.  Bone on bone. It is not that I am trying to amp it up - it is pretty horrifying. Even people that have trained when there have been at actual fights and they hear what it sounds like because there is a lot of force obviously involved here you know. Anybody that knows physics can figure that out pretty quickly. It sounds pretty nasty.  So tell me when you started kickboxing. M.  In the '80s when it was on ESPN.  And the notion of being a professional athlete was not totally foreign to you your dad was an athlete. M.  Absolutely. He played actually in the first NBA game - he was a multiple sport star in both high school college and basketball professionally.  So then you decided to go pro. So tell us like how did that work? What do you do to go pro? M.  The first time I heard was in '93 after first happened was a new organization in Japan called K1 one of my kickboxing idols Marie Smith fought in it. And I called him said I am going to come train at your gym and he was like OK you are going to get your ass kicked. You are going to find out what you know you are going to get tested and you know that. And that is how it started as far as that journey.  And you kept fighting and then in 2006 you went on a kind of a routine medical check. M.  My medicals they found that there was something off with my heart. You know their whole thing was you should not really be able to walk up a flight of stairs and I was training for a fight. And I was supposed to be training for the fight in Austin Texas so here's what I did I went to Austin Texas.  To train for the fight? M.  To train for the fight.  Instead of get the surgery? M.  Instead of getting the surgery. One day down there when I was training I went into the locker room and I literally was the color blue so I called my cardiologist and he is like yeah we need to get this taken care of. I had major heart surgery.  So you recovered pretty well pretty quickly. M.  Very well.  Faster than they thought you would but still you were laying there in that bed for weeks. M.  That does not feel good. So my goal was I am coming back to fight.  Tell us what that first fight was like after the surgery. M.  I got an offer to come back to fight kickboxing in Moscow against an opponent that at that time I no business fighting because by that time I had not been in a ring for almost six years. And nobody thought I had any chance. And I ended up knocking him out in eight seconds. That kind of just threw me back into it.  I mean I feel like if you were sitting down to write the book like it could end here. You could be like I went through this hard time and I had this come back and the end. But that is not how it worked out for you is it? M.  Not at all. My father got sick and ended up passing in 2007 and then a month later my mother unexpectedly passed as well. And and then my brother ended up dying of an overdose soon after that. So I was just in a bad place and doing a lot of drinking. My mantras of go big or go home unfortunately really - I really took to it.  How did you get out of it? M.  I kind of made the decision - this has to stop. I know it was a bad example for my children.  You have three sons. I am curious do they fight? M.  No.  No. Do they want to fight? M.  They enjoy it but my thing is my father pushed me constantly.  Well he did not just push you right? I mean he abused you. M.  Yeah. He had a very - I like to explain this to people - he had a very Boy Named Sue idea that the world sucks and if I make you as hard as possible it will not be able to crumble you.  So you try to not have that approach with your sons? M.  Absolutely. You know I try to do completely opposite. I am not going to push you into doing anything.  If they came to you and said they wanted to fight what would you do? M.  There is a part of me I am going to be brutally honest there is a part of me that would not want them to do it.  That would not want them to do? M.  No no because it is a tough sport - that is the truth. But if they wanted to do it I would give them the guidance to do those things to the best of my ability and give them the best people to train with.  That is Mark Miller otherwise known as Fight Shark. His memoir is called Pain Don' Fighting Inside And Outside The Ring. Mark thanks a lot. M.  Thank you. 