 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Pesca Mike Pesca.   007. Name another literary character as identifiable by number. Okay 24601 but without the musical would we really know Jean Valjean's number?  the gadgets the girls the title the phrase oh James.  Unidentified Woman 1   One more time again.   The James Bond books were popular but when the movies first hit screens in 1962 with Dr. No they became the most successful enduring series in film history. Sinclair McKay is the author of the new book  How the Bond Films Conquered the World. Hello Mr. McKay. Mr.  Hello.  So this is a very exhaustive history of the franchise.  Mr.  I hope not exhausting. Exhaustive certainly.  Yes yes. If you did not write the book would you have had almost all this information within you already as a Bond fanatic? Mr.  No not all of it. I found out quite a bit along the way. But obviously I came at it from one who had been sort of brought up on James Bond like so many millions have.  Did he make you feel proud to be English? Mr.  It depends which incarnation of James Bond one is looking at. Though not many of my contemporaries who look at Roger Moore say and feel this is the man who can instantly save the world but we adore Roger Moore over here for the fact that he brought a certain kind of light humor to the part. James Bond as an icon of Englishness is a very flattering portrayal of Englishness this idea that this super-suave super-manly spy basically saves the world on behalf of everyone else including the Americans is a fantastically flattering self-portrait.  And on behalf of the Americans may I object to the ineffectual and often-bumbling Felix Leiter who is the American CIA agent who is not often depicted well in the films.  Mr.  Yeah. No - I have to say the trouble started I think there with Ian Fleming's original novels. But the films somehow kind of made it worse. It is different now. In the modern Daniel Craig films I believe Felix Leiter was played by Jeffrey Wright and now at last he is a proper layered figure. But then having said that the Bond producers were very very keen for the films to have as wide a global reach as possible. So they steered away from geopolitics as much as they possibly could which meant that the villains would come from the kind of private sector of villainy rather than you know be obvious generals from Red China...  Right. Mr.  ...or you know the villains were not the Soviets.  Mr.   Do you expect me to talk? Mr.   No Mr. Bond. I expect you to die.  Sean Connery and his manner of speech look affect just about everything does not really fit in with Ian Fleming's conception of Bond. What were they thinking?  How did they get it so right with Connery? Mr.  Yes. It is very - they were extremely shrewd about Connery because of course he was cast against some opposition. The executives United Artists were very much against the idea of him. Ian Fleming himself - although Ian Fleming's agent has told me actually that Ian Flaming was perfectly happy with Connery. Other accounts have suggested that Fleming thought that Sean Connery looked like a truck driver meaning that he was too low a social class to possibly play this very sort of suave secret agent. At the time 1962 we have just over here been through the British New Wave which had introduced an entirely new kind of British anti-hero. So instead of clean-cut Dirk Bogarde and John Mills and all the heroes of those kind of British war movies which made up the entirety of British cinema in the 1950s you suddenly had the new rough-cut kind of figures coming through like Albert Finney. So here was a man who men would want to be and you know the great old cliche women would want to you know women would fancy. And Sean Connery very much fitted into this kind of new more raw Britain.  I have always thought that Bond movies exist outside the normal bounds of cinema and I will give you a couple examples. If I told you the title of another movie and if you say wait which one was that you would describe the plot but not with Bond. If I say Live and Let Die and you say - not you but... Mr.  Oh yes.  ...someone said... Mr.  .  ...right you would not say there was a heroin dealer. You would say oh Yaphet Kotto you would describe the girl you would describe Solitaire. Do plots not really matter in Bond movies? Mr.  They - no. I think what matters more in a Bond movie is a kind of sense of familiar structure. You know because when we troop along to a Bond movie we know that there is going to be a supervillain and we know there is going to be two or three girls one of whom will probably end up getting bumped off. And we know that there is going to be an absurd vehicle chase of some sort. As you say it is not exactly the plot we are going for. For instance there are very few people who would be able to remember exactly what it was that the rogue gentleman in Octopussy was up to. And there are very few people who for instance could tell you the first element of what the villains were up to in For Your Eyes Only. But we remember that fantastic chase on skis down the mountain in that.  So as we await this third Daniel Craig Bond film which seems to maybe be coming down the pike are hopes still as high among Bond-philes that - is the franchise still going as strong as it is ever been? Mr.  It is very frustrating because when Bond is off the screens it does make you realize actually you know we all rather miss him. So it is to be hoped that he will be back on our screens for the 50th anniversary of the Bond movies which will come in autumn 2012 and it is to be hoped that he will be back with Daniel Craig too. It would be a tremendous shame to think of such a phenomenon just kind of sliding out of view and disappearing. I cannot see that happening anytime soon. I think the Bond films are now like Sherlock Holmes. I think they now have kind of immortality about them. They will carry on for some decades yet.  Sinclair McKay author of  How the Bond Films Conquered the World. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you very much. 