 An estimated 20000 people are headed to Ohio this weekend to celebrate the 25th anniversary of The Shawshank Redemption the classic film about the lives of two men serving prison sentences.    But I am telling you these walls are funny. First you hate them then you get used to them. Enough time passes gets so you depend on.  Fans of the movie are flocking from all over the world to a small industrial town that houses the film's iconic cellblocks. Katie Blackley reports.  A large wooden desk sits in the middle of an otherwise empty office in the Ohio State Reformatory. Tom Clark is the resident Shawshank expert and tour guide here. He is pulling out his phone to scroll through a playlist.   Now the look of joy on their face when they hear this music as they are in the room where that scene was shown in the movie - now they are all wearing headsets too. And I am wearing a mic. So I go right into Red's narration. I say I have no idea to this day what those two Italian ladies were singing about. Truth is I do not want to know. I would like to think they were singing about something so beautiful it cannot be expressed in words and makes you heart ache because of it.  This is Warden Norton's office he says where one of the film's iconic scenes is scored by Mozart's The Marriage Of Figaro. As Clark shows off the room he picks up a tattered Bible.  This particular Bible has an inscription in the beginning. It says Dear Warden you were right. Salvation lay within. Signed Andy Dufresne.  Nearly everything in this room and throughout the 40-acre closed reformatory is staged to be how it was in 1993 when director Frank Darabont filmed his iconic drama starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Darabont chose the reformatory in Mansfield for his directorial debut three years after it closed as a working prison. Built in 1896 the building is massive originally housing 1900 first-time offenders. According to Tom Clark it was originally meant to be a place to reform offenders.  As a reformatory they had three goals - help the inmate find God find an education then find a job.  Behind the Gothic Romanesque structure were training facilities for the inmates. As the prison model changed in the mid-20th century the reformatory was transformed into a maximum security facility with 1300 steel-and-brick cells. It earned a reputation for violence and brutality until finally closing in 1990. It was slated for demolition until Hollywood came calling.  Thanks to the movie and thanks to this building and the Shawshank Trail we are actually carving a strong name for ourselves.  Mansfield sits between Cleveland and Columbus. Westinghouse and General Motors were once big here employing most of Mansfield's workers. But by the late 20th century those companies moved their plants and thousands of manufacturing jobs dried up sending the region's economy into a steep decline. Carmone Macfarlane is with the Phoenix Brewing Company in downtown Mansfield. She says it caters to the many Shawshank fans that walk into their tap room with themed beers.  Our Redemption IPA Rooftop bohemian-style lager and the newest beer which we brewed for the 25th anniversary the Rock Hammer Session IPA.  Fans of the film might recognize the bohemian-style lager from a scene where Robbins and Freeman share a beer on the prison's roof. The rock hammer is a nod to Robbin's eventual escape. Fan Brad Mavis lives nearby and was in the movie 25 years ago. He says that escape and the message it sends is why so many pay to tour these prison corridors each year.  It shows that no matter what adversities someone is confronted with that there is always hope that things will get better.  As a tourist draw this is a big deal here bringing in more than 60 million in just the past four years considerable cash for this struggling economy. Director Frank Darabont and actors will return to Mansfield this weekend joined by academics to celebrate Shawshank and its impact on both pop culture and cinema. For NPR News I am Katie Blackley in Mansfield Ohio.  