 The Elim Christian Fellowship Church in Buffalo New York will host a special wedding this Saturday between two people who have more than a little history. They are both 85 both grandparents and both survived the deaths of their previous spouses. Oh and they divorced each other 48 years ago.  I never thought that I would get married again.  That is Lena Henderson. In 1944 she and Roland Davis were high school sweethearts when they married. They had four children before divorcing amicably 20 years later. Eventually both remarried. He moved to Colorado she had another child and life went on. Then in 1996 one of their sons died. After that...  He would call to see how I was doing. And his wife and I we would get on the phone and talk to each other. Everything was you know nice and friendly. There was no how come you are calling her? or how come you are talking to him? - or nothing like that. I had a nice rapport with her.  Last winter Davis' wife died. His eldest daughter convinced him to move to Buffalo so he could be closer to the rest of the family. She did not realize he was already growing closer to her mother - his ex-wife - over the phone. Then near Easter Roland Davis popped the question to Lena Henderson - for the second time.  He says would you marry me? I say what? Would you marry me? I say well - um - hmm. And then I said yes I will.  Immediately my sister and I began to plan a wedding. That was it. We were sold.  Abeedabeedabee - sold!   That is Renita Shadwick the couple's youngest daughter. She was 6 when they separated and admits her parents reuniting is a childhood dream come true. Growing up she never heard them speak ill of each other. But until now she says she never realized exactly what she missed by not seeing them as a couple.  I see the way that he comes along beside her and wants to help her as she is walking inside of a building or the way he scoots around her to open up a door. I look at the way my mother smiles at him when he is talking about something. Those are the moments that I pray that all children are looking at when they are looking at their parents loving one another.  Four generations will participate in the wedding - daughters as bridesmaids grandchildren as groomsmen great-grandchildren as ring bearers. Again here's daughter Renita Shadwick.  It is very unusual I think but it is also very precious because all of us now collectively get to kind of be a part of our past  in our future - or in our present.   Shadwick's mother Lena Henderson will be sporting a light-gray dress as she marries the man she divorced nearly five decades ago. And she has this advice for anyone who thinks love has passed them by.  Never give up. You never know what tomorrow's going to bring.  Eighty-five-year-old Lena Henderson will take 85-year-old Roland Davis - again - as her lawfully wedded husband this Saturday. 