 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  The Help is set against the Civil Rights era and the drama begins when the Junior League queen bee Hilly Holbrooke takes a stand against the maids using their employers' bathrooms. One of her friends defies Hilly and tries to get two of the maids played by Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer to tell the world what their lives are really like.   I got to come up with the questions too?  That is Octavia Spencer playing the feisty maid named Minny and she practically steals the show with crisp dialogue and an arsenal of explosive facial expressions and she joins me now to talk about the filming of The Help. Octavia Spencer welcome to the program.  Well hello. And thank you for having me.  If you read this book you know Minny well but for those who have not could you describe this character?  Her inward life and her home life - she is an abused wife and mother of five.  But you also carry yourself in a very erect way that reflects both pride but also a good deal of pain when you are dealing with some of the more difficult characters.  Absolutely. She is always standing tall when she is dealing with Hilly because she emotionally wants Hilly to know that you know what you are not superior to me. But when she is with Celia I think it is just that she is relaxed and when she is with her children when she sends her daughter off to work for that first time that if anything crushes her and you definitely see the shift in her posture because now what she has dreaded more than anything - her daughter following in her footsteps - is happening.  And she is telling her daughter the do's and do nots and her daughter too is wearing the uniform.  Yes.  For Minny the life that she is consigned to is like a girdle that is a few sizes too small. She cannot wait to break out of it but until then it is just sort of cutting her up. What did you have to do to get in that frame of mind? And was it a bit disorienting to go in and out of that as you are filming during the day and then you are back in 2011 2010 at the end of the day?  I did a lot of research about the time period and spent some wonderful hours talking to Miss Myrlie Evers-Williams and I watched the documentary Eyes on the Prize. I really basically never really came out of the '60s. It is hard to go in and out.  Were you aware of that when you were filming this? And I am wondering if you wanted in some way to make the film unsettling to make sure that the audience - yes laughed at times but also shifted in their seats because they were not exactly comfortable with everything they saw.  And the other thing is I think it is a feel-something movie. You feel as much of the discomfort and the pain that you see Aibileen and Minny endure but also you feel proud of them and triumphant and laughter and joy and maybe a little guilt. So there is the gamut of emotions that you feel not just the discomfort.  I want to give you an opportunity to address them. What would you say to them?  So there are going to be people who are going to want to see this movie. There are going to be people who are sitting on the fence about seeing this movie. I would say make your own judgment. If you have not read the book and all you are going on is what someone else says then are you really going to let someone else make up your mind? To not see the film at all because you think it represents something derogatory I say then it is your loss because it is a wonderful film.  Octavia Spencer stars in the film The Help. Octavia it is been great talking to you. Thank you so much.  Thank you so much.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 