 To the movie theater now with two new films that could have been just police procedurals but are not thanks to their directors. Critic Bob Mondello says Bill Condon's Mr. Holmes is a mystery of memory while Woody Allen's Irrational Man takes the form of a romance.  If neurotics are Woody Allen's area of expertise then the visiting professor who arrives at a small New England college in Irrational Man is an ideal title character. Abe played by Joaquin Phoenix is depressed alcoholic sexually dysfunctional. He is a sad-sack intellectual stuck in a well-worn rut which for some reason makes him catnip for a hot-to-trot academic colleague played by Parker Posey.    I cannot write 'ecause I cannot breathe.   What would get you breathing again?   I - you know - I do not - the will to breathe - inspiration.   You need a muse.   I have never needed a muse before.   I hope you are not going to send me back out into the rain without sleeping with me.   I am trying to write.   You are blocked. I am going to unblock you. Or are you becoming infatuated with that student you spend so much time with?  Actually Abe's keeping that relationship platonic. Student Emma Stone is acing his class in ethical strategies and also joining him for long philosophical chats about existentialism at a diner which is where they are when she overhears a conversation in the next booth.    Are you aware of what is going on at this table?  He moves around to her side to listen and gains a sense of purpose.    It was at this moment that my life came together.  I should not elaborate on what he is overheard except to say it moves him to take action that I also should not elaborate on - action that has a bonus...    Christ you are like a caveman.  ...But that would likely distress his ethical strategies students. Woody Allen's writing is as sharp as his leading character's morality is fuzzy. And if the director is revisiting territory from Crimes And Misdemeanors he is working some decently amusing variations here - variations set to the Ramsey Lewis Trio and to a Hitchcockian vibe. Purists may complain about lapses in logic but then with a title like Irrational Man you could say they have been forewarned. Lapses in logic would not be appropriate in Mr. Holmes the story of an aging Sherlock played by Ian McKellen. It is lapses in memory that plague him now in his 90s living in a country house with beehives a housekeeper and her precocious son and remembering his glory days.    Watson had married and I was alone. In fact it was on the very day he left Baker Street that the case which was to be my last began to unfold.  Unfold in ways that the master detective can no longer call to mind much to his distress. Also to his distress though he does not let on the housekeeper and her son may be moving on.    I know Roger's been a help to you. He is a good boy. He is always been clever. His dad and I were not the sort to know the things a boy like Roger takes interest in.   Exceptional children are often the product of unremarkable parents.  Holmes is ever the essence of tact.    I have got a sister. She lives in Portsmouth. A couple of her acquaintances are opening a private hotel there say they are willing to take Roger and me on.   You have a sister? Never would have thought it.  And that is the problem - his powers of deduction are fading as quickly as his memory leaving him haunted by the feeling that he got something wrong that still needs to be put right as he confides to 10-year-old Roger.    The case was my last and it was why I left the profession and came down here retired to my bees. So I have decided to get it right before I die.   You are not going to die.   I am 93.   I had a great-uncle who lived to be 102.  Well then that seals my fate. What are the odds that you would know two men who would live that long?   Well I did not actually know him.  .  Director Bill Condon won an Oscar when he last worked with McKellen on Gods And Monsters also the tale of an elderly celeb and a young protege. Here the director navigates gracefully among plot threads and time periods as does his star who looks unnervingly enfeebled in the film's present but vigorous in flashbacks to postwar London and a blackened blistered Hiroshima. Co-screenwriter Mitch Cullin had a hand in adapting his own novel A Slight Trick Of The Mind and found a new way for Holmes to learn the limits of logic and the value of fiction. That means even those who have read the book can be startled by what happens in Mr. Holmes while they are being moved by McKellen in a role he is come to late but with his customary elegance. I am Bob Mondello. 