  The Daily Show for instance and The Colbert Report. But in Britain satire has leaped to the big screen in a new film called In the Loop. Bob Mondello says American audiences would be wise to follow.   The U.S. is pushing for a war in the Middle East going for a U.N. resolution though there is no reliable intelligence to back him up and the Brits are staying carefully neutral which is why the prime minister's communications director turns purple when he hears Simon Foster a low-level minister not staying neutral on a talk show.  Mr.   I think that war is unforeseeable. Mr.   Simon Simon. Unidentified Man 1   Unforeseeable? Mr.   Yes. Mr.   No you do not think that Simon.  The communications director rushes to Simon's office to tell him that he can make no more public statements until he learns to keep to the government's line.  Mr.   I was going to keep to the line. I was going to say I do not think war is unforeseeable. Mr.   What is it then? Mr.   I do not know. Foreseeable? Mr.   No. Not foreseeable. That is . Declare a war? Declare a war? Write this down. Mr.   It is neither foreseeable nor unforeseeable. Mr.   Right so not inevitable but not - you' evitable.  Meanwhile on our side of the Atlantic a State Department official has sniffed out a war committee and is trying to rally administration doves including a general she spies at a Washington cocktail party. Pulling him away to a child's playroom she asks him about troop levels and he picks up the only calculator he sees.  Mr.   So you add these together Ms.   Yeah.  It is pink and has pictures of bunnies on it.  Mr.   So this is the number of combat troops available for an invasion according to these figures.   Twelve. Ms.   Thousand? Okay. Mr.   Twelve thousand troops but that is not enough. That is the amount that are going to die. And at the end of a war you need some soldiers left really or else it looks like you have lost.   Bye for now.  They decide they should team up with this British guy who talked about war being unforeseeable to help internationalize the dissent which might work except that Simon's gotten in front of the press again to clarify.  Mr.   also unforeseeable. For the plane in the fog and the mountain is unforeseeable but then it is suddenly very real and inevitable.  His press secretary looks terrified.  Mr.   The mountain in the metaphor is a completely hypothetical mountain that could represent anything. Unidentified Man 2   But you . Sorry Mr.   What I am saying is that to walk the road of peace sometimes we need to be ready to climb the mountain of conflict.  Which as his furious boss screams makes Simon sound like a Nazi Julie Andrews. Director Armando Iannucci co-scripted In the Loop with an eye to making war fever play as a sort of screwball tragedy. Imagine a mash-up of Dr. Strangelove and Wag the Dog and you have got the general idea. The performances are explosively funny from Tom Hollander's way-out-of-his-depth Simon to the peacenik general that James Gandolfini gives anger management issues but the star is Peter Capaldi doing some of the most ornate inventive unplayable-on-the-radio swearing you will ever hear truly a boss from hell for the ages.  Mr.   Simon I do not like finding out by people employed by this government via the news unless they have just died. Be here now.  The thing that distinguishes In the Loop is that it' attack dogs going rabid folks who actually know something ducking for cover and low-level screw-ups turning into world-class catastrophes. You laugh and laugh because the alternative would be to weep for us all. I am Bob Mondello. 