 Comic-Con the big annual entertainment convention in San Diego is well under way. The gathering is known for its devoted fans often dressed in costumes and its showcase of mostly science fiction and fantasy. The convention has a reputation as a magnet for geeks but in recent years Comic-Con has become more mainstream and dare we say kind of cool. Here to give us the lowdown on what is going on this year is NPR's Nina Gregory who joins me now from San Diego. And Nina for the uninitiated among us let us talk about Comic-Con and what exactly it is. It started in comics but it is much more now.  Yeah. Comic-Con has been going on for over four decades. This year it is at a capacity with about 130000 people coming. It breaks down to about 60 percent male 40 percent female which is actually a huge increase in female attendance over the past 10 or 15 years. That is attributable not just to a change in content but who makes the content specifically Twilight. So you have people coming down here for books for TV shows for toys for - of course movies too.  And the movies the big movies - the studios will bring huge stars to come talk to their fans. What are the big movies this year?  One of the big movies of the summer that is coming out soon is Dark Knight Rises. That is the third and final Batman movie that is directed by Christopher Nolan starring Christian Bale as Batman. It opens July 20th which is just around the corner and it is odd that Warner Brothers is not showing sneak peeks or really plastering the place with it. Perhaps it is because they know that they have already got this fan base and instead they have chosen to tease Peter Jackson's next film The Hobbit.  And we mentioned costumes Nina. What costumes have you been seeing this year?  Oh man I mean there are a lot of your traditional superheroes - Spidermen Batmen a lot of Darth Vaders your real traditional kinds of almost Halloween costumes but the difference between this and Halloween is that people really take time to craft their own costumes.  And some Lord of the Rings costumes floating around?  Yes. There are a lot of elves and in fact the cast of those movies are also wandering around so you never know when you might actually you know literally bump into an elf.  Nina you mentioned the Twilight effect and the growth on the number of women going to Comic-Con. Is that a really visible thing? You have been going for a long time. You have seen a real change over the last few years?  Yeah. I have been coming to Comic-Con for about 15 years and I had started like many of the young women who are here coming in through anime but when Twilight came to Comic-Con it really represented a sea change in who was here. It was not just young women who read you know Japanese comic books but there were moms here too. There were young girls people who never would have come in here and some of the boys were a little bit - I would say - kind of prickly holding up kind of obnoxious signs saying things like vampires do not sparkle they burn. And some feminist film and media scholars had taken that as a sort of anti-girl or anti-woman moment but I would actually argue that it was really a sign of respect that they were sort of challenging each other's world views and I think it really meant that they had arrived.  Let us talk about someone who is not at Comic-Con this year Nina and that is the writer Ray Bradbury who died last month.  Yeah. It is very sad. Ray Bradbury had attended Comic-Con since the first one and Bradbury would walk the halls and like the sea would part and people just so revered him and his presence was not just as a great writer but as a real sort of member and icon of this community of seriously devoted fans. And it really is a loss for people here at Comic-Con and of course readers around the world.  Well Nina enjoy the rest of the convention. Got your costume ready?  I am going as Lois Lane.  OK. NPR's Nina Gregory at Comic-Con in San Diego. 