 The funny pages in the newspaper - they are kind of visual comfort food the same characters day after day which is why the success of a new comic strip called Wallace The Brave is unusual. It launched just three years ago. It is already appearing in more than a hundred newspapers. NPR's Glen Weldon explains how this comic strip is shaking things up at a time when the funny pages are shrinking.  Think Peanuts if Charlie Brown were less of a mope or Calvin  Hobbes if Calvin were not a bit of a psychopath. Wallace The Brave is about a family. There is Dad a fisherman Mom a gardener their almost feral young son Sterling who never met a bug he would not eat and his older brother Wallace a rambunctious imaginative kid big on exploring. Mostly we see the world of the strip through Wallace's eyes a sleepy East Coast beach town called Snug Harbor where the streets are lined with ice cream shops and the beaches are dotted with rocky tide pools. It is a lot like Jamestown R.I. where the strip's creator 33-year-old Will Henry churns out 365 strips a year for a growing audience which devours them in newspapers online or collected in book form. He runs a gourmet wine and cheese shop in Jamestown. We reached him on his day off.  I am trying to hit that sweet spot where kids enjoy it but parents will also enjoy it too. You know I do not want it to be so like sappy kiddy. And I would like the parents to get a good read out of it 'ecause they are the ones buying the books after all.  The tone of the strip is gentle but not toothless. Wallace's friend Spud is a ball of anxiety and indecision and his friend Amelia is a tough-as-nails troublemaker. The world of childhood depicted in the strip is a timeless outdoorsy one reminiscent of strips like Calvin  Hobbes and Cul De Sac both of which Henry cites as influences.  I truly love comic strips and the art of it and how you can get a feeling and a joke across in seconds. And I have just been you know studying it and working on it kind of unwavering for the last 15 years.  This year Wallace The Brave is nominated for two Eisner Awards the comics industry's Oscars basically. But its creator will not be attending the prestigious ceremony in San Diego next month.  We do a family clambake every year. And I see all my relatives and I pig out on lobster and clams. And it is the same weekend. And I got to tell you it is my Christmas. I cannot step away from the family clambake.  Glen Weldon NPR News.  