 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. One of the most talked about films of summer has to be Inception. The Leonardo DiCaprio mindbender is all about manipulating people's dreams.  Mr.   You create the world of the dream. You bring the subject into that dream and they fill it with their subconscious.  Dreams have always been a handy dramatic device. They allow writers to explore alternate worlds plots and what a character is thinking. And here to be our Freudian guide through the world of cinematic dreams is our film critic Bob Mondello. Hey there Bob.  Hello. Freudian I do not know but we will try.  Well I saw Inception and it used dreams in a pretty clever way sort of layering of dreams. And...  Yes.  But it is certainly not a new device and I hear that you can take us all the way back to the ancient Greeks to talk about this.   Well I take everything back to the ancient Greeks. They had a word for everything. The earliest dream that I could find in Western drama was in The Persians a play by Aeschylus in 472 B.C. so that is pretty far back.  Yeah.  The queen in that show dreams of her son's catastrophic military campaign and then discovers to her horror that her dreams were true. And as far as I know that is the first time that a dream sequence was used in a drama that we still have.  So when did the dream sequence make its way into film?  Oh I think they got there as soon as filmmakers discovered that by doing a double exposure you could create a ghost. And in 1924 in a silent film Sherlock Jr. - this is my favorite dream sequence ever - Buster Keaton is a movie projectionist and he falls asleep and dreams that he leaves the projection booth and climbs up on the screen and gets incorporated into the movie. And once he is up there he is subject to all of the movie grammar you know like the quick cuts and the odd camera angles and mirrors that turn into doorways and all these neat cinematic tricks. Basically Keaton was in an amusing way teaching the audience about film grammar.  And you cannot really talk about dreams and movies I think without talking about The Wizard of Oz which has got to be you know one of the more famous dream sequences in film history.  Ms.   There there lie quiet now. You just had a bad dream.  It is all been a dream starting with the tornado basically. Everything that is in color turns out to be Dorothy's dream but we do not find out about that until the very end.  Ms.   But it was not a dream. It was a place and you and you and you and you were there.  And of course these days if you use the whole it was all a dream conceived sometimes that does not go over too well.  It does not go over too well when they abuse it. I - filmmakers and screenwriters sometimes use dream sequences just to get out of problems that they have created for themselves in a script you know where it is so complicated that they suddenly realize that oops that is a dead-end for the script. And so they write themselves out of it by just saying oh well it was a character's dream.  Maybe that is why it is so abused in television where you have this sort of long you know periods of character developments so then all of a sudden it maybe feels like a cheap.  Yeah. The classic example of that is Dallas where at some point they had written themselves so into a corner that they decided the whole eighth season was a dream.   Right.  At that point the audience sort of rebelled. It lost a lot of popularity at that point.  Dreams of course are such a natural fit for science fiction or better horror films like Nightmare on Elm Street.   I am thinking of that you know you are so vulnerable when you are sleeping.  No you do not want to fall asleep because Freddie will get you.   We got to stop this.  How?  Do not fall asleep.  Yeah and science fiction uses it all the time. In The Matrix the characters were basically doing all of their zipping around through portals and things like that while they were asleep on a slab. In Blade Runner the title of Philip K. Dick's book that it is based on is Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? And Blade Runner actually uses that same notion that Inception does of planting memories that are not real into somebody's head.  So the challenge for filmmakers is of course you know finding an original take on the dream sequence. And tell me how do you think that Christopher Nolan the director of Inception did?  Well I do not know that I think it is original exactly but I think that the things that he did with it the visualizing of various different levels and things like that are very clever. There is a sequence in there where there is - I am hesitant about talking too closely about it because a lot of people...  Yes do not give it away.   Right. But there is a trick with mirrors that I thought you know as we are looking at this he is getting at the thing that Buster Keaton did all those years ago that he is using the movie dream to illustrate something about cinema that we are sort of seeing how a special effect gets done.  Mm-hmm.  And so it becomes more interesting when he starts to play with his own form there.  That is our film critic Bob Mondello. Thanks Bob.  It is always a pleasure.    A dream that you wish will come true. 