 You may have heard of a new show called Reservation Dogs. It is on FX on Hulu and it is the first comedy on a major platform with an all-Indigenous writers room and starring cast. It is getting a lot of comparisons to a show that debuted earlier this year Rutherford Falls. It was another breakthrough show for Indigenous representation. Sierra Teller Ornelas co-created Rutherford Falls. Before she became a writer for TV she actually worked at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian. And one year she says teenagers kept coming in and asking about the Quileute nation.  They wanted to know how they could become a wolf. They wanted to know how they could turn into wolves where the wolf exhibit was.  I am sorry. I am going to pause here. What?   Yeah yeah yeah.  That is the right reaction. Yeah.  Now this was back when the Twilight movie was big. It borrows the name of the real-life Quileute nation. But since it is a fantasy in Twilight some of the Quileute people can turn into wolves. I spoke with Sierra Teller Ornelas and her co-creator Michael Schur about the show earlier this year when Rutherford Falls first premiered. And Ornelas told me as a writer and a member of the Navajo Nation she really wanted to make a TV show that represents Indigenous people as you know people.  My first pilot was about these two sisters who worked at a trading post on the Navajo Nation. And I remember a lot of people being like oh there is a great sample but it will never be made. It was just very much like said to my face in this very polite way of like there'ill never be a Native sitcom.  Did they ever say why? What were some of the reasons you heard?  You know that there was not enough infrastructure for it. So there was not enough talent. There were not enough people who could make the show and then there was not enough of an audience. And so I just sort of accepted that and thought like you know someday this is going to happen.  So Michael from your perspective I have just heard someone say that you know they wanted to make a show that touched on you know Indigenous communities and were flat out told no thanks. So you come along and yes you have a successful resume. But what was your approach to this and what to you were the odds of getting it made?  So Ed and I had worked on this idea for years and we started designing a character for him that was a very well-intentioned guy who had admirable qualities but who had sort of swallowed whole this narrative about himself and his family that he was clinging to and was completely non-objective about. And that was a very rich vein it turns out.  And Helms' character is somebody whose identity is being affected by this like changing conversation about history.    The statue Big Larry in Rutherford Falls it is been in the same spot in a very significant spot for centuries. And now people want to tear him out of the ground and toss him aside.  And on the rest of the canvas is this tribe. It is called the Minishonka.    I would like to take a moment to acknowledge that we are currently standing on Minishonka land.   Beautiful OK.  First can we talk about the sensitivities around making up a tribe?  You know obviously fictional nations - it is very difficult because we are not a monolith so there is no way to sort of express all Native nations in one fictional tribe which I do not think we are trying to do. But I am very proud of the fact that you know there are five Native writers on staff. We had a Native director for four of the episodes and this is really a reflection of our shared experience as Native people from nations all over the country.  I just want to jump in on something you said about the writers room because there is so many times when people talk about or criticize TV shows where they will say well we just cannot find writers to do X Y and Z or it is really hard to make your writers room diverse. How did you go about doing this? How did you look for people? And what did that room end up looking like? And I will start with you Mike.  The way we went about it was we said hey we would like some Native writers and then agents and managers sent us some Native writers. And we hired them. Like that - the narrative...  You are saying that simply but I know for a fact you have worked on shows that did not look very diverse in their writers rooms.   A hundred percent - and the truth is that there is been a massive seat change. It used to be that show runners would say look we cannot have an all-white staff. We need one person who is not white or we need one woman because we cannot have all men. Since then and really aggressively in the last say five six years we have hit this point where it is like that is not enough. So we just said like this is what we are going to do. And we got five Native writers.  Yeah. I mean we did not have agents because at that time no one had agents so we did not have any agents just to clarify.  That is true. I forgot about that .  But I remember asking Mike - he was like how many writers do you want to have in the room? And I said I want to have 10. And he said well five should be Native. And I was very surprised by that I will say initially. That is what was so exciting about this - is whether it was the casting process or the staffing process what I would been told 10 years ago was not true.  I want to ask about one or two of the characters. One is Reagan Wells who is played by Jana Schmieding.    Would you like to know why you are having trouble with the community?   Oh I know why. It is because Reagan lives in town and not on the rez . She is not a fluent speaker. She walks her dog on a leash.  Is she your proxy a little bit? I am only asking because of the museum connection. She is someone who also has - right? - experience with a museum.  I think a character like Jana - I remember watching Northern Exposure as a kid and seeing Marilyn who played Joel's assistant. It was one of the few shows that had Native characters on it growing up in the '90s. And the camera would always move away from her. She would get like one line and she would say her joke. And then you would move on to Joel and his problems or whatever. And I always just wanted to stay with Marilyn. I just always - like to me that show was about her. And so when we got to make a show I drew a lot from my experience but also the experience of just the abundance of Native women in my life and really wanting to make a show about them and sort of for them.  Looking at some of the white characters who are very naive or think they have a firm view of the world No. 1 being the National Public Radio producer who shows up thinking he is going to tell the story of the town. Nothing about that was off-brand.    Casinos have been so divisive amongst Native people. It seems like unfettered capitalism would be at odds with a lot of your cultural beliefs.   Well Josh it is a challenging situation but compromises have to be made. I drive a car. I have a microwave and I am somehow able to live with myself and my cultural beliefs.  And Ed Helms your main character who is in a lot of ways like really naive about his past. And since I asked Sierra this question are any a proxy for a kind of journey you went through Mike?  No. Honestly no. I never went through anything like Nathan goes through personally. I think what we tried to do collectively is to show like this is a thing that a lot of people are grappling with. Like America especially you know white people in America are uniquely terrible at reckoning with their history. Like it is one of the greatest flaws in terms of how they cling to narratives that are false or at least misleading or maybe only fragments of those narratives matter to them. And we just wanted to say like it is messy and there are parts of it that are bad. And it is OK to admit that. Like it is OK to not be the hero all the time.  Well I want to thank both of you for being willing to dig into so many aspects of this with us. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Oh thank you so much.  Thank you. We are huge fans of your show.  Michael Schur and Sierra Teller Ornelas co-creators along with Ed Helms of the Peacock series Rutherford Falls.  