 People used to have to go to arcades to play video games and then video games went to the family TV. But retro is cool and people are seeing that it is fun to leave the house after all. The number of arcades in the U.S. has been growing over the past five years and that is creating demand for new games that have that old-school feel. Patrick Smith of member station WBEZ reports.   I am at one of the largest video game arcades in the world in suburban Chicago. Galloping Ghost opened here in Brookfield seven years ago. It is an unassuming single-story brick building that seems to go on forever as you walk through it each corner bursting with beeping blinking and flashing arcade cabinets. Owner Doc Mack says they have more than 600 games.  The outset was not to become like the largest arcade in the world by any means. I have a huge collecting problem that I have had since childhood so it was something I should have seen coming but who knew?  Max says on the weekends they get hundreds of customers arriving from all over the country.  The reason why people come to an arcade - there is a different social element to it than just playing it at home. On one sunny Saturday the place starts filling up as soon as the doors open at 11. Erica Deitzel traveled from Milwaukee with her young sons for a birthday party.  I remember playing Pac Man Space Invaders when they very first came out. I was young and me and my sister would play for hours. We would bring rolls of quarters.  And Rebecca Lastovich is here to help her boyfriend celebrate his 18th birthday.  I know I did not grow up with arcades but it is very nostalgic and I mean I enjoy talking with my dad about it. It is just something that we kind of bonded over.  You definitely see Gen-Xers go for the nostalgia portion but that is not the driver of the business. The driver of the business is the market that is going back to vinyl and looking for more analog experiences.  That is Bob Cooney a consultant for what is called the location-based entertainment industry. Like Mac he says the resurgence of arcades is driven mostly by young people who grew up playing video games but are now trying to get out of the solitary activity and connect with others.  And so you are starting to see a resurgence of pinball in pinball arcades classic arcade games.  That resurgence is creating a demand that cannot be met by old or refurbished games like Pac Man Street fighter and Sea Wolf alone. Mac says people want new games that both give a retro feel and support the social atmosphere of arcades. That is why he is been working for years on his own fighting game called Dark Presence.   Hey everybody. This is Doc Mack from the Galloping Ghost Arcade.  Mac unveiled a demo earlier this year at the Midwest Gaming Classic in suburban Milwaukee. Dark Presence is a 2-D two-person fighter game like Mortal Kombat with new-age flourishes. Twenty-nine-year-old Peyton Robbins was one of the first in line to play.  It is really impressive considering that there is pretty much nothing like this ever being produced anymore. It is like a relic from the past but it still looks pretty incredible.  Robbins was one of thousands of people who flocked to the Midwest Gaming Classic this year looking to check out games compete in tournaments and just connect with their fellow arcade enthusiasts. Like other young people across the country they are looking to arcades as a way to combine their love of gaming with socialization. For NPR News I am Patrick Smith in Chicago. 