 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. The Bourne Legacy opens in theaters next week. It is the fourth thriller in the Bourne movie series and the first without either Jason Bourne or the star playing him Matt Damon. Critic Bob Mondello explains how they are both suddenly unnecessary.  When a film hit becomes a film franchise it is not wise to get too attached to the stars. Tinseltown takes that show-must-go-on thing pretty seriously with pictures that make a couple of hundred million dollars and contract disputes artistic differences even deaths are not going to interfere when profits are on the line. I mean Harry Potter fans were mostly lucky  Professor Dumbledore shrouded helpfully behind a thick beard. But we have seen five Batmen in eight movies three Hulks in three movies and then of course there is the granddaddy of all the recast film franchises - 007 - in which we got Sean.   George.   Roger.   Timothy.   Pierce.   And now Daniel.   And in the 007 movies that was just the start.  new Q's to give Bond his gadgets new M's to give him his orders. M even changed gender without audiences batting an eye maybe because all these characters are British and the Brits had been watching the regenerating Doctor Who nearly as long as James Bond. Not that American audiences cannot keep up. They would been perfectly comfortable with those interchangeable Darrins on TV's Bewitched back in the 1960s. Dick York.   Replaced by Dick Sargent.   Casting that really should have inspired a Sergeant York headline do not you think? There've always been lots of replacements on TV possibly because there almost everything is a series and with long-running hits producers do not have much choice but to barrel ahead as they did on Fresh Prince of Bel-Air when Janet Hubert's Aunt Viv got replaced by Daphne Maxwell Reid's Aunt Viv after the third season.   Standing on the sidelines Will Smith just gave the camera a knowing look and that was that. With movies though there is more at stake which is why Tinseltown has developed what it is calling the reboot. Not quite a remake but not quite new either a reboot I am convinced is called that because it is a good way to gently kick a star to the curb. Spider-Man's Tobey Maguire for instance who was 27 when he first played high schooler Peter Parker but is now 37 old enough to have fathered a high schooler of his own. So for the reboot The Amazing Spider-Man we get Andrew Garfield who is amazing though not all that much younger. Anyway this process is not going away unless audiences simply stop showing up. At which point Hollywood will stop making sequels prequels and for symmetry shall we call reboots requels? Stop making them until producers can figure out how to reboot the whole industry that is because those three forms accounted for all 12 of the top dozen hits last year. I am Bob Mondello. 