 The 2015 Emmy Awards are two months away but today we got a look at who is in the running for TV's biggest honor. HBO's hit Game Of Thrones leads the way with 24 nominations. Here to talk about who else got nominated and who got snubbed we are joined by NPR's TV critic Eric Deggans. Hey there Eric.  Hey.  So you and I had been chatting about like how shows always seem to get nominated year after year. Certain shows get repeat nominations. And then this year that did not happen right? There were some surprises.  Right. Well the Emmy Academy increased the number of slots that they give for nominees. So instead of nominating six shows for best comedy they are nominating seven shows for best comedy and seven shows for best drama. So we saw new shows like Amazon's Transparent and Netflix's Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt join this roster of shows that always get nominated as best comedy series. And in drama series we saw Better Call Saul from AMC also nominated in its first season. So that was great. And I am doing a little happy dance for Tatiana Maslany the star of the BBC America show Orphan Black. She got her first Emmy nomination. Now she got snubbed last year and she is on this science fiction show where she plays seven different clones and she got snubbed. We - you know fans could not believe it and now she is gotten an Emmy nomination so we are very happy here in TV central.  Speaking of snubs who got snubbed this year?  Well I would say Jim Parsons from Big Bang Theory. He is been nominated as best comedy actor since 2009 and he is won this award four times. He did not get nominated and his show Big Bang Theory did not get nominated and it has also been nominated a lot. Julianna Margulies who won as best drama actress on The Good Wife last year she did not get nominated. And her show The Good Wife did not get nominated either. Lena Dunham from Girls and Melissa McCarthy from CBS's Mike And Molly those are both people who have been nominated in the past. They did get nominated either. Lots of snubs out there.  All right. So I know we are a few months away but people are going to be speculating about who might actually win these awards and I want to know from you as a pro what are the big contests that you are going to be watching - the things that we should be looking for on that night?  Sure. Well Modern Family has been nominated again as best comedy. It is already won five times as best TV comedy. If it wins a sixth time that will be a record. So we want to see if that is going to happen. Taraji P. Henson has been nominated as best actress in a drama along with Viola Davis for How To Get Away With Murder. For the first time two black women will be vying for this honor and if either one of them wins it will be the first time a black woman has been named best drama actress by the Emmys. So this is something to look for. David Letterman has been nominated for his final season on the Late Show With David Letterman but he is up against The Colbert Report with Stephen Colbert - Stephen Colbert's already left that show to replace him - and Jon Stewart on The Daily Show. Jon is going to be leaving The Daily Show in August. So these are three titans of talk who will be leaving their shows soon and they are going to be competing against each other in the Emmys. And finally we have got Jon Hamm from Mad Men. This guy has been nominated 15 times over the years with no wins.  Oh my gosh.  He is running the risk of becoming the Susan Lucci of the primetime Emmy Awards. So if he wins particularly for his last season on Mad Men that will be a wonderful victory. If he does not that will be quite a bitter defeat.  That is NPR's TV critic Eric Deggans. Eric thanks so much.  Always a pleasure. 