 Turn on the TV and it is hard to miss the product placements in shows like The Vampire Diaries or Days of Our Lives or Project Runway.   Good morning designers and welcome to the Lexus challenge.    Hoo-hoo. Cheerios revel at this hour.    I binged it.  But there is another kind of product placement that is more subtle. So subtle says NPR's Neda Ulaby that you might not even realize it is product placement.   Earlier this year the Fox show Raising Hope aired an episode where a teenaged girl is caught in bed with her boyfriend.    You two out of bed. I am going to show you where this can lead to. I am your ghost of teen pregnancy future.  The show is main character had a baby when she was a teen. She and her husband show the girl pictures from their high school days.    Oh here's our prom photo.   How many people get to look that fancy when welcoming their son into the world?   Look at those fresh-faced kids.  The jokes and the regret are part of a carefully calibrated product placement strategy but the show is not selling sandwiches or cereal. This product is a cause placed by The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. Its entertainment media program is run by Marisa Nightingale.  We met with one of the writers last summer and they came up with an episode that incorporates some of what we talked about but in the very irreverent unique funny tone. And I love what they have done because it is not anything that any nonprofit would have come up with.  Nightingale says integrating her cause into TV shows gives her issue more depth and more heart than any public service announcement ever could.  What they do is get at the feelings and emotions and the connections between people. Here's an example from a million years ago.  The campaign worked with The WB show Dawson's Creek from the pilot on.    Dawson we need to talk. Sex changes everything and I just do not want to lose our friendship.  Back during those Dawson's Creek glory days Susanne Daniels ran The WB. At first she was skeptical about letting a not-for-profit work with her show runners and writers.  There is always a hesitation of is this going to somehow tarnish the organic nature of the development you know but that did not happen at all. I think in the case of the campaign it only enhanced the programming.  Now Daniels sits on the campaign's board. TV executive Gina Girolamo is also involved with the organization. She is is in charge of over a dozen shows aimed towards teenagers including Gossip Girl and Pretty Little Liars.  They are on the ground in a way that none of us are.  Girolamo's involvement with The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy dates to her days focus-grouping kids about TV shows back in the 1990s.  These teenagers specifically said well no one on TV uses condoms and I remember thinking wow we really need to do a better job of representing life.  This nonprofit gained traction in Hollywood she says partly because it never ever tries to dictate storylines or things characters might say. The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy has worked with hundreds and hundreds of shows over the past 15 years. Take Glee.   The campaign helped with a story arc about a pregnant cheerleader says media director Marisa Nightingale.  At one point we sent a bunch of stuff about what it is like for a pregnant teenaged girl to walk down a school hallway.  When Nightingale worked with another show Parenthood she helped develop a storyline about a teenaged girl's decision to have sex. She wanted to show realistic conversations between parents and kids complete with false starts and missteps. In one episode a mother and daughter both lie to each other. The daughter lies about having sex.    So the answers is no you are not.  Right. I mean what...  And you are not...  ...were you my age or something when you first had sex?  The mother says no. She was 22. Eventually the daughter tells the truth. She is having sex with her boyfriend. Her dad freaks out.    ...fast and...   Dad I am...   ...I do not know what to say to her OK? What am I supposed to do? Give her a five...   You said it...   ...and congratulate her for having sex?   That is not what I am saying.  Everything is super tense. The daughter tells her mom she wishes she would never said anything. Then the mother admits she was lying too.    I was not 22. I was 15. It was awful. It was with this boy named Roy. Anyway I thought I was in love with him and he went to school the next day and told everybody.  The storyline continued over many subsequent episodes says Marisa Nightingale.  They repaired their relationship and it was very real and messy.  Not many nonprofits are as organized as The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. Most are lucky to get just a little exposure on reality shows from The Real Housewives to Extreme Couponing.   Joanie and Jamie find another item on feeding America' rice.  Marisa Nightingale says one of the best things about integrating messages into TV shows is there is a TV show for everyone.  They also have this cool factor that - trust me - no nonprofit hard as we try will ever have.  Few groups really work to get their causes into TV storylines. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention does Hollywood outreach. So does the Kaiser Family Foundation. Still you can imagine it is a lot harder for nonprofits working on Lyme disease to get into TV plotlines than one that focuses on teenagers and sex. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 