 In a surprise move the game show Jeopardy! has named not one but two hosts to replace Alex Trebek. Trebek was a TV fixture who set a kindly and dignified tone on one of the more erudite game shows for more than 36 years. Trebek died last year from pancreatic cancer. And since then there has been well a host of celebrities clamoring to take his place. NPR arts correspondent Neda Ulaby is here to tell us about both of his replacements. Hey Neda.  Hi.  So I guess we are talking Double Jeopardy! here. Who are the new hosts?  Well who are Mike Richards and Mayim Bialik? This is a disappointment for the legions of people who were rooting for LeVar Burton. But the new hosts are Richards who is the current executive producer of Jeopardy! and Bialik who is best-known for starring on The Big Bang Theory.  Yeah speaking of Big Bang Theory Bialik is not only an actress but a trained neuroscientist. Is that right?  She does. She does deliver some important nerd credibility. And she was impressive and charming when she guest-hosted the show. Can we take a listen?   Physics winners Penzias and Wilson had to shoot pigeons from their antenna to pick up background radiation from this big event - Julia .  What is the big bang?  Correct.   Hey.  Hey.  Wow so her bona fide is on full display there. But how is this actually going to work with two hosts?  Well Mike Richards got the big prize. He is hosting the daily syndicated program. And Mayim Bialik will host primetime specials and spinoffs like the college championships. We do not know how many of the Bialik-hosted shows we are actually going to see. So let us hear Mike Richards when he was guest-hosting Jeopardy!   Sam  you are the returning champion.  Let us do political slang 200.  Gucci Gulch refers to the section of K Street home to well-financed offices of these people who ask Congress for stuff - David .  What are lobbyists?  Good.  So Mike Richards is smooth. He has experience as a host. He is hosted five shows in the past including Beauty And The Geek. He only started as Jeopardy!'s executive producer last year and Sony says he is going to continue in that role.  Yeah which prompts a question - if he is the current executive producer of Jeopardy! he just picked himself for one of the best hosting gigs on TV?   That is not what he says and it is not what Sony says - the company that owns Jeopardy!. This all came up when Mike Richards' name got leaked in public last week as the front-runner. This unleashed a small storm of controversy and people compared him to Dick Cheney.  I was just going to say that the whole - it is a total Dick Cheney move. Dick Cheney was asked to run George W. Bush's you know committee to pick who should be the vice president. And somehow he ended up saying I would be the best person to do this . It was similar.  Right. For the record Sony does say that a committee of executives picked the right person for this job - or the right people. Richards seemed like a lot of people to a very unadventurous choice. He is a very blandly appealing white guy. There is - we have seen - he fits a very predictable mold. And he was also named in several lawsuits by models at his former job at The Price Is Right. They claimed he contributed to a toxic work environment where these female co-workers got pregnant.  Well so what is the reaction? What are people saying about these choices for Jeopardy! host?  It is pretty much what you would expect. One of my favorite tweets was from the host of another show The Chase on ABC who joked that maybe now Jeopardy! contestants can submit two responses...  .  ...Just in case one of them causes public backlash.  I am all for it - NPR's Neda Ulaby. Thanks Neda.  Thank you.  