 Painter Robert Cenedella is a New York artist who has spent years battling the New York art establishment. A documentary that opens today chronicles that battle. It has a provocative title. It is called Art Bastard. Critic Bob Mondello says its raises provocative questions from beginning to end.  First the title - Art Bastard. Robert Cenedella is a bastard in that he was born to parents who were not married also in that he can be a troublemaker a mocker of other artists and a thorn in the side even of people who are trying to help him - a publisher say who once offered him an ad on art magazine's back cover.  So he gives us a copy that he did of a Rothko painting and it says  on it. So Bob put me right away in a position of either having to censor him and say we cannot run this or having to kind of endorse this. So what I chose to do was we are going to run it. But I did it with a certain kind of annoyance.  Perhaps understandably Cenedella has never been a fashionable artist. He says his heroes were 1920s and '30s activist painters like Ben Shahn Robert Bellows.   They would paint breadlines lynchings in the South and depression. That is what interested me in art. They recorded history.  And they had legitimacy - a word that crops up a lot in this documentary - because they were in museums. But by the time Cenedella was hitting his stride abstraction had taken over the art world - the poured and dripped painting of Jackson Pollock say in which expressing a point of view was impossible on top of which...   The way he painted you could do no wrong basically. People today will say well hey it was a bad Hopper or it was a bad El Greco or this is a bad that. But I have never seen anyone say oh this is a bad Pollock. Either they are all bad or they are all good.  That sort of view dyspeptic view did not endear Cenedella to the art establishment. His own paintings meanwhile influenced by the fiercely political early work of his mentor and teacher George Grosz were about the bustling New York he lived in - colorful action-packed with caricatures of real people. In the film director Victor Kanefsky makes his paintings kinetic from the opening shots - a subway painting called Fun City Express for instance is filmed in jiggly close-ups that pan across painted straphangers so that it feels as if you are riding the A-train with them. Another painting started out as a satirical piece about boxing but when Cenedella realized he painted one of the boxers to look the father he would grown up with he decided to make it more personal. He painted the other boxer to look like the man he later learned what his real father.   So now they are punching each other and I was the one getting hurt. This was definitely a painting where I was doing therapy on the canvas. So what - you know what else are you going to call it? Yeah Father's Day.  How is that for putting legitimacy at the forefront of your work? Legitimacy in the art world though is something determined by galleries and museums. And the film chronicles why that sort of legitimacy has mostly eluded Cenedella. Some of this is self-inflicted. In the 1960s the explosion of pop art - a movement that he had no use for - led him to set himself up as the anti-Warhol. For a show he called Yes Art in 1965 instead of Campbell soup cans he painted Heinz soup cans. And in place of Warhol's lithographs of Green Stamps he gave out actual Green Stamps to people who bought his paintings. It was a joke that worked. The press went wild. It could have been his moment had he done more of it but...   For me to continue that show - the part that I would be most proud of is that I said no. I said that is it. Yes Art is over because I would have just been one of them.  And therein lies the rub. Art Bastard is a film about a man who has tilted and continues to tilt at the art-world equivalent of Don Quixote's windmills. He is hardly alone in that. Lots of talented artists will never be shown in museums. And lots of talented artists will doubtless agree with his assessment that the cultural establishment has rigged the game.   It is not what they show that bothers me. It is what they do not show.  And they still do not show Robert Cenedella. But at least for the moment movie theaters will. And the film company has arranged that some of those theaters will have his work hanging in their lobbies - not quite the legitimacy he was looking for but a victory of sorts for a proudly unrepentant art bastard. I am Bob Mondello. 