 Sometimes all you need on a hot summer's day is a sweet cool trip to the movies.    What do we think of these ghostbusters? Are they to be taken seriously?    Dory?   Yes?   Dory?   Yes?   You and I were friends.    This does not have to end in a fight Tony.  SAMUEL L.   Tarzan.  As always Hollywood has some big ones and a few little ones in store but which ones to see? NPR arts critic and movie maven Bob Mondello is here to answer that question. Bob great to have you.  It is good to be here.  So what is on your recommended viewing list?   Well I really like The Lobster and I had a good time at Swiss Army Man. Those are two of the strangest movies to come out in maybe I do not know forever. The Lobster is about a guy who if he does not find a woman to marry in 45 days will turn into the animal of his choice. He chooses lobster. It is a very strange futuristic kind of movie. And Swiss Army Man has been called the Daniel Radcliffe farting corpse movie. And that pretty accurately describes it. It is a very strange picture.  Out this weekend is Steven Spielberg's adaptation of Roald Dahl's classic children's story The BFG. There is also The Legend Of Tarzan. If you have got younger viewers to take with you to the multiplex which one would you choose?  Oh I think definitely The BFG. Spielberg is wonderful with children's stories and this is - that is what this is. Roald Dahl wrote it for kids. It is about a big friendly giant and it is enchanting in a way. It is kind of strenuous whimsy if you are in the mood for that kind of thing. But you know Spielberg - who could argue with his ability to make something visual and gorgeous? And the special effects in the picture are kind of wonderful. Tarzan is a different kind of Tarzan even. This one is all about - it is trying to be anti-colonialist which is a tough sell with Edgar Rice Burroughs. I think they did a reasonably good job of turning the story into basically Tarzan goes back to the Congo in order to keep the Belgians from raping the country in terms of its natural resources. And that is a interesting take on the story. It certainly gets a pass in certain things. I was expecting it to be sillier than it is. It is an interesting film.  There have been a lot of critics who have not liked this summer's movies. And a lot of audiences that are staying away from the theaters - is this just an off year?  Yes and no. The summer pictures have made a couple billion dollars already right? So it is not that bad a year. What is happened is that you are comparing it to last year and last year had Jurassic World. And Jurassic World all by itself made almost 2 billion worldwide. Inside Out was also that year and so was The Minions. And so those three pictures together made over 3 billion worldwide. It is going to take a lot of doing to catch up with that. If you take Jurassic World out of the mix this year looks fine.  Since you mentioned Captain America I mean he is one of a whole host of characters that we have seen plenty of before. This you know - stop me if you have heard this one but Captain America X-Men Star Trek The Bourne series even a new Ghostbusters with a female cast - is Hollywood sort of down to the bottom of the bag of tricks?  .  Why all these sequels and reboots?  Well Hollywood makes a lot of money off of sure things. And they think that there is nothing surer than bringing back something that has already made 400 million. What is a little new is that there do not seem to be a lot of pictures in the mix that are real originals this summer. And that is a frustration. You know I started out talking about The Lobster and Swiss Army Man. Those are two pictures that are completely original. And on the other hand the two of them together will not make as much as BFG does on its opening day. So yes there are some original pictures out there but Hollywood is correct in assuming that this is the season for things that are more pop.  Well one thing that does not have overturning cars and blowing up skylines is Florence Foster Jenkins with Meryl Streep and Hugh Grant. Tell us about that.  Well Florence Foster Jenkins was a real character. In the 1940s she was a socialite in Philadelphia and in New York. And she was just music besotted. She loved music. She thought it was just the most fabulous thing in the world. She lived for music. And she thought she could sing and she could not. And the problem was that she was wealthy enough to do things like renting Carnegie Hall and inviting people to come and hear her and so she did. And in this movie Meryl Streep plays her and is a riot.   .   Stop that. There is work to be done but you have never sounded better.   It is a very amusing picture. This was directed by Stephen Frears who did Prick Up Your Ears and Philomena and a whole bunch of other movies. And he is made it a very evocative movie. You end up feeling kind of sorry for Meryl Streep's character even as you are tempted - oh boy are you tempted - to laugh.  Of all the big blockbusters coming out this summer what are you looking forward to seeing?  I confess to being an action freak on occasion. And the fact that we have Matt Damon returning to The Bourne series and director Paul Greengrass - if you want to know what I am going to show up earliest at for the screening that is the one.  Middle-aged guys jumping off of bridges onto moving boats and all that...  And we can all do it every one of us.  Absolutely. I mean that is the thing. It does not even stretch reality.  .  That is Bob Mondello arts critic and our resident film guru here at NPR. Thanks for stopping by.  It is always a pleasure.  