 And now seismic movement in the world of comic books. This week Marvel Comics announced that Thor that hammer-wielding Norse God will be a goddess in the next storyline. And Captain America one of Marvel's earliest superheroes he will  hand over his shield to sidekick Sam Wilson. And stay with me here - Sam Wilson is the Falcon. And he is African-American - so a black Captain America. To talk more about these changes we are joined by Maggie Thompson the longtime editor of the former Comics Buyers Guide and blogger about the many comics of things. Maggie Thompson welcome to the program.  Thank you so much. It is a delight to be here.  So Maggie Thompson give us a sense of how big a deal this is in terms of Thor's story. I mean the definition of who gets to be Thor is basically whoever holds the hammer - right? - has the power. So how significant is this shift?  It is actually been done before. They have played around with the Thor identity a lot. And a lot of the long-time fans have said hey Thor used to be a frog. Thor used to be an alien. And so there is a continuity that the old hands are comfortable with I think. And on the other hand it is got people talking. And that is what we are looking for in comics.  Perish the thought. Now I want to play a little clip of Joe Quesada of Marvel Comics because he actually was talking to Stephen Colbert this week about the replacement for the current Captain America.   Sam Wilson his partner the Falcon is becoming the new Captain America.  The Falcon?  The Falcon.  OK. But let me ask you something. This guy's - this new guy is black.  Yes.  Does not that make him Captain African-America?  Maggie Thompson lots of joking around this week and some people actually upset of course on Twitter. You see lots of comments. Is this a big deal or not having the Falcon Sam Wilson a black character becoming Captain America?  Well one of the tweeters is a man named Kyle Baker and he tweeted wow whoever came up with this black Captain America is a genius. I will bet they give him a parade or something. The reason that he did that is he is the artist on a comic book called Truth in which Captain America not Steve Rogers but Captain America was black in the storyline that he drew. And that was about a decade ago so nothing new.  So this is one of the former artists behind the comic saying hey I have done this before.  Yes.  So I do not have a good sense of Marvel's track record here when it comes to diverse characters. But what do you make of what they have done? And what should we be looking for in terms of its success?  I think that the creators of comic books today are in a constant quest to tell interesting stories. If the interesting stories have more diverse characters you can have more diverse stories and therefore more opportunities to sell comics.  What did you make of the reaction to this?  I think it is very typical of comics. You will have the people who think it is wonderful. You will have the people who say they should not do it. It was not that way when I read it originally. And there is the kids who are saying wow this is really great. And maybe it will be a collectible. I think I will buy five.  Which is the goal essentially right?   It is one of the goals.  Maggie Thompson - she joined us from Wisconsin Public Radio. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much Audie.  This is NPR News. 