 When Steven Soderbergh is not making blockbuster comedies like Ocean's Eleven he is often directing movies designed to stoke outrage - in Erin Brockovich outrage about poison drinking water in The Informant! about price-fixing and now in The Laundromat critic Bob Mondello says about money laundering.  When we meet them lawyers Ramon and Jurgen are in the middle of a desert so far from civilization there are cavemen around. This is the director's way of noting their schemes are as old as time. They however are modern with a vengeance - the sort of guys you would find at the baccarat tables in an Ocean's movie attired in tuxes swilling cocktails played by Antonio Banderas and Gary Oldman and telling stories all of which...    Are about money - the idea of money the necessity of money the secret life of money.  They begin with the barter system appropriate to those cavemen and then progress to more complicated schemes designed to separate the average person...    For someone to win...  ...From his or her cash.    ...Someone has to lose.  Schemes involving offshore accounts and other legal but not entirely ethical means of hanging onto money. As they are explaining we meet a lady affected by those schemes - Ellen played by Meryl Streep who watches her husband die in a boating accident gets through the funeral and then goes to her lawyer.    Shoreline Cruises like most of these outfits have insurance for accidents and such.   So basically they drowned Joe and 20 other innocent people and you can get insurance for that.  Yeah you can but as she and the cruise company discover that does not necessarily mean you are insured. When her payout is tiny Ellen uses it to go try to find the insurance company and what she finds instead...    It is a law firm in Panama.  She is in a newspaper office trying to get a reporter to cover the scam she is uncovered.    And our readers need to know about them why?   What they do is they set up companies - not real companies like a hotel or a hardware store. They set up what they call a shell and they sell shells - not actual shells.   I am sorry. You lost me.  The world's most clueless reporter but in fairness money laundering is complicated as we all discovered when the Panama Papers were leaked in 2016. Millions of documents that led down a rabbit hole of chicanery devised by Mossack and Fonseca the real-life masterminds that Oldman and Banderas are playing - schemes that headquartered a quarter of a million corporations in one small town in Delaware with one woman listed as the CEO of 25000 of them and on and on...    They are getting away with murder.   Which is bad.   Bad is such a big word for being such a small word.  The Laundromat is a satirical explainer not a movie that is driven by plot. It is designed to amuse and to infuriate and in its final moments to inspire with words taken directly from the leaker of the Panama Papers - riveting galvanizing words some of which you will almost certainly not hear because director Soderbergh has a visual trick up his sleeve that will elicit dialogue-smothering gasps. He is a master something you remember when The Laundromat is humming along deep in its spin cycle. I am Bob Mondello. 