 Newark New Jersey is going to shock the world. That is what Mayor Cory Booker says at the outset of a five-part documentary series beginning tonight on the Sundance Channel. It is called Brick City the nickname of Newark. And Newark is a city with a long and troubled history of crime and urban blight. Cory Booker has made it his mission to turn that history around.  I want you all to know that my number one priority is the safety and security of our city. Right now we are rolling around about a 40 percent reduction in murder. We are rolling about another 22 percent reduction in shootings. But it is still not enough. And this year I need everybody here all hands on deck. We have got to take the summer back.  That is Mayor Cory Booker of Newark. The documentary followed Booker and other Newark residents throughout the summer last year. Academy Award-winning actor Forest Whitaker is executive producer of the series and he joins me now from NPR West. Welcome to the program. Mr.  It is good to be here.  Now you are not from Newark New Jersey right? You grew up in L.A.? Mr.  Yeah exactly. I was born in Texas. I was raised in South Central Los Angeles and then later in Carson California.  So what drew you to Newark and this project? Mr.  It is about the story. I think we have many cities like Newark New Jersey all across the nation and I think we have them here in Los Angeles. We have them in Detroit. We have them in so many different places and so I wanted to get a chance to speak about that. And Cory Booker seemed to be the individual that was setting an example that can be used across the country and in some ways maybe even across the world.  And Cory Booker really is a compelling character and really the star of the movie. He is - for people who do not know who he is - he is a young African-American mayor. He is sort of in the mold of President Obama a graduate of Yale and Oxford. And you know one minute you show him talking to Jewish investors and he speaks Yiddish - he throws out Yiddish phrases - and the next he is running across town to play midnight basketball in the housing projects. Mr.  Yes.  Is he for real?   I kept asking myself this guy is he too good to be true? Mr.  I know it is an amazing thing to watch him. I think that was what excited me about the project because there is individuals like Cory who are so strongly rooted in what their beliefs are and uncompromising about it. And he empowers people really. He is an extraordinary man.  Well how is he perceived in Newark because he did run against former Mayor Sharpe James and lost? And that was the subject of a previous documentary. And there is a scene where you have Amiri Baraka a longtime Newark resident and poet calling Cory Booker quote a White negro who - and he does not like him at all. He does not like the fact that he is bringing in all these outsiders to run Newark. Is there a feeling a suspicion in Newark that Booker is just going to use this as a platform for higher office and leave and not really do Newark right? Mr.  I think that people are always suspicious of change. They are frightened of it. Here's a man who' we can change things we can stop the murder rate we can lower it we can change the housing problem we can bring job into the city - a city that is been destroyed by all these problems in the past. And he comes in and actively begins to do things and I think that startles people. That frightens people. And their pessimism gets in the way of they are being able to see what is really occurring because he has accomplished a lot of those things that he spoke of.  He has lowered the crime rate - the murder rate . Mr.  The murder rate by 40 percent. He lowered it by 40 percent. I mean last year in 2008 it was the city that had the greatest reduction in crime.  And you portray this as a very difficult an uphill battle. There is a very compelling scene at Central High School with Ras Baraka. He is the principal of Central High School Amiri Baraka's son. Mr.  Yeah. Yes.  He is a very compelling character and he gives a very moving speech to his students after a kid is shot outside the school.  Mr.   You living this life like it is normal. It is abnormal to go to school to talk about your friends dying to not be able to walk home safely from school to be jumped every other day to fail everything to live in squalor to have people's parents coming outside fighting with them in the middle of the street. This is not normal to be going to the hospital every other week to be wearing t-shirts that say Rest in Peace to be writing rest in peace on the wall. This is not normal. It is not normal. And nobody else's children do this. Mr.  Yeah it is so powerful.  That is amazing. Mr.  It is really moving. There is so many moments in the documentary that are so moving because it is so true. I mean these children are thinking that it is a normal thing just to see death around them for their classmates to be shot for them to lose their family and their homes. It is a sad statement. I worked on another documentary about gangs here in Los Angeles. It was called Crips   Made in America and inside of that there is a quote and it talks about kids from these urban environments and it says that a lot of the kids are suffering from more post-traumatic stress syndrome than those in Iraq. Two separate psychological studies show this because they are so used to it that the gunshots - they do not react to the gunshots in their own environment to death to loss. They understand it or have written it off in certain ways. And I think this man Ras Baraka is very inspirational because he is just trying to give these - he is giving these children a sense of hope and a sense of moving forward in his school even though there is struggles even in getting a place for them to learn.  I understand that when your film was screened in Newark there was a scene where - in the movie there is a guy who is yelling at the news cameras who have come to cover the latest shooting to say go find a good story.   Go find some people having a good time. That is all you  focus on is tragedy. Go find some black people having a good  time right here right now.  When that was screened the audience cheered in Newark. Mr.  Yes.  And do you feel though because your documentary does focus so much on the murders and the difficult life in Newark that you did that did you focused on the positive or were you also doing what the news media does every day in Newark? Mr.  Well I mean I was there in Newark when the cheering went up and stuff and I understood it because there is so much beauty and hope inside of the city of Newark New Jersey. And Cory is focusing on trying to you know celebrate those things but also to correct the problems that are there. But the biggest thing for me is that I think that the documentary does and the documentarians Marc and Mark Marc Levine and Mark Benjamin what they did was they show you the - I think the heroic in the ordinary people. I think you see the dignity of the people and I do not like to define dignity and strength and beauty and what people are offering by the job titles they have but it is more about the circumstances of how they continue to live within their lives. And I think what we get a chance to see is people who really care and then we watch through some of these struggles how profoundly heroic many of them are in just continuing the battle to make sure that they have the American dream to have a quality of a good life.  Forest Whitaker thank you very much. Mr.  Sure thanks.  That is Forest Whitaker. He is the executive producer of a five-part documentary series called Brick City. It is about Newark New Jersey. It begins tonight on the Sundance Channel.   You can see clips from Brick City and find more coverage of what is on TV at npr.org. 