 Reading a book is a solitary act at least once you are out of grade school. But the institution of the book club the collective act of discussing a book usually kicks in after you are finished with the reading. Well now there is a Web site that lets people chat about what they are reading as they read it. NPR's Laura Sydell has that story.  BookGlutton.com was born because Travis Alber wanted to be able to talk about books with friends who had moved away. So Alber and a friend created a site that lets you write in the margins of an online book as you read. Ms.  You can chat inside any chapter of the book or you can click on any paragraph and attach a comment to it and someone else can come past that point in the book later and respond to that or make a different comment.  The site has been getting a lot of interest from teachers like Jessamyn Hatcher a professor of English at New York University. She asked her class to use BookGlutton to read King Lear. Hatcher says it was perfect for reading a text as complex and poetic as Shakespeare. Take Lear' O reason not the need. Our basest beggars are in the poorest thing superfluous.  This is a really difficult passage and he is talking to his daughters. He goes on to say that he does not need his retinue of men just as they do not need their beautiful clothing.  Students reading the text outside class late at night began to have online debates. They wondered whether Lear meant that clothing in excess was unimportant to being human or whether he meant that those were the things that make us human. One of Hatcher's students Lila Tod says she loved those online debates. Ms.  It was really nice because people could say their different point of view like well I saw this as something different kind of just like you would do in class but we were outside of class.  By the time Tod and the other students got to class they were ready says Hatcher. Prof.  They were already deeply engaged. They would been having these conversations in the margins all night long. And I think this allowed our conversations to be deeper and richer than they would have been otherwise.  Right now BookGlutton is still a pretty small site. It has about 1500 public domain books and about 120000 readers a month. But BookGlutton founders are already having conversations with publishers that would expand their library. Just today Random House announced chapters from bestselling author Sarah Dunant's next book would be on the site with author commentary. Leah Price a professor of English at Harvard University believes this is the beginning of a change in how we read books. She says it is only a matter of time before technology like BookGlutton's unites with popular eBooks like Amazon's Kindle or Sony's eReader.  There is something frustrating about reading on a Kindle because the fact that you are reading onscreen makes you expect oh I should be able to click through on this. I should be able to Google this name.  Price has no doubt that within the next decade no one will feel that frustration anymore. Yet at the same time in a world in which all of us are connected no matter where we are there is a strong attachment to old-fashioned books. Even young people like NYU student Lila Tod have reservations about fully connected eBooks. Ms.  And it would be hard for me to not get distracted by other things because I can very easily be distracted by what is around me. And when I am reading I can kind of hyperfocus and I do not know if it would be the same.  Tod says she is always liked the quiet dialogue between the words on the page and her own imagination the possibility that she could come up with her own idea what a character looked like without anyone else's ideas intruding on her own fantasies. But the forces that are moving all of us towards a more interconnected world are not likely to be stopped by readers' love for old-fashioned books. Laura Sydell NPR News. 