 The second season of Last Chance U begins tomorrow. It is a documentary series on Netflix that follows the football team at East Mississippi Community College. It is one of the most successful junior college programs in the nation. But last year Last Chance U showed the team derailed by suspensions after a bench-clearing brawl. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says the new season depicts the team fighting to live down the reputation it got both on the field and on the screen.  I will be honest - I do not particularly watch sports on TV. But I love Last Chance U.   OK go. Ten nine...  The show is second season begins with a football squad acutely aware of how bad they looked last time around. And the team with its mercurial explosive coach is determined to put on its best face for Netflix's cameras this time at least at first.   You know I sat back and I watched it and I go I just do not like that guy.  That is Buddy Stephens the coach of East Mississippi Community College's football team the Lions. They dominated their division last season until the team was suspended after a bench-clearing brawl during a game. Stephens known for his volcanic anger and profanity screamed at the players once the fight ended.   We talked about having more pride but you did not want to. You want to be damn street thugs. So I tell you what - go find another damn school to go to.  And the Lions whose players are mostly black did not appreciate Coach Stephens who is white calling them thugs.   That is the white man bro. Welcome to the real world. That is the white man. Welcome to the real world.  Especially since the coach had been suspended at a previous game for getting into a fist fight with a referee. As the second season of Last Chance U unfolds Stephens is trying to change. He is doing pushups any time he curses in practice and encouraging his athletes.   I need happy eyes. I need wide eyes. I need having fun because that is what is going to happen next Thursday. We are going to have fun. You are dadgum great athletes and we are going to move the ball against them OK?  But do not take bets on how long Buddy's Mr.-Nice-Guy routine is going to last because Last Chance U is what reality TV is supposed to be filming its subjects intimately and at length until their pretenses fall away and the truth is revealed. The show is title comes from the nickname for East Mississippi Community College a school with a powerhouse football team in the tiny town of Scooba Miss. The best players land at EMCC from bigger schools when they make a mistake from a quarterback let go by Florida State University for punching a woman in a bar to a defensive lineman ejected by the University of Georgia after his third arrest for marijuana possession. The real star here is academic adviser Brittany Wagner a small scrappy lady pushing her players to choose the right classes show up regularly and get grades good enough to move on.   I just think it is going to be a stressful semester. And I have got to figure out a way to be like look are you going to ruin your whole future for two seconds of camera time? Or are you going to focus on what you are supposed to be doing?  As the season progresses Coach Stephens backslides. He and his staff cut off their wireless microphones at sensitive times. Later he pushes and kicks at cameras. The second time around he knows how badly he is coming off. Still director Greg Whiteley seems to catch everything from Wagner's growing frustration with the coach's approach to the divide between players and local residents over Donald Trump's election as president. He also brings you inside the team's games with incisive shots that turn every contest into a story of its own feeding into the bigger question - which of these kids and which coaches will succeed and why? Netflix's Last Chance U digs deep to tell a complex revealing story about what it really takes to succeed at EMCC and whether that success is truly worth the cost. I am Eric Deggans.  