 And now it is time to talk about Tesla - the man not the car. Nikola Tesla was the underrated genius who bested Thomas Edison in figuring out how to power the world with electricity. But he died penniless. Now he is the subject of a biopic that critic Bob Mondello says is as eccentric as Tesla himself.  1884 - a power outage and Nikola Tesla is fuming in the dark in the one place on the planet you would think would not need candles.    I am finding my way at Edison's Machine Works where there is always too much to do not enough time never enough money or men. Edison talks to everyone but is not capable of listening. He has no interest in my motor. You know the proverb - nothing grows in the shadow of an oak.  Tesla chafes at being paid 15 a week to redesign Edison's electric motors when he is had an idea that is demonstrably more efficient but requires alternating current Edison favors direct current.    Alternating current is a waste of time - impractical and deadly. There is no future in it.  So far so standard for a biopic - period costumes dim lighting. But you will note one oddity in the scene - the actors are both licking ice-cream cones.    Tesla you do not understand the American sense of humor.  As if to disprove that Tesla smashes his cone into Edison's chest. Edison does it back. Then they smash their ice cream into each other's faces.    This is pretty surely not how it happened.  That is Anne Morgan daughter of financier J.P. Morgan sitting in 1880s finery at her laptop.    If you Google Nikola Tesla you get 34 million results. But for images there are mostly just three or four photographs repeated over and over. They get flipped around. Some are colorized or photoshopped with lightning in the background. But it is basically just four pictures. Beyond that things get murky and more imaginative.  Murky and more imaginative is a decent description of the rest of the movie they are in. Writer-director Michael Almereyda is always an unorthodox storyteller and here he uses anachronisms techno music all kinds of visual weirdness to highlight the other liberties he is taking - Kyle MacLachlan's Thomas Edison say bragging about a new gadget he is come up with.    Kinetoscope - moving pictures. Everybody will like that.  Then as soon as the camera focuses elsewhere pulling a cellphone from his pocket as Anne - played by Eve Hewson - points out that the scene he is just played never happened all in the service of a story in which a brilliant but painfully unassertive inventor gets bullied and taken advantage of by significantly less brilliant folks with names you know.    Westinghouse.  Legendary actress Sarah Bernhardt who was rumored to have dallied with Tesla in real life also puts in an appearance - dying elegantly to applause in the theatrical glow of alternating current as her eyes search the crowd for the guy who made that glow possible.   Amid all the cinematic tricks and showy performances Ethan Hawke gives us a deliberately low-voltage Tesla.    The best machine is the one with the fewest parts.  Never once raising his voice even in moments of frustration or anger. It is an intriguing approach. The inventor who literally electrified the 1893 Chicago World's Fair proved an enigma in his own time and the film Tesla has opted to make him an enigma in ours. His story - rags to riches to rags. His persona alternating - you should pardon the expression - between supercharged intellect and short-circuited emotions. I am Bob Mondello.  