 Alan Cheuse reviewed books for ALL THINGS CONSIDERED nearly every week since 1981. NPR's Susan Stamberg helped bring him to this program and it is with a heavy heart for all of us here that today she brings us a remembrance. Alan was in a car accident in California earlier this month. He died today at age 75.  That soft intense passionate voice - in just two minutes Alan paid his respects to good writing from one of his last reviews in early June of Karim Dimechkie's novel Lifted by the Great Nothing.  There is just so much of everything going on in these pages. It captured my attention completely in this charming novel about function and dysfunction giving and loving so much that made me wonder made me laugh.  Whoever read as much as Alan Cheuse did? When he was not reading he was teaching over the years at Bennington the University of Virginia University of Michigan and for the last two-plus decades at George Mason University. And when he was not reading and teaching he was writing - five novels novellas short stories textbooks. How he found time for the solitude and concentration that writing demands is a miracle. Plus he was at the center of literary life in Washington D.C. and was a truly loving husband father grandfather. But Alan did manage to do it all. Summers in Santa Cruz gave him solitary writing time. But out West he also taught at the Squaw Valley Writers Workshop. It was driving back from Northern California that he had the car accident. Alan Cheuse was such a generous man. He always made time for his students. He always had suggestions to us about writers to keep track of as well as ones to avoid. He was a wonderful caring funny friend full of stories and totally apt literary quotations good gossip too. Those who knew him will remember him for all of that. Listeners will remember and thank him for all that reading in our behalf. I am Susan Stamberg.  And we offer these words from the family of Alan Cheuse. In his honor tonight please raise a glass of wine or whatever you may be drinking tell a joke hug someone you love be kind and read a great story. This is NPR. 