 So far Google says our planet has produced 129864880 books - at least that was the number as of last week. Jon Orwant is engineering manager at Google Books. So Jon that was the number last week. What about now?  Well now we are up to a shade over 130 million.  Okay and that is - that addition is due to what?  A combination of various things but most of it is simply people printing more books.  Okay well let us define our terms here. What do we mean when we say book?  So to us a book is simply a printed and bound set of pages. Basically what we were trying to count was the number of monographs kind of what you think of as typical books when you go into a bookstore or a library.  Okay and obviously we are not talking about individual copies of books. We are talking about distinct books.  Correct. You can think of it as being editions.  And when you are coming up with this number Jon are we talking about every book ever written anywhere on the planet?  Pretty much. That is what we were trying to estimate. So that includes books that were published or really printed before the day of Gutenberg. It includes every book that we are able to find in any bookstore any library or from any of the 30000 publishers that we work with.  Now has - it is been harder to come up with a number than you would thought. Why is that?  So you want to be very careful as we take in all this information from our thousands of different sources to make sure that we account for those differences.  Okay well Jon you know the complaints here. There have been a lot of people who take this all very seriously who say that your numbers are off. I was reading a posting on the technology journal Ars Technica and somebody called your number probably complete bunk. They say your methodology is just really flawed. What do you think?  Yeah I see we have been reading the same blog post.   And then Ars Technica looked at that and just kind of drew this conclusion that any sort of attempt to analyze this number must therefore be flawed which is not something that we agree with. You know we are pretty confident in our estimate.  Why do you need this number total number of books ever produced?  Curiosity plain and simple. It is not something that we need for any particular reason other than the fact that a lot of the libraries that we have been working with for all of these years have been asking us. They have been curious as to how many books there are in the world.  Jon Orwant is engineering manager at Google Books. He spoke with us from Cambridge Massachusetts. Jon thanks so much.  Thank you. 