 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  Well in that conversation two things struck me. First my Christian friends knew nothing of Hillel except that he is the namesake of the campus organization for Jewish college students. And secondly I did not know much more about him than they did.  If Not Now When? It is just about to be published and Joseph Telushkin joins us from New York. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  And first when did Hillel live and how significant a figure is he in Judaism?  Hillel was a tremendously significant figure in Judaism. He is perhaps - along with Rabbi Akiva the most famous sage of the Talmud which is the major Jewish book after the Bible. He lived at the end of the first century before the Common Era and is assumed to have lived till about 10 of the Common Era.  Perhaps even overlapping with Jesus of Nazareth in that kind of...  I think that it is very likely that the young Jesus who seems to have come from a religious Jewish home - or certainly a committed Jewish household - would have been familiar with some of Hillel's teachings.  Now I confess the one thing that I had not taken on board in religious school about the story that I just recounted - can you recite the Torah while standing on one foot yes what is hateful to you - it had not occurred to me that this was all about conversion.  That is the aspect of the story people often overlook.  Tell me the essence of Judaism while standing on one foot it would sort of make sense that he would give - as most of us would when we would be speaking to members of another religious grouping - a humanistic teaching something drawn out of our tradition that is universal and that could appeal to people of all faiths.  Convert me to Judaism on condition that you can teach me the entire Torah while I stand on one foot.  Yeah I do not want to spend weeks studying to qualify here. Let us do it in a few seconds.  The hardest thing in life sometimes is not doing what is right but knowing what is right. So therefore Hillel also taught an ignoramus cannot be a good person yet intellect has to play a vital role in figuring out the right thing to do.  His attitude toward the gentile who wanted to convert though was first be open. First be welcoming to this person.  But what he - and the Ten Commandments even reflects that idea in its own way. It does not say in the Ten Commandments be truthful. It says do not bare false witness. It does not say be honest. It says do not steal. So he wanted to give him a principle he could immediately incorporate into his life.  His influence - you should explain this - first as a rabbinic sage was great while he was alive and while he took part in what amounted to judicial deliberations and then it lives on through a school of Hillel people - rabbis who follow his approach to things.  So he achieved prominence in his own lifetime and has maintained prominence ever since. But oddly enough on this one area his openness to bringing the message of Judaism to interested non-Jews - he was not going after people who were committed to another faith but people were interested - his openness was long ignored.  Yes. You have described what the contemporary attitude say among the Orthodox rabbinate to conversion is. It is beyond discouraging. It is - some would say do not do it.  But on the other hand Hillel was open even to those who came in a more initially a more casual way but wanted to know more. And there is no shortage of non-Jews who have close connections to Jews who marry Jews and I think many of these people would be open to becoming Jewish. I think there are many non-churched non-Jews who would be open and impressed with the message of Judaism and I think Hillel was very open to conveying this message.  One of the problems you encounter in writing about Hillel is he lived 2000 years ago. You observe in passing that biography is not especially a Jewish form. You do not have a lot of confirmed facts to work with. What are you actually able to conclude about what was true about Hillel?  Jews do not assign any divine status of course to Hillel but Hillel's teachings carry such force and I am arguing they deserve a second look.  Rabbi Telushkin thanks a lot for talking with us.  Oh thank you and thank you for your very thoughtful questions.  And happy New Year. Joseph Telushkin is the author of  If Not Now When? 