 There are things I know I should be paying attention to. And then...   As Bronson Pinchot and Nolan Gould will take it home...  ...There is this.   Swimming relay on the line.  I am at my desk looking at a clip of Battle Of The Network Stars on ABC which I pretty much remember being on in the '70s and '80s. Clearly it is been brought back to life.   It was a very tight finish. How were you able to pull it off?  I did not care anymore about living .  The thing is there are a bunch more of these game shows that have been revamped this summer. There is Match Game 100000 Pyramid and even The Gong Show. I do not know why they are back but you know who will - Linda Holmes and Glen Weldon. They are on our Pop Culture Happy Hour team. So I am going to walk up to historic studio 44 and find out from them what is going on with these retro game shows.   Yeah I do not know. I feel like the like...  Audie Cornish.  Hello.  Audie Cornish.  Hey how are you?  Welcome.  Thanks for coming.  It is always good to see you.  I have so many questions for you all. All right so maybe you guys can help explain to me what I just witnessed because it looked like Kim Fields or like Tootie from The Facts Of life and Bronson Pinchot ...  From Perfect Strangers.  ...From Perfect Strangers - like some '80s and '90s TV staples were like in a swimming competition against young stars who I actually do not know very well.  The kid from Modern Family used to be the little kid and now he is the awkward tall teenager.  Sure sure. But they had kayaks in a pool. And it was a competition show I did not understand.  Oh yeah yeah.  So Battle Of The Network Stars used to be battle between networks.  Right right. It used...  What was I watching?  It used to be CBS versus ABC versus NBC. But now that there is a million networks and they will not loan each other talent they just do it as a general - most of them are retro people. So they will do like TV kids versus TV sitcom stars. And mostly it is the old-timers on it.  Is that the default now? Like with these other game shows is there a lot of B C and - I will say it - D celebrities who are on these shows as contestants?  Oh yeah.  Yeah a natural end for Battle Of The Network Stars. Certainly you miss the old-school. You miss Howard Cosell the sinewy panther-like grace of Mr. Telly Savalas. You miss that.   In its place you get these C-list celebrities new and old. But competition exposes character. So you could watch one of these C-list celebrities go onto Fallon and tell a canned anecdote or you could see them try and fail to dunk Mr. Joey Lawrence.  Yeah or you could see Joey Lawrence miss 25 consecutive shots in basketball. And it is like he is angry but only ironically but he is also really angry.  But he is also really...  Yeah.  Yeah. You guys are making my goof-off-at-the-desk time sound really profound and I really appreciate that .  Yeah. Glen can always explain to you how you can redeem your desk time by finding how it reveals character.  But what about all the young people who have no idea that Bronson Pinchot was on Perfect Strangers you know like in the early '90s or whatever? Like what do the networks get out of putting out these people?  I do not think that young cool people...   ...Are the target audience of the revival of Battle Of The Network Stars.  Burn burn.  I think that old bored people like me are the target audience of Battle Of The Network Stars. And I feel successfully targeted.  And you know it is people who are watching television in the summer. Who is that - families who are gathering around the television because it is - they are tired and they are hot. And they have been vacationing with their family all day. And they want something that is a known quantity.  And also it is social right? These are things that you watch in groups or at the very least with the phony group that is Twitter because watching let us say Battle Of The Network Stars alone is kind of the drinking alone of television.   It might be a bad sign. So you want to be sharing your impressions of did you catch that Lisa Whelchel doing the kayak...  Yeah.  ...Because it is really fun.  And something like the return of The Gong Show - it is never meant to be good. It is meant to be spectacle. And spectacle must be shared.  All right. So before I have to go back downstairs to the newsroom are there two shows each of you could recommend?  I think we both are appreciators of Battle Of The Network Stars.  Absolutely.  So that would be one for sure.  And definitely Match Game which is now hosted by Alec Baldwin. It used to be hosted by Gene Rayburn back in the day back in the '70s. It was all very shag carpeting and boozy where celebrities try to match their answers to regular schmoes. That has a certain basic appeal because the idea behind the show is that they are relaxed and they are not on in a way that they would be if they were on a talk show.  Yeah.  OK two solid picks.  Yeah.   Linda Holmes of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour thanks so much.  Thanks Audie.  Glen Weldon thank you.  Thank you.  