 Nearly a decade after publishing his prize-winning novel The Corrections Jonathan Franzen is bringing out a new work of fiction a novel called Freedom. Alan Cheuse has a review.  Readers have a lot of high hope for this one and there' I couldnt set my reading copy down on a table at my local coffee bar without someone walking off with it while I put in my order. It could be the title  Freedom. Franzen tells the story of a deteriorating middle class family in Minnesota. The mom Patty is a former college athlete a sort of basketball Emma Bovary who suffers from deep depression and a long unrequited longing for her husbands best friend from college a successful rock 'n' roller named Rick Katz. The husband Walter is a naive corporate do-gooder oblivious to his wifes pain and his own. Their son Joey finds life more appealing in the house next door and he moves in with the neighbors beginning an affair with their teenage daughter that extends throughout the entire novel. Franzen tells this story in a form thats rather odd marked by long sequences of exposition and a long middle section written by Patty for her therapist which she composes in the third person. Also odd is the depth of Franzens brilliance. There isnt a page that goes by without insights you can mull over and sentences you can admire. Listen to this one when Joey is waiting for his girl at New York' as if all the low-income travelers flowing around the two of them were equipped with brightness and color controls that were radically lowered by the mere presence of this girl hed known forever. You find this everywhere on every page. Yes sometimes the book seems like smart poetry made up out of the millions of seemingly innocuous details of every-day life. But forgive me despite the brilliance or maybe even because of it I found the novel quite unappealing maybe because every line every insight seems covered with a light film of disdain. Franzen seems never to have met a normal decent struggling human being whom he didnt want to make us feel ever so slightly superior to. His book just has too much brightness and not enough color.  That is Alan Cheuse reviewing Jonathan Franzen's new novel Freedom. Alan teaches writing at George Mason University in Virginia. 