 Last night NBC gave the actor Neil Patrick Harris an hour of live TV for an unpredictable new variety show. It is called Best Time Ever. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says this debut mostly showed how hard it is to reinvent a 60-year-old format.  From its very first moments on air NBC's Best Time Ever made sure you knew this was a new kind of variety show.   The wait is finally over. It is Best Time Ever With Neil Patrick Harris.  For starters host and executive producer Neil Patrick Harris got an Oscar-winning actress to be his announcer.   For one night only your star guest announcer is me Reese Witherspoon.  But more importantly Harris and his crew cooked up a breathless blend of genres that move with the pace of a high-speed car chase. There were cute game-show-like contests with viewers pranks played on celebrities sing-along moments with a disco star and an obstacle course race ending with a trip down a zip-line. One of the most involved segments centered on a couple Harris seemed to pick from the audience at random until he revealed that he had secretly been pranking them at key moments in their lives.   Tell me the single biggest event that happened to you this year.  We got married.  You got married. I know.   See I know you guys got married.   You know how I know you got married?  How?  How?  I was not there.   Oh.  Oh.  No I was there. Take a look.   And there was a segment called Sing-along Live. That involved surprising viewers at home with the news that they were on live TV via a camera hidden in their homes with a chance to win 1000 by singing along with disco legend Gloria Gaynor.    Oh as long as I know how to love I know I will feel alive.   I have got all my life to live. I have got all my love to give.  That is it.   All these bits were stitched together with a kind of jokey dialogue that Harris employed when hosting The Oscars and the Tony Awards.   So Reese?  Yes?  Are you excited to be our first guest announcer?  Absolutely. I have been working really hard on my announcer voice.  Oh great let us hear it.  That was it.   Let us give that one an A for effort but a C for comedic content. All these gimmicks seem designed to keep viewers from changing the channel something old-school variety shows never had to worry about. Back in TV's early days producers like Ed Sullivan regularly built shows around a wide array of performers including a certain quartet from Liverpool.   Ladies and gentlemen The Beatles.   Oh yeah I will tell you something...  Straight up performance can feel old fashioned to modern audiences so series like American Idol America's Got Talent Dancing With The Stars and even The Tonight Show add elements of game shows talk shows and reality TV shows to make their programs feel more contemporary. Despite its earnest energy Harris's show drew lots of barbs on social media. One critic wrote on Twitter it was like David Letterman crossed with a gay Christmas cabaret. Still something about Best Timer Ever felt different and compelling. It is not a solid hit but fans of good variety shows should give it a chance. When so much of network TV seems safe and formulaic Best Time Ever deserves points just for daring to be unpredictable. I am Eric Deggans.    And I am telling you I am not going because I am the best man you will ever know. And there is no way I will ever ever go. No no there is no way no no no no way I am leaving without you. And you and you and you you are going to want me. 