 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Two episodes that is how long it took FOX to cancel its new drama Lone Star making the show the first casualty of the new TV season. While broadcasters are notorious for having little patience this time of year commentator Andrew Wallenstein says Lone Star is not the typical early victim.  Charles Darwin was not just right about evolution. His theories also hold true for the fall TV season. Every year it seemed like the weak shows were the first to get canceled which brought a sense of order to the universe. You know like when ABC 86ed its sitcom adaptation of the Geico cavemen ad. But this year was different. The stunner here is that Lone Star was touted by critics as one of the very best pilots in this year's crop.  Mr.   What do you need? How much do you want? You want a million? You want two million?  It stood out because of the originality of its story which followed a con man attempting to juggle two different lives and two different women.  Mr.   Why would you do this? Mr.   Because I am in love Dad. Mr.   Who are you in love with son your fake wife or your fake girlfriend?  Which is not to say the quick hook FOX just gave Lone Star was not justified. The series ratings were not just bad they were really really really bad. And so a search for meaning follows any tragic death and Lone Star's is no exception. The theories abound like the simple fact Lone Star faced off against some tough competition like Dancing With the Stars and Monday Night Football. Or you could point to the notion that Lone Star had complicated serialized storylines which did not tie into a neat bow at the end of each episode. But what is worse is that the demise of Lone Star forces us to confront some hard truths about the true nature of the TV audience. Like when you look at the ratings results of this year's new crop it is hard not to despair that the ones that succeeded stuck to the tried and true formulas. The new CBS sitcom Mike  Molly worked because it is the same dopey romantic comedy we have seen a thousand times already.  Unidentified Man 1   You finally called her? Why am I just hearing about this? Unidentified Man 2   Oh I am sorry. Have not you been following my Facebook page?   Or there is NBC's The Event...   ...which may fancy itself a spooky mystery but it is so clearly ripping off the recently departed favorite Lost.  Unidentified Man 3   What is going on? Unidentified Man 4   We do not know. Radar capability our entire system is down.  Do you know what I think really killed Lone Star? Here's what you need to understand about a TV pilot. It is the idea of a show what it might grow into as opposed to what it actually is. And critics responded to that because they saw the potential for an intimate character study of an antihero. But all the audience had to go off of was FOX's marketing. The commercials seemed to be setting up a very different kind of show one that emphasized Lone Star's Texas setting and soapier elements. In short it made it seem like the second coming of Dallas. But I do not get the sense American viewers are hungering for the return of Dallas. Then again we do not know what the audience is really thinking. Which is why the awful truth is we will never know what exactly killed Lone Star. Why do bad things happen to good shows? Unfortunately sometimes they just do.  Commentator Andrew Wallenstein writes for the Hollywood Reporter. 