 This is ALL PR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Say the name Judy Blume to almost any woman under a certain age and you' Her face lights up. She is transported back to her childhood self curling up with books she knows will speak directly to her to her anxiety about relationships - romantic ones yes but also with siblings and parents. For a new generation of girls Blume has entered a new medium. Believe it or not none of her books has been made into a feature film until now with the release of Tiger Eyes. Just like in the 1981 novel our heroine Davey deals with a lot more than just boy trouble. Her dad is shot and killed while minding his convenience store in Atlantic City.     I miss him. I miss him so much.    I know. So do I.   What are we going to do Mom?   I am going to figure that out.  The film follows Davey and her family as they figure it out. And as Judy Blume told us the making of the movie version Tiger Eyes was a family affair. She adopted it with her son.  My son Larry you know has always wanted to make this into a movie since he was 18 and it is taken 30 years I think. And I have passion to do it too because we were going to work on it together.  And I heard that it was actually difficult to get it made though.  It was not difficult to get it made. Someone came to us with a budget. It was not a large budget but it was enough to make this film and that was not the difficult part. The difficult part was finding a distributor who saw something in it and believed in it.  Because it does not quite fit the modern Harry Potter Hunger Games Twilight young adult world.  Well no it does not. It does not does it? Yeah. It is real life. But it' Well we do not know how to market this. Do we market it to teenage girls? That is one way of marketing it. Or do we market it to your nostalgic readers? And we cannot do both. And I said but that is the only way to do it because I could not pick one audience over the other.  And your son Lawrence Blume he said that what shocked me was that a big segment of the business knew who Judy Blume was but did not understand who she was. And part of it is that the film business is run mostly by old white men he says and some young ones do who did not grow up with her books.  I think he would take that back now.   I do not think he would take back the fact that I had all these wonderful fans out there that maybe the people in the suits did not understand. Larry made a fabulous little video for them called Who is Judy Blume? And it is so funny. It is people you know  Who is Judy Blume? And they tell their story about reading me whether it is Whoopi Goldberg or Joan Rivers or Chelsea Handler who owes me big time for the title of her book Are You There Vodka? It is Me Chelsea?  Right.   I mean it' Save that and show it at my memorial service because it will make everyone laugh.  Now your son is the director and it is interesting because the story Tiger Eyes actually mimics your lives in a way right? At one point you uprooted your family and went to New Mexico.  We did. Although when I was writing the book it had nothing to do with that and it is so interesting to see the movie now and I feel so differently was I you know when you are writing you really do not know where your ideas are coming from. I was a girl who lost her beloved father suddenly. He was not shot and killed he died of a heart attack. I was with him at the time. My mother lived 30 years after that and was never able to talk about that day. I learned very quickly that I could not say anything about it because it would just be so hard for her. My father was the parent who could talk to me or wanted to talk to me let us put it that way. You know kids do not always make it easy.  I am here for you if ever you want to talk about that. But the child does not always take them up on it.  And your books do a good job of sort of showing both sides of that. Even though it is from the point of view of the kid you get that there an unreliable narrator in a way. And you were writing these as a parent right? I mean did this kind of affect the way you thought about your kids?  Well I wish I could tell you that it all made me a better parent. I think that all those kids who grew up on my books think that I must have been the world's greatest parent and of course I was not. I was as imperfect as any parent. And you get older and you look back and you see the mistakes that you made and there is nothing that you can do except sometimes say to your kid I am really sorry about that. But you have to move on. And I think you know we have to forgive ourselves for the mistakes we make too the mistakes that we make with our kids.  Well Judy Blume thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you so much for having me.   The movie based on Judy Blume's novel Tiger Eyes opens today in select theaters. It is also available on demand. Now before we let Judy Blume go I had to ask her. Can she just tell what kind of person someone is by which of her books they say is their absolute favorite? Not surprisingly she had a story to share.   Oh are you that Judy Blume? I love your books.  Fudge.   I knew that he had grown up with Fudge. But guys surprise me all the time telling me that they read the quote girl books.   And while we are talking about books for young listeners we want to remind you about our latest pick for NPR's Backseat Book Club. It is called The One Only Ivan by Katherine Applegate. It is the story of a gorilla living in a mall who tries to save a young elephant from a similar fate. We want questions for the author from young readers age 9 to 14. So you can send them to Backseat Book Club at npr.org or tweet your questions to NPRBackseat. 