 zero wins four losses. And there he was today at the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution staring at his own life-size portrait.  That is amazing you know? A lot of great wonderful things happened to me but to have something like this happen is just unbelievable.  Tommy Lasorda did not get to the Smithsonian - or to baseball's Hall of Fame for that matter - on the strength of his curveball. He has spent 60 years in the Dodgers' organization 20  eight division titles four pennants two World Series championships. Of course Lasorda did not grow up dreaming of being a great big league manager.  When I was 15 years old I used to actually dream I was pitching in Yankee Stadium. Bill Dickey was my catcher. I looked over at Lou Gehrig at first and right field was Babe Ruth and center field was DiMaggio and then all of sudden I would feel my mother shaking me and saying wake up Tommy it is time to go to school. I said why did she take me away from that dream? It was so real. Then I was warming up in the bullpen in Yankee Stadium.  For real.  Yeah and they called me in to pitch to Yogi Berra. And I said I have been here many times but in my dreams and faced Yogi.   How did you do?  I got him out.  All the years before you made it up to the Majors were you always confident that you would have a career in the big leagues or where there times when you felt I would better find a job one of these days?  No my goal was to pitch in the big leagues. That was my goal. I started in the lowest league in baseball and I worked my way all the way up to AAA and then to the big leagues. And I never reached the level that I thought I would reach as a player but that is the way it goes. So then when I started from the bottom as a manager and I worked my way up to managing the Dodgers for 20 years.  You know I was thinking you have had such a long career with the Dodgers 60 years with the...  Well 60 years yeah.  And yet if back in the '40s and '50s you had been not in the Dodgers' organization which was a great organization but say with the Phillies or the Pirates somewhere at the cellar of the National League.  Well I was with the Phillies.  Maybe you know there was more room for playing in the Majors with those organizations.  Possibly.  I know. Would it have been worth it?  You know we are all put here for a reason and one little movement changes your way of life. For example leaving spring training. I was on the Pueblo roster and I went to the farm director Fresco Thompson and I told him I would like to go to Greenville same classification and he okayed it. Now if I did not go to Greenville I would have never met my wife. Changed my whole life.  And you have been with your wife almost as long as you have been with the Dodgers.  One year less.  One year less.  Yeah.  Just let me ask you about the portrait for a moment. Do you think that Mr. Kinstler has got the bat posed in such a way that it kind of narrows your trunk a little bit there and saying he is got that set up well so that we are getting a good take on your midsection?  All managers wind up with those.   Not just managers actually. Congratulations on this.  Thank you very much.  And happy 82nd birthday.  Thank you that is right. I appreciate you doing this.  Tommy Lasorda. His portrait by Everett Raymond Kinstler was unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington today which is also his 82nd birthday.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 