 If you are born in the 1970s or have children who were chances are you have imagined rain made of orange juice or storms of burgers falling from the sky. That would be because you love the book Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs. It is about a town where the weather is literally delicious. Today more than 30 years after the book was published a film version comes out in what the ads are calling mothering watering 3D. As our critic Bob Mondello tells us the movie goes beyond the scope of the book.  Wondering how the town of Swallow Falls got to be a place where it rains soup and snows mashed potatoes? Well Judi and Ron Barrett did not tell you in the book but it turns out an inventor named Flint Lockwood is responsible. When Flint was a little boy he invented lots of things that unfortunately did not work quite the way he would hoped.  Mr.   Remote control television.  Remote uncontrolled is more like it. He gave the TV legs and it wandered out the door.  Mr.   Monkey thought translator. .  Hungry hungry hungry hungry.  Monkey see do not have many thoughts. And spray on shoes do not come off. And  Mr.   Rat .  Hey what is going on little guy?  Well that is just not a good idea. Still a machine that turns water into food that could have possibilities if only the machine had not gotten accidentally shot into the stratosphere before Flint could figure out if it worked nearly knocked over a cute weather forecaster too on her very first broadcast.  Ms.   You hit me a rocket. Mr.   You kicked me in the face. Ms.   I said I was sorry.  The water into food machine made Flint a laughing stock even in the eyes of his father when it disappeared into a cloud. But that cloud he realizes when a pickle falls from the sky was wet.   They look up to see other foods falling too - cheese buns.  Mr.   That could only be  It is raining cheese burgers. The machine works. And once Flint learns to control it  soup to nuts which makes him pretty popular and does not hurt the weather forecaster's career either.  Ms.   Well those cheeseburgers were only the beginning because the breakfast system is on its way to Swallow Falls.  sunny side up.  She is fond of puns and starts talking about meteor showers and that is just the taste sorry of the script's wit. Also delicious is the way that filmmakers Phil Lord and Chris Miller incorporate visual jokes - the lamp Flint's built in his backyard looks downright grown up until you see its airlock is a shower curtain and its instruments repurposed toys. There is a veritable feast of food metaphors - Jell-O as trampoline a twisting tornado of spaghetti and the animators have the good sense to realize that if it were ever to snow ice cream   kids would almost certainly make snow angels lying face down.   Strawberry's my favorite.  All this could easily turn particularly sweet and . So it is good that the film brings some real world crunch to the story. Ethnic characters whose presence makes a point weather girl smart enough to hate being considered eye-candy. And a clear message about the downside of a society where food is over-abundant. Like most mainstream pictures these days Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs ends with a big action sequence turning into Raiders of the Lost Arby's when you wish it would serve up something less conventional. But by that time the filmmakers have also served up a little food for thought along with a lots of laughs. I am Bob Mondello.   This is NPR National Public Radio. 