 Former Vice President Dick Cheney's memoir In My Time has not been published yet. It comes out next week. But some journalists have gotten their hands on it and have been combing through it. Reporter Charlie Savage of the New York Times has made it through the book. He is written one story in the paper about it. Cheney says he wanted the U.S. to bomb a Syrian nuclear plant in June 2007. A few months later the Israelis bombed it. And Charlie Savage joins us right now. Hi welcome to the program.  Hi thanks for having me on.  Is that still the biggest single nugget of information you found now that you have made it to the end?  Well the whole book is full of nuggets and it is kind of hard to say what is the single biggest one of them. In one sense none of them are big. There is not a huge revelation here. Rather like a lot of Washington memoirs I would say this is - it is full of small new details new texture new spin on known events. And so that if you are very interested in the history of these events - whether they are recent like from the Bush administration or all the way back to the Watergate era and the Ford administration when he was White House chief of staff - it adds sort of greater color and understanding of important events in American history. So the fact that the Israelis wanted us to bomb the suspected nuclear reactor in '07 and we did not but then they did we knew all of that. The fact that Cheney was the only one inside Bush's Cabinet who thought that was a good idea and strongly urged it and everyone else thought he was wrong - which is why the president did not do it - that part of how isolated he was in thinking that we should bomb it that part was new.  Generally how would you describe the tone and - as Cheney puts it - the point or the perspective of this memoir?  Well it is a - accounting of his life and he has an extraordinarily long public career. And so he had a sort of panoramic view of a couple generations of American history from Washington. And he recounts a lot of the important events as he saw them. So like a lot of Washington memoirs he was right about everything. People who disagreed with him were fools and people who agreed with him were wise and brave. That is true of just about any Washington memoir you are going to read. It is true of this one too. He is not repentant about anything admits no errors. But because he was so involved in so much for so long I would say - as a connoisseur of Washington memoirs - at least this is much better than most of them. It is more interesting than most. Certainly it is better than Bush's.  I gather among the things he is not apologetic about are the weapons of mass destruction that supposedly were in Iraq the Valerie Plame story. I also understand that he is at pains to insist that he was not really running the show in the White House. But is it true that his place in the pecking order of intelligence briefings might suggest that he was at least co-equal with the president when it came to that?  Well he got the same briefing the president got but he also got extra questions and appendixes answered and so forth and he got this all before the president. And sometimes he would add stuff to the president's briefing from his own sort of extra stuff that he thought the president should see. When you said he is not sorry about the failure to find WMD in Iraq - I mean the more nuanced way of putting it is he says that the bad information they received about WMD stockpiles in Iraq was all the CIA's fault not his own doing and that nevertheless notwithstanding the fact that there were no such stockpiles the decision to go into Iraq was the right one made for the right reasons. And you know he has no apologies about that aspect of things.  How big a book is this by the way?  It is about 400 pages.  Oh that is not that big for the genre that you are describing.  It is certainly no Henry Kissinger multivolume study.  Well Charlie Savage thanks a lot for talking with us.  Oh thanks for having me.  Charlie Savage of the New York Times who has read through Dick Cheney's memoir In My Time. The book is published next Tuesday. 