 There is a new Caped Crusader coming to the movie screen and legions of Batman fans are howling about the choice. Filling out the bat-suit will be Ben Affleck who most recently directed and starred in the Oscar-winning film Argo. So why the Affleck backlash? To answer that I am joined by Glen Weldon. He blogs about pop culture for NPR. And Glen you are steeped in this world right? You are actually working on a book about Batman's allure in popular culture.  I certainly am yes.  Well this is all for the upcoming movie with Batman and Superman on the screen together for the first time. There is been a big buildup. What is the beef with this choice of Ben Affleck?  All right. Well let us stipulate that there is nothing more tiresome more churlish more predictable than a bunch of nerds getting their nose out of joint over the latest announcement of a superhero casting.  So stipulated Mr. Weldon.  Absolutely. You know this is something that happens every single time. There is no name they could have thrown out that would not have resulted this morning in a lot of tweets complaining. Now as far as I am concerned however we have already seen him give this performance. In 2003 he played Daredevil another dude whose dad was killed by gangsters who dresses up in a cowl who crouches on rooftops who delivers lots of chewy noir-inflected dialogue based on a comic by Frank Miller.  This is a man blinded by toxic waste am I right?  Exactly. It is the least of his traits...  Okay. Well let us take a listen. We have a bit of a clip of Ben Affleck as Daredevil.    Tell the guys at Rikers all about how you got beat by a blind man. Be like blood in the water.  Affleck's performance in that film was very stiff. It came off very silly. He cannot deliver that kind of steeped gravelly dialogue because the guy is a great actor and a really good director but when it comes to soul-deep hurting he just does not got it.  Can I just tell you Glen my favorite tongue-in-cheek tweet from last night? This is from the 65-year-old actor Richard Dreyfuss  You read for a part. You feel good about it. You feel confident. Then they cast Ben Affleck.  Yeah right. That was great.  Among the legions of the disappointed.  Yeah well I mean that is the thing. Here's hoping that he gets to use his Southie accent. Here's hoping he gets to say something like so Riddlah I have been stalking you for five blocks. You made one mistake. You pahked your cah too far from the bah. Hoping something along those lines.  You think that is in the cards?  I do not actually. You know it is going to be interesting. I think his Daredevil was a guy who walked around and glared from rooftops with a constipated look on his face and that is kind of basically what he is got in the cards here for Batman.  So you are not a happy camper?  No I just do not think - again if you ask me who should it have been I have got no idea. They were throwing out names like Ryan Gosling and Joseph Gordon Levitt. I do not know who it could have been but you know it is not my job. I am a nerd. I am supposed to complain. It is what we do.  And you do it so well.  Thank you.  Well let us scroll through a few Batmen of years past in the movies. So we had Michael Keaton in 1992.    I want you to do me a favor. I want you to tell all your friends about me.  What are you?   I am Batman.  And then there was Val Kilmer.    I have left Wayne Enterprises en route to the Bat Cave.  And there was George Clooney. And then for the last three Batman movies Christian Bale.   What the hell are you?   I am Batman.  Now I just bet that Michael Keaton sent Ben Affleck a bouquet of flowers this morning.  You think he knows what this experience...  He knows exactly what this was 'ecause this is exactly what happened when he was cast. There was the same level of nerd outrage. People were complaining about the shape of Michael Keaton's jaw because that is the only part of the character you can actually see and they were saying he was the wrong guy because before that he was an outright comedian. That performance still divides Bat fans. There is some who say it was good some who say really he was never the right guy. Let us give the guy the benefit of the doubt but let us be cautiously pessimistic.  As all good nerds are.  Exactly.  Glen Weldon blogs about pop culture for NPR. His upcoming book is  The Rise of Batman and the Triumph of Nerd Culture. Glen thanks so much.  Thank you.  Glen do you have a favorite?  Yeah but it is not one you have played. It is old-school Batman. It is Adam West.  Adam West.  He is the guy who got me into comics. It is silly. It is goofy. It is not remotely self-serious but it is a lot of fun.    Batman to Coast Guard. Batman to Coast Guard. There is a drifting submarine two miles east of Sandy Nose lightship. It is filled with human jetsam.  Do you get a little misty-eyed?  Come on come on. That is my guy.  