 How does Hollywood keep the momentum going after a summer that gave the world  Endgame and four other billion-dollar hits? Apparently not with superheroes. Here's Bob Mondello with his fall movie preview.  Three months until Thanksgiving and not a soul wearing spandex. How will the industry survive? There will let us note be a super villain the Joker but his movie catches him before he is terribly super.    My mother always tells me to smile and put on a happy face.  Just a disaffected guy in a clown get-up - but if folks flying in capes will be in short supply movie stars will still be flying in special effects movies sometimes into outer space.    Control we are getting that over.  Brad Pitt in Ad Astra which means to the stars to look for his dad.    Your father was experimenting with a highly classified material that could threaten our entire solar system.  While Pitt's going to the stars to fix that problem astronaut Natalie Portman will be coming back from orbit in Lucy In The Sky and learning that her biggest problem...    Lucy.  ...Is psychological reentry.    I am fine.  She is kind of not and she is not alone in being troubled. The folks in quite a few sequels are dealing with issues including Sylvester Stallone in a new Rambo called Last Blood...    The time has come to face my past.  ...Also Angelina Jolie in a new Maleficent called Mistress Of Evil.    Do not ruin my morning.  A pair of long-lost stoners is still confused in the Jay And Silent Bob Reboot.    Do not tell me you guys have no idea there is a new comic book movie being made of the old comic book movie you two are the basis for.  Less-troubled sequels include a revival of an apparently unkillable franchise.    Good morning angels.   Good morning Charlie.  Speaking of unkillable a Terminator sequel called Dark Fate brings back Linda Hamilton...    My name is Sarah Connor.  ...With someone new to protect.    Why do you care what happens to her?   Because I was her.  The new cloning flick called Gemini Man gives Will Smith that same problem...    I think know why he is as good as you. He is you.  ...Hollywood cloning its own clones. Do not want to kill the blockbuster buzz but there will also be films that are more down-to-earth from Marriage Story Noah Baumbach's tale of a stage director and his actress wife to Pedro Almodovar's Pain And Glory about a film director in mid-crisis and a slew of biopics.    Somewhere...  Renee Zellweger...    ...Over the rainbow...  ...Will be playing and singing Judy Garland in Judy.    ...Way up high.  Tom Hanks will be playing and singing Mr. Rogers in a film named after the kids show entertainer's theme song.    It is a beautiful day in this neighborhood.  And Cynthia Erivo will be playing - but happily not singing - renowned abolitionist Harriet Tubman in Harriet.    I made it this far on my own so do not you tell me what I cannot do.  Tubman was born a slave escaped and then went back to lead others to freedom - a real-life 19th century action hero.    Harriet welcome to the Underground Railroad.  More recent stories based on real life include Ford v Ferrari in which Matt Damon recruits Christian Bale for a little automotive project.    You are going to build a car to beat Ferrari with a Ford?   Correct.   And how long did you tell them that you needed - two three hundred years?   Ninety days.  .  Also quixotic a seemingly stonewalled investigation that ended up bringing the term waterboarding into public use Adam Driver heads up the tense procedural The Report.    They waterboarded 183 times. Everything they got from him was either a lie or something they already had.   If it works why do you need to do it 183 times?  The Report was written and directed by Scott Z. Burns who took a very different approach in his script for Steven Soderbergh's The Laundromat about money laundering.    They are getting away with murder.   Which is bad.   Bad? Bad - it is such big word for being such a small word.  It is the Panama Papers scandal as caper comedy. If you are up for a deeper-dive realism there is the documentary The Cave about Syrian women doctors who treat battlefield injuries while battling sexism themselves. And there are other films that flirt with reality in intriguing ways. Shia LaBeouf for instance based his script for Honey Boy on elements of his own life a child actor who develops anger issues living with an alcoholic father.    What is your mother got a job for?   Just in case.   In case what? She is filling your head full of fear. I pump you full of strength. I am your cheerleader honey boy.  LaBeouf plays the father in what is clearly a passion project. Edward Norton's passion project which he adapted directed and stars in is Motherless Brooklyn which takes a novel with an intriguing central character a detective with Tourette's...    I got Tourette's - I twitch and shout a lot -  - makes me look like a damn freak show.  ...And overlays it with a story about a ruthless public figure much like New York's master builder Robert Moses.    Power is knowing that you can do whatever you want and not one person can stop you.  Other book adaptations include The Goldfinch about a terrorist bombing that changes a boy's life...  DENIS O'  I know you were there and I know what else was in that room.  ...And the film The King adapts three of Shakespeare's history plays to put a reluctant Timothee Chalamet on the English throne.    Already I can feel the weight of this crown I wear.  Uneasy lies the head that wears that crown without dialogue by Shakespeare. Another actor who is played a king Black Panther's Chadwick Boseman will head a police manhunt in 21 Bridges. Queen  Slim is about a couple who become a...    Black Bonnie and Clyde.  And heading the cast of Martin Scorsese's The Irishman is what you would have to call mob royalty - Robert De Niro Al Pacino.    Hiya Frank. This is Jimmy Hoffa.   Glad to meet you.   Glad to meet you too even if it is over the phone. Well you know there is a situation going on now Frank. Big business and the government - they are trying to pull us down.  Does all this sound awfully dark? Well there are comedies too including a star-studded whodunit called Knives Out.    We understand to none of his demise the family have gathered to celebrate your father's 85th birthday. How was it?   The party? Pre-my dad's death? Oh it was great.  Also a World War II satire Jojo Rabbit in which Marvel director Taika Waititi plays a little boy's imaginary pal Adolf Hitler.    Hey Jojo my old friend.   Hi Adolf.   What is wrong little man?   They call me a scared rabbit.   Jojo Rabbit.   Let them say whatever they want. People used to say a lot of nasty things about me.  Walking a fine line here obviously - as is Parasite a satire from Korea about class warfare and Greener Grass a Sundance hit that shreds suburban cliches. These are chilly comedies. You might almost say cold a term that applies in a different context to the season's animated kid flicks. There is a lot of snow in them from Disney's Frozen 2...    Elsa go north into the unknown.  ...To Abominable the tale of a Himalayan critter...    There is a yeti on my roof.  ...To Arctic Dogs about a fox who dreams of being a sled dog...    What could possibly go wrong?   He could become a fox popsicle.  ...And to what is maybe the chilliest animated household anywhere The Addams Family.    Come now Gomez. Do not forget to kick your father goodnight.  Warmer by far is another family-mance  brought to the big screen for the first time in the fall's most luxurious costume drama.    The king and queen are coming to Downton.   What?  It had to be bigger for the big screen. That is how this works.    Will you have enough cliches to get you through the visit?   If not I will come to you.   Oh here we go.  Here we go indeed. Can you wait? I am Bob Mondello.  