 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.  Hollywood. Well no more. At the center of this story is a movie The Maiden Heist. It is a comedy starring three Oscar winners Morgan Freeman Christopher Walken Marcia Gay Harden and one Oscar nominee William H. Macy. The movie's wrapped and ready for theaters. There' You cannot see it. NPR's Cory Turner explains.  The Maiden Heist is a love story trapped in the body of a caper. Freeman Walken and Macy play security guards who have worked in the same art museum for so long that they have fallen in love with the art. When the museum announces that it is suddenly shipping much of its permanent exhibit to Denmark the three men conspire to steal their favorite pieces. Here they are practicing their repelling skills for the big break-in.  Mr.   You sure about this? Mr. WILLIAM H.   Of course I am sure. Let her rip soldier. Mr.   Good luck Roger. Mr.   Okay here goes.  Mr.   Roger are you okay? Mr.   I am not sure.  That is Christopher Walken dangling off the side of Freeman's apartment building stuck. The film is now similarly stuck or as William H. Macy puts it Mr.  We are waiting for a miracle now.  The Maiden Heist was financed by Bob Yari the money man behind a handful of modest box office successes including Crash which won the Academy Award for Best Picture. Yari got tired of depending on the big studio distributors to put his offbeat movies into theaters so he created his own distribution unit which was set to release The Maiden Heist last fall. The shoot went well no last-minute rewrites the movie wrapped without incident and headed to the editing room. But in June of last year 2008 producer Rob Paris noticed something was not quite right. Though the movie was set to hit theaters in November there had not been any talks with Yari about how the movie would be marketed. Mr.  You usually start to have those conversations you start working on your poster ideas your TV spots and there was nothing. And so we sort of thought you know each month went by we started getting more and more nervous.  Paris says it was two months later in August that he was told Yari's distribution company had hit a hiccup. The money Yari had set aside for what is known as PA  for prints and advertising  had dried up. Bob Yari. Mr.  The bigger funds hedge funds and other funds like that that were investing in independent-film PA kind of overnight they went away.  They went away because the U.S. along with much of the rest of the world had found itself in the middle of the worst recession in decades. The Maiden Heist had cost just under 20 million to make and Bob Yari believed it would take at least that much to market the film. William H. Macy. Mr.  If you spend a little bit of money you get nothing for it. You are kind of stuck. You have got to do a big campaign in order to get lucky.  A movie that hits theaters without marketing is like the proverbial tree that falls in the woods. It is still a movie even if no one shows up to watch it but it is also a financial disaster for everyone involved. Yari tried everything to raise the ad money. Mr.  Even putting the company up for acquisition or partial acquisition and even financing our library of films.  But Yari found no takers and his distribution company was forced into bankruptcy. That left few options to save The Maiden Heist. Among them go back to the big-studio distributors. There was just one problem. Yari had already sold the DVD and pay-TV rights for The Maiden Heist to Sony. And according to Yari that is a problem because Mr.  The general rule of thumb is you are not going to make your money back theatrically unless you have a runaway hit.  You make your money back when the movie lands on DVD and cable and no studio wants to put a movie in theaters without that ancillary safety net. As for Sony it owned the DVD and pay-TV rights but to a movie that had no marketing or theatrical distribution. If the studio had agreed to pick up the tab it would have been taking on even more risk but that did not keep Yari Paris and Macy from asking. Sony's response according to Paris was firm. Mr.  It is water under the bridge. We have taken the loss already. We do not really care to re-open this very painful chapter.  I reached out to Sony for its side of the story but was told the company had nothing to say on the matter of The Maiden Heist. Mr.  I have not been compelled to throw my head into the oven yet. Now that does not mean I will not.   Producer Rob Paris. Mr.  I guess if I had to frame one person for this for this heist it would be Bernie Madoff. There you go. There is the villain. There is the CEOs. It is the CEOs that took down The Maiden Heist. There you go. Now that is a third act.  William H. Macy is hoping for a different third act. Mr.  This film as not dead.  And he is right. Even if The Maiden Heist never makes it to a theater it will likely land on DVD and TV some day. Sony would not say when but when it does  Mr.  You can never tell. It just could tickle people's fancies and it will fly off the shelves.  Speaking of shelves there is a moment in The Maiden Heist when you realize that if their caper succeeds the three museum guards will have their beloved artwork all to themselves. No one but them will ever see those pieces again. In much the same way The Maiden Heist now sits on a shelf much loved by a few but waiting for an audience that may never come. Cory Turner NPR News.  Even if you cannot see The Maiden Heist you can watch a few scenes from the movie. They are at our Web site the new npr.org. 