 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  The word post-racial has been thrown around an awful lot over the past few years. Some eagerly embraced the term to help explain political and demographic changes taking place in America. Some dismissed the whole concept saying it is ridiculous to suggest that America has moved past issues of race.  And Toure joins me now. So glad you are with us. Welcome to the program.  Thank you. Now of course you know that post-racial and post-black are not synonymous they are not at all the same sort of thing.  And I was going to ask you that. What does that this term mean? What is the post-Black era?  Blackness is not necessarily the entirety of who they are. And it is not that there is some people who are post-black and some are not. We are in a post-black era where identity-freedom is infinity and you can be black however you choose. And as Skip Gates says if there is 40 million black people there is 40 million ways of being black. These concepts of authenticity and legitimacy are vanquished and bankrupt and illegitimate themselves.  But not really vanquished because America seems to ever be engaged in this debate about what it means to be black. Is someone actually black enough?  I mean I see there are self-appointed volunteer identity cops who want to talk about this person is not black enough. But for the most part we are starting to understand that these concepts are irrelevant and...  But the soul patrol has not gone away.  No...   These are ridiculous concepts. You can form a blackness for yourself and all forms of it are legitimate.  You look at the black experience as multifaceted as it is through various different prisms in this book. But I want to focus on politics and in particular the criticism that is being waged at President Barack Obama from the black community. And before we go on I want to take a listen to part of President Obama's interview that aired last night on BET.  There have been a handful of African-American leaders who have been critical. They were critical when I was running for president. So there is always going to be somebody who is critical of the president of the United States. That is my job in part is - particularly when the economy is going as badly as it is right now - people are going to have concerns and they should.  Is the way this is billed and presented is that not in itself somewhat of a double standard?  I think that it is also - speaks to what I talk about with the complexity of modern black America is that you would have a black president whom many black people are like I have questions about this guy I just do not accept him at face value I wonder about this guy.  And what is that based on?  Well I think a lot of it is based on policies. I think we are a bit surprised that he is not a black leader.  But he would say he is a black leader when you say he is not...  In fact he cannot do or will not do certain things because he is black. And the sort of reach out that a Bill Clinton might have done for Barack Obama it would seem that he is giving special favors.  You know I am looking at the last chapter in your book. And you note that there is a difference between fighting the power and trying to yourself become powerful. Were there people who confused that message based on the last presidential election?  I look at that and I think about the much smaller mountains that some of us that I and others are trying to climb. What are we reaching for that we are thinking maybe we cannot because racism will stop us? What else is it that we might be able to create succeed achieve?  Toure it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Thank you.  Toure is the author of Who' What It Means To Be Black Now. 