 When you have got a great actor who is written a great book sitting in your studio - in this case Jesse Eisenberg - at least one question is a no-brainer. Would you be up for doing a reading?  Yeah sure sure sure.  What about the - this is on page 185 - a post-gender normative man tries to pick up a woman at a bar.  Sure. OK.  Hey how is it going? Mind if I sidle up? I saw you over here sitting alone and I thought that is fine a woman should be able to self-sustain. In fact a lot of women are choosing to...  It goes on like that.   I noticed that you were about to finish your drink and I was wondering if I could possibly watch you purchase another one and at the risk of being forward if you would consider purchasing one for me?  The man may be post-gender normative but he is persistent to a point.  Oh that beer is refreshing. Thank you for throwing it in my face on this warm summer evening. OK OK. I am leaving. I am leaving. Thank you for your blunt rejection of me. It takes a lot of courage which you no doubt have in equal measure to any other human. Now if you will excuse me I am going the bathroom where I will cry silently in a stall questioning my body and texting my mom. But for now I thank you for your time which was equal in value to mine.   Jesse Eisenberg's new collection of stories is called Bream Gives Me Hiccups. That title comes from the first part of the book - a series of restaurant reviews Eisenberg writes in the voice of a privileged 9-year-old. The reviews are hilarious but gradually reveal a moving portrait of a lonely boy's bond with his single mom. All the stories seem to work on multiple levels like that. So I asked Jesse when he sits down to write what comes first - the poignant or the funny?  I start out with every play I have written with all the stories in here to write the funniest thing I could think of. And then it just becomes emotional I guess just 'ecause maybe that is how I was trained as an actor. You know when you are acting in something even if it is a comedy you are supposed kind of find the emotional truth of it. And so you know even when I am in a comedy you end up trying to find kind of what is driving a character. And it usually has something to do with something that is not that funny. And of course the - you know the juxtaposition of funny context and serious person dealing with funny context is what makes it funny.  So you think maybe from your dramatic background that is where we get these stories where there are these multiple emotional levels at play in almost a performative kind of way?  Yeah exactly. And some of these stories I have performed and they are as fun to perform as they are for me to kind of write. It feels like a kind of - like a further manifestation of the writing experience to perform them.  Because - well yeah there are a lot of things in here that are basically dialogues although they are sometimes you know over a telephone or email. One of the great ones is you have Alexander Graham Bell's - his first but also his second and third and fourth phone calls.  Yeah. I - when I was younger I heard a joke - and I was like - I was probably like 10 years old - I heard a joke on Comedy Central which I thought was the funniest thing which was something along the lines of like - the comedian said I set my ringtone to Beethoven's Ninth because at the time you know cellphone ringtones had just come out. And one of the options was like you know a kind of you know a cheap MIDI file of Beethoven's Ninth. And he said I wonder when Beethoven - I wonder if Beethoven when sitting around to write his ninth thought you know it is going - it is going to play and - you know and in 500 years and somebody's going to go oh Jesus it is my mom. You know - and I thought - so - and I was reading about Alexander Graham Bell's first phone call I thought you know how funny it is that you know now you know we not only take the technology for granted but we kind of resent it when somebody calls us you know 'ecause it is such a burden now compared to the ease with which we can communicate otherwise. So I thought it would be funny to see how quickly that could possibly devolve. So it is not the first phone call that devolves into boredom but it is really the third.  Some of the best humor in this collection comes out of how - we see people who are - what they are doing what their jobs are it defines their thought patterns like a marriage counselor heckling a basketball game. And again his profession kind of defines the way he does that.  Yeah exactly because I always thought like I - how do people go to basketball games who are used to conflict resolution when they are standing you know with you know 14000 other people who are screaming for conflict? And what would that person have been like at - you know in the Coliseum? I always think about that because my dad is such a sweet and peaceful academic. And I always think what would my dad have been like in the - like he could not have fit into what we see you know in the Coliseums and you know with the gladiators. Like what would he have done? There must have been people like that. And like what was the experience like for them? We never hear about people like that people who are kind of like quietly avoiding the - you know the fights in the Coliseum.  So you are going to root for one gladiator while emotionally validating the other...  Yes exactly and getting skittish at the sight of blood.   You know most people we mention know you from your acting roles. I read that you are going to be making Bream into a series for Amazon. So are you going to be just a writer? Will you be performing? Will you be directing?  I hope to do - like potentially all of that. You know I love the variety of what I do maybe even more than the individual elements of it. So I love to be able to do different things. I think it makes me better at each of them because it keeps it fresh for me. And it makes me try harder 'ecause things are new to me and I think informs each other.  So what next do you have to conquer?  I am climbing Everest and...   Awesome.  No I mean I genuinely feel after I finish anything like I will never be able to do anything again. And I do not mean that with any kind of like false humility. It is like a genuine fear which i think I am probably not alone in especially for you know people in my position who are freelance. And irrespective of success you feel like something ends and you have to find something new. And so always - yeah writing - I am hoping to do another play.  Jesse Eisenberg's new book is Bream Gives Me Hiccups. It is been really great speaking with you. Thank you.  You too Arun. Thanks so much for having me. 