 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Noah Adams. The season of summer movie blockbusters is coming to a close having raked in some 4 billion at the box office. Audiences were left Transformer-ed as well as Up-ed Hangover-ed Star Trek-ed and Harry Potter-ed. Traditionally cooler weather brings quieter films and Oscar hopefuls. Bob Mondello has a selected preview of Hollywood's fall movies.  Quiet time at the cinema will include 18th-century poetry dramas about relationships and in the movie 2012 the end of the world as we know it.  Mr.   People have the right to fight for their lives  The calendar of the ancient Mayans ends three years from now and that is enough for the folks who blew up world capitols in Independence Day. In 2012 they will be bringing plagues of meteors to the party so be prepared to duck. Also surviving apocalypses will be Bruce Willis in Surrogates Viggo Mortensen in The Road and Elijah Wood in the Tim Burton's animated film 9. The rest of Hollywood will be hewing a little closer to real life but there is still suspense to be had in say Mira Nair's biographical film Amelia based on the life of aviatrix Amelia Earhart.  Ms.   I am going to fly around the world. Mr.   It cannot be done. Ms.   Well let us change that. Mr.   If you miss this island you are out of fuel with 2000 miles to go. Ms.   I will make it.  Hilary Swank looks so much like the real Amelia Earhart that the director was able to interweave actual newsreel footage in the film. Biopics not having that option include Coco Before Chanel The Young Victoria and Informant! in which Matt Damon plays corporate whistleblower Mark Whitacre a guy so eager to be helpful to the FBI that it kind of gets in the way of his going undercover.  Mr.   Would you be willing to wear wire? We need your help. Mr.   30 a.m. I am approaching the entrance to the office. Good morning Ms. Taylor secretary. Mr.   You do not really need to narrate the tapes for us when you Mr.   Absolutely not a problem.  Mr.   Once it starts it is going to be intense. Now what is he doing? Mr.   I told him the camera was in a lamp. Mr.   No no.  If your taste in biography runs to something a bit more masterpiece theaterish there is also the story of a short-lived English poet. John Keats is pictured in Bright Star as a certifiably incurable incurable romantic.  Mr.   I had such a dream last night. I was floating above the trees with my lips connected to those of a beautiful figure. Ms.   Whose Lips? Were they my lips?  The makers of the Bright Star hope their doomed poet was right and that a thing of beauty is a joy for at least a few weeks at the multiplex. For longer-lasting romance teenage girls have the latest in  New Moon about a high school student and the vampire she loves.  Ms.   I love you. Mr.   You are my only reason to stay alive if that is what I am. I promise never to put you through anything like this ever again. This is the last time you will ever see me.  Uh-huh. Well not if New Moon makes as much money as Twilight did. Other teen romances include the film An Education in which a 16-year-old schoolgirl is wooed by an older man and Jennifer's Body in which a high school student seduces and then eats her boyfriends. And if that is not your idea of romance there is a documentary called A Love Story well  A Love Story.  Mr.  This is Michael Moore. I am here to make a citizen's arrest of the board of directors of AIG. We are here to get the money back for the American people. I got more bags 10 billion probably will not fit in here.  Other documentaries include No Impact Man about a New Yorker who takes his environmentalism really seriously. And This Is It a Michael Jackson concert movie using rehearsal footage shot just before his death. And looking for a piece of that same music movie audience will be a remake - if you liked this    Fame I am going to live forever  Producers are hoping you will like this.    Fame I am going to make it to heaven  A hip-hop inflected version of Fame for the kids of the generation that saw the first one in high school. And for even younger kids there is an origins story for a beloved children's novel explaining how a small town' cloudy with a chance of meatballs.  Mr.   Before my little town fell on hard times all anyone could afford to eat were sardines. And because sardines are super gross Mr.   Gross. Mr.   This was my chance to show everyone what I was made of. Conversion of water into food. It really works! I love it.  Oh. Mr.   Mama mia.  Other kid flicks include Disney's first animated African-American princess in The Princess and the Frog Fantastic Mr. Fox voiced by the likes of George Clooney and Meryl Streep and a live action version of a beloved tale that Maurice Sendak told in gorgeous pictures and just 10 sentences about Max and the vivid imagination that takes him Where the Wild Things Are.   You are now the king and you will be the truly great king.    Hey  what is your first order of business?  It is a wild rumbling star!  Fantasy is what Hollywood regularly serves up. Realism is rarer  the province mostly of low-budget independent films. The most heralded of the fall is the Sundance hit Precious about an overweight teenager.  Ms.   My name is Claireece Precious Jones. I want to be on the cover of a magazine. But first I want to be in one of them BET videos.  Precious has her dreams but very little else in life.   You are a dummy. Do not nobody want you do not nobody need you.  He is 15. You are still in your junior high school and you are pregnant with your second child.  Precious leads a parade of films with serious themes. And there is another parade of films with serious directors - including the Coen Brothers with the quirky comedy A Serious Man Pedro Almodovar with the film noir Broken Embraces and Rob Marshall the guy who made Chicago this time directing a musical about a director who turns to the women in his life for inspiration.  Nicole Kidman Penelope Cruz and perhaps because there is a song called Be Italian in the score Sophia Loren. As Loren makes an entrance in the movie trailer the music becomes a fanfare and the singer and everyone else turns her way as if a goddess has arrived - and of course one has.   Be a singer. Be a singer. Be a . Be a   Forty-six years ago Federico Fellini called this story 8 12. Add music and it becomes nine. And the way the studio is beating the Oscar drums it had better get at least that many nominations. I am Bob Mondello.   Live  may become your life.  We have trailers of the new movies as well as other movie coverage and reviews at the Arts  Life section of npr.org. 