 The first time Mike Birbiglia wrote directed and starred in a film he played a stand-up comic. It was not a huge stretch for him. He is a stand-up comic. His new movie Do not Think Twice does not stray too far from that model. It is about an improv comedy troupe a lot like the one in which he got his start. Well that is a lot of navel-gazing for one filmmaker. Happily NPR critic Bob Mondello says Birbiglia is keeping it funny.  They call themselves The Commune and that feels right - six young comics working as one doing improv in Manhattan where if you are lucky someone from television will spot you. One night it looks like The Commune might get lucky.    We are going to hold 10.   Wait. Why?   Why?   I called . He is bringing over some producers from Weekend Live!  Nerves are natural. In this case all eyes turn to one guy.    Hey Jack do not showboat out there.   What are you talking about? Why would I do that?   You know you always do that. Anyone from the industry shows up you turn into a one-man audition.  But now's not the time. The audience is waiting. So...    Hi I am Sam.   Miles.   Allison.   Lindsay.   Jack.   And we are The Commune.    In fact everything you see tonight is going to be improvised. And it is all about you guys. So did anybody out there have a particularly hard day?  Someone did.    Yeah I saw my dad for the first time in 10 years today.   Really where?   He drives a taxi and I just randomly got into his cab.    Fact-checking...    You got into a taxi. You did not know it was your dad and then you said hi Dad.   Yeah I said hi Dad.   Well OK.    Wow.   Hop in.   Oh.  And they are off - troupe leader Miles and the others doing the improv thing very amusingly feeding off each other listening bouncing ideas.    I have abandonment issues. My father left me so I basically only relate to men through sex.    That is challenging for me to hear.   When Jack pops in as expected his approach is no less funny but it is not about bouncing off the others.    As the president of the United States of America...    I believe that it is not only my duty to find your father but also have him pick you up in a cab and take you to your destination.  Jack apologizes afterwards but his showboating gets results - an audition for Weekend Live! at which point these folks who are so skilled at improv must improvise. What would happen to The Commune if one of them were to become a breakout success?    For years I was like it is either Jack or Miles but probably Jack.   Miles is played by filmmaker Mike Birbiglia as a sad sack with a wicked sense of humor. Jack is played by Keegan-Michael Key as an opportunist with a conscience and they are surrounded by folks who are terrific at the improv thing and who in fact did club dates together to develop some of the material you see them doing on screen. Do not Think Twice is structured to be about what fame does to relationships what chasing fame does to the few who find it and to the many who do not. But mostly it is a celebration of improv. At the beginning of the film the cast lays out the forum's three rules. First say yes meaning buy into whatever reality your partner presents you with. Second remember that it is all about the group not about you. And finally do not think. Get out of your head. Live in the moment - all good advice on stage or in life or as it happens in movies where for a snappy 92 minutes Do not Think Twice manages to convince you it is following those rules to the letter. I am Bob Mondello. 