 The new video game No Man's Sky is big. For one thing its computer-generated universe holds some 18 quintillion star systems and it is one of the most-hyped games in years. The creators were featured in The New Yorker and appeared on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert. But is the game any good? Chris Suellentrop and JJ Sutherland of the podcast Shall We Play A Game? share their first impressions.  This is not a review.  The game is just too big. We have not even finished it.  And I am not sure I ever will.   Life support systems activated.  Or whether you ever can or what it even means to finish a game that is the size of the physical universe.  And Chris they are able to make this game that absurdly large by letting an algorithm build the world rather than doing everything by hand. It is called procedural generation. It is not unique to No Man's Sky but this is the first time it is been used to create a virtual world this large. It is really a technical feat.  And because the virtual universe is so vast your experience of it at least as far as we have gotten will make you feel quite small. You are very alone in this vast space.  And I do want to say it is beautiful. The science fiction aesthetic we really do not see that much anymore. It is rooted in optimism - more Arthur C. Clarke then cyber-punkish William Gibson.  And because of the way the game is built you can run across a planet jump in your ship and fly to the stars and there is not a single cut or edit or pause. It feels completely seamless.   All that is true. It is pretty. The music is great. The ambition - also great. But to me it ends up feeling like a vast universe where nothing really happens or matters.  Things happen. I have mined for elements. I have talked to aliens. I have shot down enemy ships.  Sure Chris but to what purpose? I mean the game starts and instead of flying around this majestic universe you are stuck on some planet and you have to get the materials to fix your broken spaceship. You do not know who you are. You do not know where you are. You do not know why you are there. You do not know anything really. And then - and this was the most frustrating part to me. It makes you walk in real-time mind you 10 minutes to get to the resources I needed to fix my ship.  I agree with you. The walking in the beginning of the game can be a little tedious.  Tedious - it took me hours to fix my ship - hours.  No Man's Sky is a game that is kind of like Minecraft. It does not tell you what to do. It asks you to explore the terrain and experiment to learn the rules.   Sure but when you get to space - right? - so you are in space. It is going to be this awesome huge fantastically large universe. And what do you have to do? You have to gather more stuff to fix your ship again or to power your drive or whatever. It is a giant game of crafting. It is just making stuff just to make stuff.  Sure but you are also exploring. It is part of a whole genre of video games that are about exploration and creating a mood - in this case one of serenity beauty awe at the vastness of space and a dash of existential despair.  Frustration and boredom at the meaninglessness of my life in the face of a vast incomprehensible universe - mission accomplished.  It is pretty JJ. Not every game involves blowing things up.  True Chris I know that is true. But listen. I am 10 or so hours in and I still do not know what to do or why anything is the way it is. As someone once said who am I? Why am I here?  There is the central task of flying to the center of the universe or galaxy or whatever it is and there are hints about something a great person or a great power being there.  But do I have to get there by constantly doing the same thing over and over again the same monotonous and fruitless work? I have quit jobs like that.   Remember. This is not a review. We have not finished the game yet.  Yet.  Chris Suellentrop and JJ Sutherland are the host of the podcast Shall We Play A Game? 