 The breakout star of Crazy Rich Asians goes by one name Awkwafina. Clever and profane she catapulted to Internet fame back in 2012 when she released a music video about - and this might offend some people - a slang word for her genitalia.    My  like a operatic ballad. Your  like Grandpa's cabbage.  And we should note for our listeners that word comes up again and it may be sensitive for some. Born and raised in Queens Awkwafina is unapologetic about being a rapper an Asian-American woman and as NPR's Mallory Yu explains connecting with her audience.  When Awkwafina first started as a performer she did not want the burden of representing all of Asian-America.  No one wants to be the Asian. They want to be the artist you know?  Now it is a responsibility she is proud to have.  The thing that I have always done is aggressively been myself. And I think that by being yourself you do not really dictate what an Asian-American is in 2018. You just add to what we are as a diverse people.  And for her the reaction to Crazy Rich Asians so far has been incredible.  People walk out of the theater and their eyes are swollen from crying. And for some people it resonates so deep. And for me at least it is the power of representation.  She says she knew this movie would be big from the second she heard it would be made.  You know at first it was just raw excitement. It was not even oh my God I got to get in it. It was just wow that is so cool.  She did get in the movie as Peik Lin Goh the Singaporean best friend to main character Rachel Chu. She acts as Rachel's confidant guide and stylist.    These people are so posh and snobby. They are snoshy .   Yeah but Nick's not like that.   Even if he is not I guarantee you the family is which is why tonight you need to not look like Sebastian of The Little Mermaid. She is a best friend that I wish I had. She is honest. She is real. She has humility even though she does have money.  For those who have read the book Awkwafina's interpretation of her character originally written as a Singaporean socialite might come as a surprise. And she says it was a surprise for her too.  I really had to watch the movie to understand what I had done with Peik Lin because it did not make sense to me. I think I just hit the ground running while we were filming. JON M.  In my opinion she fully knew what she was doing. I mean she did not just break the mold of Peik Lin. She shatters it throws champagne all over it and glitter and in her heels steps all over it.  That is director Jon M. Chu.  In the book it is a completely different character. I mean she is like a Singaporean like through and through then her sort of tour guide through the city. But when you have Awkwafina you got to let her stretch. You got to let her be who she is.  Because Awkwafina can only be entirely aggressively herself. Before her acting she was best known for her rap.    And my  a chrome Range Rover. Your  hatchback '81 Toyota.  There is no special story to her moniker. It was a joke amongst teenage friends.  Then people actually started calling me that in real life. And so that was a mistake. But you know at least it is memorable.  Born Nora Lum the 29-year-old Queens native makes a distinction between herself and her persona. Awkwafina she says is a wild id with boundless confidence able to say exactly what she thinks.  I do believe there is a duality between Awkwafina and Nora. I would not be able to perform onstage without Awkwafina. Nora could not perform onstage. So I you know all the neuroses all the self-consciousness that comes with adulthood Awkwafina does not have that.  That allows her to rap about whatever she wants - growing up in Queens being Asian-American soda taxes - with a whole lot of words that are not exactly FCC-friendly.  I made an agreement with myself when I first started that I will never try to push my music to a mainstream audience because I enjoy having a small group of people that totally get it.  It took her family a little longer to come around.  My dad had never really been that quintessential Asian dad ever until My  came out. And that is when all of a sudden he was like well you should go become a sonogram technician.  She understands her dad just wanted what was best for her.  He did not want me to end up in some credit hole chasing dreams that would not exist. And so that is why it was very important for me to just kind of not argue with it and to show him that I believed it would work.  So far early box office numbers for Crazy Rich Asians indicate that it did. And with at least two more books in the series the movie's based on fans can expect to see more of Awkwafina's Peik Lin. Mallory Yu NPR News.    Give it time. I am gon' make the city so proud. Let me testify. 