 If you are a fan of horror movies or books you may be familiar with the trope of the demon spawn. You know the sweet little kid who undergoes a horrible change. Well the new novel Breed turns that on its head. In this tale it is the parents who undergo a monstrous transformation.  Everyone says having kids changes everything. Everyone knows that when you have kids you change. So you take that idea and you marry it to undergoing some really outre medical procedure and you see how far those changes can go. And they are really - they become beasts.  That is author Scott Spencer and that medical procedure is an infertility treatment gone totally wrong. It is also the launching point for Spencer's new novel which he writes under the pseudonym Chase Novak. His main characters an elite New York couple are desperate to get pregnant by any means possible. And so they travel to Eastern Europe and undergo a radical treatment.  They become dangerous. They become capable of hideous violence and even cannibalism.  And it is sad because the children of course they love their parents and fear their parents. And I think you capture that so well about that relationship from a child's point of view - how vulnerable you are to your parents.  And the parents really love those kids. They are not just one thing. Those parents do everything they can for those kids. They make them their little dinners and walk them hand-in-hand to school. And loathe themselves for their wild bestial thoughts that descend upon them as the day turns into night.  It is the first book I have read in a while where the parents lock the kids in their rooms literally for their own good. Not because they do not what them to get out.  No they do not want them to get out and they do not want to get in.  Now how did this idea first come to you?  Well the idea of  - the whole idea of people coping with infertility comes not from my own experience as a father but I have so many friends who have struggled with that and I watched them go through so many procedures. And the pathos and the difficulty of that and the toll that it took on their personal lives the toll that it took on their marriage - it stuck with me forever. And the second place that it comes from is my own childhood fears that I just was not safe in my own house.  Oh can we follow up on that? What happened at home?  Well I mean I hate to say it because my parents were completely blameless. They were just as sweet as can be and they did love me. But there is a time in a child's life and I do not think I am the only one I know I am not the only one who felt this when you realize that you know A they are separate people and B that they have a life that does not include you and C they are very strict about your bedtime and why are they so interested in getting you out of there? And my imagination just started to spin and spin and spin and the only thing I could come up with was that they were planning to do me in in some way.   And I did get past this but it was not easy. And it lasted for a long time. And it was an idea that remained compelling to me because what could be more destabilizing than to feel that the only people who you really must trust in the world are not trustworthy?  And you know in dealing with infertility it is such an emotional and serious issue for people. And how did you balance the subject matter with the genre? You know essentially a kind of readable horror story.  Well I do not think that horror stories have to be just about things that are silly. I think that the things that make horror stories frightening is that they are about things that are very serious. But it pushes it to the edge and you explore the darkest possibilities of the story. So I did not really feel there was a conflict. I think that in any good story something important should be at stake.  Now this book - on the cover of the book it says from a new name in horror Chase Novak. And...  It is a very very new name in horror.  It is a very very new name in horror. It is in fact new to you right?  It is new to me. It is new to me because I published so far 10 novels under the name which is Scott Spencer. And I understand that you know after you write 10 novels and you publish suddenly something under a different name there is gonna be you know inevitably some curiosity about why did you change your name. But I have always and I really mean always wanted a second identity. I mean who would not want to be someone else and also remain yourself and be able to travel back and forth between these two people? And the other reason is that I have been assuming new identities my whole writing life. Especially when I write novels in the first person which I have the narrator do and say things that I need the reader to believe. That let us say I burned down my girlfriend's house or I ran for Congress or that...  And you are afraid that your book Endless Love and Waking the Dead.  Yes and then finally Chase Novak stepped forward because he was willing and actually eager to go places in a novel that Scott Spencer just could not be able to reach. You know Scott Spencer's limited but the fact that he stands on top of actually maybe he is buried beneath this tottering stack of pages he is already written. And Novak had nothing on his mind but this sort of mania to follow the nightmare logic of these thoughts and memories. In other words Spencer could not have written Breed. It was up to Chase Novak.  Now I am not sure how to say goodbye. Chase Novak slash Scott Spencer thank you for talking about the book with us.  Well thank you for having me on. It is really been a pleasure.  The new novel is called Breed and you can read an excerpt of it at npr.org. 