 Grandfathered and The Grinder - those are the names of two new comedies that debut together on Fox tonight both about middle-aged men trying to get their lives together. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says both shows make fun of their charming but aloof leading men.  On Grandfathered John Stamos plays Jimmy Martino. He is a handsome 50-year-old womanizing bachelor who also happens to be super cool. How do we know he is super cool? Because his soundtrack says so. When he feeds women lines about wanting to settle down and raise a family Bruno Mars and a horn section back him up.    Do not get me wrong I love my life. But I would give it all up just like that for a family.    Hey hey hey oh. Stop.  Of course this is a network TV sitcom so Jimmy's nonsense about settling down is soon tested when an awkward young guy walks into the restaurant he owns and breaks some life-changing news to him.    My mom is Sara Kingsley. You dated for a while in 1989. After you guys broke up my mom discovered she was pregnant with me. Oh one more thing. This is Edie your granddaughter.  At this point you can probably guess the rest of what happens in Grandfathered which would be subtitled how Jimmy gets his groove back with the family he never knew he had. Stamos works his trademark George-Clooney-if-he-stayed-on-TV charm. He is a man-boy trying to mature by helping his son. The show is predictability is balanced by great casting. The always-excellent Paget Brewster plays Jimmy's ex Sara who is written like a typical TV scold. She is nagging and always critical. Producers try to make this tired trope look cool by having the character call herself out.    Stop making me say lame things like that. I am cool. I watch Portlandia. I almost went to Coachella last year until I decided not to.  But you do not solve the problem of a stereotype by simply pointing it out. Another super cool 50-something looking for a new life is Dean Sanderson Jr. Rob Lowe's character on The Grinder. Dean is the dashing star of a popular TV show about an ace lawyer called The Grinder.    Previously on The Grinder...   Why do not you say that again so that everyone can hear you?   I was not on the rooftop.   She was not on the rooftop.  His brother Stewart played by Wonder Years alum Fred Savage is an actual attorney who is not handsome or cool especially when speaking in court.    Your Honor my client Victor Ramirez has resided at 887 Oak for nine years and on June 5 landlord Avril T. Krantz attempted to raise monthly rent to 750 violating section 2-98 of the Idaho general statute.   I have a question. Have you ever talked before?  Older brother Dean thinks he can help. After his show The Grinder goes off the air Dean decides to find meaning in life by joining his brother's law practice. When Stewart objects Dean drops an argument worthy of The Grinder asking him would not you want to have a heart attack next to ER star Noah Wyle?    You do not think Noah Wyle could step in and help?   Yes he could help by calling a doctor.   So you would rather go into cardiac arrest next to someone who did not a play doctor on television rather than Noah Wyle who did and probably picked stuff up along the way?  Lowe is perfect as a clueless self-absorbed actor trying to be a good guy. And his show is a good match with Stamos's program about a clueless self-absorbed restaurant owner trying to be a good guy. Still the stories in these pilot episodes are too formulaic. These shows need to give their strong supporting cast more room to shine especially the thinly-written female characters. If they can pull off those changes while holding onto their stars' charm maybe both shows will draw enough viewers to give these man-children a few more seasons to grow up. I am Eric Deggans. 