 Actress Theresa Saldana died Monday. Her four-decade career included roles in movies like Raging Bull and I Wanna Hold Your Hand. She starred in the 90s TV show The Commish. But as NPR's Andrew Limbong reports she was best known as a victim of violent crime who became an advocate for others.  In Raging Bull Theresa Saldana was cast in a small part as Lenore LaMotta the put-upon wife of Joe Pesci's character Joey.    Are you going to start with me now?   When people are talking you do not interrupt. It is none of your business especially if it is my brother and his wife. It has nothing to do with you. Now get out of here. Go inside. Get out. Take the baby inside.   Come on. Let us leave the grouches here OK?  The Brooklyn-born actress' career was on its way up. Then in March of 1982 she was attacked violently by a man who had become obsessed with her. He stabbed her 10 times. She recovered physically but found the trauma of the incident hard to deal with. Saldana turned the story around. She starred in a movie inspired by the incident titled  The Theresa Saldana Movie.    Operator it is an emergency. I need the paramedics please.   I cannot breathe.  She spoke about the movie to NPR in 1984.   As you see in the film the period when I finally meet other victims is when I take a giant step forward towards help and that is pretty common with victims. A lot of people feel as though they are the only person in the world who have been through such a thing. When you meet with other people you realize that you are not alone and it is easier to cope with when you are not the only one who is been through it.    Would not it have been better for us if we would known each other before this?   We have really been lucky.   Why do not we try and get that across to other people?   Other victims?   There have to be thousands who feel just the way we do who will be helped if they talk to another victim.  Saldana founded Victims for Victims a support and advocacy group for those affected by violent crimes. She was also steadfast when years later the man who stabbed her and continued to send her threatening letters from jail was up for parole. She said this to NPR during that time.   I have no intentions of allowing this man to kill me and I do not want to live a life of fear and have my entire family live a life of fear.  Her attacker remained in jail. Saldana continued to work on screen beyond this. Most notably she starred in the 1990s TV show The Commish for which she received a Golden Globe Nomination. She was 61-years-old. Andrew Limbong NPR News. 