 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Now a review of a novel that first made an impact in the mid-'90s. It was written by the poet Thani al-Suwaidi of the United Arab Emirates. The novel was first published in Arabic in 1994 and stirred up a critical storm. Now it is been translated into English by William Hutchins and Alan Cheuse has this review.  In this short novel less than 90 pages in this edition including a more than 10-page scholarly introduction by the translator we meet El Diesel. Heshe is a djinn or demon born of the vast oil deposits beneath the Middle Eastern sands and then born into a fisherman's family on the coast of the Emirates born as a transgendered child who grows up to become a highly praised musician and performer. Told by the demon child as a young man to a muezzin in a local mosque the story unfolds in a series of vertiginous riffs on childhood on village life on commerce on government on the power of music all of it built of powerful images out of desert life which the narrator freely associates on producing a sort of Arab surrealism with a deep foundation in local folklore. Here's just a taste of it a riff on the rising sun this sun the Diesel says that has from pre-eternity wept light while we see and warm ourselves by its tears believing them to be smiles of laughter. It sleeps just as we do and no one asks who falls asleep first - us or the sun - because when it sets the sun may stretch out in bed. Its red blush may be a sign to her lover who lives on Earth to climb up her last rays and sleep with her. This little work of fiction with its wild metaphors and surprising turns seems as tipsy as a dancer with too many drinks. It celebrates the Dionysian element in Arab culture we have seen much too little of these recent decades.   That is Alan Cheuse with a review of the new translation of the novel The Diesel by Thani al-Suwaidi. Alan's most recent book is Paradise or  A Trio of Novellas. 