 And now Ray Bradbury's classic is being released in the form of a graphic novel. NPR's Lynn Neary has that story.  When Ray Bradbury was 15 years old he saw images of books being burned in Hitler's Germany. Mr.  It killed my heart and killed my soul and the memory of Hitler burning the books caused me to sit down and write Fahrenheit 451.  Bradbury's novel imagines a future where firemen do not put out fires but rather set them in order to destroy books. It is the story of one fireman Montag who meets a strange young girl named Clarisse and begins to doubt the morality of his mission. In 1966 the book was made into a film starring Julie Christie and Oskar Werner.  Ms.   Tell me. That number you wear what does it mean? Mr.   Oh Fahrenheit 451. Ms.   Why 451 rather than 813 or 123? Mr.   Fahrenheit 451 is the temperature at which book paper catches fire and starts to burn.  Though the movie made a few significant departures from the book Bradbury supported director Francois Truffaut's interpretation of his story and now he is given his full backing to the graphic adaptation. Bradbury says the idea excites him. Mr.  Because I have been a collector of comic strips since I was nine years old. Buck Rogers came into my life in October of 1929. So you see I have a strong interest in illustration and graphic novel is part of my life.  In graphic novels the art takes over a lot of the work from the writing. A good graphic novel says Glen Weldon happens when there is a tension between the text and the image. Weldon a book reviewer and blogger on npr.org says a graphic adaptation of a novel like Fahrenheit 451 is more than just an illustrated version of the original. Mr.  You are taking this prose  and in the case of Fahrenheit 451 it is Bradbury prose so it is very rich it is very evocative it is filled with very figurative language  and you are transforming it. You are not simply taking Bradbury's prose cutting and pasting it into a book and running pictures around it.  The artist who adapted the novel Tim Hamilton says initially he found the idea of taking on such a well-known book intimidating. Hamilton did not collaborate with Bradbury but he did get some sense of what the author thought the book should look like. Mr.  He wanted the book to be the future as seen through the eyes of the '50s. And I agreed that it should not look like a bizarre future that you would not recognize because I feel Fahrenheit is kind of a fable for any time.  Hamilton says figuring out what worked best visually and what had to be cut was like a puzzle. Mr.  I sat at home or I sat at a coffee shop reading the book numerous times and finding out the parts that you have to take out  as I am sure you have seen movies made out of your favorite book you know they have to leave out some parts in order to condense it to two hours. I actually do not like doing that - it is a conflicting feeling within me - but I can take these visual scenes and illustrate them.  Apart from the images Hamilton manages to retain much of the power of Bradbury's original words and even includes verbatim one passage that explains how things came to be in this future world and notes that while books are banned comic books are not. Mr.   Books so the damned snobbish critics said were dishwater. No wonder books stopped selling. The public knowing what it wanted let the comic books survive and the three-dimensional sex magazines of course. There you have it Montag. It did not come from the government down. There was no dictum no declaration. Technology mass exploitation and minority pressure carried the trick.  The book has the look of a classic comic. Hamilton deliberately limited his color choices so much of the book is in muted tones of blue green and gray but that is punctuated by the fire scenes which says Glenn Weldon reflect some of the most memorable passages of the original novel. Mr.  A lot of the stuff that you really remember from the book is the description of fire is the way he characterizes it as sort of this beast that hungers and breathes et cetera et cetera. So in the graphic novel Hamilton kind of decides that he can kind of do some of that work by creating fire as this sort of many tendrilled creature. And the pages where there is fire in the book are some of the most sort of brilliantly colored the most sort of dynamic pages as you would imagine.  This book says Weldon is really only one interpretation of the novel. So purists should not worry it will never replace the original. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington.  And you can see what the graphic novel looks like and find lots more coverage of new books at the new npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 