 After a five-month delay while the coronavirus pandemic turned the world upside down Disney's Mulan comes out tomorrow.    Yes I will bring honor to us all.  It is based off the 1998 animated movie of the same title and it tells the story of a young woman played by Liu Yifei who dresses as a man and takes her father's place in the Chinese Imperial army. The new Mulan is a live-action film - no songs no cartoon dragon. Instead we get epic scenes of close combat.   And that is where actor Donnie Yen comes in.    I am your commanding officer. Fighting will not be tolerated. Am I clear?   Yes commander.   With your voice soldier.   Yes commander.  He plays Commander Tung Mulan's leader and mentor in the army. Yen is an international action star best known for his martial arts skills. And when we talked I asked him if he had ever seen the animated movie.  Probably over a hundred times.   Wait - because you were preparing for the movie...  No no no no no.  ...Or because your kids made you see it a hundred times?  I - my daughter's 16 years old. So when she was a baby the best thing that a child can watch out of all the Disney animation one of her favorite obviously was Mulan. And I watched it with her and we sang all the songs together.  .  So when I was asked to be part of this when I told my daughter - and she was really excited - the first thing that she asked was baba which song are you going to sing?  .    Let us get down to business to defeat...  Yeah unfortunately this is a different version of it. That was one of the main reason why I decided to just drop everything and participate in this film.  You said Mulan was her favorite Disney movie so I am wondering what was it about Mulan that she loves so much?   It is a Chinese character. I think that has a lot to do with it. And she is also a female hero which in today's world we cannot neglect what women should be entitled to.  You know you are today one of Asia's leading martial arts superstars but I want to ask about your early days because I know that your mom is also very accomplished in martial arts. Was she the one who originally drew you into kung fu?  Oh yeah absolutely. Back in mid-'70s she opened her very first martial arts school in Boston. And you got to imagine as a female - especially back in the '70s - you know martial arts is not a very feminine culture.  Right. But there she was...  It is quite macho.  ...Opening her own school.  Yes she did.  Yeah.  She had the very courage and vision of wanting to make that change. So she was very well a Mulan herself. So I started learning martial arts from her.  Was she a very strict teacher to you?  She was very strict .  Yeah?  She used to drag me out of bed every morning before school 30 6 oclock and...  Oh my God.  ...Had my basic training. In the beginning I did not understand until I built a certain foundation and became pretty good at it and later I started to realize what she gave me what she taught me was so special.  Yeah.  You know without her I would not have got into this business and I would not be who I am today.  Well I love that you were raised by a woman who was so gifted at martial arts because you know when I was growing up in the U.S. as a Chinese girl I felt like I saw way more women who were action heroes in Hong Kong martial arts movies than I ever did in American movies. So I mean why do you think that was? Why do you think martial arts films very early on elevated women?  Well you know I think even though most people - especially non-Chinese - they would think Chinese is very traditional. But actually we might come off as very you know woman going to cook at home but deep inside we always believe in equality. I mean you look at - aside from Mulan there is many empress in China.  Yes.  So for the longest time in Chinese history woman plays a big part of enriching the Chinese culture.  You know kung fu has become such a large part of how the West sees Asian actors today. I mean out here there have been all kinds of stereotypes of Asian people on film. Like Asian women have been these dragon ladies or these very quiet submissive types right?  Yeah. Yeah definitely .  Asian men are these kung fu masters.  Yes yes yes yes yes.  And I was wondering when you - Donny when you take on a role today that is going to have international appeal - like you played a warrior monk in a Star Wars movie you play Commander Tung in Mulan - do you ever worry that non-Asian audiences will see stereotypes in those kinds of roles?  You know I have been worried about that all my life.  Yeah.  As a actor I have been in the business for so long and I have seen the changes but it has not reached to equality for Asian actor. I mean yes it is gotten better. But like you said the roles that has been offered to Asian actors are very limited. Rogue One when it was given to me it was a very stereotyped martial arts monk.    The force is with me and I am with the force and I fear nothing for all is as the force wills it. It took a lot of persuading that I would like that role to be a bit more human grounded. So I added humorousness to the role.    Are you kidding me? I am blind. All throughout all my films as an artist I try to serve the role's purpose from a creative and artistic level. But at the same time a lot is also a cultural responsibility as an Asian man that I want to represent what we are about.  Yeah. Finally I want to ask you - you know late last year you confirmed that Ip Man 4 will be your final kung fu movie. You said as an actor you must keep going forward. This is something that I must do in life I must keep exploring to grow. So what roles do you still hope to do now I mean now that you are closing this chapter in your life?  Yes let me just share my philosophy. A good kung fu movies always shows that kung fu actors possesses great kung fu skill. For me kung fu movies - I have to kind of hang my gloves because I believe Ip Man the four Ip Man series that I have done represents kung fu movies. For me I do not see how I can elevate the last episodes. So I do not want to do any more of those kind of kung fu movies. But actual movies I still have a lot of passion for contemporary action. I have a few projects that I am working on right now that I will be focusing and dedicating my creative process. And hopefully you guys can see it soon.  Donnie Yen stars in the new movie Mulan. It is coming to Disney tomorrow. Thank you so much for joining us. This was so much fun.  Thank you very much. Thank you.  Can I ask you a favor? Can you sing something from the animated version of Mulan for me?   Oh my God.  Look at me. There - three words.  Beautiful.  