 As NPR's Lynn Neary reports some recent developments illustrate just how ugly the fight may be.  There was a time when e-books seemed to be the future in publishing. That time is over. The future is now.  Well certainly the e-book market is exploding.  All this is taking place as issues such as who owns the rights to books published before the advent of digital publishing remain unresolved. Back then says Allen publishers did not explicitly include e-books in their contracts with authors.  Now they are engaged in disputes over whether the language in the contracts covers e-books or not.  That question led to a still-simmering dispute between one of the major publishing houses Random House and the powerful Wylie literary agency. Wylie established its own publishing brand and signed an exclusive deal with Amazon to sell digital versions of some bestsellers like Lolita and The Invisible Man that came out before electronic books existed.  When an agent becomes a publisher that is sort of contradictory.  That says Turow hurts no one but the writers.  I think the most amusing part of it is that we are going to beat up on those poor authors who have Andrew Wylie as their agent but we are not going to take anything out on the behemoth Amazon. In other words we are going to you know we are going to walk down the beach and kick some sand in the face of the 99-pound weakling.  But Jane Friedman former CEO of HarperCollins who co-founded the digital publishing company Open Road says the issue of royalties cannot be resolved until the question of who owns the rights to older books is settled.  I think this is probably the most important issue in this whole new world of digital publishing.  Friedman says her company believes that digital rights belong to the writer or their estate unless a contract explicitly states otherwise. And she says they want the rights question resolved before they take on a book.  In other words if someone comes to us and says there is some confusion in a contract we will not even talk to that representative. We will only talk where the content provider says we have the rights.   If a literary agency can become a publisher then what is to stop Amazon or Apple or Google or any other digital behemoth as Scott Turow calls them from doing the same thing?  The concern is that they will step up take the cream and make it impossible for other publishers to survive because they are going to take the titles where you know the most money is going to be made.  Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 