 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block with some Romantic - capital R poetry - to end the week.  Mr.   I met a lady in the meads full beautiful a fairy's child. Her hair was long her foot was light and her eyes were wild.  That is Ben Whishaw as the poet John Keats in the new movie Bright Star directed by Jane Campion. It is the story of the brief intense love between Keats and 18-year-old Fanny Brawne played in the film by Abbie Cornish.  Ms.   I still do not know how to work out a poem. Mr.   A poem needs understanding through the senses. The point of diving in a lake is not immediately to swim to the shore but to be in the lake to luxuriate in the sensation of water. You do not work the lake out. It is a experience beyond thought.  Director Jane Campion's earlier films include The Piano and An Angel at My Table. She joins us from NPR West. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you very much Melissa.  And what do you think it is about early 19th century poetry and particularly John Keats that captured you that is holding you in its thrall? Ms.  I have to admit that I had a lot of problems with poetry.  Aha the confession.  Ms.  Yeah I used to feel kind of stupid that I did not understand it properly or frustrated or kind of irritated with it and I think turning 50 I thought oh it is time I got over it you know? It is time I sort of tried to make more effort. And I read a biography of Keats by Andrew Motion and partway through that book Keats met Fanny Brawne and I had no idea of this true story this love affair and how pure and intense it was and that the love letters existed. So it made you feel so intimate I mean right in the middle of what they were experiencing themselves. And I fell in love with the guy you know? He is so funny and honest and thoughtful. And then I went on to the poems and it was quite a journey for me.  Hmm. So you have really had the same problem with poetry that Fanny Brawne has in the movie.  I do not know what all this poetry business is about. She says that more elegantly than that. Ms.  Yeah no yes I did. And I mean I think poetry does need to be met to some extent especially I guess 19th century poetry and for me it is just been so worth the effort. It is like I am planting a garden in my head.  Really? Ms.  Yeah.   Do you have to keep nourishing it? Ms.  Watering it? Yeah. Well you know it grows pretty much by itself. You can just go and revisit it.  We feel the intensity of the connection between John Keats and Fanny Brawne even though their relationship is very chaste throughout the movie and at one point John Keats has come to live in one-half of the Brawne family home. He is staying in a room on the opposite side of the wall from Fanny and there is a scene where her cheek is pressed against the wall his hand is pressed on the other side. It is really just an electric charge that you can feel going through that wall right then. Ms.  It did occur to me that these two under the radar could have been extremely close like on each side of a wall and had a capacity to be together and around each other which would have been incredibly unusual at that time.  Was part of the appeal of telling this story sort of what you would not show? I mean there are no bodices being unlaced and there is a lot of discretion which I am sure is very deliberate. Ms.  Yeah I think the story touches me because of the restraint that was placed upon them. They got engaged finally but they never did get married. Keats never came back from Italy. And I think it was sort of interesting to me how intense and in love these two could be without well having sex I guess. Really the connection between people is you know a heart one in a way or identity one where they sort of became entwined together. I mean sort of -exactly the sort of thing that every therapist would tell you not to do but it seems irresistible when you know you first meet someone that you feel completely open and you know adoring towards.  You know I suppose the danger of a film about a Romantic poet would be just overdoing the romanticism the syrupy quality that could really take over right? Ms.  Yeah no I think it is a delicate road to walk and I think that was the reason for my restraint. I did not think it needed any elaborating. We have two beautiful actors Abbie Cornish and Ben Whishaw and gorgeous gardens and heath and springtime. I mean spring itself is ridiculously gorgeous in England you know? We were on the estate and it was pretty drab when we arrived in winter. And by springtime I mean there were tulips that were the size of a small person's head you know?  Ms.  They were enormous and it was just gorgeous. So you know you did not need to exaggerate a thing. In fact you sort of you know wanted to pull back and keep things very very simple classical.  Take out a few tulips. Ms.  Well that was a problem for me. When we arrived to shoot on the first day the Brawne family were leaving to go across to visit the Dokes and the Browns and suddenly all these tulips had come out. We did not - actually not tulips but daffodils and we did not realize that we were sort of shooting on a daffodil field it just looked corny like sort of Disney or chocolate-box kind of thing and everybody had to help quickly to pull out the daffodils.  Oh you cut them down? Ms.  Yeah we did.  Ms.  It is just too much.   You know I come away from this film wondering if you are now devoted to Romantic poetry if you will create a whole sort of audience of lovers of Romantic poetry now. We are going to see John Keats books flying off the shelves. Ms.  I really hope so. It is been such a deep and amazing journey for me getting close to John Keats and also I love Shelley and Byron. I mean the thing about the Romantic poets is that they have got the epitaph of romantic posthumously. They all died really young and Keats the youngest of them all. I think they can sound a little flowery when you call them the romantics but they were romantic really for solid reasons. They were rebels against a class system the very state and entrenched political system. Keats for example did not go to university. He was not a lord. He was the son of a stable people and I think what they responded to was their own spirits and that was the Lord for them and you know to me that seems like great instructions for life.  Well Jane Campion thanks so much. Ms.  My pleasure thank you very much.   Director Jane Campion's new film is called Bright Star. To hear more of our conversation including why Campion wants to talk poetry with Quentin Tarantino and Jean-Claude Van Damme just go to our Web site npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 