 Award show season is descending upon us. The Emmys air this weekend and Oscar-worthy movies are beginning to creep into theaters. And tonight you might see the Streamy Awards. NPR's Neda Ulaby says the Streamys want to be the Oscars or the Emmys of internet content.  Even one of the guys who created the Streamys Joshua Cohen admits the online video landscape is filled with a lot of junk.  That is haphazardly produced that is accidentally entertaining.   For example...  Dogs on skateboards.  Or low-quality homemade videos like one where a fisherman plunges into a lake much to his buddies' amusement.    It is on tape for the whole world to see.  So-called fail videos and their amateur ilk get many millions of views.  And we all watch them and they all have a place online. But that is not what this show is about.  The Streamys says Cohen are about high-quality professionally produced online videos.   My name is Lizzie Bennet.  Like this contemporary retelling of Pride And Prejudice in three-minute web-only increments. It won the Best Drama Streamy last year.   I am a 24-year-old grad student with a mountain of student loans living at home and preparing for a career. But to my mom the only thing that matters is that I am single.  Another Streamy last year went to Jerry Seinfeld for his web series where he drives around drinking coffee with people like Tina Fey.   You do not drive?  I do not have a license anymore.  You do not ever drive a car?  The Streamys are intended to honor stuff made specifically for the web and outside the mold of traditional TV - less Orange Is The New Black and more people who are terrific at Snapchat.   The nominees for Snapchat Storyteller are...  Chris Carmichael - ChrisCarm Jerome...  Besides categories for Best Pranks and Best Gaming Shows where you watch other people play video games...   Oh God what?  The Streamys also reward for example Best Creativity On Vine. That might sound crazy unless you have seen last year's winner Zach King and his surreal six-second vignettes like one where his piggy bank turns into an actual pig.   Come back with my money.  Streamys co-creator Joshua Cohen wants people to use this award show to learn about great online videos at a moment when there is so much it is overwhelming. These days 400 hours of content gets uploaded to YouTube every single minute.  Sifting through that and identifying what is worth watching is a huge daunting task.  Tonight for the first time this online video award show will be broadcast on VH1 old-fashioned cable television.  VH1 is trying to connect with the kids.  Media analyst Alan Wolk says that this is a smart move for a cable channel. After all some YouTube stars are better known among young people than movie stars. And Wolk says putting an online video award show on TV speaks to the challenges both mediums face. For example streaming a live awards show even one call the Streamys is not easy.  That is why streaming live sports is very difficult technologically. You really have to have a very strong infrastructure and that is why a lot of times there is issues with any kind of live stream because people have not sort of prepared for it. So in some ways they are safer going with VH1 who is done that before.  As for the Streamys creators here's how they describe what it means to be on regular television.  Validating because it is a traditional medium.  Streamys co-creator Drew Baldwin says TV has not completely lost its powerful footing in the entertainment ecosystem even though most TV shows would die for the massive followings that Streamy stars enjoy.  We are welcoming TV to the table.  The validation he says goes both ways. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 