 One of the internet's most talked about and meme'd about comedy shows has returned for a much anticipated second season this week. We are talking about I Think You Should Leave a sketch comedy show from former Saturday Night Live writer and cast member Tim Robinson. Here's a scene from the new season. There are four people having dinner at a restaurant and things turn cringy when one of the diners steals another's burger and eats it.    Are you going to tell people I did that that I housed Dylan's  burger?   We are not going to say anything. You did not like your meal. It is no big deal.   Let me take a video of you saying that you are going to kill the president.   What?   It is no big deal. No one's ever going to see it unless I hear the story of me housing Dylan's burger down at Graham's Loralei Lounge .   We are not saying that.   Saying what?   That we are going to kill the president.   Oh s. Say it again.   Oh my God. What is wrong with you?   I tried to get a video but I could not flip the thing fast enough.  Robinson has a knack for identifying awkward dynamics in your average social or work situation then blowing them up to epic absurd proportions. Some of the sketches are so cringe-inducing that you almost want to stop watching until things get so absurd you just have to keep watching. Glen Weldon is one of the hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour and recently reviewed the show is new season and he joins us now to tell us all about it. Glen welcome.  Hey Danielle. Always great to be here.  Yes. As we mentioned a lot of people have been eagerly awaiting this season's release because Season 1 of I Think You Should Leave was such a hit. So what makes the series so popular and so meme-able?  Well you nailed it in your intro. Robinson and the show have a deeply idiosyncratic comedy voice that stands out because he is lampooning something that is both really specific and also really of the moment this culture of outrage that we find ourselves in now. That is really struck a nerve I think. And where the first season was about establishing that voice this second season is really about opening it up and seeing what it can do.  You know when I try to talk to friends about the show and describe some of the sketches - because the sketches get so strange I have found it difficult to describe any of them. So maybe you can do this justice. Are there any of your favorite sketches in Season 2 that you can tell us about?  Well it is going to be difficult to describe but the one I have watched the most has to be the one with Robinson playing a driver's ed instructor. And he is showing students a video about driving attentively. And the video he is showing them features Patti Harrison the great Patti Harrison who is driving a bunch of folding tables around for some reason. And she is talking about Eddie Munster. And she is complaining about - her tables are filthy. And the whole thing just confuses the kids because it would. They are like what is her job? And that drives Robinson nuts.    Do you want me to turn the lights off? Everybody puts their heads down. Nobody gets their license. You got to walk everywhere. You got to walk to the food store. You got to walk to the house.  And that is the show in a nutshell - Robinson's you know growing frustration and rage while everyone around him is just kind of mildly confused.  You know you wrote this really great review of the show for npr.org and Pop Culture Happy Hour. People should go read it. And in the review you talk about how despite the show is ridiculous veneer - and you know let us face it it is poop jokes it is sex jokes it is jokes about hot dogs - Robinson is really giving us some real commentary on contemporary masculinity. Please tell us more about that.  Well no one does throttled rage and a really kind of performative woundedness better than Robinson does. I mean most of his characters if you think about it they are trying to get away with something - right? - something they have always been able to get away with and now for whatever reason they cannot anymore. And it drives them nuts. So they fume. They explode. They make up these incredibly stupid very elaborate lies to try to cover up for it. And if that is all the show was about Danielle it might be a little too real a little too reminiscent of certain public figures. But what Robinson is great at and what the show - what sets the show apart is how he lets you see the deep wells of insecurity and desperation just under the surface of all that bluster. It makes his characters pathetic and really pitiable and that makes them hilarious.  Right. And a lot of these characters like you said a lot of them are men - are played by Robinson. But he does have a slate of really great guest stars this season including comedians like Patti Harrison and John Early. What do you think these guest stars bring to the new season?  Yeah he is really generous. He really spreads the toxic wealth this season with guest stars like Bob Odenkirk and his old pal Sam Richardson. But what is interesting to me is what happens when you bring queer comedians like Harrison and John Early into this very strange comedic sandbox. Because then it becomes clear that yes Robinson has figured out something about toxic masculinity but his comedy is not limited to that. Because here are these very funny queer comedians showing that really anyone could be a belligerent jerk. It is not just for straight dudes anymore.  You know I want to bring this conversation back to hot dogs of course.  Sure.  The - maybe the most meme'd moment from the first season was this screenshot of Robinson in a giant hot dog costume. Fans know what I am talking about. Are there any sketches from the season that you think are going to take over internet memes?  That is hard to predict and this is hard to turn into a GIF but the way Patti Harrison says filthy-uh . I mean you would have to bring a linguist in here to tell me why filthy-uh is so much funnier than filthy. I do not quite know understand it but it is certainly true in the way she says the tables are my corn. And when the kid asks you know what her job is and Robinson just turns over and screams tables it is just the best. He is the worst but it is just the best.  True. All right. That is Glen Weldon one of the hosts of NPR's Pop Culture Happy hour. Glen thank you so much for being with us.  My pleasure. Thank you. 