 Danny Ocean and his evergrowing team of con artists in Ocean's Eleven then Ocean's Twelve then Ocean's Thirteen - they conned movie audiences out of more than 1 billion at the box office. So what is next - well oddly enough not Ocean's Fourteen. Instead the series has opted for a slimmed-down Ocean's 8 with an all-new all-woman crew of con artists. Turns out says critic Bob Mondello Danny Ocean had a sister.  And like her brother Debbie Ocean begins her first movie by sweet-talking a parole board.    If I were to be released I would just want the simple life. I just want to hold down a job make some friends you know pay my bills.  She is had years in the slammer to perfect that little speech. And paying bills - not actually on her agenda. Just to get back in the groove she heads to Bergdorfs  and pulls off a con so smooth and effortless I am guessing real department store guards will have their hands full for the next six months. But Debbie Ocean played by Sandra Bullock did not use her quiet time in solitary to figure out ways to get free perfume. She has designs on the biggest fashion event in the world.    In 3 12 weeks the Met will be hosting its annual ball and we are going to rob it.  She is speaking here to a team that includes light-fingered Awkwafina...    Can I get my watch back please?   Sorry.   It is OK.  ...Super-hacker Rihanna...    What is your name?   Nine Ball.   What is your real name?   Eight Ball.  ...Jewel-savvy Mindy Kaling...    How long would it take you to make seven pieces of jewelry?   Five or six hours.   How long if I told you you did not have to live with your mother anymore?   Less.  ...And crazy-in-debt fashionista Helena Bonham Carter...    I am going to be really poor.  ...Along with Cate Blanchett and Sarah Paulson all rounded up on the premise that women are so not taken seriously that they can sometimes be practically invisible - a useful quality if you are trying to steal a necklace.    On the neck of Daphne Kluger.  A necklace with 6 pounds of diamonds.    Valued at over a hundred...   Million dollars.   It is 150 million actually .  Anne Hathaway makes Daphne Kluger's laugh just one of many annoying things about her which makes taking advantage of her fun in a movie that is not just a gender switch on heist flicks but a nifty takedown of celebrity culture and the fashion world. We are not in a casino this time. We are at an event that is ostensibly about women.    Cannot we just go to this? Do we have to steal stuff?   Yes.  And that women are therefore ideally suited to infiltrate and subvert possibly because this is the first in the Ocean series to list a woman among its writers. Olivia Milch co-wrote with new director Gary Ross Steven Soderbergh having slipped over to the producer's chair for this one. And they and their high-wattage stars are clearly having fun.    What is happening?   Cannot get a signal.   Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait.   Sometimes you have to jiggle it.   Every time you move it we have to start from scratch.   Sometimes you have to...   What did you do?   I turned it on.   Oh.  They are having enough fun in fact that there is bound to be talk of giving them their own sequel. Ocean's 8 is positioned you will note just far enough from the Danny Ocean Eleven Twelve and Thirteen trilogy to allow a Debbie Ocean 8 9 and 10 trilogy before they start running into tidal trouble. Nothing's announced but there are hints of possibly endless larceny to come.    Is it genetic? Are the whole family like this?   Literally.  Unless of course it is all a con. I am Bob Mondello. 