 It looks like a monkey thinking very deep thoughts. With big close-set eyes a long nose and thin mouth its pink face framed by a long golden mane. It is a new species of monkey called the Lasula identified recently in Africa in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We reached conservation biologist John Hart in the Congolese capital Kinshasa. And he told us how his field team first spotted the monkey back in 2007 on a trip to a forest in central Congo.  They were at Opala the last town on the way into the forest. And in the port there were dugouts coming up from the forest and full of bush meat and plenty of dead animals. But there was this one live animal that they did not know.  They brought photos back to John Hart who is worked in Congo for 35 years and he went to see the monkey for himself. He found one tethered to a post. It was being kept as a pet by the daughter of a local school director.  I was familiar with all the field guides. I would seen a lot of animals before and there was just something about this one right away that I knew was unusual.  And when you say you knew right away what were you seeing? What did you see in this monkey that you had not seen before?  Well for me was the red - bright red at the base of the back in the tail. I would never seen that in a monkey before. And I thought is this some strange one-off case? It was not. And as that young animal matured and as we saw older animals we saw some of the other main features on them these bright blue buttocks their whole backside of the adult male is just this brilliant aquamarine the yellow mane of hair around the head all of those emerged as the animal got older. But that red on the back and the lower tail that was just the one signal for me.  The images that I have seen of these monkeys their face is just so sweet. Was there something about the expression on them that struck you right away?  What there was was we noticed right away the large eyes. And in fact one of the analysis made by our morphologist was that this species has significantly larger eye orbits than any other related species in almost any other monkey in this group of ceropithecus. So the fact that this animal spent so much of its time active in this crepuscular pre-dawn darkness and even at dusk sometimes we would even hear the calls at night made us wonder is there still something to be discovered about this animal as it is got a noctural behavior that would really be exceptional. It is all possible now now that we know the animal.  John I want to play some audio that your team recorded in the forest in the Congo. And help us pick out where the monkey is in this recording.   Well first of all we are hearing all these night orthopterans they are the grasshopper cricket-like calling in the background and you hear the first birds making plenty of noise as well. But in all of that tucked in almost you know if you do not listen it is gone before you know what you are hearing you hear a low little boom call and that was a lesula calling not close but it is definitely a lesula. They have got a very little short little boom and in fact if you hear it up close it does descend. It has a sort of . But it is kind of a moaning call almost a little. And that is them. And that is their time right then when everything else is waking up and after that they are quite quiet.  It does seem surprising that with so much adventure travel scientific expedition going on that there would be a species of monkey that nobody had documented before.  That is remarkable. And this is only the second one in the last 28 years. And I never expected it. I do not think any zoologist ever really expects to find something new like this.  And John we are talking about this monkey as a new species but clearly it is not new to the Congolese. It is well-known there.  That is right. That was that became evident right we did not know what it was and our field assistants who are also Congolese but not from that area did not know what it was. It is a well-known monkey within the restricted area of its range. And people did not think there was anything particularly unusual about it. Of course they did not know that it was not had never been added to the zoological literature. It was unknown zoologically but for them it was known.  John Hart thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you very much.  Conservation biologist John Hart talking with us from Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo about the new species of monkey identified there the lasula. There is a photograph of it at npr.org. 