 Almost everything you know about Batman - the cape the mask Gotham Bruce Wayne et cetera. Almost all of it is because of one man. And that man is not Bob Kane who is credited as the writer behind the iconic superhero. Now if you have seen The Dark Knight Rises  Based on the character by Bob Kane. The name not there is that of Bill Finger. He is the subject of a new picture book called Bill  The Secret Co-Creator of Batman written by Marc Tyler Nobleman who joins me now. Welcome.  Thank you.  So who was Bill Finger? Tell me about him.  Bill Finger is the uncredited cocreator of Batman. His name never appeared on a Batman story in his lifetime but he was responsible for just about everything enduring about Batman. I challenge people to name something about Batman that did not come from Bill. And most of the time no matter whether you are a hardcore fan or a person on the street whatever you say first will be a Bill Finger contribution.  OK. We all know about Bob Kane the guy who we are led to believe is the sole creator of Batman. But let me test you on it. Gotham City.  Bill Finger named it.  He named it. He created Gotham City.  Bill Finger named Gotham City.  Bruce Wayne.  Named - he named Bruce Wayne.  Batman the actual Batman character.  Bill designed the costume. Even though he is the writer he also was the visual architect. Bob Kane admitted that and explained that in detail in his autobiography.  Bob Kane came up with the idea for a Batman.  Well even that is disputed. Bob said that he came up with the name Batman and there are some that feel he did not even do that much that his character was called Birdman and it was actually Bill who said let us go with Batman.  OK. What about Robin?  Bill was the one who said Batman needs a - needs someone to talk to. And as a writer myself that makes perfect sense. When you are writing a character who is alone all the time that is very difficult. So Bill said he needs someone to talk to. And through that Robin evolved and Bill wrote the first Robin story.  The Joker?  Well that is also hotly disputed. It was definitely a group effort but I give Bill a lot of the - you know the majority of the credit. He wrote the first story. He came up with the look although someone else drew it. And yeah I would give Bill more than half the credit for The Joker.  OK. The thing about Batman that was revolutionary at the time was that he was not born with these superhero powers these you know otherworldly powers like Superman. He was just a regular human being who worked out and worked his mind and became a superhero. And that was because of his backstory because Bruce Wayne as a kid sees his parents get killed by a mugger.  Yes. Yeah. Actually that is what I attribute to Batman's longevity is the fact that Bill added a - what was considered a novelistic background.  It was Bill's - Bill Finger came up with that story.  This is Bill. Bill Finger came up with that story. And that was unprecedented at the time. Most comic book characters before Batman had no reason to do what they were doing. They were just doing good for good's sake. But Batman had a psychological reason. That was more depth than anyone had ever applied to a comic book character before.  How did Bill Finger hook up with Bob Kane the guy who is credited as the person behind Batman?  Bob and Bill actually both went to the same high school DeWitt Clinton in the Bronx but they apparently did not know each other there. They met at a party in 1938 which was five years after Bill graduated. And Bob was already working for the company that became DC Comics doing smaller stories. And he saw Bill's potential and had Bill write stories for him.  This is in the late 1930s.  This is probably about 1938. And then Batman debuted in 1939.  And what was the agreement between them? I mean  Listen write this stuff for me and by the way you are not going to get credit?  Well you know unfortunately no known documentation survives between the two of them. These were young guys. This was an era when there was not such an awareness of creator's rights. So they probably did not sit down and write anything down for posterity. There was no contract. But apparently Bob did say to Bill we are going to do this character for DC. You will write it I will have my name on it and that'ill be the arrangement. And Bill agreed partly because that is what was done at the time but also partly because it was the end of the Depression. And if you could get any work in your chosen field of - in the arts you would take it.  So he kind of just accepted this.  He did accept it one of his fatal flaws.  Your book I should mention it is not a nonfiction narrative. It is a graphic - essentially a picture book.  Well you know it is both. I call it a picture book for older readers. It looks more like a picture book than a traditional graphic novel. But it is got elements of both.  Why did you decide to do it this way rather than writing a straightforward biography?  I wanted to start on the ground level. I wanted people to grow up knowing the story behind Batman. So I wanted it to be accessible to young people but also be engaging for an older audience.  So Bill Finger has been mentioned before. There were articles about him toward the end of his life. He died in 1974. But to this day he is not credited as the cocreator right? If you see the recent movie the Christopher Nolan movie Bob Kane is still credited at the end of that movie.  Yes. Bob Kane is the only person credited on any Batman story in any medium. DC Comics does not officially credit Bill Finger as a cocreator but they do credit him as a writer for any story that he wrote that they reprint. But for example The Dark Knight well all three of the Christopher Nolan movies take a lot of their influence from Bill Finger but they do not put his name in the credits on any level. They will not say based on the material written by Bill Finger. They do not even say that the Dark Knight was first used in a story that Bill Finger wrote. That they should have done I think.  Why do not they do that?  Anything they do that edges toward giving Bill official credit will raise the red flag to the Kane estate. And they have a contract with the Kane estate and they do not want to jeopardize that.  The Christopher Nolan Batman is the Bill Finger Batman.  I would say so.  We do not know for sure but we have to assume that Bob Kane or his family made a lot of money off Batman.  Yes.  Did Bill Finger?  No. Bill made almost nothing. He literally died alone poor - I mean poor is probably an understatement. He really was living paycheck to paycheck and even that was a stretch and unheralded. No obituary ran for him. He did not have a funeral and he does not even have a gravestone. It is a heartbreaking end to a the man who created such a cultural force. There are royalties being paid out to his family after the fact but that is for reprints. It is not what I call Batman Money with all caps. It is not a share of the profit of Batman. It is money for his stories which is great but not nearly enough.  When you kind of put it all into perspective do you see villains in the Bill Finger story you know in a way that you would see them in a Batman story or is it more complicated than that just like Batman is?  Well you know it is an easy parallel to make and it comes up almost all the time when I speak. And Bob Kane is clearly a villain here. But Bill is not blameless. As I said at the beginning one of his flaws - we all have them - was that he did not stand up for himself in the way that a lot of people today think he should have. But that is using a modern hindsight. You cannot always do that. It is not always fair to apply what would happen today to what happened 70 years ago.  Marc Tyler Nobleman is the author of the new picture book. It is called  The Secret Co-Creator of Batman. Marc thanks.  Thanks Guy. I appreciate it. 