 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. It is midsummer and that means that the multiplex is full of action. It just so happens so are art house cinemas. Exhibit A a new thriller from France. Its American title is Point Blank. And while there is no relation to the 1960 shoot-them-up of the same name starring Lee Marvin Bob Mondello says that like the earlier picture this one is nonstop action.  Talk about starting with a bang. Here's the first few seconds of Point Blank.   A man crashes through a door clutching his bleeding stomach. Seconds later two men with guns crash after him. They chase him into the street and are about to kill him when he is hit by a speeding motorcycle...   ...and left in a coma.   He is not having a good day but it is better than the day Samuel is about to have. Samuel is a nurse trainee who saves this guy's life in the hospital.   And proving that no good deed goes unpunished this gets Samuel conked on the head and his very pregnant wife kidnapped.   From there things get complicated. Samuel's told that if he wants to see his wife again he must spring the crash victim from police surveillance - remember this guy is still in a coma - and then the kidnappers will talk. As you may have gathered that is not quite how this is going to play out. Cue chase scene.   It is customary to describe this kind of thriller as adrenaline-fueled but this is the first time I can recall there being an actual shot of adrenaline on screen. Samuel uses it to wake the comatose crash victim then kind of wishes he had not. Director Fred Cavaye has a reputation in France for getting the audience's pulse pounding and in Point Blank he does that while mixing in some intriguing social themes. Call him an equal-opportunity thrill director. Usually in fish-out-of-water stories the fish is the outsider surprised by the spot he finds himself in. But in Point Blank the fish out of water is Samuel the ultimate insider a conventional middle-class white French male.  Algerian criminals gypsies Arabs even a corrupt cop with a German name. And to push things still further away from business as usual the folks in a position to help Samuel are almost all strong capable French women who hardly seem the unassertive hothouse flowers they have been made out to be in news reports lately. This all makes for a nifty subtext to ponder in the three minutes maybe of downtime between chases. And since subtext will almost certainly disappear in the inevitable Hollywood remake it is worth catching and pondering now. Point Blank is just a chase flick at heart too busy setting your nerves jangling to be very noir but calculated to leave you breathless anyway even if not quite in the way the French New Wave Breathless did. I am Bob Mondello. 