 Comedian Gina Yashere has toured the world with her standup filmed specials for Netflix and made regular appearances on The Daily Show with Trevor Noah.   This royal wedding has people around the world excited so in Britain it must be pretty big.  Oh it is huge Trevor. We have not been this excited since Piers Morgan left for America.   Now Yashere is the co-creator of a new sitcom on CBS called Bob Hearts Abishola. Yashere was born and raised in London. Her parents emigrated there from Nigeria and the immigrant experience is where she finds a lot of her material. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has this profile.  Gina Yashere tells a lot of stories about people making transitions. She moved to the U.S. from London 12 years ago. She misses the U.K.'s free health care.   I made the mistake of getting sick in America...   ...Last year. And I was - I did not want to go to the hospital. I ended up going and the doctor was speaking to me and all I am hearing is dollars dollars dollars...  Yashere also jokes about the transition her mother made when she decided to move from Nigeria to London.   My mother had the pick of the globe. She could have gone anywhere in the world. Imagine my mother in Nigeria with all her maps spread out before her.  Where shall I go? Where shall I go?    You know what? I am fed up with the sunshine.    I want to go somewhere with a lot of drizzle...    ...And subtle racism. That is what I want.  She is a terrific comedic voice.  Sitcom veteran Chuck Lorre and his team enlisted Yashere to help them with the Nigerian characters on their new sitcom. But first they had to find her so they Googled Nigerian female comedian.  And obviously a few of us came up and they found a set that I would done.  Gina Yashere.  And that particular set my mother was in the audience so I was doing a lot of material about the expectations as a Nigerian child.  Do you remember the clip? Or...  It was probably about her mom and it was breathtakingly funny.   African family you have got four choices of career - doctor lawyer engineer disgrace to the family.   This is from the BBC show Live At The Apollo.   My mom picked all our jobs before we were born.   While my mom was pregnant with me someone went up to her and went what are you having? She is like I am having a doctor.   Yashere says there is truth to this story. When she was growing up people often told her she was funny.  At school I had a drama teacher who was like you should be an actor and entertain them because I was always entertaining other kids. My mom was like actor - no no no. You can act like a doctor when you become a doctor. There was absolutely no chance of me going into the arts.  Yashere became an engineer instead. She worked for Otis building and repairing elevators but was laid off in an economic downturn. That is when she started pursuing comedy. She and some friends performed a play at a charity event. She did standup wherever she could find an audience. Eventually she landed TV jobs including on The Lenny Henry Show a popular sketch comedy show in the UK. One of the characters she created was a pushy Nigerian mom in London who visits her 12-year-old daughter's teachers.    How is my daughter doing?   Fumi is been settling down very nice.   I do not care about her sleeping arrangements. How are the lessons going? What do you teach her?  Chuck Lorre says Yashere was a natural to help him with Bob Hearts Abishola.  She has a wealth of knowledge and a very big open heart about the experience of being an immigrant. And that is really what we were trying to write about.  Bob is a sock salesman.    I will get you a couple pairs. You will see.   Thank you.  When he lands in the hospital after a heart attack Abishola is his nurse.    Good night Bob.   .   What now?   I never liked the sound of my name. But when you say it it sounds nice.  Bob. Say it again.   Good night Bob.   Oh yeah. It is way better than Bawb .   When Chuck Lorre asked Yashere to help with the Nigerian characters in the show she was reluctant at first. Then she looked up Lorre's credits - Big Bang Theory Two And A Half Men - and said yes.  You know we always complain about representation. So I was like well here's a chance to work on a show and make sure the representation is correct. So I was like all right. Let' At the same time she says she does not want audiences to think Nigerian immigrants today are so different from the millions of other immigrants who have been coming to America for hundreds of years.  We are just coming. We are trying to make better lives for ourselves for our children. We are not trying to rock the boat. We are not trying to - we just want to work and we are leaving places where we cannot necessarily sustain ourselves and coming somewhere else. And that is what the world is made of - is people traveling to different places and exploring and setting up new life.  As they were developing the sitcom Yashere realized she might be able to turn this opportunity into a part for herself. She says she is always wanted to play the funny sidekick.  I just want to be the best friend who comes in steals the scene and bounces. That is always been my dream - and then use that small amount of fame to sell out theaters and just play to bigger audiences. So as we were starting to write the show I kept saying to the guys you know what? She needs a funny friend. She is needs a friend a confidant.  And yes she convinced Chuck Lorre to give her the part of the friend.    I swear businessman has come to your house to court you.   There is no courtship. He just brought some new socks now.   From his business.  Gina Yashere says she is learning a lot working on Bob Hearts Abishola. She also plans to continue doing standup. And she is working on a memoir. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 