 Since he left the White House Bill Clinton's found time to write books - memoir policy tomes - never until today fiction. He told me writing a thriller has been a little scary.  I had so much fun but it is - you know I have never done this before I mean with a fiction book. So I am just nervous .  Nervous really?  Jim keeps saying just relax and have a good time. Yeah I mean it is a pretty - you know I am an old dog. It is a new trick.  Jim would be James Patterson the author of a zillion thrillers who signed on to co-write with Clinton. Together they are out today with The President Is Missing. It stars yes an American president in this case one trying to thwart cyber terrorists who want to cripple - completely cripple the United States. So I asked them how realistic a plotline is that? Could somebody really bring down the whole Internet?  Yes I think it could be done. And I think someone could take out at least one of our grids the eastern half of the country and simultaneously fry the transformers so you could not bring it back up in a hurry. Someone could take out the bank records and if you had a clever enough virus simultaneously the backups.  We talked to dozens of experts in this area and they do believe that this is possible. And it is - something you know on some level like this will happen.  James Patterson and Bill Clinton - I asked them about another plot twist. Early in the book their fictional President Duncan wants to meet someone in private so he puts on a disguise and orders his Secret Service protection to stand down. Could you just order your Secret Service to walk away? Would they obey that order?  The answer is in theory yes. In practice it is hard as you saw. Anybody besides the president who has Secret Service protection can actually sign off of it and basically assume liability. And others have done it. We can find no example where a president ever did it. I never did. Every president wants to 'ecause you just get tired of never being alone and in control of your destiny. But it is irresponsible to do.  And there are several lawyers who said yes they - it could happen. And you would also find some lawyers who would say you could not do it. But you would have lawyers who would say yes you can do it.  Was there ever a moment in your presidency that you and Secret Service seriously disagreed over how to proceed?  Yes and I normally deferred to them. When bin Laden had a - you know a hit job out on me after I tried to take him out they did not want me to go to India Pakistan and Bangladesh. Especially they were worried about Pakistan and Bangladesh. And I thought the worry about Pakistan was wrong. I was more worried about going into Bangladesh where the government was supportive of the United States and where the people were. But they just did not have the military capacity to stop this sort of thing.  Interesting.  And so I flew there on an unmarked airplane and I tried to make sure that no Secret Service agents with young children went with me.  You all put that in the book. The - your fictional president President Duncan says he does not want Secret Service protecting him in a particular high-risk situation if they have young children. Is that - so that is something that you also...  I did. I - yeah I did that.  There are points in the book where it is hard to tell where President Duncan ends and it is really President Clinton you are hearing from. In one chapter the fictional president delivers a barnstormer of a speech to Congress saying quote our democracy cannot survive its current downward drift into tribalism extremism and seething resentment. Today it is us versus them in America. I read that and wondered President Clinton if you are using fiction here to comment on our real-life moment in history.  Well I think this has been going on in some form or fashion since the '60s. And it was flaming in the '90s and I was just lucky enough to have a tough enough hide and enough experience as a governor in a fairly conservative state to be able to bridge it and get a lot done with the Congress...  But I guess what I am driving...  ...Because the...  Go on.  No no I - that is all I am saying.  Yeah.  So no it is - do I think Hillary got a bad deal? Yeah I do. But that is not a - the larger problem is that the system - because of organized interest groups massive money basically the business model of the way politics is covered the whole thing favors paralysis. And the voters when they vote in an emotional state very often reinforce that. So this is - in the end it is up to the American people which is why I wrote it this way. I think when they are calm 65 to 70 percent of the American people say I just want somebody to get the show on the road and make it better than it is now.  But I guess what I am driving at is whether - the thing about being Bill Clinton is that when you weigh in on politics it becomes part of the politics inherently. And I wonder whether writing fiction about an American president allows you to weigh in in a different way.  I do not think the book is terribly political. In fact it is not. And we really went out of our way. And you know in that speech I mean you definitely feel a bit President Clinton and I think that is good. I am happy that we did it that way. And if I was not I would have said you know let us calm the speech down.  James Patterson - as you can hear over the course of a 500-page book he and President Clinton have gotten used to finishing each other's sentences. In recent months Clinton has been in the news for reasons beyond his book tour. In this MeToo era he is come under new scrutiny for his past misconduct with women both acknowledged and alleged. His fictional protagonist is a widower living an apparently chaste and celibate life. But the book opens with the specter of his possible impeachment on national security grounds. I asked Clinton to read me that passage a president called to testify as his opponents lay the groundwork to impeach him.   I am alone at my chair - no aides no lawyers no notes. The American people are not going to see me exchanging hushed whispers with an attorney my hand over the microphone removing it to testify that I have no specific recollection of that Congressman. I am not hiding. I should not have to be here and I sure as hell do not want to be here but here I am just me the president of the United States facing a mob of accusers.  A mob of accusers - Clinton had plenty back in the '90s and plenty more today both from outside and within his party. The fact is not a lot of people could write that fictional scene with firsthand knowledge a point I put to Clinton. That is something - not a lot of people have sat in that chair. You have.  Yep and it is really - it is important that people understand that you have to develop the capacity if you really want to serve people to basically almost disengage yourself from whether something is making you angry because it is not fair to you. It is almost like you cannot exist almost like you cannot have feelings except for the American people. You should not be mad except on behalf of the American people. Everything else has to be calculation so you can maximize your capacity to do the job you put your hand on the Bible and swore to do.  President Bill Clinton along with writer James Patterson talking about their new thriller The President Is Missing. 