 And finally this hour we are right in the middle of Hollywood's blockbuster season. Theaters are packed and running films that studios consider most likely to succeed. Our critic Bob Mondello says they are especially confident about one form in particular.  Imagine you are a movie producer and you have got a couple of hundred million dollars to gamble on a single massive blockbuster. What genre do you suppose will be your safest bet? Superhero? Action-adventure? Sci-fi? All of those have had huge successes but they have also all had hugely expensive failures. There is one genre though that is hardly a gamble at all. It is been almost foolproof since it first came into being in 1995.    You saved the day again Woody.   You are my favorite deputy.    You have got a friend in me.  Pixar's Toy Story was the first computer-animated feature film and it started a revolution. In the last 17 years the major Hollywood studios have made about 70 more and only a handful of those studio-produced films have made less than 100 million at the box office. The really big hits have made much more.    You definitely need some Tic Tacs or something because your breath stinks.  Shrek and its various sequels and spinoffs have taken in more than 3 billion at box offices worldwide and the three Toy Story movies...    I am Buzz Lightyear. I come in peace.  ...have taken in about 2 billion...    Money money money.  ...a mark that the Ice Age movies will almost certainly reach this summer.    Hey there really is a rainbow around every corner.  The Madagascar Cars and Kung Fu Panda franchises are no slouches either at more than 1 billion each. Small wonder that we will soon be seeing Despicable Me 2  Revenge of the Leftovers and a sequel to Monsters Inc. called Monsters University. Computer-animated sequels are so reliably successful that if you have got an idea for how Nemo could get lost again I will bet Pixar would listen.    Dory do you see anything?   Aah. Something's got me.   That was me. I am sorry.  And box-office revenues are barely the beginning. DVD sales are in the gazillions because young kids love to see these movies again and again and the characters are tailor-made for toys - some of them even are toys...    T-O-Y toy.   Excuse me. I think the word you are searching for is space ranger.  ...not to mention everything from sheets to collectibles to theme park rides. All of this comes with advantages on the production end too. Star salaries? Not necessary.    Tomme de chevre de pays. That would go beautifully with my mushroom.  Ratatouille took in 600 million with its leading rat voiced by Patton Oswalt who is hardly a household name. And because actors only need a few days to voice a whole movie even big stars do not demand million-dollar paydays.    Okey-dokey. Beddie-bye. All tucked in. Sweet dreams.  It also helps that animated movies are a snap to dub into other languages...   ...because there is no disconnect when an animated character's lips move and Spanish comes out or French or whatever which is helpful with overseas markets looming ever larger on studio balance sheets. All of which speaks to why the Hollywood studios are so fond of computer animation. And audiences? Well initially there was the novelty factor. Teens and adults had long been leaving cartoons to kids but these new digital characters seemed startlingly lifelike and they sounded hip and clever enough that for the first time since the early Disney years animation was attracting everybody...    WALL-E.  ...not just children.   It is possible to make a computer-animated dud. Disney did it with Mars Needs Moms and smaller companies that do not have the merchandising power of the big studios have had misfires. Also digital animation is not cheap so hundred-million-dollar grosses do not mean animators all get limos. But the two companies that have led the digital animation revolution - PixarDisney and DreamWorks Animation which is home to the Shrek and Madagascar movies - have between them produced 17 of the top 20 computer-animated features and in the process grossed a bit over 13 billion not counting DVD sales toy sales or theme park rides. Why you have to wonder would the studios make anything else? I am Bob Mondello.    Hey I know that guy. It is WALL-E. That is it. Hey WALL-E.   Hey WALL-E. Hi WALL-E.   Hey it is your buddy John. Hey.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 