 Hollywood is forever dreaming up futures from Metropolis back in the silent film era to the Terminator movies to a remake of Soylent Green that is now on the drawing boards. Bob Mondello was looking at the calendar and he is noticed that a lot of those futures are nearing their expiration dates.  The future is past. Or at any rate the future novelists and Hollywood screenwriters imagined for me in my youth is past.  Mr.   No 9000 computer has ever made a mistake or distorted information. We are all by any practical definition of the words foolproof and incapable of error.  Growing up in the 1960s my friends and I were as thrilled by the talking computer in  A Space Odyssey as we were terrified by 1984's totalitarian Big Brother. George Orwell had told us 1984 would bring brainwashing Arthur C. Clarke countered that in 2001 we would have mind expansion. Back when I was a kid it never occurred to me that I would actually live through those years but here we are. Big Brother is a TV show and the year 2001's mind-expanding breakthrough was what Shrek?  Mr.   Onions have layers. Ogres have layers. We both have layers.  So much for '60s crystal-ball gazing. A generation later '80 machines run amok in Blade Runner and Terminator skateboards without wheels in the Back to the Future movies.   Mr. MICHAEL J.   Hey little girl stop. I need to borrow your - hoverboard.  Those '80s futures let us note are now approaching their expiration dates. We are just nine years away from Blade Runner's replicants five from Doc Brown's flying DeLorean. And Terminator? Well the sequels have hedged a bit but in the first two films much of humanity was wiped out almost precisely 13 years ago.   Ms.   Three billion human lives ended on August 29th 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day.  Some of these once-visionary visions now look pretty quaint. We are far enough along now to laugh at  A Space Odyssey when it shows a Pan Am moon shuttle with flight attendants serving zero-gravity meals as if either Pan Am or in-flight snacks would still be around in the space age. Then again some of the vision came true. Kubrick basically invented Skype for 2001 and he did it remember in 1968 so that a scientist could see his daughter when he talked to her from the space station. Mr.   Hello. How are ya Squirt?  All right. Mr.  What are you doing?  Playing.  No matter how accurate they may be all fictional futures especially alarmist ones lose urgency as the concerns that fueled them fade. The Cold War paranoia of 1984 and 2001 now feel distant tech-boom fears in Blade Runner a bit more current. This decade we are uptight about the environment so we get Wall-E. In the flower-power era we were skeptical about social conformity so we got A Clockwork Orange.   Mr.   Let us get her boys.  Remember what Stanley Kubrick did in Clockwork to the super-contemporary housing complex where most of the muggings and gang fights took place? It was the sort of elegant clean-lined architecture that sociologists were claiming in 1971 would make abandoned inner cities livable again. Kubrick showed what those clean lines would look like after a decade or so of neglect mucked up with graffiti and broken windows a neat visual shorthand for the limits of social engineering. Kubrick is the same guy remember who had just made the future look so gorgeously pristine in  A Space Odyssey but as time catches up with fictional futures the one thing you realize is that they are never as nuanced as real life. They are all either light or dark utopias or dystopias. Logan's Run for instance posits a 23 You live a rigidly structured apparently mindless life for three decades and then as your reward for hitting 30 you are disposed of just human garbage.    There is been a terrible error. I am nowhere near 30. I am 22. No.   Undeniably downbeat our great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandkids will never know the joys of a happy retirement. But all doom and gloom? Well maybe for them. But if you are like me you can still find a little cheer in even the direst of futures. In this case I take comfort from the clothes. Judging from what everybody wears in Logan's Run polyester is going to be very big in the 23rd century. So apparently we 21st century folks can stop worrying so much about running out of oil. I am Bob Mondello. 