 Jules Feiffer is a Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist. He is been drawing cartoons and publishing books for decades and at age 85 he has taken a new turn in his career. He is just published his first graphic novel. It is called Kill My Mother. Here's reviewer Alan Cheuse.  Before I picked up this dark confection by Jules Feiffer I thought that comic books belonged to my childhood and that Ulysses was the only book I had read twice to fully understand. Turns out this graphic novel or comic book for adults as I think of these things may progress in linear fashion - left to right and then down left to right again. But for most of its pages it is a lot more complicated than it seems on first reading. The story begins the 1930s in the aftermath of the death of a policeman in southern California. While the cop's widow a blonde named Elsie goes to work for an alcoholic private eye - her late husband's pal - her daughter Annie feels abandoned. And she takes up raucous games and shoplifting in the company of a young friend named Artie. The drawings in the story become more complicated when on the run from a department store detective. The two teenagers find themselves rescued by a tall gaunt street person - a woman in a dark cloak wielding a baseball bat. Annie rescues her rescuer from the life the street while her mother tries to find a mysterious tall blonde whom the detective has been hired to track down. Gunplay flares up when Elsie picks up a pistol to protect herself from a menacing gang of street thugs. And the drunken detective - he dies by gunshot wound. After that murder the story becomes filled with so many ambiguous turns and false identities - cross-dressing and disguise - that you may feel as I did that you are watching a dark and moody noir film out Raymond Chandler with a script by William Faulkner. Though it is easy on the eyes mainly because of Feiffer's by now familiar and quite endearing style of drawing wide-eyed rangy-limbed figures usually mostly comic expressing joy or as mostly here distress. Figuring this one out is a real brain twister.  The book is Kill My Mother. It is a graphic novel by Jules Feiffer. Alan Cheuse had our review. 