 Here's a question that' What happened to Billy? Billy Chamberlain is not a starting pitcher who cannot find the strike zone or a high-priced free agent slugger who is batting .230. He is a fan a regular in the parking lot of ATT Park. How close was he to the Giants? Well joining us from San Diego where they play the Padres today is Giants manager Bruce Bochy. Mr. Bochy welcome.  Well thank you and I am glad to be with you.  Tell us about Billy and your team.  Well I will start with Billy. You know when I came up to San Francisco five years ago I got to know a fan that was there every day. He was every day - both before and after the game where he would wait outside you know the ballpark and we became friends. And yeah it was not the case where we went out and had dinner or anything. We would - I just stop and talk to Billy and...  What would he say to you when you came out?  And he - oh he usually you know say something positive. If we lost hey we will get them tomorrow. And you know we are going to win. We are going to win the championship. You know he was always very positive and would come down and watch his boys play.  Now I have read about this in the San Francisco Chronicle and I read that Billy was receiving disability benefits. He was taking some - or supposed to be taking some psychiatric meds and - but for the kindness of a security guard at ATT Park Orlando Green he would be living on the streets. Green gave him some place to stay. And you have not seen him for a while. You have not seen him since the end of July I guess.  Yeah. And that is correct. And ironically that is when we really hit our struggles you know at the end of July and August. And about the same time we could not or did not know what happened to Billy. And he has not been around. And you know it is just - it is amazing how you know a person can just disappear. And we - I mean they have checked everywhere from hospitals and he even say even morgues. You know I to be honest I do not know where Billy grew up. And you know I do not know if he went home or - we have no idea.  Mr. Bochy I you know I have never heard a story like this. And I just wonder is it - are there other examples of this in Major League Baseball of you know people so attached to the team at the parking lot at the gates of the ballpark that they become a part of the franchise family?  Well there are - yes there are fans that they wait outside the clubhouse or in the parking lot but Billy was a little different. I mean he was our friend and you know he was a guy we thought would be there every day. And now we look back we took it for granted that he would always be there. And the guys thought a lot of him and you know they would chip in and help him take a train ride down to L.A. or San Diego. And I remember getting Billy a jacket a Giant jacket. He was so proud of it. And Billy just kind of became our you know our go-to guy I guess when you know we want to feel a little better about ourselves.  Just before you go you mentioned that by coincidence the last time Billy was at ATT Park in San Francisco July 31st also marked a turn in the fortunes of the club. You are in second place in your division behind Arizona now. You are - was it six games back or so? It is going to be a tough shot at the postseason. Have the two things merged in your mind at some level that bad things began happening to the Giants at the end of July?  Well we you know we did talk about it how ironic it was that since Billy started you know was missing that we had our struggles. And you know we are all superstitious in our own ways. But you know for us to have such a tough month is unusual as good as we have been. I mean we are the world champions.  Well good luck to you. And I hope that somebody turns up something about the whereabouts of Billy Chamberlain.  Well thanks. And I appreciate your time and let us find Billy. 