 If it seems like there have been a lot of books coming to the big and small screens it is not in your head. Never mind the long-running Game Of Thrones on HBO or Hulu's Handmaid's Tale. At least 15 books were adapted into movies for 2017 including a summer blockbuster take on Stephen King's The Dark Tower...  Ooph  is my straight reaction.  . ...To a sweet indie adaptation of a young adult novel called Everything Everything.  I liked that movie. It is sweet. It is - you know it is YA. It is romance. It is YA romance.  That is Linda Holmes of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast and panelist Glen Weldon as well. I stopped into their studio to ask what is the deal with all the book adaptations this year?  I mean you definitely have a couple of these major ones. You know The Handmaid's Tale which I think when people first heard that you know that is kind of a classic book...  Right Margaret Atwood.  ...And it was like wow are you going to touch that book? But then you know it was actually a very well-regarded adaptation. And they are going to a second season even though they have used up most of the plot from the book. And that of course is one of the things that you run into when you adapt a book is that sometimes there is only so much plot in the book. Then you have to figure out what are you doing with your second season?    My name is Offred. And I intend to survive.  Is film or TV better for adaptation?  In my opinion I think television just maps easier onto the structure of a book. You can capture the mood but one thing you do definitely lose when you are adapting television to books or movies is richness texture you know inner life because books give you direct access to characters' inner life. You are basically sharing their brain.  Right.  And in TV and movies you have to cheat that. You do it one of two ways. You either put it all into dialogue which is clunky or you try to do this thing with voiceover which is fraught.  And the voiceover has to be written in a certain way because people will say you should be able to get across the characters' sort of inner thoughts through you know acting which to some degree you can. But if a character is thinking of a specific time in the past you cannot expect acting no matter how good it is to necessarily reveal everything that you can reveal in a book.  Yeah you can only do so much with your eyebrows I think.  Absolutely.  Absolutely true. Right.  How close should creators stick to the source material? Do you get the sense lately that people are really being punished when they do not?  I think there are times when that happens because one of the advantages of adapting a book is the same advantage that you get when you - when you continue a franchise or you adapt a board game or something like that which is the existing intellectual property. This is where you hear so many people in Hollywood throw around the idea of existing IP which is familiarity. But the downside is people who are familiar are often also really passionate about precisely following the structure of books. And honestly in many cases you will make a better movie or TV show if you allow yourself to stray a little bit from what is technically the exact content of the book because if you were writing a movie or a TV show you would write it differently than a novel.  I think of something like Children Of Men...  Sure.  ...P.D. James where the movie I found far more engaging and did a lot of interesting things.  Right.  I did not think the book was bad but I just thought this is a completely other creative thing that stands on its own merit.  And that is the key because every adaptation is another bite of the apple. And you can get upset and wring your hands over the fact that we are not telling original stories and we are just telling the same stories over and over again. But you always have the books to go back to.  And sometimes there are two different things involved right? We talked a little bit about The Dark Tower. And there are a whole bunch of Stephen King adaptations some of which stay really really close to the book. If you hear him talk about Stanley Kubrick's The Shining he does not like that movie. And The Shining is a great movie. The Shining is a great book. But the movie is not the book.  Right. Right.  They are quite different. But you can appreciate them both if you do not expect them to be the same thing.  If there is one author though who should know it is Stephen King.  Absolutely.  I feel like for every generation there is a Stephen King  adaptation.  He has been adapted so...  It is crazy. I mean...  He has been adapted so much.  ...To this year when I saw the trailers for It the movie...  Yeah.  ...It is like the demonic clown that goes after children I am like as scary as the first time...  Yeah sure.  ...I saw a trailer for a similar movie. And then when I tried to read the book and got through half of it because I was terrified.  Yeah and It has already been adapted as television...  Exactly.  ...Years and years ago. So it is - yeah boy he has been adapted a lot. That is true.  As has Agatha Christie. We are going to get another interpretation of...  Yes...  ...Murder On The Orient Express this fall.  ...With Johnny Depp.  Johnny Depp.  Are you worried about that?  Who is clamoring for this - no one precisely no one. But again it is another bite of the apple. It is another take. It is not going to do anything to the original book. It is just going to enrich the world.   OK so Glen Weldon is a regular panelist on NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast. He also reviews books and movies for npr.org. Glen thanks so much.  Sure.  And Linda Holmes is host of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast and also writes and edits the entertainment and pop culture blog Monkey See. Thanks for having me in your studio Linda.  Thanks Audie.  