 Last year the animated movie Puss in Boots by the company DreamWorks made a lot of money and was nominated for an Oscar. Its swashbuckling kitty with dreamy eyes was voiced by Antonio Banderas.   The computer-generated movie took four years and 130 million to make. But another cartoon  A Furry Tail was hand-drawn in six months for less than 1 million. It went straight to DVD.   That is just one example among many of how low-budget filmmakers are trying to ride on the coattails of Hollywood blockbusters. NPR's Mandalit del Barco has this story about the knockoffs.  Animator Darrell Van Citters once worked at Disney and Warner Brothers. Now he is the supervising editor at Renegade Animation which produced the Puss in Boots knockoff and others. He admits to openly piggybacking on the buzz of major studios.  Yeah. The idea is to draft on all that free publicity. It is a clever idea. And I think oftentimes it works. Sometimes you end up with customers who feel that they have been cheated and the idea is not to cheat them. The idea is just that you are aware of this property now so here are some other alternatives.  Before the dancing penguin movie Happy Feet won an Oscar Renegade came out with Tappy Toes.   And DreamWorks masterful Kung Fu Panda was reduced to Chop Kick Panda.   Knockoff films are nothing new. In the 1950s science fiction flicks like Creature from the Black Lagoon and The Blob sparked cheap imitations. Later the blockbuster Jaws spawned the low-budget Piranha. And E.T. generated the laughable rip off Mac and Me.  There is a segment of people who watch them because they know they are bad and they are funny. And they are fun to make fun of with their friends.  Kyle Ryan is managing editor of The AV Club a sister publication of The Onion. He cites filmmaker Roger Corman as the master of producing inexpensive B movies that have become cult classics like 1993's Carnosaur the story of a mad scientist who recreates dinosaurs to destroy humanity.   You could tell they are using miniatures but they were overcompensating that by like ramping up the sound design. So it was like boom boom boom.  Carnosaur starred Diane Ladd and was released two weeks before the larger-scale blockbuster Jurassic Park which featured Ladd's daughter Laura Dern. This summer just before  Vampire Hunter came out The Asylum released Abraham Lincoln Vs. Zombies.   Every year The Asylum cranks out dozens of knockoffs of Hollywood blockbusters. Partners Paul Bales David Rimawi and David Latt call them mockbusters.  Everyone else does it but we are just out there kind of exposed.  We are shameless. And we have a movie called Transmorphers. I mean that is The Asylum.  Snakes on a Train you know?   Blockbuster Video used to give The Asylum its marching orders  the SyFy channel Netflix and other ways of streaming content have created a mini-renaissance of mockbusters. So for example just before two other Snow White movies came out this year The Asylum released its own version says David Latt.  No. We do not have spies at the studios. We have a general sense of what the film is and we make our movie completely original just based on that concept.  For example Paramount Pictures' upcoming biblical epic Noah will not hit the theaters until 2014. But The Asylum has already wrapped up production on its flood potboiler.   With scenes filmed on location at a community college in Compton Peter Geiger is directing a sort of poor man's Noah's Ark.  We do not have the animals two by two.   Instead of wrangling a cast of thousands from a zoo the characters instead round up DNA samples in test tubes.  So this is low-budget filmmaking.  For new filmmakers like The Asylum's Devin Ward making fast-turnaround genre films on the cheap is a rush.  In a five-month period I have done zombies puppies bikinis and end of the world. That is how absurd it is. Textbook-definition guerrilla filmmaking.  And they are all headed to a small screen near you. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 