 For years premium cable networks have earned that word premium. Think The Sopranos and the biting political comedy Veep from HBO or Showtime and its attention-grabbing Homeland. And then think Starz. And if you are having trouble remembering what is so premium about Starz you are not the only one. Starz is trying to step up its game now with a new comedy starring Patrick Stewart. It is called Blunt Talk and it premieres this weekend. Here to talk more about it is NPR's TV critic Eric Deggans. Eric welcome back.  Hey.  So the plot of this show has Patrick Stewart playing a self-destructive British newscaster named Walter Blunt who comes to L.A. to host a cable talk show. So this is like a fish out of water type thing.  Yeah and what is good about this is that Patrick Stewart kind of throws himself into every scene he is in. He gamely does whatever they ask him to do no matter how outlandish. And this show has a pedigree. Seth McFarlane is the executive producer. You know him from Family Guy and the movie Ted. Oscar nominee actress Jacki Weaver is in it. And it is really an interesting situation. We have this guy who drinks too much he does drugs he has these public scandals and he has to talk about it all with his psychologist who is played by Richard Lewis. So here we have got a clip of the two of them together. Let us check it out.    I put my career in jeopardy I am a lousy to middling father and I have hurt every woman I have ever been with.   And what do you think would lessen your negative feelings about yourself?   Well a woman.   So what is holding you back from meeting a woman?   My track record. All my relationships end in pain.   Did that stop Elizabeth Taylor?  Yeah we got an Elizabeth Taylor joke here.  OK.  I mean it is kind of a weird choice for a show that is supposed to be a contemporary comedy about celebrity culture in the news business. So that gives you a hint of some of the problems they have with it.  Oh problems. OK Eric it sounds like you are not exactly a big fan of this show. What is going on?  Well this show is ultimately a collection of a bunch of scattered jokes that do not really add up to like a larger idea. I mean you want this program to say some insightful stuff about the news business or the nature of celebrity or the absurdity of modern life but you are mostly following around this self-centered eccentric self-destructive cable TV guy who seems sort of vaguely modeled after Piers Morgan the former CNN host. So in an odd way it is kind of less than the sum of its parts.  All right Eric but Starz is trying to compete in a very very crowded marketplace right now right? I mean how does it do that?  Well you are right. The marketplace is crowded. I mean this year we are going to have something like 400 TV series right? So in an environment like that Starz - this channel that asked people to pay an extra fee to access what they do - they really have to deliver exceptional programming and not too many of Starz's shows have been that great. Now this channel they have been around since 1994. They have got sister channels like Encore and MoviePlex something like 30 million subscribers. And you may remember some shows that they have had like a version of Spartacus. They have an urban drama called Power and they have this romantic drama about a time traveling World War II nurse called Outlander. But even though Power and Outlander have connected with strong fan bases they still do not have that visibility of shows on rivals like HBO and Showtime.  OK so it sounds like basically they need a hit. Why are not they getting there?  Well to put it another way they need a hit show that defines the channel's brand for the world especially the audience. They have had these shows that are good but they just do not land in the zeitgeist and talk about issues that are at the center of pop culture and how we talk about life. They have got a show called Power for example that is a great urban drama but it is overshadowed by Fox's drama Empire because Power does not really say a lot about race or urban life in the way that Empire does. HBO had hits like Sex And The City and now they have Game Of Thrones that defines a channel for audiences. Showtime has The Affair. Starz needs its version of that kind of a hit. They have got some interesting programs coming up including a drama about ballet called Flesh And Bone from a writer who worked on Breaking Bad and they have got a series inspired by the Evil Dead movies called Ash Vs. Evil Dead. But so far series like Blunt Talk they are just not there yet.  That is Eric Deggans NPR's TV critic. Eric thanks for the heads up.  Always a pleasure. 