   Do you remember the 21st night of September?  No it is not the 21st night of September anymore. That was yesterday.  Yesterday was also comedian and writer Demi Adejuyigbe's goodbye to an internet tradition he started. See in 2016 he remixed the famed Earth Wind  Fire song as a joke. His roommate encouraged him to post it somewhere.  So I made a video of myself dancing to it. And I made a quick shirt with like a stencil that I had and just posted that on Twitter. And people were like oh that is funny.  People found it so funny that when September 2017 rolled around they began re-sharing the video. So Adejuyigbe thought...  Oh maybe I should do another one. Oh that would be fun if I like escalate it this year. And then as soon as I had done two it was like it is a pattern. You are going to do this every year now.  Every year since Adejuyigbe has posted a new video upping the ante each time with new sets props even guests.  In 2018 he was joined by a children's choir.    ...September. Ba-dee-ya  21 September.  In 2019 a mariachi band.   His September videos have millions of views on YouTube.  It is the perfect element of like you know when it is going to happen you know that it is going to be bigger than last year you know it is going to be a surprise. And so it just feels like you are setting yourself up for excitement every year.  Adejuyigbe has basically created an internet holiday with his videos. They are a lot of work. And in 2020 he was ready to hang up his hat. But instead he decided to go big.   So I will make a deal with you guys. I will do another video next year if you can help me raise 50000 to be split between these select charities.  He ended up raising close to 350000 split between advocacy organizations focused on unhoused people and marginalized communities. And of course it meant one last video.    Ba-dee-ya - say do you remember - ba-dee-ya - dancing in September?  Like all great performers he went all out with this one. There is a rotating room a house party a flying car.  Now Demi Adejuyigbe might be done with the September videos but he is not done with creating.  What I really love about the videos and why I keep making them is just the ability to make things and just have a plan and execute it. I do not know. We will see what that turns into.  Do not worry Demi. We will still be thinking of you every September 21. We are going to stay tuned for what you do next. 