 The filmmakers behind the movie La Mission hope that Latinos will begin to talk more openly about homosexuality. The film takes place in San Francisco's Mission District a neighborhood that is portrayed in the film as a community peppered with as much violence and macho posturing and culture and pride. Marcos Najera of member station KJZZ talked with the brothers behind the movie.   Peter and Benjamin Bratt grew up grew up in the Mission District. The two brothers say their Peruvian mom was a neighborhood activist who raised them to tackle tough issues and that is exactly what they are trying to do with La Mission. Peter wrote and directed the film. Mr.  This in very many senses is a coming-of-age story not so much for the son as it is for the father.  Peter's brother Benjamin plays the main character Che Rivera. He is a tough ex-con who learns his only son is gay.  Mr.   But if you think that if talking about it or processing it or however you want to call it is going to somehow make it all right or acceptable or that maybe one day I am going to like give you my blessing then you are wasting your time because that is never gonna happen. Unidentified Man 1   Meaning? Mr.   Meaning I do not want to know about it. I do not want to have it anywhere near me. Entiendes? Mr.  We all knew getting involved with this that the story necessarily would explore heavy themes.  Benjamin says his macho dad character in the film feels hurt and betrayed by his son's secret. So the punches fly. Mr.  And then of course with this father who is rigid immovable impervious to change close-minded we really need to go in a different direction that does not involve violence.  Coming out stories are not new but they are rarely told from a Latino perspective. Even so Peter Bratt says his screenplay was a tough sell. Mr.  When we actually first took the script around and tried to get financing within traditional channels even meeting with white gay executives  did not you see Brokeback Mountain?  The assumption among most studio execs says Bratt was that a mainstream blockbuster had already dealt with a dangerous gay storyline. So Latinos did not need a rerun. Peter Bratt disagreed. Mr.  I mean Latinos and African Americans turned out in record number to vote for Obama. A few months later they turned out in record numbers again to vote in support of the ban on gay marriage. And I think people realize wow this is still a huge issue in the Latino and other minority communities. And so what we hope is that it kind of shines a light and begins a conversation.  The brothers Bratt are determined to get their indie film into more theaters. So they are forging ahead with a grueling grassroots publicity campaign fueled by Facebook. If fans can secure a sellout at their local box office then Benjamin and Peter might show up either in person or through a Skype chat session. Mr.  I thought it was awesome probably one of the best movies Ive seen so far.  Eighteen-year-old Brandon Rios came to a screening in L.A. just so he could meet the movie stars but he admits the actual movie threw him off guard. Mr.  Every like well gay scene I guess I just like kind of kept my head down. Like I was just wow. I did not really want to watch it or whatever but...  Do you mind if I ask you why you think feel that way? Mr.  It kind of - it just had me uncomfortable you know.  This discomfort is familiar to the students that Salvador Pacach works with. He is a group leader for gay youth at East L.A.'s Latino community center Bienestar. Mr.  A lot of parents have a dream of you of who you are and we basically shatter that dream.  Who here wants a Spanish song? Who here wants a Spanish song?  According to Pacach most of the gay Latino students he works with have parents who have abused them either verbally or physically sometimes both. So the clinic is a place where the kids can come to talk openly about their sexuality. Mr.  Many of these topics that we speak here at Bienestar are basically like taboos with parents. I mean many youth cannot freely talk with parents. I mean some can. Many cannot.  The Bratt brothers hope their film can help change this family dynamic. Actor Benjamin Bratt says that is the mission of La Mission. Mr.  You know what the film really is trying to do is examine how we as a society define power and how we define what masculinity is. And I think we sort of need a new definition.  The film opened to limited release this spring in New York and Los Angeles. It heads to more theaters across the country this summer. For NPR News I am Marcos Najera. 