 I am 45 years old. I am not married and I do not have kids. And those three facts alone might cause a lot of people out there to see me as something of a late bloomer a woman not quite caught up with most other women her age. I am so tired of this narrative. And that is why I was elated to read Doree Shafrir's new book Thanks For Waiting. It is her memoir and it details how she felt out of sync with most of her peers whether it came to her career landing a boyfriend getting married or having kids. But she learns that doing things later in life or differently is an act of self-determination not tardiness. Doree Shafrir joins us now. Welcome.  Thank you for having me - really excited to be here.  So when did you most powerfully feel out of step with your peers? At what age was it like most palpable?  I think it was in my mid-30s. I had been in a long-term relationship until I was 33 someone who I thought I was going to get married to. I lived with them and then it just did not happen. We did not have a big dramatic breakup. It just kind of did not happen.  Yeah.  And then I was like OK I am 33. Getting married was something that I wanted to do but I had to have these kind of hard conversations with myself of like did I want to just get married? Did I want to get married to this person and it did not work out? Like what do I want in my life?  Yeah totally. I mean what is it about the mid-30s? I felt that too. Why is the...  Yeah.  ...Pressure most intense during that decade do you think?  I think for me personally when I was in my early 20s like Sex And The City was  - that was...  Totally.  ...In the zeitgeist. That was what we all watched and what we all internalized. And what I internalized from that was you turn 35 and you disappear. And so to me age 35 was always like this Rubicon that once crossed you are just gone. And so I think I would always had that in my head. And then I turned 35 and I was not dating anyone seriously. And I started seeing all the people around me who I thought were my peers in kind of life things getting married having children. And I was suddenly like oh well this is not happening for me. Will it happen for me? I do not know. And what does that mean for how I see myself...  Right.  ...And how other people see me?  And let us just be clear. I mean the benchmarks - the milestones that you speak of in this book like marriage buying a home having a career - these are milestones that people of a certain privilege can afford. Right?  Yes definitely. Yeah. And that is something that I am very mindful of. Like I am very conscious of the fact that these things that I have internalized are these kind of middle upper middle-class white American milestones. But that did not make them any less real to me.  Sure. One person you talk a lot about in your book whom you compared yourself with a lot was your sister. You kind of held her up as this standard how she seemed to effortlessly glide through life achieving all the right things at all the right times whether it came to a boyfriend marriage kids. And what I thought was interesting is you attribute that to her quote unwavering confidence in herself. Is that how you see it now that it takes real confidence to make someone do things quote-unquote on time?  Well I think she had a confidence that she was going to do things on time. You know just because you have confidence does not mean that you are going to necessarily get married at 27. But I think that was part of how she saw herself as someone who was going to get married at 27. So I envied just that calmness in accepting who she was and...  Right.  ...Being OK with that and that took me so much longer to do.  And she was your younger sister.  Yes Ailsa. To clarify...  Let us be clear about that yeah.  ...She is my younger sister. She is also seven years younger than me. So one of the things that I talk about in the book is going to her wedding. And she did get married at 27 and I was 34 and single. And it was - I really - I did want to be happy for her. And I was happy for her and I was excited to be there. But there was this little bit of me that was like oh it is never going to happen for me. And I am just sad and lonely. And that kind of negative self-talk was hard for me to get out of that headspace of.  Yeah. Well let us talk about wanting to be in love because your dating life I mean it was...   ...Sort of the way you describe it one wrong turn after another. What do you think stopped you from making the right choices when you look back at that time in your life now?  Yeah.  Or do you think you needed to date all the wrong people for a while before you could meet the right guy who eventually became your husband Matt?  It is an interesting question because I think I was also a late bloomer when it came to dating and sex in the first place. I did not have my first real boyfriend till I was almost 22. I did not have that like wild college life that I think a lot of people do. And so what ended up happening was I had that wild college life in my 30s. So I think I - there were some things that like I probably should have learned like do not date someone who you work with who lives with his girlfriend who also works with you.  .  But here I was at like 33 learning this lesson. And yeah I do think I needed to kind of go through a lot of the things that I went to even though they were really painful. And I look back at some of them and I am just like oh my God. Like what were you thinking?  I mean you totally celebrate this idea that sometimes it just takes longer to learn what you do want in life what you should want. What about wholly rejecting or declining some milestones? Like I am sort of speaking for myself.  Yeah.  Deciding I did not want to have kids was a huge step for me. But it was part of realizing the kind of life I wanted to have.  It makes me think of my friend Glynnis MacNicol's book that came out a few years ago No One Tells You This...  Yes.  ...About being in your 40s and single. And she describes her experience of living this very fulfilled life but people kind of not believing her.  Exactly.  They just like do not get that she is actually happy.  Because it is scary - right...  Right.  ...For someone - to see someone reject all these social conventions...  Yes.  ...And still be happy. It is scary.  Yes.  What does that say about the decisions you have made?  Exactly. Exactly. So I hope that as more women make this choice we will start to see more kind of role models more people out there. I know when I was in my 20s I did not know any women in their 40s who were childless and happy. I just did not - I did not know them. I did not see them portrayed in pop culture. They just were not around. If they were portrayed in pop culture they were portrayed as like very sad.  Or forced into decisions...  Yes.  ...About not having kids because they could not. Right? It was not this volitional thing.  Exactly. Right.  And that is a really great point. Like part of the problem - part of the reason these conventional timelines still circulate in our society is because there are not enough role models out there.  Exactly.  There are more now. But...  Yes.  Part of the reason these timelines still perpetuate is because we do not have enough alternate stories.  Yeah. So I am really hopeful that we can start to create those alternate stories and that Gen Z they will not even think twice about it. It will just be a decision that they can make and that is totally fine.  That was my conversation with author Doree Shafrir earlier this year about her memoir Thanks For Waiting.  