 A surprise smash at this year's Sundance Film Festival was a comedy about high school students dealing with mortality. Me And Earl And The Dying Girl won both the Audience award and the Grand Jury prize. The movie struck a chord with Sundance filmmakers partly because it is also about teenagers who make their own movies. In a moment we will hear from its director Alfonso Gomez-Rejon. But first critic Bob Mondello has this review.  In his senior year Greg has perfected the wisecrack as a substitute for high school interaction. A member of no clique he is on friendly terms with all cliques because he only half-engages zooming down a hall hearing a snatch of conversation...    Your test was today?  ...And offering his two cents.    Ugh tests - I have been there.  His one close buddy Earl he is known forever. They bonded as kids while watching his dad's film collection and then coming up with punny titles for their movie parodies - A Sockwork Orange Senior Citizen Kane. But being jokey and making videos does not prepare Greg for news his mother gives him about a classmate.    Rachel's been diagnosed with leukemia. They just found out.  He flashes back to what he overheard in the hall.    Your test was today?  And now his wise-crack makes him wince.    Ugh tests - I have been there. Oh god.  Worse his mom insists that he go and spend some time with Rachel though he barely knows her and social grace is not his strong suit.    I do not need your stupid pity. It is fine. You can just go.   No no. Hey you got it all wrong. I am not here 'ecause I pity you. I am actually here just 'ecause my mom is making me.   That is actually worse.   Yeah I know.  Rachel does let him hang around and soon they are bonding - somewhat. The moviemaker in Greg senses that that is cool.    So if this was a touching romantic story our eyes would meet and suddenly we would be furiously making out with the fire of thousand suns. But this is not a touching romantic story. Anyway...   Yup.  Partly to protect himself from too much closeness and too much pain if Rachel's illness progresses he brings Earl into their world and ends up opening himself up more than he intended.    So you and Greg are co-workers?   Nah we friends. He just hate calling people his friend. Dude's got issues.   Yeah he does. But how are you co-workers?   We make films.   Movies?   Yeah. We have been making them for a few years now. We have like 42 in total.   Greg you never told me.   Well we never told anybody about 'em. They suck. I mean they are terrible.   I am pretty sure they do not suck.   Well you can see for yourself if you want.  And Greg is outed as it were a creative soul in high school who finds himself having to make a film for a dying girl. Director Alfonso Gomez-Rejon has a sure sense of the sort of kid who would use a camera lens as a shield and also a nifty way of using camera tricks - weird angles voiceovers animation - to get at the insanity that is teenagerdom nowhere more so than when the boys are working on their movies making their Apocalypse Now parody say Box Of Tulips Wow - toy soldiers parachuting into a vacant lot jungle to rescue a box of origami tulips. Genius. Sheer genius. This kid you figure is going to grow up to be quite a storyteller. And he did. I am Bob Mondello.    Oh my god am I on set right now? Oh my god. He cannot take it. Action. Cut. . That is a wrap. Rolling. 