 Aziz Ansari is in love. The stand-up whose comedy albums include one titled Intimate Moments For A Sensual Evening is now happily in a relationship. But he is still fascinated with how people find each other so he wrote a book about it. It is called Modern Romance.  I did not want this book to be you know just for single people or you know young people who are out there now but I wanted to kind of do an overview of dating and relationships as a whole.  That meant teaming up with a sociology professor from NYU and pouring over studies and data and conducting focus groups in online forums and retirement homes. He says in talking to older women he was struck by the shifts in dating beyond technology. For one marriage was a path for young women to break away from their parents.  And so I asked them I was like do you think part of the reason you got married was just to have the basic adult freedoms and independence from your parents? And they nodded their heads like yeah. And that was really - pretty mind blowing to me. And that to me is like one of the biggest changes I did not anticipate.  And now with unprecedented freedom and choices Ansari had other questions - why despite the millions of profiles on OkCupid Match Tinder and the like do people struggle to find the one? Or as he demonstrates in this bit from his Madison Square Garden special this year the one who will at least return your text messages.   You send the first text. You are all confidence. Forget about it. It is done. Wrap it up. Put it in a bag. Write my name on it 'ecause it is done.   Twenty minutes later - no response. OK well I am sure she is just busy with a couple of things and any minute now. Three hours later - f. I put too many exclamation points in my text. What was I thinking? I should have said hey with two Ys not three Ys. I am so stupid. I texted someone I thought was really interested in me and then they did not say anything back for hours and what eventually turned into days. And I was losing my mind. And it is all 'ecause I just received silence on the other end. And it was interesting to me how just someone not sending a message to me on their device was causing this roller coaster of emotions. And as I started talking about it in my stand-up I realized what a universal experience it was and everyone had their own version of this kind of dilemma. Also I want to give a shout out to the bleep guy at NPR 'ecause I am sure he is always very excited when I get booked to one of these things.  .  I keep him on his toes .  You know after this bit you actually convinced someone in the audience - this is at Madison Square Garden - to share her text messages with you which sort of stunned me. I mean it is such a private thing.  That was one of the things we did in researching the book too that was really unique and interesting is reading people's real conversations on their phones gives you a much better portrayal of what is going on than asking them well what happened with this person? Oh we texted back and forth and you know it kind of fizzled out. It is totally different when you see the actual messages and look at the timing and the choice of words. It is just really fascinating to me.  The book to me revealed something about you and your personality that I have only seen in glimpses when you have talked about majoring in college in biology and business. And I feel like this is that part of you that we are seeing you know working with these sociologists and doing a research project.  Sure. Well I am a very curious person and sociology in a strange way is similar to comedy in a lot of ways. It is a lot about observation and making observations that resonate with people and trying to learn about why people do the things they do. And one idea that really applied to modern romance in my opinion was this whole notion of the paradox of choice and that idea is from this guy Barry Schwartz. And the idea is that basically you know right now we have the most romantic options that any generation has ever had. And you would think oh more options that is better. But whenever you look at any studies they have done they always find the more options people have the harder it is for them to make a choice and that when they do make a choice they are less satisfied 'ecause they are scared that they maybe chose the wrong thing. And whenever we talked to people about this in regards to dating it totally resonated.  It sounds like at a certain point you talk about being exhausted yourself of the dating process.  Yes. The word exhausting came up in so many different contexts when we talked about modern romance. There were people that were doing online dating who were like oh when you come home and you open up that OkCupid inbox and you see all those messages it is exhausting. It is like a second job. And there is other people who are like oh trying to schedule stuff over text to go on a date - it is exhausting. People are so flaky. They tell you hey let us meet on Wednesday. Then you text them on Wednesday and they are like oh something came up. Can we meet on Friday? Like that kind of stuff is exhausting. And people do kind of reach a breaking point I think and they kind of change up what they are doing.  I have so many friends who are at the spot you were describing. They are exhausted. And I am in a relationship so they do not care about anything I have to say on the topic. But I do not know what to tell them and I find it interesting that you do not sound cynical. You do not sound burned out. It sounded like at the end of this process you kind of had a respect for the dating process for modern romance.  Here's my take - is you have all these amazing tools and it is really on you how you are going to use them. If you have a phone and you are like well I am going to try to text as many girls as I can and try to have so many balls in the air and try to go on so many first dates and meet this perfect person - that sounds like a recipe for misery to me. There is another attitude of like you know we kind of just went for coffee. I am not going to like judge them on just a coffee. Let us do some more stuff together and see if they grow on me. There is so many studies that show the more time we spend with people the more we grow to like them. That is just the way people are you know? I think - what I say in the book is we are all like a Flo Rida song.  .  When you hear a Flo Rida song at first you are like what is this Flo Rida? This is the same thing you have always done. I am not listening to this song. And then you keep hearing it and you are like oh my God Flo Rida you have done it again. This is a hit baby. And that is what people are like. People are like a Flo Rida song. You need to hear them a couple of times before you really get what they are about.  That is not where I expected that answer to go.    Love comes once in a lifetime.  Well the book was really a lot of fun. Aziz Ansari thank you so much for talking with us.  Of course thanks so much.  Comedian Aziz Ansari - his new book is called Modern Romance. It was co-written by New York University sociologist Eric Klinenberg.    Listen baby you are what I have been missing. Only got one life to live and I want to spend it with you. Love the money and the cars but listen baby you are what I have been missing. Love comes once in a lifetime. Love comes once in a lifetime...  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 