 TV shows like to explore the anxieties of a particular time so Law And Order and CSI gave us violent crime. Homeland and 24 gave us terrorism. Now Mr. Robot gives us two big things to worry about. The show focuses on a group of hackers who could destroy the economy and their nemesis an evil corporation that could take over the world.    Sometimes I dream of saving the world saving everyone from the invisible hand - the one that controls us every day without us knowing it.   What if this all went away - the city the money all of it?  Mr. Robot has won Golden Globes including best drama. It was recently nominated for six Emmys and its second season is airing now on USA. The creator of Mr. Robot is Sam Esmail who told me he had some firsthand experience with hacker culture before he ever got into television.  My poor attempt at hacking was limited to this really ill-advised decision to hack my girlfriend's college campus and send out an e-mail on some stupid you know dumb angsty rant. And I easily got busted because I did it from the job at this computer lab that I was working at NYU. They traced it back to that IP address and I got fired and put on academic probation. And that was the end of my hacker days.  What was it about the hacker culture - the ethos the kind of dissatisfaction - that stuck in your head for all these years that you would come back to it now?  Well the thing about angst is it is - you know it is - obviously there is a lot of negative connotation to it. But I also think there is another side to it and that other side is being able to channel that anger for good. And honestly the Arab Spring - you know I went to - I am Egyptian so when I went to Egypt maybe a few months after the revolution sort of went down there - and I was talking to my cousins who were young and who were a part of it. And they used technology and - you know to sort of make this happen - and used social media. And they were really angry and that is how that whole thing started. And I - you know I just thought oh that - that is a good use of anger. It is actually necessary in a way to really kind of cause change in your society if you are dissatisfied or disgruntled about it. So there is a duality to it that - where obviously I think angst could go really awry and can get really self-indulgent. And then there is the flip side where it is actually sometimes necessary that fuels things like a revolution or a change in your society.  Your main character Elliot is possibly more skeptical about big corporations than anyone else. And he is also a totally unreliable narrator who is kind of unstable. I wonder if you are telling us that if we are afraid of the power of corporations as Elliot is well then we are probably paranoid and crazy like Elliot is.  Well I am not - I am not saying that. I mean the thing about it is that Elliot is a very specific character that I have witnessed and I have read about among hacker culture. And I think he is a very extreme example - someone who is incredibly distrustful of the world of government of corporations to a sort of mentally ill extent. I mean think about the attitude of someone who thinks that there are all these resources dedicated to spying on them and their personal lives. There is a little bit of narcissism in there and there is a lot of angst and there is a lot of self-loathing. He is hard - sometimes hard to root for but the one thing that I think gives him that human side is the Rami Malek side of it all.  He is the actor who plays Elliot. Yeah.  Exactly - is the vulnerability - is - underneath all of that angst all of that paranoia is loneliness is pain. And that is really the root of all that.  His character has a sort of Robin Hood quality where you know he steals data from drug dealers or cheaters or child pornographers. And it is seductive but he does not have this power because he is necessarily earned it. He just happens to have a certain set of technological skills. And I am not sure how to feel about that - that anyone with the ability to hack can carry out their own sort of vigilante justice.  Right. And that again goes back to the narcissism. And if you think about it just the sort of psychology of a superhero is because I can I should protect people and I should put the bad guys away and I should defend society. But it is - you are forming your own justice. You are - there is no judge and jury here. You are it. That in and of itself is you know a very complicated way of looking at morality.  Do you think of this as a kind of superhero show?  You know it is weird because I always think hacking is a little bit of a - of a superpower. I mean that...  You can see through walls.  Exactly. Well you get - you can see through everyone's personal lives. And that - really that is all - that is all sort of a construct of modern society. I mean back in the day all your personal information was not necessarily online you know. So the fact that you can manipulate people because you can hack them and basically learn everything about their personal lives - I mean that is an immense amount of power.  It is funny. As I go down this road of thinking of the hacker as the I am superhero I am thinking well social outcast check alternate identity in the digital space check.  Dead father.  Dead father check.  Check.  Yeah.  Evil nemesis - yeah exactly.  So having written this show and now directing every episode of season 2 do you feel yourself being more paranoid and changing your passwords and stockpiling food and buying a cabin off the grid in the Woods?  No I am - you know it is interesting. I think a lot of people confuse  me with the main character. I am not in any way shape or form like that. I am very protective of my online life and I try and take as many security measures but I think everybody should. But no I am not like the off-the-grid kind of guy. I am actually quite - hopefully quite normal.  I actually was not suggesting in any way that you are Elliot but just that in exploring the possibilities...  Oh.  ...Of what a motivated hacker can do.  Yeah.  You think to yourself I should be a little more paranoid than I am.  I am definitely paranoid on my online life but hopefully it has not gone into my system in terms of my just everyday life.  I mean for example season 2 features a great scene early on with a fully wired house that basically rebels against its owner. And it made me think you know should I have more candles and distilled water on hand than I do?    Nothing is working.    I am perplexed. Everything is inside the walls. That is how it was installed when I ordered the Smart House package.    Now the alarm is going off and it is freezing. It is below 40.  You know what? I have got to tell you something. I love technology and I love gadgets. I buy all the new gadgets when they first come out. You know when we were shooting that sequence at that house the house is so amazing and so beautiful. And even as we are shooting you know all these little horrific scenes that went on I was like oh I cannot wait to get this. Oh I have got to get this.   Oh my God. That is so awesome.  I had the exact opposite reaction.   There you go. I should be more paranoid.  Sam Esmail it is been great talking with you. Thanks a lot.  Thank you so much Ari. This was fun.  Sam Esmail is the creator of Mr. Robot which is currently in its second season on USA. 