 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. Lines are forming outside movie theaters across the country lines of young adults wearing Quidditch jerseys carrying wands perhaps brooms. They are the horde of Harry Potter followers and they are lining up to celebrate and to mourn. And more specifically they are lining up to see the last Harry Potter movie.  the actors who brought these fantasies to the big screen.  Do you have any idea how many wizards werewolves and vampires are going to be out of work soon? In a few months  School athlete captain of Quidditch team seeks entry-level position. No degree but considerable leadership experience. Contact Harold Potter. Or night shift sought by graduate of multiple high schools. If you are thinking extremely long-term ask for Edward Cullen. Okay this is facetious for the characters but what about the actors who will no longer be playing them once their series end? We have known little Danny Radcliffe since he was just a wand-wielding tyke.  Unidentified Man 1   You are a wizard Harry. Mr.   I am a what?  Now he is on Broadway and what is he doing? Looking for work.  Mr.    How to apply for a job? How to advance from the mailroom?  How to Succeed the title of Radcliffe's show is kind of the question for all these young millionaire actors since after four or five or eight movies as one character when they do new roles you cannot help picturing them in their old ones. Daniel Radcliffe seems determined to avoid that having done a nude scene in Equus before tap-dancing in How to Succeed. His one-time fellow wizard Robert Pattinson no doubt thought he would escaped typecasting when his character Cedric Diggory died a horrible and memorable death in the Harry Potter series.   Unidentified Man 2   Cedric.   The shall we say fatal flaw in this fatality though is that Pattinson leapt directly from the Potter movies into the Twilight ones. They end next year and as vampire Edward Cullen he cannot die or even age.  Ms.   How old are you? Mr.   Seventeen. Ms.   How long have you been 17? Mr.   A while.  After being asked to do little more than glare coo and sparkle in the Twilight movies Pattinson's been trying to redefine himself as a warm-blooded heartthrob but in Water for Elephants when you see lights move behind him at night you cannot help thinking werewolves are stalking him. And when he stands romantically behind Reese Witherspoon...  Mr.   There is a better kind of life that is meant for you whether you love me or not.  You kind of wish she would cover up her neck. Pattinson's werewolf rival Taylor Lautner has not been doing much in Tinseltown besides sprouting fur under duress but he will try to claw his way into other territory come fall in a film called Abduction.  Mr.   Sometimes I feel different.  Where he learns he is not just a high school student.  Mr.   I walk around like everybody else. Unidentified Man 3   Get ready to party. Mr.   But suddenly everyone around me is dying.  Been there howled that. As the human in Twilight's long-running Beauty and Two Beasts act Kristen Stewart does not have quite the same problem. Her next big role Snow White is not exactly a stretch. But she is been doing two outside jobs for every Twilight movie since the series began. That should help her escape the Frodo dilemma.  Mr.   I wish the ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened.  Elijah Wood who played Frodo in the Lord of the Rings trilogy was a lad of 19 when he first put on his hobbit feet. Now he is 30. And what is he done since? Well immediately after the Rings movies he got good reviews as a minor character in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and after that you remember his starring roles in The Oxford Murders and The Romantics no? Well neither does anyone else. Wood will play Frodo again in The Hobbit and in fairness he is been putting himself out there as an actor all along but in the public's mind he is still got oversized feet which should serve as an alert to those whose fame is intimately tied to fur fangs and wands. Hermione Granger  expert in arithmancy. Graduated late but top of her class. Willing to start work now. I am Bob Mondello. 