 The big broadcast networks are rolling out their new fall shows right now. And how many do you count Eric Deggans?  I count about 26 new shows debuting in the next few weeks.  Twenty-six new shows and Eric has seen a lot of those already because he is at least for the next few days TV critic for the Tampa Bay Times. Next week he comes to NPR to be our television critic. As the great radio star Fred Allen once said imitation is the sincerest form of television. Eric I guess these shows are new but they are not all that original.  Some of them - many of them are not. In fact the lifeblood of television as you have noted is often the spin-off. It is often the recreation. So one of the things that we are seeing huge premiere just last night Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. on ABC. Their biggest drama premiere in four years and it is essentially a spinoff of the Avengers movie taking a character who actually died during the film and building a new show around these spy guys who try to track down super-powered humans in the real world. And if you look at the CW which is kind of a network geared toward younger viewers we have the show called The Tomorrow People that is based on a British show from the '70s about a bunch of young people with special powers. And I think we have a clip.   You are one of us. You are breaking out.  Your latent powers are starting to appear. Soon you will be able to do this.  Okay okay okay okay. Put me down.  We are called tomorrow people.  Teleporting in your sleep is just the beginning.  And of course you know because they are youthful and they are on the CW they are hidden super power is that they are good looking so.  That is true here too by the way. I was going to say you are one of us.  That whole thing about a face for radio is just out the window here.  Eric save us a little time. What rehash series do not we have to even bother watching?  Well in that category I would name Ironside a remake of the old show from the '70s. You might remember Raymond Burr as a police officer who is stuck in a wheelchair. But this time we have got Blair Underwood in that title role and it is so bad that even the ads sound like a bad Saturday Night Live parody. Let us check it out.   There is one thing I know people do bad things. I am everywhere on top of everybody working every angle until I have got my facts. And when I know without a doubt then I may do bad things too.  It is like I expect Danny Glover's character from Lethal Weapon to jump out and say I am too old for this stuff. It is crazy.  Well there is nothing especially creative about television being uncreative. Unoriginal new shows have been around. The Office was a remake of a British show. Hawaii Five-O was a remake of an old American show. Why are there so many unoriginal new shows this year?  Well I think one thing is it is a safer bet for network TV executives. If something does well overseas there is a sense that they can do an American version of it and the concept is already a proven commodity. Also more and more these days income from foreign markets is important to the success of TV shows. So I think there is also a sense that if they can create an American version then they might be able to sell it better overseas as a different version of something that is already worked.  I gather Michael J. Fox is coming back to television.  Oh yeah. Now Michael J. Fox now this is a rehash that I can get behind. Michael J. Fox is starring in a sitcom that is centered on a character who has Parkinson's disease just like he does in real life. This character is a New York TV anchor who had to quit work as soon as his symptoms started to show. And as he began to cope with his disease he goes back to work because frankly his family cannot stand it when he is home and it is really funny. It is heartwarming and it goes along also with this trend of family comedies that we are seeing this fall.  Thank you Eric.  Thank you for having me.  That is Eric Deggans of The Tampa Bay Times and starting next week he is going to be NPR's Eric Deggans. 