 In the new novel Refuge Dina Nayeri tells a story very much like her own. Nayeri left Iran with her mother when she was 8 years old. Her father stayed behind. The same is true of this book's protagonist a character named Niloo. Niloo's father even comes from the same Iranian small town as Nayeri's father. Here's how the author describes it.  Ardestoon my father's childhood home is an ancient village of unpaved roads dotted in crushed mulberries hand-crafted outdoor rugs swept with brooms rows of pickle jars the size of children lining every house. It has two rivers two gardens an orchard connected to a natural pool with ducks a mosque a medium-sized mountain and a famous two-story aqueduct an 800-year-old structure that the people of the village do not even realize they should be proud of because they are too busy living uncomplicated lives that Baba calls overflowing and poetic.  Dina Nayeri's mother converted to Christianity so she had to flee Iran with her children to escape persecution. While Nayeri's father continued his familiar Iranian life his daughter traveled the world moving to the United States and then to Europe. The divide between father and daughter helped define Dina Nayeri's life and it defines this novel Refuge.  I remember a professor telling me that you know you can either have roots or wings but if you try to have both you are probably going to fail. And my father has roots he is deeply rooted. He has his habits and his comforts. And then at the same time he feels deeply secure in his life and his place in the world. I on the other hand have seen much of the world and have traveled and I am comfortable anywhere. I am a bit of a chameleon. But I do not feel like any place is home. There is no place where I can really say you know I feel complete and at ease.  In so many ways this book explores the tension between being tied to the homeland and to the urge to assimilate. And one of the ways that tension plays out is through a literal taste of home an actual spice mix.  Yes.  Describe this.   Well you know in many parts of rural Iran but also in my village Ardestoon they make one spice mix every year so that all of the women in the village gather together and they mix this blend with 30 different spices. It is got turmeric and cumin and coriander and all of these different things - like various teas and you know rose petals and things. And each year it is a little bit different from the last. And you know everyone gets their jar. And that year everyone's dishes kind of taste the same. And the next year you kind of know if people are using last year's spice. It is like a very beautiful tradition.  And do people use it in everything from meats to fish to vegetables?  In most things yeah in most things. I think turmeric for example is a staple of Iranian cooking. But in those villages they have the mix. And the mix is the staple of the cooking. And you know imagine if you are sent a bottle of that it is almost like just having a piece of your old life appear at your doorstep in this modern city. And of course in the novel she loses it in such a sad way. I - you know funny enough that actually did happen to me.  It did?  Yes.  Tell me the story.  Oh the story. Well it was a very similar thing. It got tossed away by accident. And I searched for days. I looked all over. And the meltdown that I had was much more dramatic than the one that Niloo has. I could not let it go. I tried to you know remix it myself. I tried to find out what was in it. I went and looked in the garbage outside. It was gone. I could not find it again.  And this is a spice mix that would have been used up anyway. It is not something permanent. Explain why your reaction was as strong as it was.  Well because I mean that particular mix I mean it had my grandmother's fingers in it. It had tasted like the food at home. I had another hundred or so meals in my future that would have included it. I could have you know taken that memory and solidified it you know in my taste buds so that maybe yes it would have been gone at some point but maybe a few years later I would have remembered if I ate that dish often enough. I could have frozen some of it you know some of the...  I hear that you are still feeling the loss of it.   Yes I do. I do. I have a new mix now that my mother made. It is different and it is lovely but not the same. But then again these things you know they do not last forever. And they are not any easier to let go of for that.  Your character Niloo has so much in common with you. And her father has so much in common with your father. He is displayed in sometimes unflattering ways even though the love there is clear. His human failings are on full display. Has your father read this book?  Well no but he read The New Yorker article. And it is actually funny the things that he chooses to object to. For example he was very upset that I called Ardestoon a village and I should probably...   He said it is a city and it has been a city for a while now. So if you are going to be a serious writer perhaps you should research that. And then he also did not like little things like I said he was aging. He does not care about what people think about his choices. He made his choices. He is happy with them. He is a bonvivant but he does not like being told that he is getting older or that his city is a village.  You quote him at one point in this New Yorker article in which you describe your visits with him over the decades where he came to visit you in America. And he said next time before I visit maybe I should stop in Dallas for a brain disinfection and stomach pump to wash away all the embarrassing Iranian things.  Yes . When I was a teenager I was so embarrassed by my parents especially by my father the two times that he came to visit. I mean he radiated Iran and Iranian-ness . And that was a moment in my life where I wanted to put that aside. And you know again imagine the kind of divide that already exists between teenage girls and their fathers. I mean here was all of that same stuff plus the complication of the fact that this was a man from Iran and he had landed right in the middle of my world and with all of the friends that I was trying to make and all of the you know the images that I was trying to build for myself. And here he was just absolutely destroying them. So I picked on him a lot about that. I you know I asked him not to speak Farsi. I asked him not to you know oh gosh the negotiating in stores...  Oh like haggling on prices.  Yes exactly - all of those things. At one point he just got tired of it and said you know maybe I should just wash all this away before I come and be a blank slate.  And now you are trying to infuse your own daughter with some of these things that you were trying to squelch in your father.  I am trying to keep a balance and because yes absolutely I would love for her to understand Iranian culture. And I - she already loves the food. And I...  At age 1.5?  Yes. Oh yes. She loves the food. We mushed it up for her and gave it to her when she was 8 months old.   And she loves the music and she loves you know hearing my mother speak Farsi to her. But I do not want to force that on her. I want her to choose. And I think also that generation is going to be very different from us. I mean they live in a different world. There is no - I do not think you know a girl like her will be influenced by just one or two or three cultures. You know I think it will be a much more complicated upbringing than that.  Dina Nayeri thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you for having me.  Her new novel is called Refuge.  