 The debut novel from Nicole Dennis-Benn shows a side of Jamaica that tourists rarely see. The characters are working-class women. They struggle with sexuality. They struggle with money and they struggle with tourism squeezing their small community of River Bank.   When tourism became the bread and butter for the island's economy the developers and the government alike became ravenous indifferent. In retaliation people stole concrete blocks and cement and zinc from the new developments to rebuild homes in other places. But they are pilfering bought soldiers with rifles and teargas. The developers won the fight and the people scattered like roaches.  That is Nicole Dennis-Benn reading from her book which is fictional but also deeply personal. She is an out lesbian who moved to the U.S. to go to college. I asked her what it was like growing up on an island full of rising hotels and tourism.  You know I never really paid it any attention until you know my mom for example she used to work on the north coast and we will be driving along the coastlines. And she would be saying to me oh wow that used - we used to have that beach. Now it is closed off because you know a new resort was built. And so you know you cannot access that beach unless if you yourself is a guest at that resort.  And what happens to the people who used to live in these towns that get just pushed aside?  That is a mystery to me. You know some of them probably came to Kingston. Some maybe went to other parishes neighboring towns perhaps. You know a lot of them though really seek work in the hotel industry. You know whether or not they get the job is another story.  I would like to ask you about sexuality in the book because some of these characters turn a blind eye to prostitution to rape to incest. And yet homosexuality in their view is satanic to be driven out.  Right.  Was that your experience as well?  Yes. Growing up you know little girls are over-sexualized especially by older men. And no one talks about this but they are willing to though look at you know LGBT you know a man having sex with a man or a woman having sex with a woman as something that is demonic right? And so growing up it fascinated me but now it angers me right because I feel like so many of our girls are ignored. You know they have no voice. And you know when they get molested or raped you know the perpetrators are never caught. You know they can walk around freely but a known gay man or a known gay woman you know could be raped or attacked.  You were 17 when you left Jamaica. Did you come out after you moved to the United States or were you out in Jamaica?  I came out after I came here. You know I only came out to one friend in high school. You know she looked at me like you know what is going on with you? Are you sure? Like this is ridiculous. But here when I started living in New York and got more comfortable with my surroundings that is when I decided to come out to my parents.  Could you have imagined a life for yourself as an out lesbian living in Jamaica staying there?  No absolutely not. I do not have friends...  Even in 2016.  Even in 2016 - and let me tell you why. I would not be happy hiding right? It is one thing to be comfortable in my home in my gated community as a lesbian with my wife right? But it is another thing to feel like I have to almost be asexual at work and in the streets of Kingston. Like that to me is like a Jekyll and Hyde that I am not willing to play mentally.  And that is what your friends who are gay and lesbian still living in Jamaica have to do.  Right exactly.  You know one of the characters says what will set you free is money. And it is this incredibly cynical approach this idea that your salvation lies not with God but with money. It seems true in the world of the novel that if you can afford to get out your life will be better. And if you do not have the cash then you are out of luck.  That is really what it is. And you know I was recently in Jamaica for Calabash for example and - you know and...  Is Calabash a festival?  It is a literary festival held in Jamaica. And you know to answer your question about money - it is that this is a festival where it was such a peaceful inclusive festival. And it was well-attended by Jamaicans who do have that money and that access. And you know looking walking around the festival I also saw you know gays and lesbians who were present. They were very open. And you can afford to be that open in the country when you do have that kind of access.  Do you think you would have been able to write this novel if you had stayed in Jamaica if you had not moved to the United States when you were 17?  No not at all. I would not have. And the reason is because I as a writer - you know when I was growing up I looked at this as a luxury. That is how I saw it growing up so that is why I was pre-med throughout my entire undergraduate career at Cornell right 'ecause you know we were told to be a doctor lawyer engineer. And that way you know we could get our family out of poverty the same way how Thandi in the novel who her - the pressure is on her to become a doctor to get them out of poverty.  Even though she prefers to be an artist.  Exactly. So I definitely would not have been a writer there. And also I would not have had the mentality to critique because I think being away from Jamaica gave me that insight.  This is your first novel and the response so far from critics and the media has been incredibly positive. What has the response been from people in Jamaica?  I am actually surprised. It is very positive as well. My book sold out the first morning or the first night of Calabash...  Wow.  ...Literary festival. And you know that says a lot to me. It is getting people talking and that is the important thing. I guess when people start talking when the dialogues start going I think that is definitely leading to change. I would like to hope.  Well Nicole Dennis-Benn thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you Ari.  That is Nicole Dennis-Benn. Her new novel is called Here Comes The Sun. 