 A hunter who is not allowed to hunt. That is the story in the award-winning Australian film Charlie's Country. It is playing in Manhattan and it opens Friday in Los Angeles. And critic Bob Mondello says the movie is worth hunting down when it opens elsewhere around the country.  The crevices in Charlie's careworn face look as deep as any crevasse in the Australian outback. He is sitting in a government-provided tin-roof shack on territory where his aboriginal ancestors once roamed free - where he once roamed free in fact. Now his community is supervised by Luke a white policeman with whom Charlie has a jokingly profane relationship.    Good day Luke.   Good day Charlie.   You white b.   You black b.   .  But they are not on equal footing. Though Charlie's in his mid-60s he is treated as a sort of wayward child by the authorities. He and all the people in what amounts to a reservation receive benefits - government housing health care that whisks them to a nearby city in emergencies even if they protest that they want to stay in their homeland. But they are not permitted to do what they have done for generations - live off the land.   Charlie and a friend go out to hunt and bring down a buffalo then get pulled over by a policeman who looks at their guns.    You got a license?   License? We are not going to drive him. We are just going to shoot him.    Smart-a.  Charlie's gun is taken away and Luke does not seem to hear him when he tries to get back.    Right. We will put you down as a recreational shooter.   What? Recreational? Hunting is not recreational. It is for food.   You still need a license.   How much is it going to cost me?   Sixty dollars.   Sixty dollars to buy my gun back?   Charlie you are not getting your gun back. It is been confiscated.  So Charlie cuts down a sapling in the woods and whittles himself a handmade spear that he is carrying home when Luke drives by.    Hey Charlie.   Hey Luke.   What have you got there?   I made a spear - hunting spear.   Well it is incredible but I am going to have to take it.   What?   Well you cannot just go walking through town with a dangerous weapon.   It is not a dangerous weapon. It is a hunting spear.  The indignities just keep coming. And Charlie keeps resisting mumbling to himself that he once danced as a boy in a ceremony for the Queen of England which makes him look stubborn or heroic depending on who is doing the looking and on what they know about his past. You could say the same about this movie. Charlie is played by David Gulpilil who 44 years ago starred in the movie Walkabout playing an aboriginal youth who rescued two white children who would been abandoned in the outback. He had quite a film career for a while appearing in more than two dozen movies including Crocodile Dundee and even The Right Stuff. More recently he is fallen on harder times. Director Rolf de Heer has been telling interviewers he made Charlie's Country not just as a social document about his government's insensitive policies but also to help get a troubled David Gulpilil back on track. The film gets some of its power from the fact that Charlie's story tracks pretty closely with that of the actor playing him but just some of its power. Gulpilil is giving a genuinely wrenching performance. And as Charlie faces down disappointment and inadvertent cruelty he becomes almost majestic in his quiet. The landscape is majestic too and comes to seem desperately sad. I am Bob Mondello. 