 We are going to take you now inside of one of the busiest emergency rooms in the United States. The Los Angeles USC Medical Center commonly known as L.A. County Hospital.  Hold on. Hold CPR. Hold CPR. He is going to cut. Does he have a pulse?  They will see the worst of the worst when it comes to human trauma - car wrecks gun shot wounds. And they have to race the clock to save victims from otherwise certain death. The place is the subject of a new documentary called Code Black. Ryan McGarry directed the film. He is an ER doc himself and trained at County Hospital. He vividly remembers the first time he visited the ER there.  I could not believe the amount of volume and the amount of perceived chaos.  Is it in? Is the tube in?  Oh yeah. It is in.  OK this is not - this is not very good.  What happened?  And yet underneath that chaos was a very well functioning machine of resuscitation both for critical illness as well as trauma.  We are going to help you OK? Just relax a little bit OK?  This hurt here? This hurt here on your leg?  When McGarry started filming the hospital was in a facility built in the 1930s. And at the center of the emergency room was a tiny and chaotic area reserved for the most critical patients. It was called C-booth. As one doctor says in the film more people have died in that small square footage than anywhere else in the country. But more people have also been saved there than anywhere else. McGarry explained what  made C-booth so legendary.  L.A. County Hospital's one of the first places that emergency medicine was formed as a specialty. And it is important to recognize that emergency medicine as is 911 are actually fairly young. I mean these are 1960s and 1970s developments in this country. And so this is where it is thought the specialty was born. And C-booth which - it is been lost to history - but we think that means either critical booth or cardiac booth. It is kind of where the sickest patients would come. And as a training physician it is where you would oversee up to six or seven or even more of these critically ill patients.  And the types of cases that you are seeing at County Hospital you know aside from like the trauma cases - there is a type of patient that comes there because you do not turn anyone away.  That is right. So even post-Obamacare we are seeing throughout the country emergency room visits go up. And that might be counterintuitive but what we are finding is that yes more people have access - more people are getting insurance cards. But those cards are not always premium. And we are already in a system where a lot of specialists will not take a sub-premium insurance card because you are not seen as profitable enough. So many people end up coming to public hospital emergency departments just to see an orthopedist or endocrinologist or someone who will not take their probably decent insurance but it is not good enough.  Now you are there to film a major shift. L.A. County Hospital underwent a renovation in 2008 and they moved to a new earthquake-resistant building. You would not think it would be so dramatic a change because they are basically moving almost across the street to a new facility. It is the same people but things changed dramatically. Can you explain what happened?  They moved from a historic - effectively historic landmark building to what is probably one of the most impressive technologically laden medical facilities in the country. It was a 1 billion structure. And it is packed with absolutely incredible features. But what was lost along the way is not so much a reflection of the L.A. County's decision to move from one building to another but really a perfect encapsulation of what modern healthcare has become. And it is kind of become depersonalized as a result of a lot of well-intentioned features whether that be safety regulations or privacy regulations or even a lot of technology. I mean think about it. The last time you went to the physician or even a nurse practitioner's office probably a computer and a screen and a lot of charting was probably the mainstay of that experience.  I just had a patient with the simplest of complaints. It took me about two minutes to see her. And what turns into a very simple complaint there is just tons of things I have to do in terms of documentation. And basically it took me four times as long to document as it took for me to talk to her and do the exam at the same time.  That did not happen at the old place because it was just so open and intimate.  You yourself say this is well-intentioned stuff. It is about you know trying to protect the patient in different ways. Do you see any way through to like make a balance here?  I think the major responsibility here is actually on the physicians. I think that we have to speak up. And probably most docs feel like we have lost control over this or at least our voice. You know often times we are the most invested in the patient care right? I am 300000 in debt. I lost every weekend of my 20s to becoming a physician. And yet I am the last one who decides what that patient-doctor experience is going to be like. That is now decided by everyone from politicians insurance companies to people who got their you know MBAs online or something. And I have invested so much into this idea of the patient-doctor experience. And yet I am the last one to really get to say how that experience is going to go. So really I think the answer is docs have to speak up. And I think partly that is what Code Black was for me personally - was a chance to say OK. This is the state of affairs and I do not think that we feel like it is acceptable.  That was Ryan McGarry. He is an ER doctor and the director of the new documentary Code Black. 