 More than 400 movies in ten days - that is the Toronto International Film Festival. This year the most talked-about films include the Mr. Rogers movie A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood...    Hello neighbor.  ...Harriet a biopic about former slave Harriet Tubman...    Do not you tell me what I cannot do.  ...And Hustlers a comedy about strippers who turn the tables on their Wall Street clients.    The game is rigged and it does not reward people who play by the rules.  We are joined now by film critic Joelle Monique and NPR's Bob Mondello. Hey guys.  Hey.  Hi.  So Joelle I want to start with you. All three films that we just mentioned were directed by women. How unusual is that?  You know for other film festivals I would say highly unusual. For Toronto I would say not so much. They had least four films last year that featured female voices directing and of course this year as you mentioned already Harriet A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood and Hustlers all have women. But then you also have one of my favorite movies Radioactive by Marjane Satrapi.  And even with male directors there were a lot of very strong women on screen. I am thinking Renee Zellweger as Judy Garland. She is amazing. I was not ecstatic about the movie but she is fantastic.  So I want to ask you Bob - I mean you see like a million of these every year. So when you walked away from the festival this year what stuck with you?  Actually it was the fact that there is so many movies about income inequality. There is one called Greed by Michael Winterbottom. It is a satirical look at the super-rich. There is Parasite a Korean picture that is a satire of class divisions in Korea. They are strong pictures. They are also comic movies about the fact that there are a lot of losers in today's society.  Losers like people who are not getting by.  The winners tend to be incredibly rich people already and it is interesting because it is so distressing and yet they have made comedies out of this.  I think if you want to take a cynical look at Joker you could even see the opposite side of that which sort of seems to be a look down at economic anxiety.  Excellent point.  Those of us suffering - yeah.  Yeah.  So we have already mentioned some big studio movies like Hustlers A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood. What were some other like standout commercial films that you saw at the festival this year?  Knives Out.  Knives Out is excellent.  It is so much fun. It is a murder mystery of the Agatha Christie-meets-Alfred Hitchcock persuasion...  Wow.  ...And very funny.  Cool.  I mean just really funny. And then how about Ford v Ferrari? Did you see that one Joelle?  I did and to me it sort of felt like paint by numbers. There was not any kind of specific moment that shocked me or even really informed me. I do not know that much about cars. And I had a lot of problems with Joker which is the other kind of big studio film...  Yeah.  ...That was there.  A lot of people did.  Like what?  I mean where to start? While the performance was incredible - Joaquin's performance as Joker...  Joaquin Phoenix.  ...Is legendary. He did a wonderful job. The script overall I found rather boring as a person who comes from a comic book background. I am a huge Batman fan and when you put the villain before the guy in the mask it does not make a lot of sense to me. I also had a lot of problem with the way poverty is depicted and then on top of all of that I think the film just winds up being very boring kind of slow in the middle. You do not really feel like you are gearing toward anything.  OK so then quick take from both of you - what should we pay money to see when these movies open?  Pain And Glory.  Oh that was one of my first. Pain And Glory is about a director who is on sort of a slow fade. And it is made by Pedro Almodovar who is an amazing director and is not fading away at all and it is just - it is a wonderful movie. And I loved Marriage Story...  So good.  ...The new Noah Baumbach picture. It is just exquisite - Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson in a marriage that is coming apart. But it is just lovely.  That is on my list.  I would also say Radioactive which I know we mentioned earlier in the show. If you are a comic book fan Marjane Satrapi takes this beautiful like love letter to Madam Marie Curie that was a graphic novel and turns it into this weird gorgeous kind of movie. And it is not a perfect film but man did I enjoy watching it. She takes the life of Marie Curie and compares it to the known life of radium so she hits major events like Chernobyl...  Wow.  ...Like the use of it to fight cancer.  So I take it you would give it a glowing review.  I would...  Oh Bob.   Oh Bob.  One more thing Bob - you came back from Toronto singing some song by Stephen Sondheim and I need to know. What the heck were you singing?   Someone to hold me too close someone to hurt me too deep. Because Adam Driver sings it in - that is...  In Marriage Story?  ...In Marriage Story. It is a song from Company and Scarlett Johansson has another song from Company in that. And it was like - in Joker when he is being beat up they sing Send In The Clowns...  Oh wow.  ...Viciously of course. And there is another one. In Knives Out Daniel Craig is sitting in a car singing at the top of his lungs Losing My Mind. And I am sitting there - oh my God. This is - all this Sondheim - I feel so seen.   Film critics Bob Mondello and Joelle Monique on the Toronto International Film Festival which wraps up this weekend. Thanks to both of you.  Really fun.  Thank you.    Somebody pull me up short and put me through hell. 