 We always seem to fall for the bad guys in the movies. Here's how Michael Caine describes evil in The Dark Knight.    Some men are not looking for anything logical like money. They cannot be bought bullied reasoned or negotiated with. Some men just want to watch the world burn.  NPR critic Bob Mondello has been thinking about his all-time favorite villains and why a really good bad guy can make a movie so good.  A villain is shorthand. Is there evil in the world? The villain personifies it makes it easier to deal with. You cannot actually vanquish evil in the world but you can vanquish a villain. Just drop a house on her.    I will get you my pretty and your little dog too .  Narrative shorthand is useful in movies which today have about two hours to tell their stories. In early silent films they barely had a few minutes so villains twirled their mustaches while demanding the rent or tying the heroine to the tracks. In Westerns they wore black hats. There was no question they were bad guys no question the hero would beat them up. As film narratives became more sophisticated villains did too but there are still plenty of villains today who announce themselves in no uncertain terms.    I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti.    Open the pod bay doors please HAL.   I am sorry Dave. I am afraid I cannot do that.    Here's Johnny.    Cruella is not that a new fur coat?   My only true love Darling.    Happy Hunger Games. May the odds ever be in your favor.    Why so serious? Let us put a smile on that face.    I told you no wire hangers ever.   You probably recognize most of those and can vouch for the fact that they have got the real charisma in their respective movies because much as we do not like to admit it heroes are boring. They are good. They do good. They think good thoughts. But that in itself does not make them compelling. Villains are where the fascination lies. Every actor who is ever played Shakespeare's noble Othello has been upstaged by the double-dealing Iago who is whispering in his ear. Othello's motivations are clear. He thinks his wife's been unfaithful. But what does his lieutenant get out of tricking him?    So will I turn her virtue...  Iago gains nothing by making Othello mistrust his wife.    ...Into pitch and out of her own goodness make the net that shall enmesh them all?  He is just nasty a sower of chaos the Elizabethan equivalent of a mean girl in high school doing it because he can. Other villains do it because they must. It is hard wired. They are predators whether they are terminators or aliens or great whites.    You know the thing about a shark? He is got lifeless eyes black eyes like a doll's eyes. When he comes at you he do not seem to be living until he bites you. Those black eyes roll over white and then - oh and you hear that terrible high-pitched screaming. The ocean turns red.  We judge villains by the havoc they wreak but villains when they are not just operating on autopilot as great whites are judge themselves by other standards by how much they have suffered by how no one listens to them. Often bad guys are convinced that they are really the good guys that everyone else has things backwards. In the military trial movie A Few Good Men Jack Nicholson's Colonel Jessup is a monster. But as Tom Cruise goes in for the kill in the courtroom Jessup is the one who feels aggrieved.    You want answers.   I think I am entitled.   You want answers.   I want the truth.   You cannot handle the truth. Son we live in a world that has walls and those walls have to be guarded by men with guns. Who is going to do it you? You do not want the truth because deep down in places you do not talk about at parties you want me on that wall. You need me on that wall.  It is no accident that this scene is regarded as a classic. As often happens in movies the bad guy gets the best speech. It is as creepily persuasive as it is monstrous seeming to justify the killing of an innocent soldier for the greater good.    We use words like honor code loyalty. We use these words as the backbone of a life spent defending something. You use them as a punchline. I have neither the time nor the inclination to explain myself to a man who rises and sleeps under the blanket of the very freedom that I provide and then questions the manner in which I provide it. I would rather you just said thank you and went on your way. Otherwise I suggest you pick up a weapon and stand a post. Either way I do not give a damn what you think you are entitled to.  His belief that he is right does not make him right but it does make him fascinating one of those rare instances when a putative villain becomes more than a narrative convenience. His fall does not just wrap up A Few Good Men with a melodramatic flourish. It has a weight. It means something in the real world. And his fate self-inflicted harrowing in its moral implications haunts you on the way out of the theater. The Greeks had a word for that. They called it tragedy. I am Bob Mondello. 