 During the summer kids are out of school and parents have vacation time so Hollywood always brings out lots of family films. Well this year critic Bob Mondello has noticed a twist. In addition to the family films there are quite a few alternative family films.  It started in the spring with The Back-up Plan Jennifer Lopez wanted a baby but kept meeting Mr. Wrong and finally decided to go the sperm donor route.    I have a feeling that you and CRM1014 are going to make beautiful babies together.  A few weeks later the film Mother and Child brought interlocking stories about adoption.  Unidentified Woman 1   You need to think why you are adopting this baby in the first place. Unidentified Woman 2   I have made a commitment that I am going to stick to it. Mom this is not like shopping for a pair of shoes. She is my baby.  And then the floodgates opened. By the time Labor Day rolls around there will have been films about divorced dads single moms legal adoptions emotional adoptions family units created in vitro by turkey baster and - in one really out there instance - by gene-splicing which results in a scientist-scientist-and-creature family.  Ms.   Scientists push boundaries. Mr.   Yeah. Sticking to a few rules is not always such a bad idea either you know. Ms.   Nobody is going to care about a few rules after they see what we have made. Do you think they could really look at this face and see anything less than a miracle?  That miracle thankfully will not become a real-life possibility anytime soon. But the rest of the summer's rainbow coalition of family creation stories are springing from a moment when America's idea of family seems more elastic than it once did a fact that Hollywood ever on the lookout for fresh sources of conflict and tension is happy to exploit. Take the new comedy The Kids Are All Right in which lesbian moms played by Julianne Moore and Annette Bening are at once supportive and protective when they sense there is something their teenage son is not telling them.  Ms.   Are you having a relationship with someone? Ms.   You can tell us honey. We would understand and support you. Mr.   Look I only met him once. Ms.   What do you mean once? Ms.   Did he find you online? Ms.   Wait. Mr.   What? Ms.   Wait wait. Who did you meet once? Mr.   Paul. Ms.   Paul who is Paul? Mr.   I met him with Joni. Ms.   Why was Joni there? Mr.   She set it up. Ms.   Will you forget the setup. Who is Paul? Mr.   Our sperm donor.  From the looks on their faces he can tell this was not what they expected.  Mr.   Did you guys think I was gay? Ms.   No. No way. Ms.   Of course not.  Actually that is exactly what they thought. And back a few years ago Hollywood could have spun a whole plot line from that confusion. These days it can be just a starting point because Tinseltown is so comfortable with family sagas that do not start with the traditional mommy and daddy get-together to produce kids. Witness Despicable Me with its animated orphans-adopting-a-supervillain plot line.  Ms.   Will you read us a bedtime story? Mr.   Oh fine. All right. Sleepy kittens. Sleepy kittens? Three little kittens love to play. They had fun in the sun all day. Wow. This is garbage. You actually like this?  As unconventional as this and the other movie plotlines sound they all reflect a central reality of American life. The nuclear family as we are accustomed to thinking of it has never been the universal experience in the U.S. Six in 10 children live with both biological parents which means that four in 10 do not. And it is simply inconceivable that Hollywood could leave that many potential paying customers unrepresented on screen. Not that there was ever much danger of that. This summer' Moses raised by Pharaoh's daughter Hercules with his earthly mom and godly dad. I remember thinking as a kid that for purposes of having an interesting life I was at a distinct disadvantage. I had two entirely conventional parents whereas cool fictional characters almost never did - Cinderella Oliver Twist Jane Eyre Peter Pan Superman Spiderman and then Luke Skywalker Harry Potter each and every one an orphan. And they all had some sort of fascinating guardians they would picked up along the way intriguing siblings of a sort. They all had alternative families. And all I could think was lucky them. I am Bob Mondello.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 