 A new television season is under way. The networks have rolled out a few new dramas and sitcoms. NBC has rolled back some of that to make room for the prime time Jay Leno. And at this time of year we often turn to TV critic James Poniewozik of Time magazine in search of fertile oases in the cultural wasteland. Welcome back to the program. Mr.  Thanks Robert.  First generally does this promise to be a good bad or mediocre season for the networks? Mr.  I think there should be good bad and mediocre this season. There is a lot of interesting things going on in television this year not least of which is a lot of experimenting as we are seeing with The Jay Leno Show for instance by networks who are just trying to figure out what their business is nowadays.  Well I am going to ask you what is good what is interesting what is bad and we will start with one thing that I saw last night - I thought was pretty good which is the debut of the series The Good Wife with Julianna Margulies.  Mr.   I know this has been hard on you but you have to believe me I am innocent of the abuse-of-office charges. Ms.   You think I give a damn about that Peter? They were playing a tape in Grace's computer lab of you sucking the toes of a hooker.  James Poniewozik what did you think of this one? Mr.  You know I really surprisingly enjoyed the show. When I heard the premise of it you know it has this ripped-from-the-headlines idea behind it about a woman who is married to a politician - in this case a state's attorney - who was in a sex and political scandal. It sounded like a very sort of high-concept premise that might be interesting for a very short while and then turn sort of boring. But I think that to its credit the show does not-the-obvious thing with the idea which is that it really turned it into an interesting well-developed character piece about who is the person behind this kind of familiar story. And it is potentially really fascinating.  Other programs that strike you as new and good? Mr.  One show I really love is a new comedy from ABC called Modern Family. It is the oldest thing on television. You know it is a family comedy about an extended family with three family units but it is shot in sort of a mockumentary style.  Ms.   What is the secret to a successful marriage? Mr.   I got this. Never go to bed hungry. Ms.   Never go to bed hungry? The expression is angry. Mr.   Yeah when you say it like that. Ms.   Phil is uncomplicated. He is loyal energetic. He is always happy to see me when I come home like a dog. Mr.  It is really dryly funny well cast offbeat without being weird. And like in The Office the camera in this sort of pseudo-mockumentary format almost becomes like another character commenting on the action as it goes along. It is just - it is very inventive very clever and really likeable. I highly recommend it.  What is new that may not be good but at least is interesting? Mr.  Well I think that is almost the definition of The Jay Leno Show and it is really sort of a fascinating experiment in the business of television. Essentially you know among other things NBC has put Jay Leno on five nights a week not so much as a creative experiment but as a business move. It is just cheaper. NBC has decided to do five nights a week of basically a talk show. They call it a comedy-variety show whatever but it is cheaper to do that than five nights a week of dramas. So you sort of have NBC trying to redefine the whole idea of what a hit show is. Jay Leno could finish third every night and yet be a success because he is sort of like a restructuring plan for the auto industry. You know he is bringing in the product cheaper.  You mean he works cheap - is what Mr.  Exactly.  the secret of entertainment always is I guess.   That is some of what is interesting and what is good about the new network TV season. What have you found that is just downright bad? Mr.  Well elsewhere on NBC there is a terrible new hospital drama about nurses called Mercy. We have - for some strange reason I do not know if it is the zeitgeist about health-care reform but we have seen a lot of new nurse and doctor dramas on the air this year and Mercy is quite likely the worst of them. It is just a very cliched trite melodramatic show that kind of makes you wish that Jay Leno had a sixth hour.   You think we might expect a Mercy killing early in the season?  Mr.  You should be a TV critic Robert. I wish I had included that line in a review. Yes Mercy killing.  Well thanks for talking with us James. Mr.  Oh sure thanks a lot Robert.  James Poniewozik a TV critic for Time magazine.  