 Brad Pitt tries to avert a zombie apocalypse while some monsters head to school in the films World War Z and Monsters University. Brace yourself as our critic Bob Mondello says the year's most monstrous movie weekend is upon us.  We seem to be awash in origin stories of late. First The Man of Steel now the eye of green and the abominable snow beast of blue Mike and Sully the best scarers at Monsters Inc. How did they become the best of the best you ask? You did not ask? Well Pixar's got the answer anyway. They trained at Monsters U.   Sully the big blue furball growled by John Goodman is the one the prof singled out which annoys Billy Crystal's Mike a hardworking but less scary green eyeball.   Naturally they end up rooming together and joining Monster U's lamest fraternity.   It is been 12 years since audiences fell for Mike and Sully's digitized odd couple act which counts as an eon when it comes to animation technology. Scenes can now contain not just two or three but dozens of variously tentacled scaly silky or fuzzed monsters. What has not advanced is the plotting which was nothing special last time and is so formulaic now...   ...that it is basically surprise-free. I mean you do not want a G-rated monster movie to be actually scary on its way to life lessons about working together. And for kids this one will not be but some adults may be alarmed at this latest evidence that sequel-itis has infected Pixar. First a pedestrian Cars 2 now a passable Monsters University. Here's hoping Pixar shakes off the fever before their animators are walking around like the rest of Hollywood - glazed zombie-like with dollar signs clouding their vision. That is not interestingly the image that World War Z conjures up.   Although it is clearly out to make a buck and needs to since it cost many kazillions in overruns and rewrites you would never guess that World War Z had anything on its mind but action storytelling for the first hour or so. No sooner has it trapped former U.N. troubleshooter Brad Pitt and his family in a traffic jam then weird stuff starts happening all around them.   It is the zomb-pocalypse a worldwide rabies-like plague that takes just 12 seconds to turn its victims into raving gnawing and alarmingly fast-moving monsters which means it spreads exponentially. By nightfall many cities have fallen. By the next day well should not spoil the surprises. Based on a bestseller by Max Brooks the son of Mel Brooks and Anne Bancroft the movie is a straight-ahead race against time flick which may distress fans of a novel that was structured less conventionally. On the page Brooks conceived World War Z as a post-war oral history in the journalistic style of Studs Terkel. But movie blockbusters require real-time urgency and the filmmakers were hoping for a trilogy so they opted for a central character played by Pitt and a lot of globe-hopping to look at swarming zombies overwhelming vastly differing national defenses.   That means the novel's view of geopolitics gets subsumed by action sequences. Happily they are effective ones. And it leaves director Marc Forster filming a pretty straightforward contagion epic just on a grander scale than most. The film is not subtle about parallels to real world epidemics and when it radically shifts gears in its final third you do not have to have read about its trouble production history to know things were rejiggered at the last minute. Still whatever problems World War Z had in the making the movie has made it to theaters not dead on arrival but walking dead running dead and when it is really working swarming dead. I am Bob Mondello. 