 Movie remakes have not been clicking with audiences lately. The new Ghostbusters will maybe break even. The latest versions of Ben-Hur and Tarzan each cost and lost a fortune. So what is Hollywood pushing this weekend? The magnificent - The Magnificent Seven which NPR critic Bob Mondello points out is a remake of a remake.  In Seven Samurai seven warriors with swords walk into a Japanese village to protect it from bandits.   .  Only three will walk out. In the original Magnificent Seven seven gunslingers ride into a Wild West town to protect it from Mexican banditos.    I leave these people a little bit extra and they hire these men to make trouble.  Only three ride out. Now comes Magnificent Seven the remake with some clearly intentional updates to a time-honored formula. No banditos this time - the bad guy is now a greedy corporate capitalist named Bogue and the good guys - a rainbow coalition - Asian Hispanic Native American a Confederate colonel a guy described as a bear in people's clothes and a goofball gambler all led by Denzel Washington.    You tell Bogue if he wants his town come see me.   Message presumably received. Actually I say Denzel Washington leads this band of variously grumpy dopey and bashful dudes but they are actually in the employ of a woman this time - that is another change - a woman I started to think of as a particularly aggrieved Snow White.    You seek revenge?   I seek righteousness but I will take revenge.  Whistle while you work on that. The Old-West vistas and the artfully shot mayhem are appropriately flashy. If you are going to have church bells crashing down from flaming steeples director Antoine Fuqua is the guy you want behind the camera. He previously teamed up with Denzel Washington on Training Day and The Equalizer. And he seems to really enjoy watching his star ride a horse or even walk beside a horse. He also lets Chris Pratt crack wise.    Danny dead - pity. I had just ordered a drink from that man.  As you might expect the firepower is significantly increased here. I do not recall a Gatling gun in the 1960 version. And the climax is - let us just say explosive. So if body count is what you go to Westerns for by all means drift into this one's corral. It is hardly magnificent. And apart from its casting it is not doing anything new with its premise. But it is diverting in about the way you would expect of a remake twice removed - a perfectly competent seven. I am Bob Mondello. 