 The first new original Star Trek TV show in a dozen years debuted on CBS last night -  Discovery. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says the show goes where no Trek show has gone before. It is a prequel to the original Star Trek series which also moves the saga forward.   Space may not be the final frontier for  Discovery. Instead this show is most challenging frontier is the skepticism of all us nerds who could not wait to see a new Trek series but also feared how badly producers might mess the whole thing up. I am happy to say after watching the first two episodes on CBS's streaming service All Access  Discovery is a triumph. It is a series that connects to the traditions of Trek while blazing a brand new story that refreshes a 50-year-old TV franchise. It starts with the character Michael Burnham played by Sonequa Martin-Green.    First officer'07.3 - on Earth it is May 11 2256 a Sunday.  Burnham serves as First Officer on the USS Shenzhou. It is about 10 years before the time of Captain Kirk and Mr. Spock from the original Star Trek. Her captain Philippa Georgiou is played by Hong Kong action star Michelle Yeoh. The first scene between the two is on a desert planet. It is a little stilted but it makes history. We see an Asian captain and black first officer both female leading a Trek TV show for the first time.    What will you do if you were stuck here for 89 years?   As a xenoanthropologist I could reveal myself to the natives. And you Captain - what will you do if we are trapped here for 89 years?   That is easy. I would escape.  And they do. Though the episode starts too slowly momentum builds steadily and inexorably. The Shenzhou is confronted by a mysterious ship from the warrior race the Klingons. Burnham insists to an admiral that they will attack.    They are relentlessly hostile Sir. It is in their nature.   We have had only fleeting run-ins with them for a century and now you presume to know their motivation. Considering your background I would think you the last person to make assumptions based on race.   With respect it would be unwise to confuse race and culture.  This is a Trek that is aware of the history that it is making diversity-wise though it was odd as a black man to see the bad guy T'Kuvma and many of his followers were the darkest-colored Klingons we have seen yet as if darkening their complexion makes them more menacing. There is also a nod to contemporary issues. T'Kuvma is a charismatic populist uniting the Klingons by manufacturing a threat from an outside culture - make Klingons great again. Burnham is a human who has some history with Klingons. Her parents were killed by them and she was adopted by Spock's father Sarek a Vulcan. Starfleet officials were skeptical when Burnham suggests shooting at the Klingons first. She says that is how Vulcans won the Klingons' respect.    They said hello in a language the Klingons understood. Violence brought respect. Respect brought peace. Captain we have to give the Klingons a Vulcan hello.   Starfleet does not fire first. That is our number one.  Burnham eventually clashes with her captain in a way that turns her into an outcast - new territory for Star Trek. CBS broadcast Discovery's first episode but to see the rest of the series you have to subscribe to its streaming service CBS All Access which is a shame because the first two episodes are really one story ending with tragic twists that define the series. Alone the first episode does not have the same impact. Discovery has eye-popping effects and a contemporary feel showing a Trek universe where complex characters are still fighting to build the federation that Trek fans have known and loved for 50 years - mission accomplished at least so far. I am Eric Deggans.  