 World War II movies often focus on courage under fire and battlefield heroics. But the German film The Captain takes another tack. It is set in the last moments of the Nazi regime's collapse and centers on a German deserter. Critic Bob Mondello says the captain is a true story of deception gone haywire.  An open field - you hear the war coming before you see it - a trumpet gunshots then the roar of a truck.   Willi Herold a German deserter is being chased across the field by drunken Nazi soldiers. They are in no rush. Herold's starving half-frozen exhausted. Somehow though he makes it to the trees bordering the field and survives another day. Herold's not the only German deserter in these last few days of the war. He comes across an abandoned car - inside a suitcase with an officer's uniform coat boots hat. He puts them on mostly for warmth and starts singing to himself - it is good luck - then freezes in panic as another German soldier comes into view and salutes him asking to be attached to the captain.   .  It takes Herold a moment to realize this means him. The new soldier fixes the car and becomes his driver. The uniform works on others too. Herold played by babyfaced Max Hubacher at first seems an innocent using the uniform's power benignly say to get a free meal. But when some locals bring him a soldier who is been stealing food essentially what he is doing himself by getting that free meal he realizes he either does what a real Nazi captain would do or they will see through him. So he does.   Things escalate. He picks up a squad of military police blowing off their questions...   .  .  ...By claiming he is operating on the highest authority...   .  ...And finds he can intimidate other officers even ones who cite regulations and outrank him by being the cruelest of the cruel overseeing a bacchanal of brutality.   Remember that Stanford University prison experiment where students divided randomly into guards and prisoners took on the traits associated with those roles guards becoming vicious prisoners sullen? Writer-director Robert Schwentke has imagined that dynamic in a society that is both monstrous and in mid-collapse social restraints in full retreat.   He is ensured that The Captain is as gorgeously shot in black and white as it is filled with hideous images - men flailing and dying as the leading character eats a sumptuous dinner unconcerned whole platoons blown apart by airborne bombs the near-dead walking through a field of skeletons. The Captain is so violent that it starts to feel gratuitous until a postscript calculated to leave audiences slack-jawed. I will not spoil its surprise but I will say that it happens behind the final credits. And once it starts if you are anything like me you will not see a single name. I am Bob Mondello. 