 The actor Lakeith Stanfield is having a moment. My co-host Audie Cornish recently sat down with him to talk about how he picks his projects and what is next.  Stanfield was in Jordan Peele's Oscar-winning horror satire Get Out.    Get out.  Get out.   Yo.   Get out.   Yo chill man.   Get out.   Chill.   Get out of here.  He is also in the FX show Atlanta where he plays Darius the stoner friend to a rap star who often says pretty outrageous things.    No. If you use a rat as a phone man that would be genius. I mean there is like five rats for every one person in New York alone. Everybody would have an affordable phone. Yeah man. I mean it would be messy but worth it.  And this summer Lakeith Stanfield is in the new movie Sorry To Bother You. He plays Cassius Green a telemarketer.    Mr. Davison . Cassius Green here. Sorry to bother... Sorry To Bother You is an absurdist dark comedy with magical realism that is set in the world of telemarketing. It tells a story of Cassius Green who attempts to situate himself in a better position in life by working up the ranks as a telemarketer which requires that he change himself in crazy ways in order to do it.  That change comes shortly after his character begins at the telemarketing company when he gets a helpful tip from Langston the man sitting next to him played by Danny Glover.    Hey young blood. You want to make some money here? Then read your script with a white voice.   People say I talk with a white voice anyway so why are you helping me out?   Well you do not talk white enough. And I am not talking about Will Smith white. I am talking about the real deal like this young blood.   Hey Mr. Kramer . This is Langston from RegalView.  That is where I started with Lakeith Stanfield. We spoke about what it means to change who you are to get ahead.  We all have images that we are attempting to push to other people for better or for worse. We want people to view us as things that get us through doors or things that allow us to move through life more comfortably or things that allow us to make more money or be more successful in the workplace for example. So we let off an image that we feel is appropriate for whatever we are trying to accomplish. The white voice in this movie I think is a metaphor for the different things that we put on to be perceived a certain way.  I think there are plenty of people - black and brown people - who have talked about growing in integrated communities growing up and having to do some version of this maybe not so intensely but basically saying there is a set of friends where you talk to them one way and maybe a set of friends where you are a little more relaxed and talk to them using inferences and references that are different.  For instance this is my radio voice.   If you were talking to me face-to-face...  I knew it.  ...It might be a little bit different.  What is the not-radio voice?  Let me get into the mode of it. Hey what up?  What up?  .  Nice.  Chilling.  Yeah.  Chilling like a villain.  What is up man? I like it. And even maybe you are bringing it to like a public radio - like a little smooth a little gentle in your delivery?  I listen to a lot of NPR so...  Nice.  ...I have become good at this .  When you were starting out in your career did you feel these pressures one way or another? I do not know what kind of roles you went out for. I mean you sort of carved such a niche place for yourself in terms of the kinds of roles you are getting now.  When I first started I came from an environment where we did not have very much kind of like...  And you grew up in - is it Southern California?  Southern California near San Bernardino Victorville. On the way to Vegas you pass through this little desert. And so we did not really have much stuff resource-wise. So me moving to LA was like me going to the big city. And you would see the lights. And the sidewalk there was sparkly and we thought that was a cool thing until I got there and realized that it is only cool if you can afford to survive here.  Right.  Which at the time I could not so I had very little money very little means. But just making that transition going to LA for people that lived at home still they thought that I might be selling out sacrificing my realness my rawness who I really was deep down to come dance in Hollywood. And so it was a real conflicting thing for me making the transition because I did not want to disappoint my friends. But at the same time I felt like I was making a change for the better. I mean after all the only way you can do something great is if there is great risk.  One of your best-known characters at this point is that of Darius. He plays this kind of stoner sidekick to a local rap star on the show Atlanta on FX. And he is someone who is often saying things that are a little bit loopy and also sometimes profound. And I want to talk about one of the best episodes of this most recent season. And in this episode Darius is being held at gunpoint by a character who is a legendary musician who is gone to the dark side because he is had a traumatic childhood. And here's how the scene between them plays out.    When you are young you try to just make it be OK and say everything's going to be fine. And it is just you do not know the difference. But that do not give you an excuse to grow up and repeat the same  over and over. It is like there is a what-if factor. What if you would have been great at something else? Or if you would have seen the love?  Can you talk a little bit about that moment that scene because it is something where you deliver it with a lot of carefulness and kind of caring if that makes sense?  Yes. I have to give all the appropriate kudos to everyone else involved because they really created an environment for me to feel comfortable displaying my emotions. But really I did get a little choked up during that scene because there was something that was personal to me discussing the journey of parenthood of sacrifices and whether or not it is the right way to address a child is to sort of try to beat greatness into them. Some of these questions I would had all my life. And so I had to confront them there and Atlanta will make you confront something that is true to your life. And I really appreciate them for presenting me that challenge.  I think you have carved out a place for yourself in terms of your roles of men who are empathetic and are not afraid to be vulnerable. It is like not about being macho even though it is very masculine.  I - yeah. It is my contention that being able to display yourself in any real way I think that that is a brave thing to do. You know bravery can be shown by anyone in any particular gender or whatever people align themselves with. Bravery is just simply standing out and saying well I am going to do this and I am going to feel this and I am going to be this regardless. I just sat down with myself and said I have to remain true to myself and do what I feel to be. That is my life's journey. That is just my thing that I have been sent here to do. And so it is tattooed in a sense in my psyche.  At this point do you feel like you are kind of at just the beginning of your career? And if so what are you looking forward to? What kind of roles would you like to take on?  I cannot tell. I am just really really happy to be here. I have done a lot so far to try and position myself as a working actor which is really hard.  Right. Just working is  a battle at first.  Yeah. All this other stuff is great but really I just want to tell cool stories and hopefully touch people as people have touched me.  Well Lakeith Stanfield thank you so much for speaking with us.  Oh thank you. Thank you for having me.  Lakeith Stanfield - his new film is called Sorry To Bother You.  