 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  Dawn of the Dinosaurs is the eighth movie that Hollywood has released this year in 3D. By the end of 2009 audiences will have donned special glasses for 13 films. That compares with just one 3D film in 2003 and none at all for a whole decade before that. In a moment we will talk in depth about those 3D glasses. First Bob Mondello offers a three-dimensional review of  Dawn of the Dinosaurs.   characters. Start with that single-minded saber-toothed squirrel sniffing and snuffing in search of his beloved acorn and he finds it and something else   a lady squirrel who is just as acorn-crazed as he is.  Mr.   You will never find as long as  Plus woolly mammoths Manny and Ellie who have a mini-mammoth on the way and that means their little non-traditional family - Diego a saber-toothed tiger who is learned not to eat his buddies and Sid a sloth whose mental ice tray is a couple of cubes short  are feeling left out.  plot. Sid falls through some ice into a warmer center-of-the-Earth-style world finds three enormous eggs and decides to use them to start a family of his own.  Mr.   I would like to present Eggbert Shelley and Yoko. Mr.   Sid whatever you are doing it is a bad idea. Mr.   Shush. My kids will hear you. Mr.   They are not your kids Sid. Take them back. You are not meant to be a parent. Mr.   Why not? Mr.   First sign is stealing someone else's eggs.  And therein lies the conflict because after the eggs hatch their biological parent shows up to claim them.   Mr.   I thought those guys were extinct. Mr.   Well then that is one angry fossil. Sid give that to her. She is their mother. Mr.   How do I know she is their mother? Mr.   What do you want a birth certificate? She is a dinosaur. Mr.   Look these are my kids and you are going to have to go through me to get them.  Fine with her. Mom disappears back down the hole with the hatchlings and Sid and adventures ensue including some with a new guy a swashbuckling weasel who I am afraid  characters.  Mr.   The name's Buck short of Buckminster. What are you doing here? Ms.   Our friend was taken by a dinosaur. Mr.   Well he is dead. Welcome to my world. Now go home. Off you pop. Mr.   Maybe the deranged hermit has a point. Ms.   Manny we came this far we are going to find him.   How does the Ice Age message  basically everybody work past differences and get along - translate to 3D? Well it certainly plays out with more visual depth though the animators do not insist on shoving things into your lap every three seconds. Don' When pterodactyls fly over your shoulder it is pretty persuasive but the effect is becoming natural enough that I actually forgot for much of the picture that I was wearing glasses. Dimensions one and two characters and plot are primary here. And if you can get over the not-really-minor quibble that elementary school teachers will now face classes absolutely convinced that the Ice Age marked the dawn of the dinosaurs rather than the death of the dinosaurs it is a sweet little picture. I am Bob Mondello. 