 It started with Elvish.    .   .  Then Klingon.    .  Fictional languages - once shut away in the nerdiest corners of books and TV and film are now everywhere and David J. Peterson has made a career of it. He is invented languages for HBO's hit show Game Of Thrones.   .   .  The SyFy show Defiance.   .  And the blockbuster movie  The Dark World.    .  David J. Peterson has a new book out called The Art Of Language Invention. And he is got the credentials - a masters degree in linguistics and he can speak eight languages. For him it all started as a middle-schooler watching Return Of The Jedi that scene where Princess Leia is disguised as a bounty hunter negotiating with Jabba the Hutt. DAVID J.  The part that always struck me is this weird kind of language that Leia's speaking. She basically says several of the same things twice and they mean different things each time.    .  So like the first time she is saying  and that means something like she is coming to sell the Wookiee. Then the next time she just says .    The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the reward of 25000.   .   Fifty-thousand - no less.   .  It is like exactly the same word as the last word from the previous one but now it means that she is demanding 50000 no less after Jabba's offered her 25000 which is a really bizarre way for a language to work. So it definitely struck me as bizarre. That was the first time I kind of noticed anything like that.  Let us run through some of your own invented languages. And if you could give us like a little sample of each. How about some Dothraki first from Game Of Thrones?  OK Dothraki I can do. How about -  which is I will ride to the mountain. It is a very boring sentence but you know when you are trying to put stuff together that is what you get. That is kind of what Dothraki sounds like.  Give us some High Valyrian.  High Valyrian - here I will just give you one of the ones I always know off the top of my head one of my favorite phrases from the show -  which is a dragon is not a slave.   Good one.  I created a language for the Giant for last season.    .  I did not know beforehand that he was only going to have one line.  .  I thought he was going to have a bunch of stuff. But whatever I created a full language for the Giant so there is one - three.  And from Defiance the show on Sy-Fy.  Yeah I have created Castithan Irathient Indojisnen - and I apologize to the sound technician - Kinuk'azz. You cannot - you cannot do anything about it. Those - those ejectives they have got the clicky thing in there.   Sorry. So how about this for Castithan? Since I am going to be a new father in December...  Congratulations.  Thank you. It is - here is -  which is I have a kind father hopefully - hopefully that is what I become .  Now I want to play another clip. Your book actually opens with this anecdote from the first time you ever saw one of your languages spoken on the screen.  Oh yeah.  It is from the first episode of Game Of Thrones where someone is welcoming a group of Dothraki horsemen in their native language.    .  I expect your reaction to be like wow that is my language on-screen. But you had a different reaction.  Yeah. So what happened was - what he says - the first two words he says are  which is how you welcome one person Khal Drogo specifically. But when I was watching it I totally misremembered how I had translated it. I thought that he was going to be welcoming the entire party. And so I thought that it should be plural which has an entirely different sound with his . There is really no way you can confuse the one for the other. So when I heard that I was like oh man that is not even close. What are they even doing you know? Then I got back home and realized I do not know OK it was all right. It was all right.  Well when you describe these moments in the book as well where like you have this great relationship with the writers but sometimes they will ask you to do things that would be not grammatical in the language. But...  Yeah.  ...Why does it matter? I mean you are making it up.  Yeah well here's the thing the entire reason for hiring a language creator is to make sure that you know all of the language stuff is correct. I am a stickler. By and large - you know I have worked on a lot of shows now and some movies - what I see on-screen I am pretty pleased with even when there is an error here and there you know often I can see the choice that was made. And weighing both options I say all right well you made the right choice. It looks good on screen. It sounds good. You guys did a good job.  I get the sense - tell me if I am wrong - that even if you did not get paid to do it you would be inventing languages.  Well I was doing it.  Right so...  I mean I started out inventing languages.  Why? What is the - what puts that desire in you?  Well you know ever since I was a little kid I was always drawn to art. I always knew that was the best thing. And the cool thing about creating a language is that there is two different parts to it. There is a very kind of technical part to it which is creating the grammar making sure that it works and making sure that you have gotten all your bases covered. It is very much like programming or puzzle-making or problem-solving. But then there is a very artistic component which is just a creation of the lexicon deciding exactly how this language you are creating is going to encode the vastness of the world. You know all languages can say everything. The way that they differ is how they say what they say and that is what makes language so fascinating.  That is David J. Peterson. His new book is called The Art Of Language Invention. It is out on Tuesday. David . .  .  . 