  Well you know it is also hard to spend a week in Los Angeles without movies on our minds. And at the box office this month so far has been one weird creature flick after another battling for that top spot. Cowboys and Aliens...    Grab your guns. We are riding out.  ...well they tied The Smurfs last weekend.   La-la-la-sing a happy song.  Stop.  But this weekend's Rise of the Planet of the Apes smashed them both.    They are contaminated.  All this made us want to send producer Brent Baughman out to L.A.'s luxurious Arclight Hollywood Theater...  Test test test.  ...to ask one simple question.  Cowboys aliens Smurfs or apes?  Cowboys and Indians what which one?  Cowboys aliens Smurfs or apes?  Smurf apes. We just saw it and it is the best movie ever.  Yeah. What is the deal with Cowboys and Aliens?  I do not know.    What do you mean you do not know?  Are you going to see Apes right now?  No.  What are you going to see?  Midnight in Paris.  So cowboys aliens Smurfs or apes Woody Allen.   Yes.  He would win in a fight.  Well no.   I think I am going to get better as I get older.  They are underdogs .  The aliens so you went to see the cowboys.  That is right.  And the cowboys do not even have electricity right?  Donnie Darko talks about - in the movie talks about how Smurfs do not have reproductive organs. What is the point of living if you do not have them?    There is no call for that kind of language laddie.  Before I ask you a question will you tell me what you are wearing?  I am wearing a cowboy outfit.  And you are wearing?  A cowgirl outfit.   It is a friend's birthday and she - happy birthday.   Can I ask you guys this question - happy birthday by the way.  Thank you.  You are welcome. Cowboys aliens Smurfs or apes?  I think all things considered the X-Men could beat them all. There is a blue one so you cover your Smurf...  Check.  ...there is some aliens.  Check.  ...and there is probably a cowboy.  No answers only questions from producer Brent Baughman. Before we say goodbye tonight there is one more piece of business we have to take care of. We have to say a sad farewell to this show is great senior producer Matt Martinez. Here is the regular host of this program Guy Raz.  Every once in a while when there is room at the end of the program we read credits the names of the folks who help create two hours of original radio each weekend. They do not always get the full recognition they deserve but each week they are with me and with you. Just nine people put this show together. For all of us it is a labor of love. We are a tight-knit group and when one of us goes it is always a sad occasion. And today we are sad to say goodbye to Matt Martinez. He now heads to the weekdays where he will produce ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Matt came to this program two years ago and in that time he left his mark. So Matt good luck. We will miss you. And do not be a stranger.  And for Sunday that is WEEKENDS ON ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am David Greene. Thanks a lot for listening and have a great week. 