 It is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Jacki Lyden. Coming up Janelle Monae talks about her new album The Electric Lady.  But first  how far would you go for love? In Sara Farizan's debut novel a 17-year-old girl named Sahar finds herself deeply head over heels in love with her best friend and neighbor another teenage girl named Nasrin. Their story takes place in Iran where homosexuality is illegal making their love that much more forbidden. Sahar is then confronted with a choice that forces her to contemplate just how much of her identity she can possibly give up even for a chance at public acknowledgment of her love all of this in a novel for young adults. Joining us now is Sara Farizan the author of If You Could Be Mine. Welcome Sara. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh it is such a pleasure to be here. Thank you.  Sara you are Iranian-American. And of course this book takes place in the capital city Tehran and you visited there for research. I am curious why you wanted to set this novel in Iran at all.  Well basically I was taught by my parents to be very proud of my heritage and my cultural background. And so I was always very vocal and outspoken about who I was culturally. You know I was proud to be American. I was proud to be Iranian. So that was never a problem. The problem for me was that I realized from a very young age that I was gay or at least had same-sex attractions that were not going away. And I really struggled with that. And I was very closeted for about six or seven years where I just was outside very bubbly and happy and inside was very angry and sad and did not feel like I could talk to anyone based on where my parents were from. And so when I was in graduate school and I was writing about these themes for teenagers I thought about what it would be like for someone like me whose parents let us say never left and you know what their life would be like or what my life could kind of be like. And though it is fiction it is something that is always been of great fascination to me.  Well let me ask you about this. You are now 29. Your characters are much younger - they are teenagers. They are about 17. I would like you to tell us about those characters Sahar and Nasrin. Who are they? They are quite different from each other.  They are very different. Sahar is 17 years old and she is very studious. She wants to be a doctor. She is studying very hard for the college examination to get into Tehran University. Her mother had passed away when she was 12 and her father was despondent and kind of depressed. Very nice guy but just not very there for her so she ends up kind of taking care of him. And so Nasrin who is her childhood best friend - they have known each other since they were very young - kind of becomes her confidante her whole world in a way. And Nasrin comes from a very well-off family and she is not very studious. And her parents kind of want her to achieve great things but she is not really doing that. And so she is been used to having anything she kind of wants that her parents give her and that is who they are.  And then one day comes this terrible terrible piece of information piece of news. These two young women have been locked in this increasingly passionate romantic physical attachment as closeted gay teenagers and what happens?  Sahar comes to Nasrin's house because she is been invited to this party. And she does not know what the party's about. And the party sort of announces Nasrin's pending engagement to this young man who is going to be a doctor. And Sahar is just crushed because she kind of knew this day would sort of come because of where they are living and the kind of person Nasrin is.  And because Nasrin's parents wanted it so much.  Yes exactly. But she did not realize it would happen so soon. And it is devastating for her and she is very blindsided. So it is a pretty sad moment.  So then Sahar makes this really incredible decision. Tell us what it is.  Sahar meets a transsexual woman by the name of Parvin at her cousin Ali's apartment at a party. And she did not realize that this was a legal thing in Iran that there are transsexuals and that it is a legal kind of practice which is not to say that it is not a group that does not meet discrimination but that it is legal. In some cases if you cannot afford it the government will help subsidize the money for the operation. They change your birth certificate right away which we do not do that here in the States which I think is kind of telling. So that she considers the idea of OK well maybe if I undergo gender reassignment surgery I can stop this pending marriage and be with Nasrin like legally.  But does she feel uncomfortable as a woman?  No. And I think the longer people read it they will see that there is a great distinction between gender identity and sexual orientation. I think Sahar realizes that too as the book goes on. Because in her kind of fever dream she thinks oh this is something that I can do and then realizes you know through meeting other transsexual characters some who are very confident and very happy and are actually trans and then some who have kind of undergone the gender reassignment because they feel like it is their only option. So it is a - it brings up a lot of questions the book but I do not think it gives a lot of definite answers. But she really just sees it as a way to stop her girlfriend from leaving.  I understand that you actually considered taking a pen name when the book came out.  Yes yeah I did. Because I did not want you know my family to get any flak or any hate mail or you know and that is not just from Iranians. I am talking about here in the States you know? So I talked with them  OK I can go under a pen name and it can be anonymous. But then there is no kind of face to go with it. And I think we decided that visibility is so important where I think if you can talk to someone - and for a lot of years you know I have been talking to someone as like the only Iranian person I know or Persian person I know - so now if I can talk to people as an Iranian lesbian - Iranian-American of course. And really the whole point of my writing was it was helpful for me in a way you know therapeutic And I have always kind of sought solace in writing and reading but also if it could help you know like one family or one parent or one kid who is perhaps going through a similar thing and maybe it opens up people's hearts and minds a little bit to people who are not like them.  Sara why did you decide that you wanted to write this as a young adult novel?  I have always been fascinated with teenagers because I think I am like emotionally 17. I have not grown up yet. But I think it is a really strange bizarre age that almost everyone really vividly remembers in a lot of ways - the good and the bad. And it is an issue that is happening to a lot of teenagers now. And I understand if parents do not want to get the book and they are like I do not know how I feel about that and I totally get that. But I do not ever want to condescend to a teenage audience. I think they are going through things as they become adults. But I am just very fascinated with teenage voices and the kind of wonder and fear and all the different conflicting feelings that go along with that age.  Sara Farizan is the author of If You Could Be Mine. Sara thank you so much for being with us.  Oh it is a pleasure. Thank you so much for listening to me. I appreciate it. 