 If summer is for Hollywood blockbusters fall is when the video game industry brings out its big guns and big swords and even gods.   All actions have consequences...   ...And ours have angered a god.  That is the trailer for  The Taken King. It is a massive expansion of the online sci-fi game launched last year by Bungie which originally developed Halo games and it is been hotly anticipated by gamers. Paul Tassi writes about gaming and technology for Forbes. He is here to talk about it. Welcome to the program.  Hey thanks for having me.  So for those of us who are not avid gamers - basics of the plot  for Destiny?  Basics of the plot. The plot is essentially you are a guardian who is an armored hero with a gun who is tasked with defending the solar system. And you fly to Mars Venus Earth and the moon. And there are a bunch of alien races that are invading and trying to kill the last survivors of Earth so you have to kill them back essentially .  So it sounds like fun. It also is pretty complicated right? I mean I know you have written that there is a lot of appeal to the way the game is built.  Yeah it is. And on consoles there is kind of pretty much never been anything like it 'ecause it combines three different genres that normally are not all three of them mashed together. It is a first-person shooter called an FPS. That means you are walking around in first-person mode shooting enemies. That is combined with an MMO which is a multiplayer massive online game where a bunch of people - hundreds - are thrown in a world together and they cooperate they fight against each other they explore big open spaces. And then finally there is the RPG element which is a role-playing game meaning that you invest time into your character to build it up and acquire new gear and get new abilities and stuff like that. So all three of those have combined and you have got a lot of different fans from each genre to come and enjoy Destiny.  How big is the community around Destiny?  It is hard to pin down exact size numbers but last I read there was I think 20 million Destiny accounts made. That does not necessarily mean there is 20 million players 'ecause you can have a few accounts but it is a very significant amount.  So people have a love-hate relationship with this game right? It is actually divisive.  Yeah it is. People love the way it plays but they are not as much a fan of the story and some of the decisions that Bungie makes during development.  Now this expansion includes some new missions more characters - and I understand you have been  up most of the day playing. What is your review?  Yeah 30 a.m. 'ecause it went live at around 4 a.m. It is going to be a little while before I can form a full review because it is just - it is too much stuff to be gotten done it. But my first impressions of it are very positive. Bungie's been listening to fans and adding things that they want to see and creating a lot more ways to engage players and keep them playing.  Still they are preparing for I understand 10 years of plot.   Are you ready for that?  I think so. It is a big investment but it kind of encourages you to keep playing the game as is because you know you are kind of just putting in the time for something that is going to last a while.  Paul you are a contributor at Forbes and you work from home. Do I need to say - to use like air quotes there when I say work from home today? I mean are you basically  playing games today?  That is always the debate is if I am playing games is that technically working? But I do not know. I mean it gets - it means I have a good job where I can do something enjoyable yet still have it count for work too. .  Paul Tassi. He writes about gaming and technology for Forbes. Thanks so much and happy gaming.  Thank you. 