 Here is a sentence from the previously unpublished newly released story called Echo's Bones by Samuel Beckett.  To proceed after what seemed to Belacqua countless as it were eructations into the Bayswater of Elysium brass after brass of atonement for the wet impudence of an earthly state - OK you see what I am doing here. Here is how reviewers are describing the story.  For specialists and masochists only. If you have never read Beckett before starting here will likely put you off for life and it is a nightmare it gives me the gym-jams. That last assessment is from his editor who back in 1933 had commissioned the story but once he read it refused to publish. So why bother with this obscure book by the man who wrote great works like Waiting For Godot? We put that question to the editor of Echo's Bones Beckett scholar Mark Nixon. He joined us from his echoey office. Professor Nixon welcome to the show.  Well Hi thank you very much.  First of all I want to talk about the story itself. It sounds like it had a pretty interesting life. It was supposed to be the final story in Beckett's first ever collection of stories. This was very early in his career as a writer. Can you describe you know his life at that time?  Well this is 1933. Beckett was a completely unknown writer. He would published a few short pieces here and there especially in French literary magazines. But his first novel that he wrote Dream Of Fair To Middling Women could not find a publisher. So at this point in 1933 he is still struggling to make a name for himself as a literary author. And 1933 is generally a difficult year for Beckett because his father passed away and he was struggling with various illnesses. So that is a little bit of the backdrop the background to the writing of the short story Echo's Bones.  So the story Echo's Bones follows the tale of a man who has just come back from the dead. Can you tell us a little bit about the actual narrative of the story?  Well the interesting thing is of course is that as you described in the introduction you know he thought he finished the collection of stories which he had submitted to his publishers Chatto and Windus. And they felt that it was a little bit on the short side so they asked him to write another story. The problem was that Beckett had already killed off his main character of these stories Belacqua in the penultimate story. So he could not quite work out where to add another story which is why he put it at the end and had to bring Belacqua back from the dead. And the merit of the story lies essentially in its - I do not know in its experimental mode of writing. This is a writer who is very very influenced by James Joyce and that very particular modernist style of writing. But Beckett was trying to find his own way at this time. So Echo's Bones is a kind of a crossover story between early Becketts and perhaps the Beckett that we all know from the postwar period.  The book is full of these obscure references. I think one reviewer called it a puree of references I think the footnotes are longer than the story itself. I mean is this his homage to James Joyce?  Well that is one way of looking at it. You could say that it was perhaps his way of getting rid of all the material that he still had lying around in his notebooks to try and free himself from the burden. He called it the burden of note snatching. So there is a sense in which perhaps he just wanted to get everything off his chest and that is what he said to a friend after the story had been turned down. You know he said that I have put everything I knew into this story. So you could see it as a homage to James Joyce's style of writing but also the way of purging himself of all of this material that he would amassed over the previous years knowing that he actually wants to go a different way which he did of course. Instead of always adding to his work like Joyce did he started then to subtract and take everything away and minimalize his writing.  Right because the later writing is much more spare...  Absolutely.  ... The writing we are familiar with in things like Waiting for Gogot.  Absolutely yes I think Echo's Bones in thematically but also in the shifts of register does predict and anticipate the writing of the postwar years. There are already passages in Echo's Bones that show that he is trying to write as he called it without style whilst at the same time finding it difficult to do so.  So I mean I do have to ask you know it sounds like for a Beckett scholar this is really fascinating but why - because it is an obscure work why should a layperson read this book? When you know...  Well I think it is a very good question I think is a very personal question. But I think the feedback and also the reviews that have come in on the book and this is not just scholarly reviews of the book have already shown that you know a general reader will find a lot of interest. Not only is you know the style of writing already you know extremely interesting it is an extremely amusing and funny story especially in the middle part with the exchanges between Belacqua and a character called Lord Gall. It is - the interest of the general reader will just be how Beckett is maneuvering his way through so many different sources and different styles of writing you know everything from religious imagery all the way through to very bawdy kind of writing. And I think that is something that readers will find interesting and also enjoyable.  That is Mark Nixon. He is editor of the newly published story by Samuel Beckett Echo's Bones. It is out this week. Thanks so much Mark.  Thank you very much. 