 Fifteen years ago two friends from Tijuana Mexico joined forces to create a collective of musicians and artists. They called themselves Nortec.   Their music captured the spirit of the streets of Tijuana blending traditional music from northern Mexico with electronic music.  This is Pepe Mogt. And my nickname as an electronic musician is Fussible.  I am Ramon Amezcua. And my nickname as a electronic musician is Bostich from Nortec Collective.  This week Nortec Collective released their latest album Motel Baja. It is also their last. We asked the two founders to talk about a favorite song from the album.  This is Pepe. And one of my favorite songs in the album is Motel Baja. We are hearing like a synthesizer sound. It sounds like kind of funny. And someone that is hungover maybe they were hearing like those kind of sounds in their head.  It is kind of like that. Actually that song reminds me a lot like the '80s. Back in those days thousands of kids - teenagers college kids - they go from the whole weekend - Tijuana like - you can see like the motels are like really packed. And the motels continue the party until the morning. So for me that song is kind of like that.    Gonna be the best of friends.  And at the same time it is kind of nostalgic as well because everything in Tijuana changed after September 11 because before that it was open border. After that it is like all these clubs disappear and became pharmacies. And we changed our music. Now we were telling stories about like the police or stories about like cartels or stories about like immigration border. All those kind of things started to brought up and the music changed a lot.  This is Ramon. And my favorite song of the album - Temporary Paradise. This song was inspired by the violence of the drug cartels in Tijuana a few years ago. As a result of that violence a lot of families moved from Tijuana to other cities. They moved to ensure the safety of their childrens. But they miss their city - never feel like home.    We packed our lives. And as we are driving on the desert's blurring by. It is unpredictable what is up ahead but you can see why. The crossing borders brings about a feeling of relief.  One of the elements of these songs - we were trying to include a lot of other influences. One obviously the electronic part that includes the drum machines and the synthesizers. And the other part is the classical elements. We grew up listening to radio stations from San Diego. And one of that stations they played some of that classical music. And we grew up listening to that music. So it is the first time that we put a baroque sound in the middle of the song.   This is Pepe. We decided this Motel Baja to be the last album because we were working on this project called Nortec for about like 15 years now. So when we heard like the preview of what the album would sound we were like so excited about the songs and the collaborations we did. So we were like this is our final work for Nortec. You know Nortec has to say goodbye to Tijuana and to the rest of the world as a sound.  This is Ramon. This represents most of the image of our Tijuana most of the influences most of our lifestyle. That is why we did the decision that is say OK this is the album that represents everything from Nortec.  Ramon Amezcua and Pepe Mogt of Nortec Collective. The latest and final album is Motel Baja. As for their next act Mogt plans to open a fish taco restaurant in his home town Tijuana. And Amezcua he plans to go back to his first career - dentistry.    We will stay awhile and then let us head home. Can we go back to people we know? We will stay awhile and then let us head home. We will stay awhile and then let us head home. 