 Two new movies a French dramedy and an Australian thriller center on fraught mother-daughter-granddaughter relationships. In the French film The Truth the characters cannot agree on where the truth lies. Our critic Bob Mondello says that puts the film way ahead of the horror movie characters in Relic.  Kay and her college-aged daughter are on a rescue mission in Relic. To grandmother's house they go...    Gran?   ...After a call alerts them that no one's seen her in a few days.    Gran?   Mom?  Kay played by Emily Mortimer is concerned that Gran might be slipping mentally. The house suggests as much - Post-it note reminders everywhere serious clutter mold on walls a bowl of rotting fruit. A police search turns up nothing. And then as abruptly as she disappeared Granny's back in the kitchen.    Tea?   You OK?   One sugar right?   Gran.  Still all is not well. And you will soon realize that first-time filmmaker Natalie Erika James has come up with an unusual horror trope - a house in disarray as a metaphor for dementia maze-like hallways mirroring the disorder in Gran's mind.    Since your grandfather passed this house seems unfamiliar bigger somehow.  To her daughter and granddaughter's alarm it is not just Gran who is disoriented in this place. They are also threatened by a creeping rot that blooms across generations in Relic much as dementia consumes caring families all complicated by family tensions.    Do you need help?   With what?   There are Post-it notes everywhere Mum.   It is my house. I can decorate it however I want.  Mothers and daughters struggling to help one another as memories fade and an inescapable fate looms ever larger. In the dramedy The Truth the tensions are far lighter if no less heartfelt when a screenwriter played by Juliette Binoche arrives with family to visit her mother Fabienne one of France's most celebrated movie stars.    The house looks like a castle.   Ha - it does.   Yes even though there is a prison just behind it.  Fabienne the celebrated movie star who lives in this castle is played by Catherine Deneuve arguably France's most celebrated movie star. And the film delights in playing with that casting. Deneuve's reputation as an imperious slightly distant film icon recycled for the part of Binoche is imperious slightly distant mother who has written a memoir titled La Verite The Truth. Binoche armed with copious notes bristles that much of what Fabienne has written never happened - not once.   .  .  You are using Post-its? marvels Fabienne before protesting I am an actress.  .  I will not tell the naked truth. As it happens she rarely even tells the fully clothed truth but that is where the fun lies. Director Hirokazu Koreeda working for the first time in a language other than his native Japanese plays with all manner of truths in La Verite from Fabienne explaining to the granddaughter who needs her to be a witch that yes she does have magical powers...     .  ...To this grand dame of French cinema getting stage fright on a sci-fi film set then conjuring an acted truth that is kind of breathtaking. You are invited to conflate the character of Fabienne with Daneuve herself. And it is clear that the star - whose middle name is Fabienne let us note - is having fun blurring those lines. Koreeda's even provided a plot point that centers on the signature dress - black with white collar and cuffs - that Deneuve wore in Belle De Jour 53 years ago. All in the service of a story in the truth about family and filmmaking mothers and daughters memory and the comforting fictions we think we remember. I am Bob Mondello. 