 The Cannes Film Festival returned this summer after a year off due to the pandemic. The French Riviera competition opened with big-screen rock opera Annette a dark fairy tale starring Adam Driver. The movie which opens in U.S. theaters Friday is a first musical for the band Sparks and for French filmmaker Leos Carax. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley was there for the film's premiere in Cannes and met with Carax.   As the cast of Annette made its way up the red carpet amidst screaming fans at Cannes it was the culmination of a dream for brothers Ron and Russell Mael of the pop duo Sparks. They told a Cannes press conference of approaching director Leos Carax eight years ago after he used one of their songs in his film Holy Motors. They were stunned when Carax accepted to adapt their idea and songs for Annette into a movie. From the very beginning the three shared the same conviction said Ron Mael.  To avoid a lot of the - what we thought at least the cliches of a movie musical of the Hollywood sort of - a Broadway sort of approach where it is breaking into song and choreographed numbers and all of that. It was not even really discussed I think. I think we were just on the same wavelength about the project that it would be a different take on doing a movie musical.    We love each other so much.  Annette is sung live not prerecorded. And both Driver and co-star Marion Cotillard do their own singing.    We love each other so much.  Annette is a tale of stardom jealousy and the tragic love of a stand-up comedian and opera singer and the child they have together. For Carax an enigmatic filmmaker known for a small collection of strange yet beautiful movies working with Sparks gave him the chance to finally make a musical.  I always thought I cannot do it because I am not a composer and I have no idea how you talk to a composer you know? If you do not like what he does you know you cannot say put a C there instead of a B-flat or whatever. But with Sparks' music I felt at home from childhood. So yeah they sent me a few songs with a kind of storyline and we started from there eight years ago.  Carax says he always builds his storylines with specific actors in mind. Early on Driver became the inspiration for the movie's intense and tortured lead.    Why should I make you laugh laugh laugh? Oh do not make me do not make me do not make me - cannot stand to hear you laugh laugh laugh.  The filmmaker says he found out stand-up comedians can be self-destructive.  They flirt with death on stage quite a bit so there was that kind of dark theme that came.  Finding the female lead was harder says Carax. Then he discovered Cotillard who won an Oscar for her 2010 portrayal of French singer Edith Piaf in La Vie En Rose a role that did not require her to sing.  I never imagined filming Marion but I had seen her in one film actually. It was a bad American film but she was singing in it and she was very good. And she could sing.  Cotillard told the Cannes press conference that Carax had been an inspiration for her becoming an actress. She said singing live was a huge challenge.  So I trained singing moving a lot like lying down or walking running bending. But what is amazing is that you can explore the little accidents of not being able to breathe or not being able to like sing properly. And that was actually interesting in what it created.  Carax says there is a real freedom to making a film with music.  Usually you come on a set and you start with words and actions. But with music it is like - if you go on a set and suddenly it is raining and you did not expect rain so you have to do with the rain. With music it is all the time like that. You have something there and you decide OK am I going with it? Am I - so you have this extra dimension that is very playful and also beautiful to watch. I mean it is very moving because they all sing live well.    One two three four.  Carax says he now cannot imagine making a film without music. In Cannes his strange and haunting Annette was met with a wildly divided reception but no one it seems was left unmoved. Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Paris.    We may agree. So may we start? May we start? May we may we now start? So may we start? May we start? May we may we now start? 