 One escape from the news for many people today has been to talk about Game Of Thrones. The season finale of the crazy popular HBO series aired on Sunday night. And before we go any further consider this your spoiler alert. I repeat in this segment that will run about three and a half minutes there will be spoilers.    Run. Run.   That is an undead dragon whipping up a major plot development at the end of Sunday's episode. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says the last new episode in 2017 was epic in more ways than one.  My favorite moment in Sunday's season finale was not the undead dragon burning a hole in the great frozen wall between the land of the living and the army of the dead though that was an awesome sequence. I loved this speech by hero Jon Snow. He is refusing to lie even though that lie would bring a truce between factions fighting for control of the continent of Westeros to fight that zombie army.    I am not going to swear an oath I cannot uphold. Talk about my father if you want. Tell me that is the attitude that got him killed. But when enough people make false promises words stop meaning anything. Then there are no more answers only better and better lies.  Now that is a perfect criticism of today's fact-challenged fake news-filled political and media world. And it is also a potent argument for the kind of story Game Of Thrones has told this season. When it began seven seasons ago this sword and sorcery series was an anti-heroic tale where people who acted selflessly were often outmaneuvered and killed by savvy villains. This season the tables have turned. Bad guys are learning to be better people. Heroes and heroines are stepping up for the common good. And Peter Dinklage's Tyrion Lannister a dwarf who is one of those anti-heroes becoming a hero keeps facing down jerks twice his size like in this scene where he is trying to start a negotiation and gets interrupted.    I think we ought to begin with larger concerns.   Then why are you talking? You are the smallest concern here.   Do you remember when we discussed dwarf jokes?   His was not even good.   He explained it at the end. Never explain it always ruins it.  Tyrion is estranged from his sister Cersei Lannister a villainous woman who now sits on the Iron Throne. They were reunited Sunday. Tyrion tried to talk her into joining the fight against the dead and she brought up a little family friction.    You killed our father.   After he sentenced me to death for a crime I did not commit. Yes I killed him. Hate me for it if you want. I hate myself for it in spite of what he was in spite of what he did to me.   You left us opened. You laid us bare for the vultures and the vultures came and tore us apart.  That conversation quickly recaps painful storylines. It also reveals a fast-paced storytelling style this year that is different from previous seasons as Game Of Thrones barrels towards its six-episode final season. Fans have criticized some of the leaps of logic required by this fast pace. Characters covered distances in what seemed like impossible speed and the plotline required to get all these characters together in Sunday's episode to debate their truce seemed kind of well dumb. But last night we were also rewarded by an episode filled with important reunions and bittersweet farewells. For viewers who know the history it was particularly poignant to see characters whose adventures stretch back many seasons come together again. And there was a blockbuster revelation. Jon Snow thought he was family patriarch Ned Stark's bastard son. We found out his real parents make him a rightful heir to the Iron Throne. It also means his love affair with the woman challenging Cersei Daenerys Targaryen is actually a hookup with his aunt. Ew. Anyway Sunday's episode capped a season which proved the master storytellers behind Game Of Thrones are more focused than ever. They are powering towards an ending which could come latest 2019 that will cap one of the most successful series on modern television. I am Eric Deggans.  