 Florida in the summer is a slow hot drowning. That is the way Lauren Groff describes the state in her new collection of short stories. In another part of the book she calls Florida a damp dense tangle an Eden of dangerous things. Lauren Groff is best known for her novel Fates And Furies and this short story collection is appropriately called Florida. Lauren Groff welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  I am delighted to be on the show. Thank you Ari.  Why Florida?  Oh because I have lived here for 12 years and it is still so alien and fecund and steamy and strange to me.   Those are great words to describe the state.  Reptilian dangerous teeming - I mean there is so many things that you can call Florida. And so I am from upstate New York this little tiny village called Cooperstown which is the prototypical American village. And then I came down to Florida against my will - absolutely. And there is still...  Because of your husband?  Yes dang it. Yes it is his fault. I was not prepared to love the place. And in fact I did not for about five years partially because of this feeling that everything is slightly dangerous or is kind of out to get you. You know there are...  Yeah.  ...Snakes everywhere alligators in retention ponds. The mosquitoes are the size of houseflies. I mean everything...  Even the weather's out to get you. You have got hurricanes.  The - absolutely. And if it is not the hurricanes it is the termites right? I mean something's going to take your house down. So it feels as though there is this deep dark something happening at the center of the state and yet we are just pouring sunshine over it. And that feels very much like a microcosm of America right?  Oh wow.  I mean there is a lot of darkness happening and then there is - we pretend that everything is fine. You know we pour sunshine on everything. So I am just fascinated by this place. It still feels alien to me.  There is a lot of the state that does not appear in the short story collection. There is no Disney. There is no South Beach Miami. There is no plastic surgery or beach bunnies. Did you intentionally wall all that off? Or was it just that this is the stuff that made its way into the book and the other stuff did not?  Well one of my ideas about this book is that it is the Florida that is not the replicated vision of Florida that people see all over the world if you do not really know the state right? So if you do imagine the state you do think South Beach which is lovely and wonderful. You think Disney and standing in those horrible lines for hours. But I was more interested in the stories that do not necessarily get told or the narratives that are maybe a little bit outside the norm.  There is a meme that I am sure you have seen which is Florida Man which basically...  I love - .  ...Collect crazy headlines about things that men in Florida have done. And sometimes I felt like this story collection could be subtitled Florida woman.  Right . But Florida woman is really subversive and she does not like Florida Man very much. Let us be honest right?  .  I love Florida Man. I mean that is the funny thing right? That is the stereotype. That is what everybody knows about Florida is you know if something weird happens in the U.S. 80 percent of the time...   It is in Florida.  ...It has happened in Florida right? Someone has been standing on top of his car like throwing golf balls at a police car. And that is definitely - that has happened before.  And he was naked.  And he was absolutely naked right? Absolutely. This book is very internal right? It is very much about domesticity and resisting domesticity and nature sort of imposing itself on people. It is not - it is dark but psychologically dark.  Because you brought up the idea of resisting domesticity I have to ask you. There is one character that comes up a number of times and she is ambivalent about being a mother. And she says motherhood was never interesting to her. Her husband had to be the one to make up for the depths of my lack. And this is a character who lives in Gainesville and is the mother of two children. And it is hard not to observe that you are also a mother of two living in Gainesville.  That is a good observation yes.  Thank you.   So my general statement about this is that it is not not me right? I mean I think the question is...  This is your prepared statement that you are reading for the press. This is not not me.   Ari Shapiro the character is not not me.  .  Yes. So she is not me right? She is a fictional character. So she is someone that I know made grotesque basically. That is what I think of...  Yeah.  So there is no such thing as fiction that is not somewhat autobiographical. Likewise there is no such thing as memoir that is not fictional. And it is possible that some of the things that this narrator says and thinks are things that I myself have said and thought. But I think in general I am less grotesquely like frightened of the world.  I have to confess since I read this book I have been having snake dreams.  Awesome. Good .  Will you read from one of the stories in this collection called Snake Stories?  Absolutely.  Walk outside in Florida and a snake will be watching you. Snakes in mulch snakes in scrub snakes waiting from the lawn for you to leave the pool so they can drown themselves in it. Snakes gazing at your mousy ankle and wondering what it would feel like to sink its fangs in deep.  It is hard to escape the allegorical significance of a snake. I mean you reference Adam and Eve. You reference the Iliad. Snakes come up a lot in this collection. And do you know why?  Absolutely. Yes. So snakes are the most untamed thing I can think of - right? - the most wild the least concerned about humanity. They are the one thing that I see even after 12 years in Florida - and I see them almost daily because I go for a run out in the prairie a lot. They are the one thing that actually sends visceral horror through me...  Daily.  A lightning bolt - pretty much daily yeah. I mean there is either a dead snake on the ground or my kid's bringing a snake in the house. My kids love snakes. They love them. I mean snakes are very much related to the pigeon brain in me that is just full of dread.  So you have lived in Florida for 12 years and it still seems alien to you. And you go for a run nearly every day and a snake still sends visceral horror down your spine. Do you think these things this place that is now your home will ever stop being visceral and horrifying and alien? And would you want it to?  I do not want it to. I do not want it to because I am a writer of fiction. And I think that if you feel too comfortable you are writing from the inside. And so I think that the role of the fiction writer is very much to press up against the strictures of the society and the people within the society. So if you are writing from the inside you cannot do your job in a lot of ways. But also Ari I truly do not actually think that I would be happy anywhere  right?  .  I am a fiction writer. And it is possible that I would feel the same dread if I lived on my own island in the Caribbean - right? - if I lived in you know Mont Saint-Michel in France - right? - if I lived in Taiwan. Even though I still struggle against this crazy state that I find myself living in every single day I am grateful to the struggle. And I am grateful that it is something that I feel oppositional toward and love at the same time.  Lauren Groff thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you so much Ari.  Her new short story collection is called Florida. 