 Our critic Bob Mondello says Contagion is an epic writ small while Warrior is a domestic drama writ large.  You would have to call the task facing director Steven Soderbergh daunting. In Contagion he has to show a single case of bird flu morphing into a worldwide pandemic. Basically he has to scare us to death with something we cannot see.    So we have a novel virus with a mortality rate in the low 20s no treatment protocol and no vaccine at this time.  That is correct.  The director also has to keep us interested in whether that something we cannot see is affecting specific people we do not know because they die almost as soon as we meet them.   Now what do I do?   Do not talk to anyone. Do not touch anyone. That is the most important thing.  Damon is family. Kate Winslet is research. Laurence Fishburne is government. And when blogger Jude Law who represents all things alarmist meets scientist Elliott Gould who is all things rational you know whose side you are on.    ...virus potentially a mutant...   ...and Frankenstein all in one.   Hold on. Look get away from here . You are not a doctor and you are not a writer.   Yes I am a writer. Yes I am.   Blogging is not writing. It is graffiti with punctuation.   I am a journalist in an informed discussion on the Blogosphere. This is a biological weapon.  It centers on two estranged brothers neither of whom can stand their alcoholic dad who is growled into vibrant life by Nick Nolte. Iraq war vet Tommy is damaged goods as played by Tom Hardy angry brutal quite literally spoiling for a fight.    I will fight him.  His brother Brendan played by Joel Edgerton is at the opposite end of the spectrum - family-oriented a high school physics teacher who only enters the ring because he has to.    We have got to sell the house in three months. We are running out of options here.   I would rather go back to an apartment than see you in the back of an ambulance again. I thought we agreed that we were not going to raise our children in a family where their father gets beat up for a living.  You hear the fight movie cliches piling up no? Wife who has no say battling brothers everything's riding on the big match. Later there is a scary Russian fighter training montages. This is not a movie to go to for plot surprises. The filmmakers have clearly read the Old Testament and seen Rocky.    Growing up you all wanted to know who the toughest kid in the neighborhood was right? I want to know who the toughest man on the planet is. That is what we are going to find out.  I am Bob Mondello. 