 In the comedy The Trip Actors Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon went on a restaurant-reviewing tour of Britain eating scallops and doing Michael Caine impressions. The movie was successful enough that in their follow-up The Trip To Italy they ate pasta and did dueling Al Pacinos.  That movie did even better. So why mess with a winning formula? Coogan and Brydon are now heading out on a trip to Spain. Critic Bob Mondello says with most movie sequels he is done after a second helping. But with a dish this tasty he will go for thirds.  The phone call from Steve Coogan comes at an opportune moment.    I am asking you if you will come with me.  Rob Brydon looks across the room at his wife and new baby.    Yes I will come.  And before you can say Spanish omelet they are off to the land of Don Quixote to tilt at wind turbines and chat over chorizo about whatever pops into their heads - Mick Jagger for instance.    I was leaving.   Yeah.   And I heard from the balcony...   Yeah.   Rob Rob...   Rob...   Rob...   Hey Rob Rob...   And I looked up and he went do not throw those bloody spears at me. I said what? He goes do not throw those bloody spears at me.   Yeah no no...   He was doing Michael Caine.   No I know. What you find is...  Coogan cannot resist doing his own Mick Jagger.    Sort of - it is actually quiet . And sometimes he is quite actually like sort of public school thing.   He went do not throw those bloody spears at me. And I went oh Michael Caine.   Yeah yeah.   So I looked up at him and I said I have told you before. If you are not going to sing I do not want to bloody know. Now get back in the other room. And he went  and off he went. He loved it. But...   Had...   ...Had I had a close conversation with him I would have said what are you doing having a child at 72?  Age is much on their minds this trip. They have both just turned 50 which makes them worry they will soon feel as ancient as the dinosaur tracks they find in their travels.    The brontosaurus which would previously roam the lands.   Who is that?   It is John Hurt.   That is not John Hurt.   Who is it then?   Well I do not know. But if you are going to do John Hurt you have to - the Brachiosaurus once roamed the land the king of all he surveyed.   That is a very good John Hurt.  The point of this trip though is Spanish cuisine which we see sizzling in the kitchen and served with food porn panache.    We have Iberian pork meat from Salamanca. And Victor  makes the chorizo like his grandmother.  .   When she said he makes chorizo like his grandmother is that what she looked like? Because I am picturing a grizzled old woman with the external appearance of chorizo.   Well you are the only person who is mate.   Fantastic.   Wow.   Tell you what - if his grandmother tasted like this I would have a nibble.  As with the previous movies director Michael Winterbottom has whittled The Trip To Spain down from six half-hours of British television. Coogan and Brydon friends in real life are improvising exaggerated versions of themselves Brydon a goofy Sancho Panza to Coogan's snooty Don Quixote.    Just do not do Shakespeare. Come on.   Oh.   Oh.   That this too too-solid flesh would melt...  Their travels take them through breathtaking Iberian deserts gorgeous sea coast villages. And at one point they stay in a castle where Brando played Grand Inquisitor. In a darkened room it becomes clear that come the next Spanish Inquisition Coogan will be asking the questions.    Almost fanatical devotion...   You are doing him in The Godfather. You are just doing Marlon Brando...   I am just doing '70s Brando.   His voice was a little higher the way he spoke. It was like that you know? When he spoke...   You have got a De Niro thing going. You are doing your De Niro.   If I was doing De Niro I would do it like that you know? That is the way - that is the way De Niro spoke you know? The reason you think I am doing De Niro when I am doing Brando is because De Niro himself was influenced by Brando.   So in attempting to criticize you I have inadvertently complimented you.   You have shown that some of the detail in....   You have certainly come out on top in this exchange then.  Brydon needles Coogan remains oblivious and slightly melancholy and audiences enjoy a week-long conversation in which no narrative needle is ever left unthreaded. As when talk of tilting at windmills leads to...    The circles that you find in the windmills of your mind.   You know who sang that?   Dusty Springfield?   Noel Harrison. He is the famous one. Son of...   George?   Rex Harrison.   Really?   Who sang The Rain In Spain. Circles within circles.   Yeah.  I would follow these guys on a trip to anywhere. I am Bob Mondello.    Like the circles that you find in the windmills of your mind. Keys that jingle in your pocket words that jangle in your head. Why did summer go so quickly? Was it something that you said? Lovers walk along a shore... 