 Comic-Con the annual pop-culture convention is underway in San Diego Calif. There is one thing that almost all the 130000 people attending will get to do there - stand in line for badges to get in and to buy exclusive toys see movie trailers or get a comic book autographed. NPR senior arts editor Nina Gregory is there standing in some of those lines and talking to people doing the same.  The convention center sits on the waterfront in San Diego Bay and each day of comic con new lines form in and outside of the building. Yesterday in the longest one they were waiting for one thing.  I am here for Star Wars.  Alex Waskiewicz is an engineer from Colorado. He is hanging out with friends in a very long line.  Well there is several thousand of us camped out on a boardwalk with camping chairs camping mats water bottles.  He waited at least 36 hours for today's Lucasfilm presentation - a preview of  The Force Awakens. The movie opens in December but director J.J. Abrams is on hand for a panel discussion. So is screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan and Lucasfilm President Kathleen Kennedy. Fans also hope to see Harrison Ford and Lupita Nyong'o. But Star Wars fans are not the only ones waiting in line at comic con. Let us step inside.  My name's Hannalor Jocosing. I am from Oceanside Calif. and I am here waiting in line to get a drawing from the illustrator for Hello Kitty.  While she is only been in this line for 15 minutes it is not her first line to get that illustration.  30 right when it opened to get a ticket. So that was about a 20 minute wait.  And there was an hour wait just to get in right when it opened so she could get to the Sanrio booth to get the ticket to get her drawing - an hour and 35 minutes for one drawing.  Actually I think that is what you sum up the convention as - lining up a lot.  My name is Steve Chu. I am from San Diego and I have been standing in line since 2 a.m.. I slept on the grass this morning. I have been waiting here for Hasbro to buy some of the exclusive Transformers G.I. Joe toys for friends and my family.  Chu is a 38-year-old assistant U.S. attorney and to be clear he is not here on government business. I met up with him as he approached the final leg of his line.  We are almost at the end of this long journey. One of my English professors wrote about that - what was it? - The Canterbury Tales because it was an uncompleted work of literature. But his thesis was that it was the journey not the destination that matters. Unfortunately I have to say that when you are hunting for exclusive toys at a convention the destination does matter because if you spend all this time waiting and you come away with nothing or you do not come away with what you want it is a pretty tough feeling. Many of us say we will never come back again and yet we are here year after year.  Chu got all of his toys. We parted ways and I headed to the line for nachos. Nina Gregory NPR News San Diego. 