 In the TV series Rectify the main character is released from prison after DNA evidence overturns his conviction. He has served nearly 20 years on death row. When the fictional drama debuted on the Sundance Channel last year critics raved. The LA Times said it sets a new standard for television. The second season of Rectify premieres this week. And NPR's Elizabeth Blair has more on what makes the show work.  At a press conference on the day of his release from prison the fictional Daniel Holden seems shell-shocked.    I am not sure what to make of this drastic change of course in my life. I am certainly not against it.  Ray McKinnon who created Rectify says he was inspired to write the series after seeing TV interviews with real men who were in Daniel Holden's position.  You know they were in shock of course. But they also were describing the first evening as a free person and what they would do. And that just sparked my imagination about what would a person do on the second day you know and the third day.  In Rectify Daniel Holden returns to the small Georgia town where he was once accused of raping and killing his high school girlfriend. His release causes friction everywhere. His younger sister fears for his life.    There are people around here Mom who want to see Daniel dead. People who would do it themselves if they thought they could get away from it.  In his first dinner with his family Holden seems terrified of being surrounded by people and bewildered by all of the food on the table. Actor Aden Young plays Holden.  There is an almost stumbling effect. It is almost as if he is a creature thrown out of a spaceship into a foreign land.  Everything has changed. Holden's father died while he was in prison. His mother remarried. And he has a new stepbrother who is a teenager - a sweet kid who tries to connect with Holden by offering to show him all of the movies he missed while he was gone.    You can go a lot of ways but one of my favorites it is called Dazed and Confused.   I like the title.   Yeah I heard that.  Daniel Holden as played by Aden Young has glassy blue eyes and a piercing gaze. He is sensitive and intelligent but kind of creepy. An odd bird says Ray McKinnon.  He seemed like the guilty one. You know you often hear people say well he just seemed so normal. He did not seem like the kind of guy who would do that. Well conversely there is the guy that - well he seemed like the guy who would do that. If you are just an odd bird society sees you in a different way.  The show gets that right according to Damien Echols who in real life has spent nearly two decades in prison.  I was a victim of that firsthand. I came from a very small hard-core right wing fundamentalist town and I did not fit in.  Like the fictional character in Rectify Echols was a bit of an outcast.  When he and two other teenagers were convicted of brutally murdering three little boys branded as Satan worshipers and sent to prison the teenagers became known as the West Memphis Three. Years later they were released when DNA evidence did not link them to the killings. Echols says Rectify is so well done it is hard for him to watch it.  Like the Daniel character in the show or even me in real life once you get out of prison you are going to be even more eccentric just because you have been in prison for so long.  Echols says another truth to the series is how it deals with the little things that are so hard to adjust to after spending nearly two decades split off from society. A book of prison letters between Echols and the woman who is now his wife is out this week. In Rectify Daniel Holden is constantly confused at how things have changed and all the new stuff like cell phones and SmartWater. But he does have a sense of humor. In this scene Holden's younger sister nervously tries to joke around with him.    That is kind of how I deal.   God loves humor.   Exactly. 'Course you would know about that would not you? I mean God. I did it again.   We call it lethal injection humor - more humane but not as funny.  Having this character who is been absent for 20 years forces everyone in the town to examine how their own lives had changed. And whether they can accept a man who for so long they considered evil. And while Rectify is laced with humor and intrigue actor Aden Young says everyone who worked on the series tried to be mindful that in real life wrongful murder convictions affect not just the defendants but the families of those who were killed.  How do you go about creating a form of entertainment about something this you know anchored by an anvil. And we had to be very careful to measure our fiction against those truths.  Season 2 of Rectify begins on the Sundance Channel Thursday night. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 