 Jenni Fagan is a Scottish writer who published her first book in the U.K. last year. It is called The Panopticon and it is out now here in the U.S. Our reviewer Alan Cheuse says it is a terrific portrait of a young criminal.  Fifteen-year-old Anais Hendricks is a child of the Scottish foster care system with more than 50 placements over the course of her young life and in just the past 16 months over 100  drug possession car theft destruction of property battery threatening an officer inciting to riot. We meet Anais as the police deliver her to an experimental prison the Panopticon of the title where guards watch inmates 24 hours a day allowing no privacy except for the toilet. In her relentless novel Jenni Fagan allows Anais to tell her own story but she allows no privacy either toilet included inviting us in to witness the worst of the girl's angry adolescence with drugs and police bashing and porno among other disasters. As if coming down from a frenzied drug tear  seats on a bus the number of bars on a prison gate the squares on the roof of a classroom.  Gate Path Door Bin Dog Old Man Lamppost Three Trees Boy on a Skateboard Cyclist. Novelist Fagan does the same giving us all of the things in Anais' view from the ugliest to the most beautiful though of the latter there are few and in the particularly foul voice of an orphaned young offender at the mercy of the state. At the mercy of the state yes until Anais finds the strength to take charge of herself. Reading along we see her struggling to lose herself and save herself in the past as in the present seeing her from every angle in every hour just as in the prison. It is not a pretty view but Fagan makes this ugly life somehow beautiful.  The book is The Panopticon by Jenni Fagan. It was reviewed for us by Alan Cheuse who teaches writing at George Mason University.   Hey you there in the backseat of the car. We know you are listening. So we have got something just for you. It is NPR's Backseat Book Club where kids parents and librarians read a book along with us. This month's pick is called  Tales from a Not-So-Fabulous Life. It is by Rachel Renee Russell. And we want your questions for the author. You may even hear your name on the radio. So send your questions to us by email or on Twitter. You can write us at backseatbookclubnpr.org or tweet us nprbackseat. 