 If Southern belle Scarlett O'Hara was a hellcat in Gone With The Wind her sister-in-law Melanie was an angel.    No war can come into our world Ashley. Whatever comes I will love you just as I do now until I die.  Actress Olivia de Havilland is the last surviving star of the most popular film of all time. She retired from show biz decades ago. Apparently she felt that 49 films two Best Actress Oscars and a best-selling memoir were accomplishment enough for one career. Well today in Paris de Havilland celebrates her 100th birthday. And our critic Bob Mondello says she is got a lot to celebrate.  She was a sweet Hermia in Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream a sweet ingenue in a slew of forgettable comedies. And then someone had the bright idea of casting her opposite Errol Flynn. He was a swashbuckler and standing opposite him Olivia de Havilland got feisty in eight pictures all together including the one that made her a star The Adventures of Robin Hood where she played Maid Marian.    May I serve you my lady?   I am afraid the company has spoiled my appetite.   Oh misfortune. Now mine is excellent.  De Havilland looked like she would stepped out of a storybook but also gave the character intelligence and dignity that clicked with audiences but did her no good at all with the Brothers Warner who kept casting her as ditzes. Happily a rival studio asked if it could borrow her as a foil for their ditz Vivien Leigh who would just been cast as vain self-centered Scarlett O'Hara in Gone With The Wind. Leigh would flutter they figured and de Havilland's down-to-Earth Melanie would anchor the story. And she did.    Melanie Hamilton what a surprise to run into you here. I hope you are going to stay with us a few days at least.   I hope I shall stay long enough for us to become real friends Scarlett. I do so want us to be.   We will keep her here will not we Scarlett?   Oh we will just have to make the biggest fuss over her will not we Ashley? If there is anybody who knows how to give a girl a good time it is Ashley. Though I expect our good times will seem terribly silly to you because you are so serious.   Oh Scarlett you have so much life. I have always admired you so. I wish I could be more like you.  Melanie believed the best about everyone and de Havilland made her belief credible by grounding the character with generosity humility self-sacrifice - all the qualities Scarlett lacked.    Ladies the Confederacy asked for your jewelry on behalf of our noble cause.   We are not wearing any. We are in mourning.   Just a moment please.   But it is your wedding ring madam.   It may help my husband more off my finger.  No one could have been more saintly. Offscreen though de Havilland was now able to be more assertive. Having proven she could do substantial roles she started turning down sweet-young-thing parts and Warner Brothers responded by placing her on a six-month suspension. She sued and not only won but got a landmark judgment known as the de Havilland decision that limited the terms studios could impose on actors. The victory came at a price. She did not make a film for three years but when she finally did she won her first Oscar as an unwed mother forced to give up her child in To Each His Own.    If the people of this town so much as suspect he is yours that little fella's life will not be worth living.   I cannot give him up.   You have got to.   No.  Oscar voters seemed to like the suffering de Havilland. She followed up that win with back-to-back Best Actress nominations for having a mental breakdown in The Snake Pit.    Oh I do not know why.  And a romantic break down in The Heiress.    He must come. He must take me away. He must love me.  She won a second Best Actress Oscar for The Heiress. But by Hollywood standards she was now an old lady of 33. Roles came less frequently back then to actresses as they approached their 40s. And when de Havilland complicated the equation by moving to France and turning down the part of Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire her star wattage began to dim not that she disappeared. Television beckoned with some of those meaty roles she would wanted. And when Joan Crawford fell ill and had to drop out of Hush... Hush Sweet Charlotte de Havilland got to torment Bette Davis in what turned out to be the plumiest of plum old lady roles.    Your father always favoring you and holding you up as an example. Why would not I tell him that his pure darling little girl was having a dirty little affair with a married man?   You are a foul sorry little...  These two played dueling cousins here but 60s audiences primed by gossip columnists thought they saw glimmers of a real life relative when de Havilland's eyes flashed daggers. She and her baby sister Joan Fontaine had supposedly been feuding since childhood a notion nurtured by studio publicists. Fontaine won an Oscar first and married first and once quipped if I die first she will undoubtedly be livid because I beat her to it. They both claimed publicly there was not an actual feud though Fontaine kept the pot boiling with anecdotes in her autobiography and with catty replies when interviewers brought up childhood spats.   Breaking your collarbone was certainly...  That was an accident. I am sure it was not entirely intentional .  De Havilland did not take the bait then or ever. She smiled sweetly when the subject of her sister came up and took her cues from well - from Melanie more or less. Scarlett after all had been just awful to her and what did she say?    Oh Scarlett darling you have been so good to me. No sister could have been sweeter.  No sister indeed. De Havilland was 22 when she said that line. Still learning about life as her character was giving up the ghost. She was the only star to die in Gone With The Wind. So perhaps it is fitting that she should be the star who gets to shine on in the seeming perpetuity a storied figure from Hollywood's Golden Age. I am Bob Mondello. 