 Sesame Street has been a constant presence in children's entertainment for nearly 50 years. And while the most popular characters - Big Bird Elmo Oscar - are muppets there are also human characters. They are the ones who ground the show teaching the muppets big life lessons and helping them on their adventures.    Hi Zoe Elmo.   Elmo cannot talk Luis.   Yeah we are looking for red apples.   Yeah.  Well Luis and a couple of his grown-up friends Bob and Gordon have been upset. Sesame Workshop CEO Jeff Dunn called it a misunderstanding yesterday. NPR's Andrew Limbong tells us what is been happening on Sesame Street.  As much as Sesame Street can seem like a childhood utopia it too can get caught up in the very adult world of contracts.   As of this season I have completed my 45th season this year.  You are hearing the voice of Bob McGrath who plays the character Bob on Sesame Street. He spoke at a convention in Florida last month. And he is about to tell the audience that he Roscoe Orman and Emilio Delgado who play Gordon and Luis respectively do not have contracts for the next season.   And so they let all of the original cast members go.  All three have been regulars on the show for a long time. Bob was introduced in 1969 Sesame Street's very first season.    Hi Bob.   Hi how are you today?   Say hello to Sally. She just moved into the neighborhood.   Hi Sally.   That is Bob.   It is nice to see you.  The news did not sit well with Sesame Street fans.  They are part of the family.  This is Corazon Gambino. She is a 29-year-old parent of two who runs a child care facility in New York.  You know the puppets they are muppets. They are really no different than like a stuffed animal that you place in a children's bedroom. But these - the people that are in the show you know these are who you are making the interaction with.  And to Gambino this is less about waxing nostalgic for old cast members and more about kids watching people grow old on TV.  We are never going to see Big Bird age right? We are never going to see Elmo be in college  right? All they see is someone that is active and you know ready to go and play. But that is not the case. You know these are the people that are really sitting on the porch sitting on our laps and reading the stories and telling the stories of the past. That is like a lost art now.    This is the story of Stan and Dan.  Like Gordon used to do.    Once upon a time there was a man named Stan.   Hi there. I am Stan.  Sesame Workshop could not record an interview in time for this story but CEO Jeff Dunn put out a statement saying  we apologize for the misunderstandings around the changing cast roles at Sesame Street. He says he is been in touch with the actors to figure out how to work together in the future and that this has to do with the fact that the show is now 30 minutes long instead of a full hour. The company says that decision was based on research and testing. And then there is this part of the story.    Hello there.  That is the HBO signature sound followed by Grover. This season Sesame Workshop teamed up with HBO so episodes would air there first and show up later on your local PBS station. Sesame Workshop has stressed repeatedly that editorial changes have nothing to do with the HBO deal. But to parents and viewers like Gambino it is a sign that things are changing in the neighborhood. Andrew Limbong NPR News.    Sunny day sweeping the clouds away. On my way to where the air is sweet. Can you tell me how to get how to get to Sesame Street? Come and play everything's A-OK. 