 If you can get a pumpkin spice latte in August then it is not too early to start talking about the Oscars. The Toronto International Film Festival is the unofficial kickoff of the awards race with big prestige films starting to pick up buzz. This year those include First Man a retelling of the Apollo 11 mission...    Neil if this flight is successful you will go down in history. What kind of thoughts do you have about that?   We are planning on the flight being successful.  ...A film adaptation of James Baldwin's novel If Beale Street Could Talk...    I love you. You know that.   I do. And I understand what you are going through because I am with you.  ...And the heist film with a twist Widows.    After this job we are done. We have three days to look and move like a team of men.  NPR's Bob Mondello and Linda Holmes just got back from Toronto. They are here in the studio now to talk through some of the highlights. Hey there Bob.  Hey.  Hey there Linda.  Hey.  I want to start with the headliners that we were just talking about. Of those three films we just mentioned which is Oscar-worthy?  Yeah I personally think they all are. Now we will get to the one Bob and I disagreed on. But I think Bob and I both loved Widows which stars Viola Davis as this unconventional crime boss. Liam Neeson is in it. Colin Farrell is in it. There is a lot of great stuff in that movie. It is very exciting and also a very good film.  And the big question is whether it is viewed as Oscar material or a genre picture because it is so exciting as an action film.  It is nice to hear the two things are married now.  It is true.   OK also the film from Moonlight director Barry Jenkins If Beale Street Could Talk - why are people excited about this one?  It is so gorgeous. It is a love story. But it is James Baldwin so it is also tough and it is angry and it is all kinds of other things. But I wrote in my notes about it that was probably the most I have ever believed love onscreen.  I cannot even believe you are saying this. You have seen a trillion movies.  I have seen a couple.  I am being real right now.   It was amazing.  OK it sounds like we are building up to the one where you disagree.  Yes so...  And this is the Neil Armstrong movie. And I have to say that usually it is catnip to do...  Space movies.  ...A biopic.  Space movies and biopics.  Yeah it is like space hero.  And...  Young actors do this 'ecause this is how you get an Oscar.  Well and the director is Damien Chazelle who directed La La Land. So if you sense that you are leading up to a Barry Jenkins versus Damien Chazelle showdown...  .  ...Which also led to the incredibly dramatic Oscar night when one of them won and then the other one won best picture - I really liked First Man. Ryan Gosling plays Neil Armstrong. I think the movie is terrific. It is about masculinity to me. And he is sort of a stoic but also he is doing this incredibly exciting thing. Bob on the other hand was wrong.  .  OK Bob's here to speak. Yeah .  Bob on the other hand was wrong.  Yeah.  I - no all of that actually I agree with. The problem is that stoicism thing. It means that the emotion in it - it keeped  being tamped down and I wanted it more to the fore.  Is not that what the swelling music is supposed to do in these movies ?  The swelling - there is a lot of swelling moving music. This is amazing.  All right I want to talk about one movie that everybody is talking about and that is A Star Is Born - Bradley Cooper Lady Gaga. Is it as good as everyone thinks or hopes that it might be?  I think it is. I really loved it. I think it is very - it is a melodrama. But I think if you need to see Lady Gaga sing La Vie En Rose in a drag bar - and who does not? - this is the movie for you.   It is romantic. It is sad. I really really liked it.  I want to ask you about a bigger story going on in Hollywood this past year - the sexual assault allegations against Harvey Weinstein and others in the industry - mainly because this is the kind of festival where his films would have taken center stage in the past - right? - the launching of Oscar season Oscar campaigning. Did any of the films address the MeToo movement?  There is a documentary called This Changes Everything which is about sexism in Hollywood. And it has a kind of a postscript about this. But I think you will see more direct treatment of it onscreen as time goes on.  Yeah it is a little early still. It takes about a year and a half to two years for a film to make it through the pipeline and actually get onto the screen. So I think it is a little too soon for that.  You know I have seen the list of the movies you guys saw in Toronto. Yours is about four pages long Linda with...  It is.  ...Notes. Was there anything else you loved?  I really loved a film called Can You Ever Forgive Me? which stars Melissa McCarthy as a real woman who did a bunch of literary letter forgeries. It is funny but also really sort of touching.  Bob.  I think we were both nuts about a film called Roma by Alfonso Cuaron. And then there is this other foreign film called Capharnaum which is about a kid in Lebanon who sues his parents for bringing him into a world so awful. It is really powerful.  That is NPR film critic Bob Mondello and the host of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour Linda Holmes. Thank you to you both.  Thank you Audie.  Thank you.  