 A true star knows when it is time to take his last bow.   A-A-R-D-V-A-R-K. A-A-R-D...  V-A-R-K.  Arthur the aardvark will air just one more season his 25th in the winter of 2022. For those of you not in the know he is an 8-year-old with a sister named D.W.  The show has multiple Emmys and a Peabody. Kids love Arthur because he struggles and relies on various animal friends who help him out and they all feel like real kids.  Arthur deals with being bullied for having glasses for not being the greatest kickball player. And like most PBS kid shows Arthur helps with life's scary side.    What is a fire drill?   It is a plan we follow to make sure we get out of school safely in case there is a fire.   Fire? Did Ms. Morgan say we are going to have a fire?  And he shows that regardless of age you are never too small to help even at a wedding.    How about me? I can do it.   That a girl D.W.   Please hold this Arthur.   D.W. you carry the ring you found it. You deserve it.  Arthur made it cool to read.    Having fun is not hard when you have got a library card. Having fun is not hard when you have got a library card.   Come on inside. We have got everything you need. There is plenty to do or you could just sit and read.  And Arthur's teacher Mr. Ratburn made it cool to do schoolwork    Just a little homework tonight. Read 19 chapters of history. List 63 adverbs alphabetically.  Like any iconic show celebrities made cameos from Yo-Yo Ma to Matt Damon to Mr. Rogers.    I wondered where you were hiding Arthur.   I think maybe I am sick. In fact I may be too sick to go to school tomorrow.  As Arthur fans grew up they brought him into social media to express themselves often with a close-up on his very frustrated fist. Dami Lee  is a 31-year-old cartoonist and writer and to her the fist meme symbolizes...  Maybe like the millennial like anger or something. It is just like the lot that you are handed in life and you cannot really do anything about it.  Well you can always watch Arthur on demand. Congratulations on 25 seasons.    And I say hey what a wonderful kind of day. You can learn to work and play and get along with each other. You got to learn to your heart listen to the beat... 