 On this program and frankly many similar programs in recent years we have talked a lot about differences. Why is the country so polarized? Why is there so much anger? Is it because people live in their own bubbles and do not know each other very well? Well after the 2016 presidential election Dr. Ayaz Virji decided to try to bridge those differences in his own way. He was the chief of staff at the local hospital in Dawson Minn. population 1500 and he could not believe that many of his neighbors his patients the same people who would welcomed him and his family as the only Muslim family to their town just a few years before had voted for a man calling for a Muslim registry and to make it harder for Muslims to immigrate. He thought about moving. Instead he decided to dig in and talk to his neighbors about his faith. He is now written a book about that experience and what happened next. It is called  A Muslim Doctor's Struggle For Home In Rural America. And he is with us now from our bureau in New York. Dr. Virji thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me.  First I wanted to ask you why you moved to Dawson to begin with. I mean it was almost like a spiritual experience I might say right - like a calling.  I think so. So I was mid-career as far as being a family physician at that time. I was a high leadership position at a successful hospital in Harrisburg Pa. I had the BMWs the nice house but it was not enough for me. I wanted to do more. And if you look in rural America we really have a lack of medical providers. We have about 20 of the population but only about 9 of doctors. And it was back to the idea of if not me then who?  And you were saying in the book that it was almost like a fairy tale existence for three years.  You know initially yes people were very gracious. And they are. People there are kind. Many of them are far better than I am as a person and you know generous and what have you. I think the politics of hate and fear really brought out the worst least common denominator among people. So then we started hearing stuff like the Virjis should not be allowed to put up Christmas decorations because they are not Christians. And it is like well we have done this our entire life you know? I have had a Christmas tree my entire life.  So you write about how your friend Mandy who is training to be a minister since been ordained as a minister in the Lutheran...  Yeah.  ...In the Lutheran tradition suggested you know that you give a talk and explain like talk about Islam talk about your faith educate people about it that - what? I mean talk about some of the resistance that you got.  Yeah. It was a Grace Lutheran event. They put the advertisements up as you know Muslim speaker coming to talk about Islam or what have you. There was so much backlash that they had to tear all those advertisements down and rebrand it as a Christian event featuring you know Dr. Ayez Virji as a guest or something like that. They had to take the - you know the whole concept of a different religion or a Muslim out of it. In addition to that we were renting the school auditorium. So many people had protested it that the school board actually came to Grace Lutheran and said listen we have had to actually deliberate so many times on this that we want you to now pay us for our extra time on this.  They would not let you use the AV system.  Yeah. They pulled that at the last minute. It was like what else - why are you doing this you know? What is so - am I that scary? What are you scared of?  So what happened?  So we gave the first talk and it was interesting. A lot of support also some backlash. But what happened then was Mandy and I started bringing the talk to other communities. Many times it was you know wonderful and people were very supportive. There were other times where people were - you know I remember one guy called me the Antichrist. It does not matter what you do. You are the Antichrist. And I am like OK. So - you know and I tried to reason with him but it did not work. But we just kept going.  One of the points that you try to make though in your talks is that a lot of immigrant doctors are willing to serve in these areas that other people have not been - not just immigrant people of color - like people from backgrounds that...  Sure.  ...Do not match up...  Sure.  ...With the people who have lived in those communities. And so you made that point. Did it resonate?  I hope so. We have to start making the arguments and saying listen - no brown people black - we are not the problem. We are all like everybody else. The problem is self-righteousness and bad people will do bad things. And if you were to take you know minorities out of the equation right now in rural America you would not have a health care system.  But why do you think it is that your personal relationships with them did not overcome whatever attraction that a person they have probably never met or even seen in person offered to them? All right you know you are there every day right?  Yeah.  You are there taking care of bruises and broken bones and diabetes. You know what I mean?  Yeah. Yeah.  You are caring for people at their most vulnerable. Why do you think it is that your relationship with them did not overcome whatever attraction that this other person offered to them?  I remember going and visiting a patient in the hospital one day. I was just talking to the nurse and just something general talking - just made a comment. You know politics are so divisive these days. And she overheard that. And then you know I am here at the bedside taking care of her. She just had an appendectomy. And she says well you know why we have to get rid of these people from North Africa? You know what religion are they? I was like I do not know. And she said well they are Muslims. We have to get rid of them. And I said well do you know that I am a Muslim? And then her jaw hits the ground and says well I hope you know I do not see you that way. And I said well you should see me that way. I do not try to hide it. And then she is struggling with what to say. And then she says well it is OK because you were born here. You were not born over there. And of course I stopped the conversation. But I wanted to say no I was born in Africa. That is where I was born - in Kenya. I was not born here you know? But of course we you know diverted the conversation. This was not the right place to have it. But I think that people will look at me as maybe not even in that group and say that oh well this - he is different. You know that is - that does not apply to him.  OK. So spoiler alert - you are leaving.  .  You are moving overseas. And in fact you said - at least I understand that you are going to keep your home in Dawson and you are going to practice you know parts of the year right? But as I understand it you are going to move to Abu Dhabi the capital of the UAE. Why?  So interesting - I do not see it as leaving actually. I still practice in Dawson and I practice now between Abu Dhabi and Dawson. We decided to make this change at the end of the day because there was a - it was a very good opportunity and also for us to reconnect with family. So my family lives in Dubai overseas.  Well though it is impossible to kind of speculate really but if you do not think people had been calling your wife a part-time terrorist if you do not think people had been kind of questioning your loyalty to the country and - do you think you would be leaving?  It is a fair question. And I would say that the Trump phenomenon made the decision easier I suppose. It was not the only aspect of it but I cannot tell you that it did not have an effect.  That is Doctor Ayaz Virji. His new book is called  A Muslim Doctor's Struggle For Home In Rural America. He was with us from New York. Dr. Virji thanks so much for talking to us.  Thank you. It is a pleasure. 