 Bob Mondello reviews the new drama Whistleblower.  Being a peacekeeper in Bosnia a nation where ethnic strife goes back generations cannot ever have struck Police Officer Kathy Bolkovac as an easy job but it probably had not occurred to her that the guys working with her would not necessarily be allies.    So where do we sign to see ?   It says right here U.N mandate requires you to sign at the end...   Yes but this paper is no good. The new policy is...    You sign them in then bugger off.  yeah?   Yes.   Welcome to paradise.   Follow me.  Kathy played by Rachel Weisz  a middle-aged woman stabbed by her husband. It is not the first time the woman's come in but each time no charges are filed and she is sent back to her husband. And looks as if that is going to happen again.    Well what did he say?   The woman is Muslim and she deserved it.  Their job Kathy's told is to observe not to investigate. But she is an investigator. So she teams up with a local officer and they take the case to court. Two months later they win which earns her tea with a U.N. official played by Vanessa Redgrave.    You have just facilitated the first conviction for domestic violence since the end of the war in Bosnia.   Well it is just my job.   You cannot imagine how that makes you stand out around here. You know I  have Gender Affairs Office and I think you are the right person to take over.  When she does all of her cases involve women many of them prostitutes at clubs and brothels frequented by the very men Bolkovac works with each day which is not a coincidence. Kathy uncovers a trail of bribes sex trafficking and worse that leads straight back to her U.N. colleagues. But the victims are afraid to testify. The U.N. they have learned from experience is just there to observe.    They cannot knowingly have one of their men involved in rape kidnapping and torture.   How do you do this if you work for the U.N.?   I am an American police officer. It does not matter who I work for I would not let anybody get away with this.   You promise you can stop these men?   Well I cannot promise I can stop all these men. I promise...   You cannot promise then why do we agree? How do I know this is safe?   You are a smart girl.  These other films let us note were directed by men and tell their stories of social injustice politely. The women behind The Whistleblower suit their filmmaking to the atrocities they are exposing and show no such reserve. 