 Wonder Woman opens this weekend. It is the first superhero film headed by women both in front of and behind the camera. In a moment NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports on the director's lifelong affection for the character but first Bob Mondello has this review.  The camera zooms in on an island formed long ago when time was new a phrase that suggests both sharp writing and a fresh start to the DC cinematic universe. Batman and Superman may be dark and dreary but Wonder Woman's story begins in bright sunlight on an isle of warrior Amazons. A tyke named Diana sees a sword and wants to join them.    It is beautiful. Who would wield it?   Only the fiercest among us even could and that is not you Diana.  Oh but it will be. She grows up to be quite the warrior played by Gal Gadot and trained by the best.    Never let your guard down. You expect the battle to be fair?  At about the moment she is ready a man falls from the sky. Would not you know? Chris Pine in a biplane bringing with him flashing blue eyes double entendres and World War I. After determining with a Lasso of Truth that mankind needs help Diana and old blue eyes zip off on a screwball comedy-ish  trip to London where she is told she cannot go to the front being a woman and all.    They will die.   We are going anyway.   You mean you were lying?   I am a spy. That is what I do.   How do I know you are not lying to me right now?  He grabs the Lasso of Truth...    I am taking you to the front.  ...Which makes him say more than he means to.    We are probably going to die. This is a terrible idea.  He is a charmer whose mom clearly brought him up right butting heads with Gadot's righteous Diana. And Jenkins has their old-school movie chemistry pretty much combust when they hit the Belgian trenches. There in an aptly named no-man's land the movie reaches for the stars machine guns blazing almost as brightly as Diana's eyes. Given that there will be lots of sequels the film should have ended there. Alas DC Comics movies apparently have superhero bloat written into their contracts. Until the last few scenes though Wonder Woman is pretty wonderful. I am Bob Mondello.    I am Diana of Themyscira.  And I am Mandalit del Barco. That onscreen chemistry Bob referred to was also a force between Gal Gadot and Patty Jenkins. The star gushes about her director.   For me it was just an amazing experience working with such a talented smart brilliant magnificent woman.  Gadot says they worked together to make Diana Prince Wonder Woman relatable - a powerful warrior who is also vulnerable and naive to the world beyond her island.   I was worried that Diana's going to read dumb because there is a fine line between playing naive to play dumb. And Patty always made me trust her that what we are doing here is the right thing. She is not dumb because she is not dumb. You know what you are doing. You have a bigger mission here.  Jenkins says for years her mission was to get Wonder Woman on screen. She is a longtime fan girl.   There is the 7-year-old me that pretended to be Wonder Woman running around the schoolyard. Like what an incredible thing to imagine that when the bully shows up or the villain you would be strong enough to do something about it. But also you look like Lynda Carter while you are doing it like oh my God.    Wonder woman wonder woman...  Jenkins says she grew up watching Lynda Carter play Wonder Woman on TV. And in high school in Kansas she was even nicknamed after the superhero.   It was because I had like tripped really spectacularly on my way in. And it was like some sarcastic hey Wonder Woman.  Jenkins says she was also influenced by another DC hero Superman specifically Richard Donner's 1978 version.   The themes are very serious - love and death and sex and hope and you know horror - all of those things. And it rocks my world completely. As a seven-year-old like I was him. I believed that I could fly. I thought wow to do that one day - to make people feel something like that one day. What an incredible experience.  Every superhero has an origin story. Here's Patty Jenkins. She was born in 1971 on an air force base in Victorville Calif. Her father had been an F4 fighter pilot during Vietnam. And the family moved around a lot - Cambodia Thailand and Kansas after he died. In Lawrence Jenkins' mother worked as an environmental scientist raising two daughters as a single mom. Elaine Roth remembers her little sister Patty was a dynamo.   She was a powerhouse even as a very small child.  Roth is now a film studies professor at Indiana University South Bend. She says in junior high Patty stole the show singing and dancing in the school version of The Pajama Game. But even more than acting Roth says Patty always loved directing.   I remember when she was a little kid. We have got pictures of her in the backyard training our dog who was kind of a lazy fat golden retriever to jump through a hula hoop. She looks like a little miniature lion tamer in the backyard. It was adorable.  Jenkins landed her first film job at 14 assisting on a documentary about beat poets. At New York's prestigious Cooper Union she studied painting but fell in love with moving images and designed herself a major in film directing. For years she was a camera assistant on hundreds of commercials and music videos. Then while getting her masters at the American Film Institute she wrote and directed a short film called Velocity Rules. Roth says it foreshadowed her sister's latest film.   It was about a woman who is a superhero on the down low. Her husband does not know . And it is just - it really suggests that she is always been interested in superheroes and female superheroes and female power.  A few years later Jenkins decided to make a low-budget movie about serial killer Aileen Wuornos.   If I was being calculating that is not how I would start my career - to start with something so dark. But I think there is a great genre of films of that style. So OK let me try.  The result was the 2003 film Monster starring Charlize Theron as a troubled prostitute. In this scene she makes a confession to her girlfriend played by Christina Ricci.    And I did not want to die thinking that maybe - maybe he could love me. So I killed him. I shot him all right?  For her performance Charlize Theron won the Best Actress Oscar.   I have to thank my incredible director Patty Jenkins. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.   Theron and Jenkins researched Wuornos' story pouring over hundreds of letters she would written while on death row. On Charlie Rose's TV show Theron again thanked Jenkins for giving her the role of a lifetime.   From the first time that I met Patty the two of us for some reason - call it chemistry. Call it two tough-ass chicks in a room. I do not know. Call it whatever - I felt that we were definitely on the same page. This woman's fazed by nothing absolutely nothing. And I am tough.  After Monster Jenkins spent a decade directing commercials and television shows including AMC's The Killing and HBO's Entourage. She almost became the first woman to direct a male superhero movie -  The Dark World. That did not pan out. But now she is making history by directing Wonder Woman.    If no one else will defend the world then I must.  Jenkins says she believes in the power of mythical stories to inspire. Still she was taken aback at first by the overwhelming emotional response from people who have seen the movie.   You know there must be something that we are all craving. Certainly we were expressing something that is been truthful to us our whole lives. Oh I am a little strong. And I am a little not strong. And I am all of those things. And maybe it is not something that people have seen much of.  This weekend the feminist superhero finally gets her own movie. And for those craving even more Wonder Woman will be back this fall in Justice League. Mandalit del Barco NPR News.  