 A new novel set in late summer on Cape Cod is all about desire. Even the writing seems to drip with secrets and longing. Here's the author Miranda Cowley Heller reading from the first few pages.   I dropped my bathrobe to the ground and stand naked at the water's edge. On the far side of the pond beyond the break of pine and shrub oak the ocean is furious roaring. It must be carrying a storm in its belly from somewhere out at sea. But here at the edge of the pond the air is honey still. I wait watch listen - the chirping buzzing of tiny insects a wind that stirs the trees too gently. Then I wade in up to my knees and dive headlong into the freezing water. I swim out into the deep past the water lilies pushed forward by exhilaration freedom and an adrenaline rush of nameless panic. I have a shadow fear of snapping turtles coming up from the depths to bite my heavy breasts. Or perhaps they will be drawn by the smell of sex as I open and close my legs.  Phew. That is Miranda Cowley Heller.   Reading this you cannot help would be just drawn in by that. That is her debut novel The Paper Palace. And as you can hear from the laugh Miranda Cowley Heller is with us. Welcome.  Thank you so much for having me.  All right. I just - set the scene because I feel like you have transported me. We are on Cape Cod. Where are we? What is the Paper Palace?  We are on the part of Cape Cod called the Outer Cape which is a very different landscape than I believe most people anticipate or picture. It is not Hyannis Port. It is a very wild and passionate landscape with huge cliffs and dunes. But there are also these beautiful ponds right near the sea. And most of the novel is set in the backwoods of the Outer Cape on the edge of this pond where the family of the heroine Elle Bishop has had a camp on the edge of a pond that is ironically called the Paper Palace because when it was built her grandfather who built it ran out of money. And so he built a lot of it out of Homasote which is a kind of cardboard. So although it is a rundown camp they refer to it as the Paper Palace.  The Paper Palace as it gently decays in the salty air all around them - so Elle your heroine your protagonist who is - and the whole book is in her voice. It is all first person. Describe her for us. She is a mother of three. She is really happily married. But there is a big old but.  There is a big old but . Elle Bishop is in her early 50s. She is very happily married has three children. And when the novel opens she has just woken when she takes this swim and remembers what she did the night before which was that her very best friend whose name is Jonas - during a dinner party her mother is giving with Jonas' wife Gina present and Elle's husband Peter present. Jonas and Elle go out back and have sex very hot sex for the first time even though they have been best friends since childhood. Now she finds herself at this crossroads. And over the next 24 hours she is going to have to decide whether to stay with her very beloved and wonderful gorgeous husband Peter or the man she always dreamed of and thought she would marry if something rather terrible had not broken them apart in their childhood.  And one of the central questions that propels the whole book forward is why now? As you say this was somebody who Elle had the hots for when she was a kid. Why have they crossed this line now?  Well that is exactly the question. And of course I cannot answer it because that would be giving away. But it is - instead of a whodunit I think there is an emotional mystery that runs through that you are pointing out. So it is sort of a why done it exactly. Something happens that you learn over the course of the novel toward the very end that propels them outdoors and gives her a kind of freedom she did not have before. But because the novel is told in 24 hours but also 50 years - two parallel stories - it takes you up through the 50 years before you really find out the whys.  Yeah. Setting aside the men setting aside the sex the mom is quite a character . As I read her I really liked her. I - and at the same time was thinking oh God she would drive me nuts if she were my mom. What is it about that relationship the mother-daughter relationship that you wanted to capture?  I think they - Elle - first of all Wallace is my favorite character probably in the book. I absolutely love her. I love how rude and funny she is.  I bet she was an awful lot of fun to write.  She was the most fun character to write by a long chalk. But I think what interests me in this is there is a bunch of women there is generations of women in the novel. There is Wallace's mother Nanette who undergoes a certain trauma as a result of which her daughter Wallace undergoes another kind of a trauma which shapes who she is. Then when Elle's life turns dark maybe if her mother had not gone through what she would gone through Elle would have been able to come to her mother and talk to her about it. These are powerful women. These are not victims at all. I think they are all - but they are all women who have had to sort of put away childish things. And they come from - each comes from such a different generation and that really interested me as well.  And then of course Elle has a daughter herself.  Right.  And you wonder how each of all of these tensions swirling beneath the surface she might be absorbing and how it will shape her for your sequel in 20 years .  For the sequel - well and I think without having to answer that question it is such - it raises the question. I think our parents' love lives our grandparents' love lives can change the course of our history. And so it is not just we inherit choices. There is a kind of you know a trickle-down emotional economics if you want to call it that. We inherit choices as well as making them.  It also seems to get it - there - you know as we look back as we get older and look back over our lives you can point to certain moments where everything changed where you had to make a call. And it is really interesting seeing a woman your character Elle who has made the choice. She married the nice guy the posh Brit. She is got three kids. Everything worked out great. And yet she is at another moment where she does not have forever to make this choice because she is going to wreck her marriage if she continues with Jonas...  Absolutely.  She is got to decide and she is kind of got to decide right now.  Yeah she does. And I think there is an emotional truth to that that may not always be true of putting that kind of pressure. But when you love two people that passionately there is a need to choose. She cannot keep - she cannot - it cannot be an affair. There is no way Jonas could be an affair and so she knows this. She knows herself.  That is the writer Miranda Cowley Heller talking about her new novel The Paper Palace. Thank you very much.  Thank you so much. SOUNDBITE OF  