 His fans may not know his name but they love the characters in his books - Chrysanthemum Wemberly Kitten and her saucer of milk Lilly and her plastic purse. They are the creations of award-winning children's author Kevin Henkes. His latest creations are figurines - five of them sitting on a windowsill waiting for something to happen.   The owl with spots was waiting for the moon. The pig with the umbrella was waiting for the rain. The bear with the kite was waiting for the wind. The puppy on the sled was waiting for the snow. The rabbit with stars was not waiting for anything in particular. He just liked to look out the window and wait.  Kevin Henkes reading from his new book titled simply Waiting something he says kids spend a lot of time doing.  Wait your turn. Wait for your birthday. I mean you wait for the end of the school day. You wait for snack time. You wait to graduate from your car seat. There is so so much waiting in childhood.  I was wondering if you could just read for us a little bit.  Sure.  Could you start the section that starts with sometimes?   Sometimes one or the other of them went away but he or she always came back. Sometimes they slept but mostly they waited. Sometimes gifts appeared. Once a visitor arrived from far away. He stayed a while. Then he left and never returned.  And he was a little elephant figurine...  Yes.  ...Who appeared on the windowsill and then he got knocked off the windowsill and was broken.  Yes yes - never returned.  .  .  Big stuff dealing with loss. I mean...  Yeah and it is interesting. I have read the book now - I am out on a tour and when I read it to large groups there is this huge gasp. And then at the end when the cat arrives and there is a surprise and there are kittens there is this huge collective sigh.  You take on tough things - right? - in kids' lives?  Well kids are tough and kids are resilient. And kids - you know sometimes I think as adults we think of them as - because they are small in size that they are small in all ways. And they are not. I mean they have big feelings and they you know have big eyes. And they see things. They hear things. They you know - they are living their life just the way an adult does. And I think sometimes as adults we forget that.  You seem like somebody who was pretty inpatient actually. You know you have known that you wanted to be a children's book writer and illustrator since you were pretty young. Like high school you knew. Is that right?  Well I grew up always wanting to be an artist and it was in high school when I started to really like writing. And I was you know a junior in high school thinking about what I wanted to do with my life and I thought it would be great if I could find a job in which I could both draw and paint which I loved and write which was this new thing that I loved. And I thought children's picture books would be the perfect job for me. It was a great combination of those skills. And that is when I decided that is what I wanted to do.  Because I think a lot of people might say oh you know I should probably write a children's book someday.  .  But like you were very determined. Like by your...  I was.  ...Freshman year of college you would - you were studying the art of publishing and you went to New York. I mean tell us that story.  Well I went to New York from Wisconsin the summer between my freshman and sophomore years of college. I made of list of my 10 favorite publishers. I would studied them and I knew who I wanted to be published by. And I was so lucky my first choice - Greenwillow Books - Susan Hirschman editor in chief - accepted my book while I was in New York. And it was one of the most memorable days of my life. But it is interesting. Looking back I think at 19 I had a certain confidence that I do not know if I have at 54.  .  I really thought I will fly to New York and I will come home with a contract for a book. I really truly believed it.  I mean your characters since then you know with that publisher and going forward all these years have been you know hugely popular. The - you know Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse and Lilly's Big Day were these big hits. Kids line up at book stores to meet you. And yet you know we do not see these characters out there on purses and clothes and movies and comic books. You know you have not franchised your characters. In fact you do not - you have not done that many Lilly books you know? You take a long time to write your books. Why is that?  Well there are a lot of things that I have said no to just to keep it pure. And also you know after Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse which was very successful for me I wrote another Lilly book right away. And Susan Hirschman my editor at the time rejected it saying anyone would publish this but I do not think it is good enough for you. And I think if we published it you would probably be unhappy down the road. And I think that that was true. I really want everything that is out there with my name on it to be as good as I think it can be. So they do take time and I do - there is a lot of waiting in this job. But I do want anything out there to be you know really really good and the best that it can be. And so I will keep waiting until it is right - till something seems exactly like.  Did you ever read your books to your kids?  A little bit not a lot. I did because I wanted them to know what I you know did every day up in the attic room. The thing that I started doing was reading to them at breakfast reading novels which was a great thing because I would read to both of them and my wife would be making the lunches. So all four of us over the course of weeks we would have this shared experience where we discuss it and talk about it. My daughter said she did not want old-fashioned books but we raced through the Little House books. My son decided he did not want any books in which the protagonists were girls. But I said let us just try Ramona and he of course loved it. So it was I think a good experience for them. I think it opened their eyes. And it was a great great thing to do. And we kept track. We made a list in the back hall of every book that we had read together and I think - now they are 20 and 18 and I think the list was you know 120-some books.  Wow nice.  Not novels.   Did your writing change as the kids grew up? I mean did you get a different perspective on things?  I do not think so. People used to assume that I had kids long before I did. And then when my wife was pregnant with our first child people would say oh now you are going to have so many more ideas and it did not really happen. And I think some of the greats in this field were not parents. And I think it probably comes from some other place deep inside. I do not think you have to have children to write for them.  You were born to do this from the beginning.  I think so. I kind of feel that. I sense that.  Well Kevin Henkes thank you so much for talking to us.  You are welcome.  Kevin Henkes - his new book is called Waiting. 