 It starts with some strange letters left for a Beijing cab driver and slowly unravels into a tale of two souls bonded together through time. Susan Barker's novel The Incarnations follows the two voices throughout Chinese history as they die are reborn and come together in each lifetime. Susan Barker welcome to the program.  Hi it is great to be speaking with you.  This is quite the complicated story.  Right. It is set in Beijing 2008 in the months preceding the Olympics. And the main character is this taxi driver called Wang Jun who lives a quiet life in the east of the city with his wife and daughter until one day he finds in the sum visor of his taxi an anonymous letter. And in the letter the letter writer states Wang has had several past lives and the letter writer has known Wang in each of his past incarnations. And the letter writer is Wang's past life biographer. And it is their duty to reacquaint him with his past incarnations. So other letters follow recounting Wang's past lives as a eunuch during the Tang Dynasty a slave during the invasion of Genghis Khan a concubine during the Ming Dynasty a fisher boy during the Opium War and a student during Chair Mao's Cultural Revolution. And in the letters the letter writer also describes the nature of the relationship they had with Wang - in some cases they are family sometimes they are friends sometimes they are lover but the relationships are always very complex and conflicted.  To put it mildly.   yeah.  I wonder if you could read an excerpt for us.  Yes sure. Let me see.  I stood on the curb and watched you drive away taxi driver Wang Jun driver ID number 39449331 - careworn a smoker of Red Pagoda Mountain cigarettes - the last in your chain of incarnations like the others selected by the accident of rebirth the lottery of fate. Who are you you must be wondering. I am your soul mate your old friend and I have come back to this city of 16 million in search of you.  So we are starting here with the driver and this unknown narrator the watcher who is basically stalking him - but this is not the beginning of these characters - these souls - who have just kind of dropped us right into their most recent incarnation. And even though these souls are bonded together it is not exactly love that is creating that bond. There is a lot of violence in these stories. You know it seems like this could easily have been written you know like a soul mate love story. But you have made it far more emotionally complex and very messy.  Yes although they are soul mates in a very literal sense and in some past lives they even love each other they often come into conflict with each other because of these innate characteristics such as the will to dominate possessiveness and the wrath that recur in them life after life that causes them to sometimes behave recklessly and to sabotage their relationship.  Well the historical scope of this book is truly breathtaking. Mongols Ming Dynasty Mao modern-day polluted China - you basically plop your characters right down in the middle of really extraordinary times. How did you pick and choose?  My process for determining which eras I would write about was to just read history books that gave a really broad overview of Chinese history. And when I came across a historical figure or a historical incident that was especially interesting to me ideas for characters and stories would surface.  You have lived in China. Did that experience influence your writing on the country's history?  It definitely influenced my writing on the contemporary China - contemporary Beijing. I moved there just before the Olympics and a lot of the pre-Olympic atmosphere in my neighborhood found its way into the book. Down my street they were taking down lots of shops signs in Chinese and replacing them with bilingual signs for the tourists. And the neighborhood committee in my apartment complex - they are a group of elderly people who sort of monitor the comings and goings of the neighborhood - they started to wear these armbands saying Olympic Security Volunteers and carried out door-to-door checks. So that found its way into the book.  Why did you choose to keep all the reincarnations within China?  My grandfather was originally from the south of China before he emigrated to Malaysia pre-World War II. And I wanted to learn more about the history of the country of my ancestors. I knew I wanted a narrative set in contemporary Beijing. I was really interested in the effect of the rapid social and economic change on ordinary citizens in China. But I also wanted to interweave into the main narrative historical stories. And after I would been writing the book for a few months I realized I could use reincarnation as a way - a narrative device to structure the novel.  Susan Barker - her novel is called The Incarnations and she is been joining us from our studios in London. Susan thank you so much.  Thank you. 