 We are going to head to upstate New York for this next story a love story. About 50 miles east of Niagara Falls a pair of bald eagles have been reunited and here's how it happened. First a female raptor was found with an injured tendon in her wing. She was rescued by Wendi Pencille who rehabilitates injured animals for a volunteer organization. Then two months later Pencille got another call this time about a male eagle who also had a badly injured wing. The two birds would have to share a space and Pencille was worried because eagles are quite territorial but these two eagles when they got together Pencille noticed something special something screenwriters might call chemistry. Wendi Pencille joins us now to tell us about these majestic lovebirds. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  Now let me understand this. You did not know these two bald eagles had some sort of connection and you knew that they would have to share a space a flight cage. But it now appears quite likely that they were mates when they were living in the wild. How did you know that?  I have been doing this for 25 years and I just do raptors. I just do the hawks owls eagles and falcons. And normally when we introduce raptors in a cage together that are not related there is an altercation you know a couple of birds pecking at each other. They could grab each other with their feet to the point where the severity could be that they would kill each other. I sit at the end of the cage with leather gloves on. They go up to my shoulders. So that if I have to go in and separate the birds I can go in and get in between them and not get myself hurt. So as I introduced the male eagle to the female that we would had already for two months I am waiting for the worst. I put the male in the cage and he got in and he was very frightened. The female was sitting you know 50 feet away from us on a perch six feet off the ground. He is looking around and she spots him. And she gets very quiet and she waits. And she is bobbing her head around trying to get a better look at him. And all of a sudden he makes a call that the eagles make. And as soon as she hears that she just goes. She gets so animated. She is back and forth on the perch and she goes just out of her mind trying to get his attention. And then she is going back and forth on the perch. She is constantly calling to him. Once he is up on the perch they are touching each other. They are standing so close to each other that their - physically their wings are touching each other. And I was shocked that there is no fight. It does not make any sense. It is just the behavior is an absolute aberration.  What happens to these two birds now? Can they be released into the wild and would you separate them? Would you release one and not the other?  OK. They can - neither one of the birds is releasable. I contacted the Department of Environmental Conservation and the head of the endangered species unit wrote a letter recommending that the female stay with us. And so we could use her for - as a foster parent. She would probably be a good foster mother for us.  A foster mother. So if you took in chicks she could help raise them.  Exactly. She is also a rather calm bird. We thought that she could also be used for education programs. So now we get the male in. I believe it is her mate and I do not want to separate the birds. So the DEC was gracious enough to give us one of the birds. But if they feel our facility is you know not appropriate for the two I would rather send her with him. Wherever they go I want them to go together. I do not need a bald eagle more than I need them to stay together.  Wendi Pencille is a wildlife rehabilitator for the Bless the Beasts Foundation. Wendi thanks so much for talking to us and let us hope those two birds stay together. Thanks again.  Thank you so much for having me.   Because here in my heart I give you the best of my love. Oh sweet darling you get the best of my love.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 