 Forty years ago America was gripped by Future Shock. The book by Alvin Toffler became a bestseller. It also became an idea embraced by many. Here's how Orson Welles described it in a long-forgotten movie adaptation of the book.   Future Shock is a sickness which comes from too much change in too short a time. It is the feeling that nothing is permanent anymore. It is the premature arrival of the future.  In the 1970s and '80s Alvin Toffler was America's preeminent authority on things to come. These days fewer people recognize the name. Toffler is now 81 and NPR's Martin Kaste looked him up to find out how he is been handling the future.   In that movie version of Future Shock the future looks pretty creepy. It opens with a young couple walking through a park an idyllic scene but it' urban riots weird technology and then...    We see the young couple are actually wearing metal masks or maybe they are robots or something. Regardless it is a pretty horrible vision.   But here in 2010 things do not seem that bad at least not at this cafe on Sunset Boulevard a favorite hangout of futurist Alvin Toffler.  I will have the Cobb salad.  We meet Toffler here to talk about the 40th anniversary of his big bestseller. And when you are having lunch with an elderly futurist  What surprises him most about how things have turned out?   Us.   By us Toffler means himself and his wife Heidi Toffler and the fact that well they ended up rich.  We did not grow up assuming that we are going to live well necessarily. We came from a working class family and here we are sitting in the sunshine and enjoying a not-cheap meal.  But what about the big idea in Toffler's book the notion that change was speeding up - has that come true?  Oh yeah. I think it is taken for granted to a greater extent that you do think about where things are going because things are going. Whereas in the past you made a decision and that was it. Now you make a decision and you say but what happens next? There is always a next.  In the book Toffler warned that this accelerating change might actually drive us insane. Back in the '70s this idea apparently struck a nerve - the book sold more than five million copies just in the U.S. At the Tofflers' house there is a whole bookcase dedicated to the success of Future Shock.  We sort of ran out of space so they are doubled up.  Heidi Toffler shows off editions of the book from around the world. She is a chain-smoking New Yorker who finishes Alvin's sentences for him and sometimes starts them too. She fondly recalls the days of their media stardom.  We were on a lot of talk shows. Who was the interview? Johnny Carson and he read the book.  I do not remember.   The success of Future Shock led to consulting gigs with big corporations and then more bestsellers. Alvin calls Heidi his collaborator. Even though her name is not on the books she says she co-wrote them. By the 1980s the futurism business had allowed them to buy this house in a swanky neighborhood of Los Angeles. The style is kind of mid-century Jetsons - floor to ceiling windows and wall-to-wall white carpeting.  And we put an elevator in. As futurists we look ahead and we said someday we are not going to be able to climb the stairs.   Arriving up in Alvin Toffler's office things seem up to date. There is a newish laptop a printer and two brand new iPads - a gift for their 60th wedding anniversary says Heidi but they are still in their boxes.  I printed out the instruction book from the Internet and it is that thick. I mean it is just you know...  So you are not - you have not tried it out yet?  No I have not cracked it. Yeah.  Her reluctance to tackle the iPad echoes one of the predictions in the book - the notion of information overload a concept explained once again in that 1972 movie with Mr. Orson Welles.   This machine makes our lives move faster. Computers combine facts to make new knowledge at such high speed that we cannot absorb it...  Clattering computers generating too much information for us to absorb. It sounds amusingly retro. But when you think about it it is also kind of prescient.  There is just so much coming at you and your system just cannot handle it.  This is James Sturm a professional cartoonist who swore off the Internet for four months this year. He wrote about it on Slate. But what is interesting here is the fact that he seems to have diagnosed himself with exactly the kind of information overload that the Tofflers predicted 40 years ago. And Sturm says he is gotten a lot of mail letters actually from other people suffering the same ailment.  Most of them were several pages long documenting their struggles with the Internet trying to kind of create some healthy distance between them and their compulsion to be online.  We have not adapted to rapid change particularly well.  Stuart Candy is a latter-day futurist. Actually he has a Ph.D. in what is called futures studies. He discovered Future Shock when he was 15. He bought it used at a yard sale. The book had its flaws he says but it also challenged people's understanding of what used to be called progress.  What Future Shock got right is that it made a compelling argument for taking the acceleration of change seriously.  The value of the book he says was to teach people that the best defense against the future is to think about it to imagine different scenarios and to try to avoid being taken by surprise. And that is what the Tofflers are still doing even into their 80s.  I am curious. I want to know what is going to be out there just for the heck of it.  These days Alvin Toffler is thinking about the future of nations.  Is it possible that the more advanced we are technologically the less we need to depend on uniformity and that in fact instead of seeing fewer nations we may see more and more diversity?  But what is he most curious about when it comes to the future that is still to come? He says he would like to find out if medicine will find a way to extend the human lifespan by an extra 50 or 100 years.  Because if you have lived a long time in the face of radical changes taking place all around you you see the world differently.  Whether it would be good or bad for a future society to have people that old hanging around is something Toffler says is impossible to predict but it is certainly something he would like to find out. Martin Kaste NPR News. 