 The Go-Go's are widely considered the most successful all-female rock group in history. And they are the only all-female band that wrote their own songs and played their own instruments to have a chart-topping album. That was their debut Beauty And The Beat released in 1981. Now they are the subjects of a new documentary called The Go-Go's. When I spoke with The Go-Go's' guitarist Charlotte Caffey and drummer Gina Schock I asked them about the band's duality - their punk roots and their later image as America's sweethearts. Just a note - this conversation does have some pretty punk rock language in it.  Well there is many sides to all of us and there is many sides to this band. And we started out in the punk rock scene in Hollywood 1978. And the one continuous thread through this entire 40 plus years is our little saying - you can take the girl out of the punk but you cannot take the punk out of the girl.  .  Gina go ahead.  Charlotte yeah you said everything I was thinking. We are you know 60-year-old punks . But no at the heart of things that is where we come from.  Yeah.  The shiny happy part you know America's sweethearts that was what the media called us.  Yeah that was kind of fabricated.  And we were always like yeah America's sweethearts from hell.  .  But we are all really smart. We are really funny focused and we put on a great live show.  Yeah. I mean it is explosive when you put the five of us together.  So you guys got to tour England with The Specials and Madness and that is where you found yourselves playing in front of a bunch of white nationalists. These guys would say disgusting things to you. And you say it only made you more belligerent which I loved. Can you just tell me what that was like performing for people like that?  It was scary. And a lot of times we would come off stage and just be in tears. I am sitting in the back so I was just getting - having bottles whizzing by my head. And they were spitting all over everybody and - show us your  - just horrible rude things.  Yeah.  You know you can only get beat up so much. And then you turn it around and you are like OK we are not taking this anymore. We would come out on stage and we would kick ass. It toughened us up. It made us way better musicians. We got way tighter. And after we did that we were kind of ready for anything.  Yeah. So as you guys were becoming more and more well-known you started veering away from punk and more into pop. And I am wondering - how did that feel? Like did it feel that that was more about you guys choosing to go there or the industry choosing for you?  First of all The Go-Go's have always had pop melodies OK? And the punk aspect was just at the root of it. But look at the other folks that do it - we were talking about this the other day - like Green Day you know?  Buzzcocks.  Yeah and the Buzzcocks - same sort of thing. We were both of those things.  But did you feel that evolution was more about you guys choosing that or...  Oh yeah.  ...There was industry pressure to sound more and more a certain way?  We did not care.  Never listen to the industry - never.  Never.  What happened was - the way this came down - early on in the Go-Go's there were these more kind of like punky songs.  THE GO-GO'  The street lights are shining bright. The billboards are shedding their light.  And then one day I brought in a song. And I was like man they are going to like kick me out or they are going to love it. And it was How Much More which is off the first record. And it was very melodic.  THE GO-GO'  Every night I see you walk - walking by walking by.  But Charlotte it was not - you did not consciously do this. This was just the evolution of your songwriting and your playing.  Oh everything we did was completely organic - from the way we looked to the way we sounded the way we played - everything.  That is so cool. Well let us talk about the breakup. I mean there are so many stories people tell about why you guys broke up as a band like money creative differences addiction. And when you look back - I guess I just want to hear it from you guys. Tell me your version. What happened? Why did the Go-Go's break up?  We might have two different versions. But go ahead Gina.  Yeah. At the forefront for me was the publishing issue which you know went into our management office one day. And our manager at the time pulled the check out threw it on the desk - and it was this large amount of money - and said to me you see what Charlotte makes compared to you? Because she is a songwriter. And I just went crazy. I lost my mind. And you know I certainly understand the value of songwriting but I just - you know I felt that if this had been explained to all of us early on things might have been a little different. They might have worked out a little differently.  And we know better now after all these years that the five of us is the magic combination.  Yeah.  But you know it really really for me came down to the fact that I did not think I could stay sober. I was very nervous about getting stressed out and picking up drugs. And I just could not see me existing. So that was the bottom line for me.  You know something that you guys say in this film is that being in a band together all those years gave you the chance to become best friends but also worst enemies sometimes. And I am curious - as this film was coming together did it help you guys heal a little forgive each other?  Absolutely. We have gone through a lot of stuff and here we are over 40 years later. Ailsa we are family. It is just the way it is.  I want to talk finally about the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame...   ...Because how can we not talk about this? How surprised or how offended are you that The Go-Go's still have not been inducted?  Well we have all gone through the gamut of emotions about this. And we are - like I am kind of burned out on it. Look being in this band of course it would be great yeah. But I mean I do not live and breathe every minute of every day thinking like oh my God. We have to be in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. I mean you know I have got a life. We all have lives.  I mean it is tremendous what The Go-Go's did - the first and only all-women band ever to have a No. 1 album where you wrote the songs yourselves you played the instruments yourselves. Do you have any advice for women coming after The Go-Go's on how they can achieve a distinction like yours?  To all musicians - forget gender - to all musicians it is about - do what makes you happy. Just go for it you know? We had many obstacles against us those dumb-ass record execs. Like we cannot sign you because you are girls and we have never done - you know it is just like come on. And it is just - if you believe in yourself you believe in what you are doing keep going.  Also because there is going to be as was for us there is going to be a million rejections you know? I mean all the record companies said no you know say 10 record companies whatever. But one said yes and it took only one to make The Go-Go's happened.  That is right.  You only need one yes and then you shine.  That is a metaphor for life. Charlotte Caffey and Gina Schock of The Go-Go's - the new documentary about their band's story is called The Go-Go's and it is out tomorrow on Showtime. Thank you both so much for spending this time with me. I so enjoyed this.  Bye.  Thank you.  Thank you Ailsa.  This has been a pleasure.  THE GO-GO'  Vacation all I ever wanted. Vacation had to get away. 