 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. A 5-year-old boy named Jack is the most captivating narrator I have encountered in some time. He tells the story in the new novel Room by the Irish writer Emma Donoghue. It is titled Room after the 11-by-11-foot room where Jack lives with his mother. It is the only world he is ever known. Emma Donoghue joins me to talk about her novel. Emma Donoghue welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you.  And I was in a bit of a quandary when I started thinking about how to talk to you about this book because there is so much I do not want to give away. It is revealed so beautifully throughout the course of the book. And I have actually put reviews down that I was reading in the course of reading your novel because I was learning too much. I wanted to learn it on the page. What do you think people can know safely without ruining the experience going into Room? Ms.  Well what Jack discovers early on which is a complete shock to him is that Room is not all there is. I mean he spent five years thinking that he is in this world with his mother and that outside there is outer space with stars and planets zooming around. He thinks that he and his mother are the only two real human beings and that the man who visits every couple of nights - Old Nick - is kind of borderline -maybe human maybe not. And he thinks everything he reads about in his few books or on TV is then just fictional. You know it is all just cartoons. And Jack's discovery that in fact they are prisoners is a complete shaking of his world view.  Well it does unfold in really lovely and beautiful ways. And I think there are a few things we can safely talk about without ruining it for everybody. And one is Room itself which is really a character of its own in the book. It is capitalized. Everything in the Room is capitalized - Lamp Toothpaste Table. Ms.  Yes I really did not want it to feel like they are you know living this stunted version of the American lifestyle. I wanted to almost think of them as a tribe of two. So you know Room has a perfectly valid existence to Jack as a world. It does not seem small to him because he is never experienced anything bigger. And you know the Bath the Bed the Wardrobe Under the Bed - these are all separate sort of sub-landscapes for him and every object in the room is his friend.  Let us give folks a sense of how Jack sees this world - this rich world  for him in which he lives with his mom. I wonder if you could read from page 18. He is talking about a book... Ms.  Sure.  ...that he loves his mother to read for him. Ms.  And they only have 10 books and five of them are kids' books. And we are starting with one. Ma nearly always chooses The Runaway Bunny because of how the mother bunny catches the baby bunny in the end and says have a carrot. Bunnies are TV but carrots are real. I like their loudness. My favorite picture is the baby bunny turned into a rock on the mountain and the mother bunny has to climb up up up to find him. Mountains are too big to be real. I saw one in TV that has a woman hanging on it by ropes. Women are not real like Ma is and girls and boys not either. Men are not real except Old Nick and I am not actually sure if he is real for real. Maybe half? He brings groceries and Sunday treat and disappears the trash but he is not human like us. He only happens in the night like bats. Maybe Door makes them up with a beep beep and the air changes. I think Ma does not like to talk about him in case he gets realer.  Emma Donoghue how did you find the voice of Jack? How much did you have to experiment do you think to get him the way you wanted him to sound? Ms.  Well it was a great help that I had a 5-year-old boy in the house my son Finn.   Your own son. Ms.  But I also did a lot of hard thinking about exactly what Jack would know and not know. So Jack is a very peculiar version of a 5-year-old but I really wanted his language at least to have that feel of a 5-year-old. So I charted my son's language and I followed him around like an anthropologist you know writing down his strange grammar. And then I chose just a few of those classic 5-year-old traits to give to his speech. For instance I love the way 5-year-olds try to make the past tense regular. They all say I eated. I winned. And they insist on the regular past tense until they finally realize that adults are always going to use an irregular one so then they succumb and they sound like us.  And Jack at 5 is unusually verbal because his mother has been so great about teaching him things. In one game they play - which I love - you called Parrot in the book.Why do not you explain how Parrot works. Ms.  And Ma has very mixed feelings about television. I sort of agonized over whether to allow them television or not. You know I was often in the position of their captor - working out what they would be allowed to have and what they would not. But I decided that Ma would use TV carefully - just you know two shows a day not all the time - but also that she would in a way use it as a linguistic coach. So sometimes she will let him watch TV and then she will suddenly press mute and she will ask him to repeat back the last sentence he is heard. And often he does not know what they are talking about - you know if it is the midterm elections for instance. But she wants him to be able to understand and repeat back words by someone who is not her. So that is one of many ways she coaches him. She also gets him to do yoga exercises where he stays very still. She works on his reading and writing. So she is in a way preparing him for a world that she prays he will someday get to enter for real.  And as she tells him things as he gets a little bit older as he turns 5 he is - he just cannot believe it that everything that he has thought up 'til now has been sort of turned on its head right? Ms.  You know before I had kids I thought oh you should never lie to a kid. But now I have had them I realize you almost lie to them by definition because if you are trying to summarize something for your 1-year-old you put it in very simple terms. And so you only gradually complicate the explanation as they get older. And then I remember a moment my son pointed to a picture in a news magazine a picture of six hanged people hanging up by the neck. And he said what is that? And I said puppets - because there are those moments you could not bear to tell them the cruel truth of the world. So Ma is in a very you know concentrated version of that in that she feels she absolutely has to lie to Jack about the fact that they are prisoners. She does not want him to grow up thinking that he is a prisoner and yet of course in some sense it is a betrayal of him that she is lied to him that way. So yeah the book opens with Ma at that point where his questions are starting to build up and she is just going to have to let the truth come trickling out.  Do you stop and think about Jack still and wonder about him older wonder about him growing up off the page? Ms.  Yeah. At the moment I think he is still 5 for me. But I certainly am aware of him especially you know - if I am walking around a city you know I see lots of things and I think oh that would surprise him. So yes like all my characters he does live in my mind. But in a way you know his interactions with Ma they are all based on interactions I have had with my kids. So my memories of my kids are now all jumbled up with the book you know? And in a way I tried to take you know just the common or garden experience of parenting. And just by isolating it under a spotlight I tried to bring out the true and crazy drama of parenting. I mean I find - the parent-child bond it is the most unstable unpredictable kind of love story and it is asymmetrical in that you will always worry for them and they will not necessarily worry for you. And so it is a very very interesting relationship to me and it is one that is often written about in very banal and sentimental ways. So in a way with Room I was trying to capture the essential drama of parenting.  Well Emma Donoghue it is a pleasure to talk to you about Room. Thanks so much. Ms.  Oh the pleasure is all mine. Thank you.  And you can visit Jack's Room and an excerpt from Emma Donoghue's novel at our website npr.org.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 