 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  The movie was filmed in a densely wooded and sparsely populated part of Florida known as the Big Scrub. As part of our series On Location NPR's Greg Allen takes us there.  A good place to start the story about the film of The Yearling is here where Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings wrote the novel in Central Florida at her cottage in Cross Creek.  OK here we are on the front porch and this is where Miss Rawlings did very much of her writing at the round table that you see here.  If you drive 20 miles north from Cross Creek you will find Rawlings' manuscript and notes for The Yearling in Gainesville at the Rawlings archive at the University of Florida. Archivist Flo Turcotte says in The Yearling Rawlings wrote about one of the state's most unforgiving landscapes.  I mean even the name The Scrub it sounds excoriating. It sounds like friction is involved. And it is quite a bit of rubbing up of humanity against an unforgiving kind of atmosphere and setting.     And here was the Scrub country. Not many people lived here then just a few pioneers. I found myself a wonderful wife in a little village nearby.  Turcotte pulls out a Forest Service map of the area on which Rawlings marked where scenes in the novel took place and where she believed they should be filmed.  Her idea was you need to go to these different places where I have marked. You need to do your filming of Baxter's Island right where I imagined Baxter's Island to be which of course is a fictional place.  Richard Mills now 90 years old still lives nearby. He remembers working on the set when he was a young man.  They had a regular village there. My Lord they had - most all of it was real quick construction but they had an avenue you could walk down.  In the lead roles of Ma and Pa Baxter MGM cast Anne Revere and Spencer Tracy. But as soon as the actors hit the location they were confronted by the bugs and the heat. Film historian Robert Snyder says Tracy also found the Pulitzer Prize-winning story corny. Finally Snyder says Tracy got fed up called a cab and left.  He took off. The Hollywood people went back to Hollywood. The first shoot was scrapped even though MGM had invested at that point 500000 in the film.  To cast the 12-year old Jody Brown conducted a nationwide search and found Claude Jarman Jr. in Nashville. Jarman is now in his 70s. He remembers shortly after his casting he was working seven days a week in the Florida scrub.  Clarence Brown was a real perfectionist. And it is very hard dealing with animals and particularly wild deer. And it was also dealing with someone like myself who did not have much experience. And I would say the average take for the movie was probably 20 21 times. And today you see it done in two three.    The calf and a shoat the barn door on the other end was broke down.   Take it easy boy.   But what happened Pa? What done it?   Bear big one look there.   One toe is missing on the right front paw Old Slewfoot.   Old Slewfoot.  J.T. Glisson now in his 80s grew up in Cross Creek and still lives nearby. When he was a teenager he was Rawlings' next-door neighbor. On the day the MGM crew was shooting the bear-hunt scene Glisson says Rawlings convinced his parents to let him skip school so he could go along to watch.  And they turned the dogs in. And the old bear just looked up and he knew they were damn city dogs. And one of them half-barked at him. And he got up and man he chased them round and around the damn thing I mean up and down.  Glisson says Rawlings bet Clarence Brown 20 that she could find dogs that would be able to catch the bear so he could film his scene. The next day he went with Rawlings to a local hunter where they picked up dogs they brought to the set in her Oldsmobile. After the crew and the actors were ready and the cameras were rolling they turned the dogs loose.  That old bear looked around and smelled he knew these was not no city dogs this was trouble. And God they sailed into it. I mean he hit one and knocked him as far as from here to that TV I mean in the air. And man the bear finally had had enough and the bear turned down and went into the Silver Glen Run and swam across. Now they had rented the damn bear. Now the bear they lost their bear.     Rawlings got her 20 and director Clarence Brown got a scene that is unlikely ever again to be equaled.     You know what that is do not you? Slewfoot possibly.  Oh you think it is a bear track.  Oh yes I do not think I know. Look at this. It is pretty good size. I mean he is not the biggest but...  Retired forest ranger Johnnie Pohlers has brought me here to the heart of Ocala National Forest to the place where The Yearling was shot and where Rawlings was first inspired to write her novel.  And this is the Calvin Long home site. And of course there is nothing here left you know other than that mound of dirt. There is some little pieces of brick and stuff where their fireplace was at.  Greg Allen NPR News. 