 The new TV series Woke from Hulu is both trippy and prescient. In it an African American cartoonist has a moral dilemma.    Why is it that us people of color are always having to stand for something or you know say something in our work?  And boy does he find out. Set in San Francisco Woke also features an eclectic soundtrack with punk hip-hop and soul.    A lovely day - lovely day lovely day lovely day lovely day - lovely day lovely day...  NPR's Elizabeth Blair talked to the show is creator about the social conscience of this new comedy.  Early in the series cartoonist Keef played by Lamorne Morris is on a career high. His comic strip Toast And Butter has been picked up for syndication. He is all about keeping the strip light - until he experiences police brutality firsthand.    No no no - you got the wrong guy.  As he is pinned to the ground he watches as his white roommate starts berating the police for trying to arrest the wrong man.    It is not fine. You are acting not right. Hey do not you touch...  Keef cannot believe his eyes. Later he and his white roommate tell their other roommate what happened.    They should have shot you.   No. No they did not have to do that.   Damn bro.   Well they would have you know if he were - if he was Black.  Woke is inspired by the life of cartoonist Keith Knight who also co-created the series. He told me 20 years ago when he was living in San Francisco pretty much the same thing happened to him.  I had been doing strips about this for years before that. But this was - when you see it played out in front of you and it is happening to you - your number comes up - it is a whole other thing. So it really made me double and triple down with the work I was doing.  One of Knight's real police brutality cartoons is a drawing of an application to become a police officer. Under an image of a group of African American men it says what do you see in this picture - sons brothers fathers human beings - or target practice? In the show Keef starts to see the world differently. He walks into a barbershop long owned by an African American only to find it is been taken over by white hipsters.    But we kept the name and the soul of the place - still got all the Ebony and Jet magazines. Plus...  And here's an example of how Woke is like a mix between the social satire in the movie Get Out and an edgy version of Sesame Street. Keef declines the haircut. On the sidewalk out front a trash can starts talking to him.    Down here my brother. That is right. I am a talking a trash can. I got eyes. I got a nose. I can smell things. I stank sometimes.  Voiced by Cedric the Entertainer the trash can wants justice.    I tell you what is wrong - those man-bun co-opting gentrifying devils. That as not no barbershop in there.  Keith Knight says the talking objects are his cartoonist coming out. He once drew a cellphone telling a payphone we are going to take you out.  I like the idea of these inanimate objects being able to say things that the human characters cannot say or will not say. So it was a way for us to comment on society without tying it to a certain character.  One of the human characters in Woke is the flip side of Keef's moral crisis breakdown. His friend Clovis played by T. Murph warns him if he starts to use his cartoon to take on racial justice he will blow his chance to make a lot of money.    You got to get a juice box find a safe space. Whatever the  you need to do to not be woke you need to do it.  Woke co-creator Marshall Todd says Clovis is pointing out what a lot of Black people who work for white corporations already know.  To be Black the real money lies in white people's comfort zone - that the more you can sort of entertain them without upsetting them the more money you make.  This character Keef reminded me of myself.  Actor Lamorne Morris is best-known for the Fox sitcom New Girl. He says like Keef he wants to become more politically active. But he also relates to Clovis who wants to play it safe.  Like bro you are about to be rich. You are about to be this. Just save all the pro-Black stuff until after you get this money. Like you know relax. Like chill. There are people who feel that way. And at times I do too.  I feel like my character in the show is the Charlie Brown of activism.  The Charlie Brown of activism because says Keith Knight in Woke as in life whether you play it safe or take a stand there are consequences. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 