 ABC is so supportive of its new spinoff of Black-ish called Mixed-ish the network got Mariah Carey to sing the sitcom's theme song.    In the mix life turns around. Round and round it goes. Oh it is a mixed up world.  NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says a lot of people are excited about the series which debuts tonight for another reason - it promises to deepen the conversation about race and multiculturalism in America.  Mixed-ish starts off reminding the audience of something curious about Rainbow Johnson the matriarch on Black-ish played by Tracee Ellis Ross - Rainbow was raised in a cultish commune until she was 12. When her husband Anthony Andersons's Andre Johnson admits he is surprised they ever met Bow drops another bombshell.    We actually would not have ever met if the elders had not gotten arrested.   Hold up. Wait. What?   Well they did not get arrested. They got detained for three to five years.   What?   You know what? The documentary explains it a lot better - just came out on Netflix.  Mixed-ish is a nostalgic cheeky look at Rainbow's origin story showing how she grew up sheltered from racial politics in an idealistic commune with her white dad black mother and two siblings.    If you would have asked me at the time I would have told you it was perfect. But the government would have told you we were a radicalized cult in violation of over 47 ATF regulations.  After police raided their commune in 1985 Rainbow and her family were forced to move into a home owned by her dad's father a mercenary lawyer played to weaselly perfection by Gary Cole.    Help me understand. Is it fun to be poor? Like when people tell you how much something costs and you do not have the money is it a rush?   You know we chose to live off the grid.   And now you chose to live rent-free in my fully furnished rental. What a rush that must be.  There are times when Mixed-ish can feel a little too much like a TED talk with snappy jokes and lots of '80s music. To explain the rarity of her parents' relationship back then we get a quick primer on the Supreme Court case that struck down laws against interracial marriage. And when Rainbow and her siblings get the inevitable clueless reaction at school...    What are you weirdos mixed with?   What is mixed?   ...Adult Rainbow explains in a simplistic way that feels like the show is worried modern audiences will not understand. I prefer the moment when Rainbow's Aunt Dee Dee confronts her sister for sending her kids to school in overalls and Birkenstocks pointing out that in the commune they were essentially raised in white culture.    You know Auntie Dee Dee loves you very much but you look like a runaway house slave.   No. Do not fill my babies' heads with that nonsense.   Them being black is nonsense?   They are black and white. Do not try to make them choose sides.   America already chose. All I am saying is you guys are on a different level of whiteness.   And do not you think that maybe we are above race?   See? There could not be a whiter thing to say.  A trailer for the show released earlier this year was much faster-paced with jokes that crackle a little more. Still I love the premise of this misfit family trying to find where they fit in America's confusing hypocritical racial hierarchy. And the cast featuring Mark-Paul Gosselaar and Tika Sumpter as Rainbow's parents often shines. Tracee Ellis Ross herself a biracial child of pop music superstar Diana Ross and her ex-husband Robert Ellis Silberstein is also an executive producer on Mixed-ish. I am hopeful her input will help amp up the funny while providing an incisive authentic look at race and culture in a way few sitcoms have attempted before. I am Eric Deggans.    Yay us. Yay us.   Oh they keep trying but they cannot stop us 'ecause we got a love that keeps rising up. And yeah they fight it but we just proceed to be... 