 Gail Sheehy changed how we think about getting older with her hugely influential 1976 bestseller Passages. Instead of assuming character development largely ended with adulthood she examined the crises that transform us throughout our lives. Sheehy also perfected a kind of in-depth character portrait that became her calling card. She is written about Hillary Clinton Mikhail Gorbachov Margaret Thatcher and so many other influential people. Now she is turned her sights on a trailblazing woman who made a name for herself in journalism at a time when that profession was dominated by men - Gail Sheehy herself. I spoke with her about her new memoir  My Passages earlier this week. I asked about her process when she writes these profiles she is so famous for.  I am looking for their character which is not about policy. Character's what was yesterday and will be tomorrow. What I do is - or did when people were affording it - was to interview no less than 40 people who knew the person that I was writing about. And they would provide incredible insights into a person's habitual behavior. So that by the time I got to my quarry I could collaborate with them on trying to lay out the themes of their life. And they were much less resistant than they would be if I just walked in and started hammering them with difficult questions.  Of course there is still resistance among people. And the first figure that comes to mind is Hillary Clinton.  Yes.  When you wrote your book about her back in the late '90s you got pretty well attacked by the Clinton supporters.  I did afterwards but not while I was working with her. And it was really - it was because she made a revelation in the middle of our - one of our major interviews about George Bush Sr.'s Jennifer.  Referring to in the 1992 presidential campaign President George H.W. Bush versus then Governor Clinton. Governor Clinton - there were revelations about an affair that he would had. And Mrs. Clinton was complaining about there were also allegations that did not really get printed as much about President George H.W. Bush having an affair himself.  Exactly. And that was the revelation that she kind of dumped on me in the middle of an interview. She wanted to get it out there. But apparently she assumed that I would never attach it to her.  Over the course of your career and obviously there is so much in this book that we will not be able to get to but you shattered a glass-ceiling or two yourself in your career. And you know there are a lot more women journalists working now.  Yes.  I wonder what was it about the time that you were breaking through that made it possible? Or was the progress just inevitable?  Well it did not seem possible when I crept down from the backstairs of the Herald Tribune from the women's department which was the estrogen zone and crossed into the testosterone preserve of the city room and marched my way over to Clay Felker's office to pitch him a story. I could have gotten fired from it. But he was intrigued and told me to write it as a scene. And I thought write journalism as a scene using dialogue and my own experience of the scene? That was totally new in 1966. And I just happened to be in the right place at the right time with New York Magazine which was breaking through into new territory for journalism which became mainstream eventually.  Right. And you were - I know you do not like this phrase but it is been said that you are one of the first women to be able to have it all as they say. You had a career. You had a family. You had a husband. And...  Not until I was in my late 40s did I pull those three things together. And in fact I do not buy the phony expectation that we can have it all. You know what I have come to understand is that I have enough. I have enough to give it away by using my talent to write and speak and hope that my experiences excite others to be daring. And the other thing is daring might imply that I am fearless. Actually the opposite is true. In my memoir I admit that I have been as fearful of success as of failure. In fact when Passages was published I so dreaded bad reviews that I ran away to Italy with a girlfriend and our children to hide out. And it was only on our last day that Clay Felker called and said my book had jumped onto the bestseller list which totally floored me. But what I learned from writing my memoir is that when I fear I dare because I find fear paralyzing and daring is action.  Now the book Passages I think that covered passages in one's life up until the age of about 55. Is that right?  That is right.  And you are 70 now right?  That is right.  So tell me about what you have learned that you left off in that book.  Well I thought - I mean I was so naive to think that there was nothing interesting that happened after 55. Come on there is a whole second adulthood. What I found I learned the most about life in my 60s when my husband Clay Felker was slowly dying. I fell into depression and my latent Irish gene for alcoholism flared up. And that led me to a 12-step program. And so that is when I came to understand having a spiritual foundation and realizing that you have enough.  We were talking earlier about your approach to these you know marvelous psychological profiles portraits that you would do of important figures. Did you take that same approach in looking at yourself looking at your own life?  I did indeed. That is why I called it My Passages. I was not writing about the nice long calm periods. I was writing about the times when yow  everything is exploding for good or for bad. And I actually interviewed other people about myself and that alerted me to the fact that I had to really investigate my memories.  It was just as tough as cracking those other characters.  It was tougher I must say.  Journalist and author Gail Sheehy's new memoir is called  My Passages. Gail thanks so much for your time today.  My pleasure Arun. 