 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The new film Killer Joe opened in theaters in limited release last month. It stars Matthew McConaughey who is been garnering critical acclaim for his role as Joe Cooper.   Oh and he is sadistic and there are some graphic violent and sexual content. So the movie won an NC-17 rating. That means no one 17 or under will be admitted into a theater showing Killer Joe and it means some theater chains will not even play the film. Some newspapers will not carry ads for it and some retailers will not sell it on DVD. As my next guest recently wrote in the Los Angeles Times the Motion Picture Association of America had different hopes for the NC-17 rating when it created it more than 20 years ago. Steven Zeitchik covers the film industry for the L.A. Times. Welcome Steven.  Good to be here.  So explain how the NC-17 rating came about because it was a shift right from the old X rating.  Exactly right. And it was a very big shift and one that came with some pretty high expectations. Back in the late 1980s Jack Valenti who of course ran the Motion Picture Association for many years realized that the X was getting completely exploited and kind of dragged through the mud as a lot of pornographic films very kind of low-rent exploitation films were using the rating because it was not trademarked. So he and his team came up with this NC-17 rating and the idea was basically to bring a little bit of sophistication a little bit of credibility really to films with adult content. And you know sure enough that is what happened at the beginning in 1990 when it was created but things quickly went south from there.  So Steve what kind of movie gets an NC-17 rating? I do not know if it is about violence or sex or both.   Well that is the 64000 question. Nobody really knows. I mean the only sort of published or explicit kind of rule about what gets you any rating is a certain number of obscenities that will get you an R rating from a PG-13. But outside of that it is a very amorphous system. And certainly when it comes to the NC-17 I mean we have seen movies that seemed to have identical scenes in them. One of them last year or two years ago comes to mind. The movie Blue Valentine had an oral sex scene much like the movie Black Swan that came out about the same time. It had an NC-17 rating. Very similar scenes very similar in duration no nudity in either. One film was initially given the NC-17 - that was Blue Valentine - the other Black Swan got an R. So no one can really make heads or tails of what exactly will tip the scales and get you that NC-17.  When the NC-17 rating first came about were there any films that were successful under that rating?  There were and that what was sort of interesting about it is in the very early years of this rating you had movies like Henry  June or The Cook the Thief the Wife  Her Lover. These were kind of serious art house films they had adult themes they had sexual situations in them but they were art house hits. You know many people came out to see them. One of them I think grossed about 20-something million dollars in the box office in today's dollars. And you know people thought this was going to be a respectable rating just the way the R is just with a little bit more adult content.  Now how is it that the NC-17 rating has not turned out as planned? I mean what is it about the films that have come out since that have undermined it in some way?  Well you know what is interesting is that kind of as the '90s progressed you started to see studios and distributors get more and more gun-shy about what films they were willing to release with the NC-17 rating. And I think the reason for that is because you started to see a resistance on the part as you were saying of theater chains and media outlets not to either carry or show the film or carry advertising for it. And I think what ended up happening was this sort of chicken-and-egg kind of effect where the filmmakers got a little more gun-shy. The you know the retail outlets and then the media outlets started getting a little bit more cautious about what they are willing to show. The distributors and filmmakers got even more reluctant to get an NC-17. So if there was any danger that they were going to get branded with that rating they would cut scenes from the film. And so now we are at the point in 2012 where most films do not even come out with it with an NC-17 rating. They either get cut to an R or in some cases it would come out unrated and basically circumvent the rating system entirely. So we have a system now where the NC-17 is so stigmatized that most films do not even use it at all.  It was interesting in your article you also wrote that it was in some ways undermined by movies that were not so good. One example you gave for instance was Showgirls. I think we have a clip of that.   Versayce instead of Versace one of the many cringe-inducing scenes in Showgirls. And you say that you know movies that came out under this rating sometimes were just bad.  Well the thing about Showgirls that is interesting what is sort of funny about it is that Paul Verhoeven who directed the movie actively wanted the NC-17. I mean he is one of the few directors I think and it was also an early point in the evolution of this rating but he really sought it out which is something no director now would do. And in fact there was a moment as the film was being released where Verhoeven was afraid he was not going to get it and in fact was going to back to the cutting room floor put back in additional sex scenes that he had cut out to ensure that he got it. But what it did as you correctly point out is it reinforced the perception that it is not a serious rating.  How serious is the debate about fixing this? What are the suggestions to improve this adult themed rating system?   Well it is a good question and I do not think the efforts unfortunately are all that serious. You know the thing about ratings that they are a little bit like the weather. You know everybody talks about them but nobody does anything about it. And I think that is sort of where we are with this. I mean you are starting to see a little bit more of a critical mass of both distributors and executives on the one hand and filmmakers on the other say hey look we want to create serious adult content and not have it feel like it is going to be labeled porn. You know I think there is a little bit of a human cry from that camp but it takes a lot to move the needle when it comes to the MPAA ratings. And at the moment I do not think it is being moved very far.   That is Steve Zeitchik. He writes about the movie industry for the L.A. Times. He was talking about the current state of the NC-17 rating. 