 Stories about being biracial in America country music and President Bill Clinton's impeachment are coming to our TV screens - or any screens I guess . NPR TV critic Eric Deggans has explored these subjects and more at the TV Critics Association's summer press tour in LA. He joins us now from NPR West. Hey there Eric.  Hi.  So people have been talking a lot about all the new TV streaming services that are debuting over the next few months. Can you tell us about them and whether TV executives are nervous about an oversaturated market?  Beyond nervous - I mean this time next year we are going to have like four new streaming services from big media companies like Apple TV coming sometime this fall Disney in November HBO Max in the spring and the service that ComcastNBC is putting together for April. And Disney recently announced that they are going to bundle together a subscription. So you will get like Disney Hulu and sports-oriented ESPN for 12.99 a month which is the same as Netflix's standard subscription price. So we are in the middle of the streaming wars. I saw Amazon Prime trying to beef up their lineup with some really broad shows like the Jack Ryan franchise and Lord Of The Rings. And outlets like HBO and FX have been bought by bigger companies. And they have been told to increase their original output so we are going to have a lot more TV coming at us.  I want to talk more about FX because they announced the latest installment of their anthology series American Crime Story. It is raising a lot of eyebrows because it is about Bill Clinton's impeachment that was in 1998. And people are saying that the timing is controversial. Why?  Yeah. It debuts on September 27 of next year which is like five weeks before the 2020 presidential election. And from the moment that FX released news about this there was backlash online from opponents of Donald Trump who are worried that the show is going to help the president by distracting potential voters with tales of Bill Clinton's infidelity. But the president of FX John Landgraf pushed back really hard on that. And we have got a clip. Let us check it out.   This certainty that says we cannot have conversations. We cannot make art. We cannot have nuance pronounce judgment on it - is toxic in the media environment. And I do not believe it is going to determine who is the next president of the United States. I think that is a little hysterical - from my standpoint somebody saying that that is going to influence the presidential election. And from my standpoint I am insistent that I am going to support artists who want to make great art and they want to put it at the time and place where people are going to watch it.  So Landgraf said executive producer Ryan Murphy who is co-created shows like Glee and Pose picked that date because people will be interested in presidential matters at that time. Monica Lewinsky's on board as a producer so you get the sense that the show is going to feature her perspective. And you know personally I have got a hard time imagining a show on a cable channel like FX really affecting a presidential election. But it is a measure of how nervous some people are that they think this air date is a bad idea.  But what are the upcoming shows that you are seeing that you think viewers will actually get excited about?  Well you know there is a few things I like. I like - Ken Burns has got this amazing documentary on country music that is coming to PBS - very emotional informative breaks a lot of stereotypes. There is this show on HBO called Watchmen that is based on the classic graphic novel about white supremacists going after the police. And ABC's got this show Mixed-ish that is a spinoff of Black-ish that features sort of the childhood of one of the characters from Black-ish Rainbow. She is a tween growing up biracial at a time in the 1980s when people did not really understand that. And they get to talk about race in a way that really is relevant to what we are going through today.  That is NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Eric thanks so much.  Thank you.  