 And finally today Oakland Calif. means different things to different people but for many it is the birthplace of groundbreaking art and politics. But Oakland like many major cities across the country is changing. That is the tension at the heart of a new film called Blindspotting. It tells the story of two lifelong friends Oakland natives one white and one black as they grapple with how they fit into this new and changing world.    Do me a favor. I have got three days left on this probation. When you have got that gun on you just do not tell me about it. Plausible deniability.   Oh do you mean this gun?   Get out.   Good night Collin.  The film is many things. It is a love letter to Oakland. It is about masculinity and police violence and friendship. Fittingly the film stars and was written by two friends - Rafael Casal a nationally acclaimed slam poet and Daveed Diggs whom you may know from his award-winning turn as the Marquis de Lafayette and Thomas Jefferson in the Broadway hit Hamilton as well as for his recurring role on the ABC hit Black-ish. When I spoke with the two earlier I started our conversation by asking Daveed Diggs how the idea for the film changed since they began working on it almost a decade ago.  We wanted to tell a Bay Area story because that is where we are from and it is a place that we feel like has interesting stories to tell that we had not seen yet. And we also wanted to star in it.  .  So that was about as much as we knew going in. And right around that same time Oscar Grant was murdered at Fruitvale BART station. And so telling a story about Oakland meant that this was going to be part of the story. You asked about how the film has changed. You know Oakland back then - this is 2009 - Oscar's face was everywhere. His name was all over the place. The news cycle - this was early on in us starting to get like really clear cell phone video footage of these kinds of events right? So people were out protesting. So early drafts of this film had protest scenes in it and riot scenes in it. One of the ways we had to modernize it over the last decade was that that does not happen the same way anymore. I think the fantasy of those times was that these protests would call enough attention to a thing that happens regularly in order to create change but that does not seem to have happened. We just get it reported more often.  So I want to get into the characters in a minute. But Rafael can I go to you and just say do you remember when the two of you met - like what it is that made you want to work together?  You know well we met in high school but Diggs is four years older than me so he was a senior when I was a freshman. And we sort of bumped into each other at a poetry slam around that time. I think we were just sort of aware of each other more than sort of fully connected.  Well because seniors never pay any attention...  Yeah like...   No.  You are correct.  .  Because he is you know...  Very busy doing senior things.  ...Very busy doing senior things. And I was just like probably just too impressive for him to approach.  That is one side of the story.  How I remember it - Blindspotting.   And so we were aware of each other. Diggs went off to Brown. I sort of went off for the next few years and did this show called Def Poetry and went on tour. And by the time Diggs was back I had sort of built this studio in North Oakland with some friends of mine. We were hoping that more artists would be recording out of that space than just us. And so a friend a mutual friend reintroduced us to each other's work and pushed for us to hang out. And so Diggs came by the studio and we talked a little bit about music. And then we sort of stayed there all night until the sun came up and made a couple records together. And I do not really remember a time after that that Diggs was not involved in some capacity in something that I was making.  Well let us get into the characters. Collin played by Daveed Diggs has a record. He is done his jail time. We find out why later. He is almost done with his probation. He is trying to get his life back on track. Miles is his friend - played by you Rafael - is a family man. He is also kind of a hothead. They have worked together at a moving company so they have kind of a front-row seat to the way the city is changing - what we commonly call gentrification. If you would not mind tell me - each of you just tell me a little bit about your character and what you want us to know about him. And Daveed why do not you start?  Yeah. Well I think Collin is trying really hard to get on the other side of this thing. If you know anybody who is on probation who is been in jail and is dealing with the sort of aftereffects of that there are a series of traps set up to try and send you back to jail. And so Collin's been spending the better part of the last year kind of navigating this system and just trying to get to the other side of this. But he is you know also working in a city where his context is changing greatly and the way that the neighborhood is being policed is different. Before the film starts - really it is before the sort of big incident of the film - I think he is dealing with certain kinds of trauma and certain kinds of PTSD that I think people of color certainly feel in this country but really a lot of us I think are feeling. And then on his way home from work one night he and - he alone witnesses the police shooting of an unarmed black man. And that for him ramps the stakes of everything. All of a sudden his safety that he was already sort of questionable about feels even more unsafe and the post-traumatic stress of American life are heightened by this event.  And Rafael tell me about Miles and what other - I said in our introduction right that you know Miles is white. But that - you know that is shorthand is not it right for how he sees himself in the world particularly against the backdrop of the way Oakland is changing? So tell me a little bit about Miles and how you saw him.  Daveed and I both know a number of Mileses in the Bay Area and I would imagine that kind of character in different iterations exists all over the place. But I think Miles is - in his reality he is the minority among minorities right? He is a white face in a predominantly black and brown space. And so he is built his survival on having the offense as his defense. And what you get from that is a hardened dude right? And then he is also - you know the other side of Miles is he is a family dude and he is trying to be a good father. And so he is a blue-collar working-class dude who is fiercely loyal and is afraid of his context changing because it means that he has to once again fight to claim his space and his identity.  Well let me jump in here and play something because the story is rooted in an incident that sent Collin to prison and I want to - I do not want to give too much away. But it does center around a fight that breaks out over some of the tensions around the way the city is changing. So let us listen to a clip. And this is where Miles and Collin are arguing about Collin's ex-girlfriend.    When you were in jail did she put money on your books? Did she come visit you even one time  while you were locked up? Because I am pretty sure I went two times a week 45 minutes each way 500 on your book on day one.   Hey. She talked to me on the phone.   How gracious of her to have called you once. And what did she want to talk to you about - about changing up your lifestyle changing up your ways? You are not a thug drug dealer. You went to jail on a fire technicality.   Did I?   Yes. How were we supposed to know that hamsters are so flammable?  Daveed tell me about that scene from your perspective and you know the struggle that they are having as friends as men. And...  This is not an uncommon argument with men who are friends right? If you do not like somebody's significant other like  this is - you know like that is a roastable offense. And in private you will get roasted for that. So my other favorite part about that scene is that Miles starts that argument essentially out of boredom. Like he is...   Like he is - there is just nothing else happening. And so he looks for something to like have an argument about you know.  .  I love those details that are friendship details right? They are more like siblings than just friends. And it is only because they are so close that they are capable of having these kinds of disagreements and conversations you know.  Have the two of you ever fallen out?  No.  No not like that.   No nothing like that.  We like argue about taste in music.  We had a - we have an ongoing argument about the word opossum - possum.   One of us at some point had it wrong and now we cannot remember who had it wrong and now we are arguing about who had it wrong.   Originally the argument is about whether it was a possum or an opossum.   And that went on for quite some time.  Well that is...  ...Still a little bit of a sore spot.  It is a sore spot. We do not talk about it.  Yeah. Two poets arguing over - that is a roastable offense with a poet. With two poets...  Yeah.  Yeah yeah.  I can see - yeah I see it.  Yeah yeah. Absolutely.  I can see it. Daveed Diggs is an actor and poet. Rafael Casal is a poet and an actor. Their new film Blindspotting is in select theaters now and nationwide next week. Daveed Diggs Rafael Casal thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having us.  Thanks for having us.    All I know is hustle. All I know is rubble. All I know is struggle. All I know is trouble. All I know is smuggle.   Yeah.   All I know is  As not nobody finished with the town all of the scales it is... 