 This past weekend the number one film in the U.S. was the horror flick Do not Breathe.    We are trapped in here.   There has to be a way out of here.  Number two was the comic book blockbuster Suicide Squad which cost 175 million to make. Do not Breathe cost less than a tenth of that 10 million. Lots of horror movies with tiny budgets have had a monster-sized impact on the box office like The Blair Witch Project...    I am so scared.  ...Or Open Water.    We are stuck in the middle of the ocean.  And of course Paranormal Activity.    My girlfriend Katie she thinks there is something in the house. I do not know.   You believe me right?  Jason Blum runs the production company behind Paranormal Activity and other micro-budget horror movies. He told me success with this genre comes from great storylines riveting drama and also something else.  Scary movies benefit from lower budgets. And that is because the scariest things are things that seem the most real. And when you take out all the bells and whistles in production you really have to focus on you know small stories that take place in a house. And that is I think where people usually feel most vulnerable in their house. And the room in their house they feel most vulnerable is their bedroom. And if you do not have a lot of money you kind of have to force - it forces the director to tell these very intimate stories which I think are much scarier than big effects extravaganzas.  You know we are describing Do not Breathe as a movie that was cheap to make. It cost 10 million. But Paranormal Activity cost 15000 a tiny fraction. What kinds of ruthless decisions do you have to make when you are operating on that much of a shoestring?  Well that is definitely the most extreme example for sure. But I think there is kind of a triangle three things that affect budget - the number of characters the number of locations and the number of stunts and special effects. And I tell the directors they can kind of choose one of those three things. They can either have a lot of speaking parts you know a handful of locations or we can do a stunt or two but only one of the three. And if you actually went back and kind of looked at our movies you would kind of see that play out. I actually believe though that when you really forced parameters from the beginning it leads to interesting things. And I cannot say you know the movies are always - always benefit from it but more often than not I feel like the movies benefit from the lower budgets which push directors to make unusual choices.  That seems like it would be true of any genre and yet we only seem to see these low-cost breakout hits in horror. Why do you think that is rather than I do not know drama or romantic comedy or other things?  Well I do not - I actually do not agree with that. I think when you go to see a romantic comedy I think a couple things are different. First of all you want a movie star in a romantic comedy. A horror movie is almost better with someone who you do not see every day in magazines because it is kind of scarier. You do not know them and you can put yourself in their position more easily. I think when you go see a romantic comedy you want big big stars that you know well and you want to see them fall in love. And I think that first of all right there it is more expensive. When you go see an action movie you want a great action sequence. And that costs money. So it is easy for me to say you know I keep my budgets low but I have a big advantage because I think horror benefits from that. And I do not really - I think most other genres you actually do need a lot of money to deliver what the audience wants.  Do you think the success of cheap horror movies has had an impact on the big studios?  You know that is a great question. It is had less of an impact than I would have thought. Two or three years ago everyone used to ask me are you worried about people copying your model? And I used to say no I do not worry about it. It seems no one's doing it. If you ask me that now I would say I am certainly concerned about it a little bit more for sure. I think studios are - they are - you know they are oil tankers. They are slow to react but I do think they are beginning to react now. And it will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or two. And I bet there'ill be a lot of great scary movies which I am certainly looking forward to seeing and hope some of them I will have made.  Jason Blum founder of the production company Blumhouse Productions. Thanks for joining us.  Well thanks. Thanks so much for having me. Talk to you soon. 