 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. And now a detective story about a detective story. It begins with a new novel called The Cuckoo's Calling written by a former British military investigator named Robert Galbraith. The reviews were excellent especially for a debut novel only The Sunday Times revealed this weekend that the book was not a debut at all  J.K. Rowling the wizard behind Harry Potter. Richard Brooks uncovered the truth and joins me now. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  So I understand this started with a tip from Twitter. What did it say?  Well one of my colleagues India Knight she would been reading this book The Cuckoo's Calling and she tweeted that it was a really good book. She did not explain that much just said it was a really good debut novel. And a few people came back saying I agree.  It is not a debut novel. It is by an existing author. So India Knight tweeted back and said who?  J.K. Rowling. Then when India Knight tried to go back yet again the contact the tweet it evaporated rather like a Harry Potter spell. Gone no trace.  So they had like deleted the account or something?  Absolutely deleted the account.  So you had to have been skeptical?  Well I was skeptical. But then I started doing a little investigation on my own. I went straight online looked up Robert Galbraith and found that he was with the literary agency called The Blair Partnership a fairly new agency but had one very major client yes J.K. Rowling - not many others - and this man Galbraith. Mysteriously there was no picture of Galbraith just a silhouette black silhouette. I was suspicious. Then I looked up the publisher. It was Sphere. Not a very big name in publishing. But you look more carefully Sphere is part of Little Brown.  Rowling's last book her first adult book the Casual Vacancy had been published by yes Little Brown.  So you followed the trail through the publishers but you do not stop there right? You actually sent the book to two linguistic analysts to compare the prose.  We sent obviously eBook copies of the book to two computer experts. And they ran through their computers this book Cuckoo's Calling Rowling's last book Casual Vacancy her last Harry Potter book and two other detective novels.  And what did they find?  Both said that this book The Cuckoo's Calling had similarities in the style of writing the words that were used the punctuation to J.K. Rowling's book.  So what happens when you reach out to the publisher?  Initially I played a cat and mouse game with the publisher. I initially went to them and said I would been reading this Cuckoo's Calling and I did not think it was actually written by this guy Robert Galbraith. I said who is he? Can I interview him? And they came back and said sorry no. So I put a very  Is it Rowling?  You know the cynical view here would be that this is all part of a masterful PR campaign by the publisher right? I mean Rowling gets a fair shake from the critics.  Yeah. Yeah.  And the publisher you know gets its sales right? Sales are up for this book.  No of course I am aware of that. I am increasingly aware of it today. Perhaps that original tweet perhaps might have been from Rowling herself who knows who wanted to be outed? Who knows?  Richard Brooks it seems like this is a reminder that the author biographies that publishers put out they might also be fiction.  Yeah. I mean you know she is obviously not the first writer to write under a pseudonym. And the most famous one is of course Stephen King in the 1980s. Other writers use different names like the detective writer Ruth Rendell also writes books under another name Barbara Vine. But she says she is Barbara Vine. You know she is not pretending to be someone else. But I think the nearest analogy to this one is Stephen King of a writer who rally wanted to try something else under a different name and wanted to see what happened when the book was published. I mean I you know Rowling must have been really happy to get good reviews. It must be rather frustrating to sit back get great reviews because her last book Casual Vacancy did not get great reviews. And that is why partly I think she did it under a pseudonym because she was wary about more disappointing reviews. Having got the good ones did she out herself deliberately? Who knows?  Richard Brooks is the arts editor for the Sunday Times. Thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you. 