 It is the dog days of August a time when the excitement of summer vacation gives way to boredom baking in the heat and waiting for the next school year to start. So we thought it would be a good time to talk movies specifically kids' movies. Joining us is Kristen Page-Kirby. She is senior features writer for The Washington Post Express paper. Hi there Kristen.  Hi.  So Kristen going into the summer of 2016 we were hearing a dire forecast. The word was it was not going to be a very good year for summer films. Well some of them turned out to be OK actually pretty good but maybe not the ones that we adults would have expected. So tell us more about that.  Well yeah I mean it - coming into it you had the tent-pole films the superhero films to look forward to. And so you had  Civil War and you had  Apocalypse and you had Suicide Squad. And they were supposed to carry the summer and they turned out to be almost uniformly terrible. But the bright spots really tended to be the kids' movies. It really got kicked off with Zootopia which came out in March.  Right.  And then Finding Dory and then Pete's Dragon which came out just this week just turned out to be in this terrible terrible time - the end of August is usually just awful for movies - just this really beautiful piece of film.  What made for instance Dory stand out as being pretty good?  Well I think it is better than pretty good. I think that what was great about Finding Dory is that it routed its problems in real life even though we are dealing with talking fish. The basic conflict was what if I lose my family?    Hi. I have lost my family.   Where did you see them last?   I forgot.  And the answer that the kids got was first of all you can form a new family second of all your family's going to keep looking for you. And I think that also really resonates with adults because losing people is something that we go through probably more often than we would like and so the basis of that film was a very human concern.  Everything's going to be OK.  Everything's going to be OK at the end but it also really recognized that things can be terrible. And things can be terrible when you are a kid. Things...  And I guess that is always a theme in kids' movies. Something horrible happens right in the beginning and there is a sense I guess that you know through movies kids can experience these traumatic things. And it is sort of a proxy or a good training for when something really does happen to you in real life.  Right. And I think that is part of it but I think what is been interesting kind of beginning with Toy Story is that kids' movies have started anchoring their problems in the real world. So with Snow White for example you might have a stepmother who does not like you or who you do not like. The chances of her being an actual witch that is out to kill you...  .  ...Is...  Not so real.  ...Hopefully pretty small. And so why those movies can function as proxies - and I mean I think a lot of times we forget that kids are actually human beings and experience a lot of the same emotions that adults - they just do not process it the same way. And so to have these movies that are based more on the human experience rather than a fairy tale I think makes for a much more rewarding film.  One of the films I want to talk about is Pete's Dragon. It opened this week. I saw it in a theater in Silver Spring Md. The crowd loved it. Kids were laughing. Kids were crying but not just the kids also adults. Give us a little thumbnail of what happens in this movie.  So it is a boy named Pete. His parents are killed in a car accident in the very beginning of the film and he is found and protected by a dragon named Elliot. He eventually is discovered by some other people and he kind of has to make a choice about you know - Elliot does not fit into this new world. There are people that do not believe Elliot exists. There are people that want to capture him and then of course it is you know - everybody ends up happy at the end.    Is Elliot your imaginary friend?   What is imaginary?   Well it is where you make someone up in your head so that you have someone to talk to. It keeps you from being lonely.   Are you my imaginary friend too?   I am real.   So is Elliot.  It seems to me that this was really a movie about belief in optimism. I loved this line that you wrote in your review this week. You wrote that  our real-life Elliots - Elliot being the dragon we just heard about - are not dragons. They may be friends or family or maybe our real-life Elliotts is just a sense of optimism and a world fueled by negativity. Is that why this movie is resonating with kids and with us their parents?  You know I think that is part of it. I think part of the beauty of this movie is that it really captures what it is like to be a kid. Think of all the things that you knew when you were a kid that turned out not to be true but helped you cope in a world that did not make a lot of sense. We like to pretend that we leave those things behind but our world still does not make a lot of sense.  So we need these stories in our lives is what I hear you saying.  Oh yeah. I think I cannot imagine living in a world where we cannot even just two hours believe in dragons.  Well listen thank you so much for joining us. Kristen Page-Kirby is senior features writer for The Washington Post Express.  Thank you very much.  