 Scientists have discovered a giant planet outside of our solar system that is unlike anything they have found before. For one thing it probably has a tail like a comet. And as NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports it is also really really hot.  So how hot is it?  It is so hot that it is hotter than most stars that we know of out there.  Scott Gaudi led the team that discovered the new world. He is at Ohio State University. He says one side of this Jupiter-like planet is in constant darkness while the other side always faces its star. The dayside surface reaches more than 7800 degrees Fahrenheit so hot that not even molecules could survive.  The radiation from the star is blasting the dayside of the planet and heating it up to a temperature that is only 2000 degrees cooler than the sun.  The reason this planet is so hot is that every day and a half it circles a star that is more than twice as massive as our sun. Big hot stars like this one are actually fairly common. Gaudi says if you just go out and look up at the night sky...  A lot of the stars you can see - in fact the majority of the stars you can see are either more luminous or hotter than the sun.  But scientists know almost nothing about the planets around stars like these. That is because in recent years they have been focusing their telescopes on small cool stars. It is easier to check planets around those stars to see if they might be friendly enough for life. Gaudi says it took the researchers a couple of years to convince themselves that this new planet really existed.  In fact I had a bet with my graduate student over a very nice bottle of single-malt scotch about whether the planet was real or not. Just for the record I won.  They describe their find in the journal Nature. It is about 650 light years away in the constellation Cygnus. Astronomers cannot directly photograph the planet but they know some things about it.  Its dayside would be very bright orange. Its nightside would be very dark red and it would have a cloud of evaporating hydrogen and helium which would actually look violet or cyan to your eye.  That cloud would create a kind of tail like a comet's. And it is possible that eventually the planet's whole atmosphere will get blasted away perhaps leaving just a rocky barren core behind. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News.  