 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. The Queen of Versailles is a movie about a couple who set out to build a colossal home for themselves inspired by the palace of Louis XIV the Sun King. In another time this might have been the premise for a fictional film - a fable about hubris and material excess. But in our time The Queen of Versailles is actually a documentary about the real life of David and Jackie Siegel - no relation - of Orlando Florida.   I said well I would like to have a bowling alley. And then he says I want a health spa. And then I said we need maids' quarters. I forgot how many kitchens 10 kitchens. We have a sushi bar.  Two tennis courts one will be a stadium court full-sized baseball field which will double as the parking lot when we have parties.  David Siegel made a fortune in the time share business. When filmmaker Lauren Greenfield first met Jackie in 2007 she and her husband were at the top of the world. When Greenfield finished her film the housing bubble had burst the economy was struggling and the luxury and regal ambitions that the Siegels had known had come undone.  David was a billionaire and they were building the biggest house in America. He was on the Forbes list.  And today?  And today well in the story what happened is in the beginning they are building this house. And then the whole time share business was based on cheap financing. And as they expand and expand and ultimately build the tallest time share building in Las Vegas then the crisis starts to affect them. And as the cheap financing stopped to be plentiful they could not maintain the properties. And so their story becomes an allegory about the overreaching of America.  Jackie says something that is wonderful in its candor. She says you know if I had not been rich I never would have had all these kids. If I did not know about nannies I would not be able to have seven kids. This way I have them. They are wonderful. Somebody else takes care of them all the time. And as things come a little unstuck here it is hard to tell if the kids or the many dogs and other pets in the household who is less disciplined less being looked after in this menagerie.  Well I think what we see is that huge infrastructure that cannot be maintained without all of the help that nobody predicted this situation. You know I think the thing about their story is that it is so supersized that you know it is kind of unbelievable. But on the other hand it is real. And I mean I certainly would not want to have a 26000-square-foot house without many many housekeepers. And I think you see in a way how unrealistic this structure was and how kind of the center cannot hold without all of the assumptions that we had. That you know David's business had been growing for the last 30 years and he never dreamed that it would stop growing. And you know there was a wake-up call that in a way we all had when the bubble burst.  And we should just point out the 26000-square-foot house that is the small house that is not the Versailles that they were building that is where they actually lived.  Right. The 26000-square-foot house was the starter mansion that they were bursting in the seems as Jackie says and so were building the 90000-square-foot house.  One of my favorite scenes in your documentary The Queen of Versailles shows Richard Siegel who is David's adult son by a previous marriage. And David is 30 years older than his wife Jackie. Richard Siegel here is leading a meeting of sales personnel people who sell time shares with them.   Why are we here?  To save lives.  To save lives. And you thought you were just selling time sharing did not you? We sell vacations. Vacations are healthy for you. Do you believe that?  Yeah.  I can show you the articles and the studies. Those who take the fewest amount of vacations are most likely to have a heart attack.   We are like doctors we are like firefighters selling more time shares. We are also saving marriages. What a great speech. What a glimpse of being a salesman that is.  It was amazing to get to see the behind the scenes of the sales room. And I think the really interesting thing about time share for me and selling of time share is it speaks to the aspirational luxury that in a way was behind kind of the housing boom and bust. And what you see in the story is that time share is a way for middle-class people and lower-income people to buy a second home that they cannot really afford and kind of have a piece of this luxury.  I read that David Siegel was very displeased with the film in the end and sued or saying that you had not - you did not represent the charitable works that they are engaged in. Were there virtues of the Siegels that you left on the editing room floor?  Well I think he made that comment about the charitable works before he saw the film actually. And I think you do see in the film that he raises money for his favorite charity which is Miss America. And she also - I think what happens with Jackie's character is you see her generosity of heart. That comes out more and more as she deals with the adversity. And you see her open a thrift shop to help the Westgate employees who have been laid off.  That is the time share company.  The time share company. And you see her lend money to her friend who was about to lose her house. But I think David would have preferred that I continued much longer with the film and saw the Westgate company you know come back and saw him regain success in the end.  There is an exchange very near the end of the film that when David Siegel says to you something to the effect of I think this has gone on long enough. Obviously the premise of this film had changed a great deal from the beginning when you started doing it.  You know it had and that was one of the really fascinating parts of this process. When we started it was about their success and building the biggest house in America - and really that being the ultimate expression of the American dream. And in the beginning it starts out as this intimate look at how the 1 percent live and what wealth is like. And it is almost like a fantasy world with castles and jets and a time share king and a beauty queen. And by the end you really see that it is become an allegory about all of us and in a way the overreaching of America and how we all overextended in different ways - taking out too much money from our houses using our houses as piggy banks building too big. And these are people that you thought would never be affected by the recession or the crash because they had so much padding and so much wealth. In a way this kind of happened to all of us and that is really what I want people to kind of get from their story.  Lauren Greenfield thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you for having me.  Director Lauren Greenfield's documentary about David and Jackie Siegel is called The Queen of Versailles.   This is NPR. 