 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  I was born inside the movie of my life. Those words open the new memoir titled Life Itself from the film critic Roger Ebert who has made movies his life for more than four decades now. He and his sparring partner the late Gene Siskel had the most famous thumbs on television.   Two very enthusiastic thumbs up for the hilarious comedy A Fish Called Wanda.  Now at age 69 Roger Ebert depends on that same gesture to help him communicate in daily life. Five years ago he lost the ability to speak after multiple cancer surgeries.   Roger Ebert leads me slowly through his Chicago townhouse. On the glass door of his office  The Ebert Company Limited Fine Film Criticism Since 1967. On the wall the Pulitzer Prize he won in 1975. He was the first film critic ever to win one. And Ebert points with delight to a manual L.C. Smith and Corona typewriter on a shelf.  1966. Bought it for 25. Wow.   Roger Ebert still churns out half a dozen reviews every week  This is Alex a voice that came built into my computer.  Ebert speaks through Alex a text-to-voice program. He types Alex speaks the words. And the words flow at a remarkable rate given that he laboriously hunts and pecks with just two fingers across the keyboard.   I sat down to talk with Roger Ebert and his wife Chaz and asked him to conjure up his first movie memory. He was 3 years old in Urbana Illinois. It was the Marx Brothers' A Day at the Races.  The Marx Brothers seemed very strange to me and a little disturbing. Years later I met Groucho and he still seemed very strange and a little disturbing.   I came to talk with Roger Ebert about his life as a film critic and his life with illness. Because typing is a long and exhausting process for him we agreed that I would send some questions in advance. I wanted to know whether that pugnacious on-screen dynamic with Gene Siskel carried over off-screen too. Ebert made a fist and punched the air as Alex spoke his words.  We were often angry with one another. At other times we were very warm. I think we shared a strong sense of morality about films that offended us either by their content or their general stupidity.   What we taught each other was how to defend our choices. Critics are tempted to think of themselves as oracles and here was this guy getting right in my face and telling me I was wrong.  You write in the book about Gene Siskel's last television appearances with you before he died in 1999. He died of a brain tumor.  His pain must have been unimaginable. But you did not talk about it. As close as you had been for all those years you never talked about his illness. Why was that do you think?  We had philosophical discussions about life and death over many years. But after he got sick Gene never ever discussed his illness except for the obvious fact that he was sick. The word cancer was never mentioned. I believe he was determined to defeat it. And he was such a competitor that he did not want to acknowledge any weakness. I was never able to visit him in the hospital. He was intensely private about the situation. That was his decision. I respect it. I think perhaps it influence me to be very open about my own illness.  Roger Ebert writes in his memoir that when he first lost the ability to eat or drink he became obsessed by tastes and smells in particular a frosty mug of root beer.  Over and over I would fantasize that icy cold root beer. I yearned for the pleasure of it trickling down my throat. I knew that would never happen again.  In the hospital when we have visitors he would direct us in playing this game.  This is Robert Ebert's wife Chaz.  What he does not know is the reason he was having those so strongly is because it was a time that they were not giving him enough nutrition in the hospital and his body was starving. And his brain turned on its survival mechanism and was forcing him to have these strong intense memories about food in order to give him an appetite to eat.  I did not feel hunger but my body knew.  One of those truths was posting a photograph of his disfigured face. He leans toward me his hands gesturing toward his face for emphasis as he talks about it.  I was advised not to be photographed looking like this. Well it is how I look and there is nothing I can do about it. We spend too much time as a society denying illness. It is a fact of life.  Chaz did you and Roger talk about that?  Yes we did talk about it. He listened to people's advice but he said frankly I do not give a damn if someone wants to take a photograph of me looking like this and sell it to the tabloids. And then we came upon the idea let us take our own photograph and put it out there right now. And he sat at the piano and had his photograph taken and said - the headline was from a Martin Scorsese movie - I am not a pretty boy anymore. And after that it was defused.  Roger Ebert moves very slowly now and one shoulder is much smaller than the other. His body as he puts it was plundered for bone and tissue as surgeons tried multiple times to reconstruct his face.  The surgeries caused more damage than the cancer.  Doctors have proposed to you a fourth reconstruction surgery. You are shaking your head no. You have said no. Why is that? Why have you said enough?  I am going to stop while I am behind.   This is the face I have. I accept it.  And then Roger Ebert was off to the movies. The Toronto Film Festival beckoned.  The movies as they always do will cheer and inspire me. They heal because they take me into the minds of their creators.  