 At the San Diego Comic-Con now underway toys comic books and costumes fill the exhibit floor with color and light. It is a crush of bodies buzzing on adrenaline and fan joy. But there is another dimension of Comic-Con tucked away in the quiet conference rooms of the San Diego Convention Center. It is a world where conversation dominates not products or movie stars. And that Comic-Con might surprise you. NPR's Glen Weldon visited these rooms and found an old debate - a serious one - that is still going on.  There are over a thousand panel sessions at Comic-Con every year where attendees gather for a Q and A with their favorite author a behind-the-scenes peek at the craft of comic book-making or a discussion of some nerdy academic topic. And this year several of these panels are devoted to the same issue - the interplay of science and storytelling. It is something attendees like Jody Meadows care deeply about.  One of the great things about science is that we do not know everything yet. We are still learning. So there are people who want to know how to make warp drives so they are trying it. I think that science fiction inspires more science.  Her friend Cynthia Hand thinks about how to balance science fact with science fiction.  I think that if you can get us to believe in the reality of the story based on the real facts then it is easier to make this sort of jump when you want something to be unreal.  Many here strongly believe that the science in science fiction should be firmly grounded in reality. They are devotees of what is called hard sci-fi which emphasizes technical detail and scientific rigor. If you have read Isaac Asimov Arthur C. Clarke or Catherine Asaro you have read hard sci-fi. Andy Weir's The Martian is a recent example.    I am going to have to science the  out of this.  Of course there is more to science fiction than hard sci-fi. Writers like Samuel R. Delany Ray Bradbury and Ursula K. Le Guin are more interested in how technology changes people than the technology itself. For the two most successful science fiction franchises in history scientific rigor is not really what they are about.   Light sabers in Star Wars transporter beams in Star Trek and faster-than-light travel in both of them - all scientifically impossible today and likely tomorrow as well which is why some here - like attendee Steve Hendricks - say neither Star Wars nor Star Trek is science fiction at all.  Well Star Wars of course is complete fantasy . Star Trek the whole bit about transporters being able to work - A it is pretty far-fetched being able to work without a mechanism at the far end. It is almost a deal breaker for me. But I could figure - what the heck you know? We can - I can let that one slide.  For these folks it comes down to storytelling. Tell me a story is what many fans here say they want. Assert the rules for the reality you are creating. Do not explain them and be consistent. Do that and readers will buy it - most readers anyway not all. There will always be fans who insist on strict accuracy. The Simpsons knew that when almost 20 years ago they set a scene in a conference room at a convention a lot like this one.    In episode 2F09 when Itchy plays Scratchy's skeleton like a xylophone he strikes the same rib twice in succession yet he produces two clearly different tones. I mean what are we to believe that this is some sort of a  magic xylophone or something?  That is of course a parody of the inflexibility of nerds. But for the nerds I talked to they are OK with a little magic in the mix. Glen Weldon NPR News San Diego. 