 Before I talk to Eddie Izzard about his new book  A Memoir Of Love Death And Jazz Chickens I think we need to hear about the jazz chickens.   Cows go roo . Sheep go bahh . Ducks go quack. Pigs go oink - all of them. Chickens go cock-a-doodle-doo  - unless you wedge a trumpet on their face.   If you are a fan of Izzard's surreal stand-up comedy you probably can tell where this is going.   . Farmer's wife going what is that? That is jazz chicken. We bought a jazz chicken? No it is the old chicken but a trumpet fell on his face. What do you mean fell on it? Well I wedged it on there. I could not stand it  all times of the day and night. I thought let us make it jazz.   Eddie Izzard comedian actor writer joins me now here in the studio in the flesh. Welcome.  I have got to say two things about that. One that is the first time I have ever heard someone in the middle of the joke pull out to make a comment that OK here a joke's coming here...  .  ...And then go back in and let the joke release which was very weird but maybe very NPR-ish  of you.  .  And the word jazz chicken - well the two words jazz chickens is not mentioned in the book at all.  Right jazz chickens is in the title but not in the book. I mean was that  supposed to be true?  They said there is got to be something funny in there. So there is - I do talk about love and death and jazz chickens is just there to be funny in a way.  And as much as we are laughing it is a serious book. You start with the day that you say your childhood ended.  Yeah.  The day your mother died of cancer March 4 1968. You were 6 years old.  Yeah. It was an unusual thing which I think I say in that first chapter - if not I say it later on - that Mom and Dad decided not to say that this was - this cancer was going to kill her. And then one day she was gone. And yeah it does not get better. You just put layers and layers over it.  At some point and I do not know if it is in that chapter or later but you write that ever since she died you feel like in a way you have been trying to bring her back. What do you mean by that?  Well I am trying to do all these things because if I do enough maybe she will come back. And that is right that if I can really do enough interesting things maybe it will cut through to the other side. Now I do not believe in a god. I just think unfortunately we live and then we die and then that hurts kids. So I do not think Mom can come back. And I think she would have got a message back you know? You know surely one person would have got a message back over the eons and eons of time of 10000 years of civilization - just one.  One email .  If one - yeah one message one clouds pull aside and it is me Janine . I died last Tuesday. Anyway it is great. They get massages up here. And God's nice. He is a bit full of himself but all right.  .  You know they are all hanging out here. Everyone gets on. It is great. Be nice and you come up here. If not you go down and it is smelly and it is horrible. It is all cold and hot at the same time.  So obviously yeah you do not mean you would actually bring her back. But you said like if you just keep doing enough things...  Yeah. And they are not scattergun. It is not like and then I am going to be a stamp collector be the most brilliant stamp collector. These are just things that I wanted to do. You had a few things usually on the boil there. And I have just kept those on the - sort of simmering in the back of my mind. And then I brought a number of them forward like drama and surreal comedy. And then I went off to do gigs in Spanish in Madrid and Barcelona to do en Espanol and now I can go around America doing it in English and...  And Spanish yeah.  ...En Espanol. And I will go through Central America and South America as well.  'ecause this is a thing that runs through the book. You worked really hard but you also had this confidence that you could do what you wanted to do right? Some people call it chutzpah. I think you call it pigheadedness.  Yeah.  Where does it come from? I mean I feel like I want to be able to bottle and sell it. But I want to know where...  It was locked in from coming out in 1985. Coming out 32 years ago as transgender or - I was TV when I came out. The language has changed over the years.  Right.  Transvestite TV transsexual TS. We are now at trans and transgender. So I came out in 1995. And it was very difficult to go out and forge your way out and lock it into your life. Once I did that and I pushed back on all that fear and hatred and the feelings that society all around the world was saying to me. You are not allowed to do this. This is wrong. And I am saying it is built into my genetics. And I think I have girl genetics and boy genetics. So I am going to express them. I am not going to feel shame or guilt. And that has given me the confidence for everything else.  I want to talk about your process too about writing about how you come up with some of your bits. I want to listen to...  You cannot call them bits.  Oh sorry.  I think they are scenes. I know there is an American stand-up language thing of saying I have got this bit. And it just sounds...  It makes it sound pretty small.  Yes it sounds like - I got this bit where I talk about the existence of eternity. I mean you know it sounds like someone has forced us to say I have got a bit. No I have got a nice piece of comedy. I have got a little scene. I have got a little story.  All right we are going to banish the bit. Let us talk about one of your scenes. You are talking about something extremely mundane about how software automatically updates. You know when you are like sitting at your computer and the software is like oh do you want to have an automatic update? And you are like yes please update thank you. Let us listen to that.   No one in this room has read the terms and conditions. No one in  has read the terms and conditions. No one in the world  world has read it. Even the people who wrote it did not read it.   Anything could be there. We will take your buttocks and sell them to the Chinese. Fine. Swap your knees out - yes. So we will tape your buttocks to the hot part of a tractor. OK. Put your big toe on your thumbs and swap them out. Yes yes can we? Because at that point you just want it. You want - give me the  update. And then you get the update and nothing's changed.   So process-wise is that you you know sitting at home at your computer the update actually happens and you think to yourself I am going to write a scene about this or...  No it is even more loose than that. It is actually on stage - like if I was doing that I would be on stage talking about something else or something close to it. And then I would think that terms - we do not read it do we? No one reads it. Do you read it? What is in it? And then suddenly you realize there is a whole lot of areas I can go there. So I just start ad-libbing on the stage. Everything is verbal sculpting. I verbally sculpt from there. So the next night I will expand upon it more. And I will say I will sell my buttocks to the Chinese whatever it is. You know and you get this energy that goes into it. And the audience really reacts to the energy. But then after a while you can get it locked down. And if you get it precise you go I am going to use these jokes in this section. And then it starts to become leaden. So I thought if I keep it always molten it will always be live. So I write down some ideas in the notes section of my iPhone. And then I go on stage and I develop them. And I developed Force Majeure my latest show in LA and San Francisco and New York. And I will do that in Paris. And that'ill be a salute to France in voting in President Macron and the 65 percent. And that was like their referendum. I am very positive on Europe. We have to make the world work otherwise this century it is going to be our key century. The first century for the rest of eternity where humanity really gets as fair as possible or it is the last century and goodbye humanity.  Wow. Stakes....  Yeah I think those are the stakes.  Wow.  I think those are the stakes. So moderates of the world be radical in your moderatism because the people on extremes they will use a lot of hatred and a lot of aggression against you. And you have to push - you have to be tough and push back against it.  Awesome. Eddie Izzard thank you.  Thank you. Cheers.  Eddie Izzard's book is called  A Memoir Of Love Death And Jazz Chickens. 