 It is official - summer is here. OK it will be official in a couple of days. But now that you have hopefully got some time on your hands let us talk about what you might want to watch on TV. We wanted to know what to catch and what to skip so we called NPR TV critic Eric Deggans at his post in St. Petersburg Fla. Hi Eric.  Hey.  So first of all could you set the table? I thought it used to be the case that the TV business slowed down in the summer. Some people actually looked forward to the reruns so they could catch up on what they missed. But you have been telling us...   Reruns that is so quaint.  Right? But you are telling us there is actually a huge number of new and returning shows. How many are there and why is that?  Well we keep a running tally at NPR's art central here. And we have counted at least a hundred new and returning shows this summer from June 1 till the end of August. And there is all kinds of trends kind of colliding at once right? You know you have got streamers that are picking up the slack. Netflix for example has a major series debut every Friday in June. Networks are getting more aggressive with their summer programming because they are realizing that cable and streaming is not slowing down. But they cannot put their best shows on in summer because their key time is still the fall and the regular TV season. And then you have cable channels for example like TNT that seem to be tweaking their image and trying to revamp what they stand for by trying some experimental new stuff. So there is a show called Claws for example that is set at a Florida nail salon that also happens to be a front for organized crime.  That is something I would not have thought of a nail salon that is a front for organized crime - sure.  Unless you live in Florida and then it makes all kinds of sense.  So let us talk about some of your recommendations. You wrote a story early in the week with some of them. One of them was this Netflix show about the creation of a female wrestling league called GLOW. And I will play a clip from that. This is comic Marc Maron who plays a B-movie director who is trying to organize the league.    This is GLOW.   Sorry what is GLOW?   Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling. This is a wrestling television show just like the big guys but girls get it? What?   So like Hulk Hogan?   If one of you turns out to be Hulk Hogan I have hit the jackpot.  OK Eric so why did this make your list?  This is a really funny story about lovable losers and this sort of desperate kind of mediocre level of show business where this really bizarre league got sort of burst.  OK Eric but with more than a hundred shows coming how should people sort all that out? How are they going to figure out what they want to watch?  It is whatever you like. I mean that is the great thing about this. It is like a smorgasbord right? So if you like a smart slightly soapy family drama that has some diversity in it then OWN Oprah's channel was bringing back Queen Sugar for a second season Ava DuVernay's series. And it continues at the same level that it was at last season which was pretty good. If you would like British cop dramas there is a show Broadchurch on BBC America that features David Tennant and Olivia Colman. I think they are one of the best cop duos on television. And I am a nut for B-movies. Spike TV has this show called The Mist which is a version of a kind of a B-movie that was a version of a novella that Stephen King did. It hits all those buttons for me. It is a fun you know sort of summer viewing. And finally if you love great cooking shows PBS is going to have The Great British Baking Show. And it is the last season before they revamp the show because in Britain the show is moving to a different channel so it is going to have different hosts and slightly different judges. So if you want to see the classic format of the show one last time you can see it here in America on PBS over the summer.  Bingo. That is mine.  I knew I would hit one that you would like at some point .  You got me. That was Eric Deggans speaking with us from St. Petersburg Fla. Eric thank you.  Always a pleasure.  