 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The past four decades are a lot funnier in the collected columns and deadline poetry of Calvin Trillin and I remember them an improvement on my memory for which I am very grateful. In The New Yorker in The Nation magazine in his syndicated column Calvin Trillin has written hilariously funny stuff for a biblical span of 40 years about food and politics language and mores and about growing up Jewish in Kansas City and much else.  Forty Years of Funny Stuff. And Mr. Trillin joins us now from Nova Scotia which devoted readers of Trillin know is where he spends his summers. Hi. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert.  Let us start with Kansas City. You are the product by your own description of a boringly happy childhood in the middle of the country thanks to the German Jewish banker and philanthropist Jacob Schiff.  Yeah. I owe it all to Jacob Schiff. There is a piece in the book about how in the beginning of the 20th century German Jews like Jacob Schiff were pretty comfortable in New York and then this horde of Eastern European scruffy sometimes religious and political fanatic Jews came pouring into the Lower East Side. And I did not know about this of course until I was a grownup but then I read in a book that - it said Jacob Schiff concerned by the conditions and embarrassed by these people gave 500000 to something called The Galveston Movement which was to reroute them from darkest Europe to Galveston and then arranged jobs and things in the Midwest and the South. And so my family was - went to St. Joseph Missouri St. Joe.  Who is Jacob Schiff to be embarrassed by my Uncle Benny Daynafski?   I mean for instance we never had anything to do with robber barons like the Schiffs did. I mean the - when it comes to rapacious 19th-century capitalism my family's hands are clean.   But when you talk about rapacious robber barons in the 19th century one of the you know one of the themes that echoes throughout your columns and poems is you are not afraid of being accused of waging class warfare. You have never forgotten your roommate in college whom you called Thatcher Baxter Hatcher.   Well all of them had three last names but you did not call them by one of the names. They all had little nicknames like Mutt and Biff and Skip was a big one. And we called Thatcher Baxter Hatcher Tush.   This we should say was - you went to Yale.  That is right.  You were not an eastern boarding school product at Yale. You were from the middle of the country.  Yeah. I was a public high school boy who were then - we were then in a distinct minority.  There is a column you wrote in 1983 which you described a condition that could only have gotten worse over the years it was called People in Charge  When someone reaches middle age people he knows begin to be put in charge and knowing what he knows about the people who are being put in charge of things scares the hell out of him.  That is right. I realized that. I was reading the paper and I saw that somebody named Al Dalton Durfee had been put in charge of negotiating the trade deficit problems with Japan and I think everybody else said well deputy undersecretary of state I think everything will be in control now. And what I thought was my God it is Dumb Dolt Durfee...   ...the fourth dumbest guy in my class. The Japanese will have California by Christmas.   And they would say well it is his hormones. And I do not think it is his hormones. People he knew in college and in high school start to get put in charge of thing and it scares the hell out of them.   You have to flee at that moment...  Absolutely.  ...when your classmates are actually - they are given portfolios that control the safety of the world.  And it happens at a certain age. And it is around the 25th reunion of college too which is - makes it even scarier.  But does not one come out the other end eventually that is are not you - at some point you become older than all the people who have been given these jobs and so you can be hopeful once again that maybe they are up to them.  No no. What the big relief is that the guys you knew are out of it now and you do not have to worry about it anymore. They are retired.  Calvin Trillin let me ask you about one thing that not funny. It is been 10 years. And in reading these - the recurring wonderful character in so many of your pieces was your wife Alice whom you were writing about and for and to. And reading them it is a reminder of how that - not just you but the two of you were real to lots of us who have read your columns over the years and been quite a while now.  You know I did not think I would ever write anything funny after she died but...  Which is on 911 was not it or right around it?  Yes it was that night. I mean it was early in the morning so it was technically the next day but it was about 2 oclock at night in 911. But you know eventually writers write you know? I mean it is sort of - I got back to work - and more on reporting pieces - and then eventually I found something funny.  It was tough to be funny for I would assume for a long time.  Yes. Yeah it was.  And...  And I had not realized how much until I started putting this book together how much of a character she was in all of this and how I had written it basically to make her laugh.  To make her laugh yeah.  Yeah.  Well it is good to read you after you recovered. And it is a reminder of how never having met either of you you were both real people to me for a very long time and...  Thank you.  ...nice to read about it. Calvin Trillin whose collected works are in a book called  Forty Years of Funny Stuff. 