 Toppy pifficated stink-a-rooed Liza Minnellied in the bag he sees the bears and Boris Yeltsined. There are at least 2964  drunk. How do I know? Well our friend Paul Dickson has counted. Hes the author of the new book  The Definitive Drinkers Dictionary and hes here now in the studio sober I assume. Mr. Yes as always.  Okay good. So what are some of your favorites that you collected? Mr. Some of them have great stories to them like blotto which is a wonderful term invented by G.K. Chesterton and he thought all the other terms for really being drunk were no good. And blotto is a wonderful one because later Edmund Wilson who created his own list of drunken terms said that was the ultimate stage of inebriation was blotto. Its so useful that it even shows up in The Simpsons.  My name is Otto I love to get blotto. So one of my favorite new ones is feng shuied which is the idea that somebody has had something to drink and maybe rearranged the furniture in their brain through drink.  Mr.   Or at least thats the excuse. Mr. Thats right. But they go with the time. And the first really great list of drunken terms was Benjamin Franklin. Franklin had a list of 228 terms which are - in 1737. And then all of a sudden these other people over the years Dickens made a list of them. H.L. Mencken made a huge list of them. Langston Hughes made a list. And part of it was there was this fascination with the euphemism for drunkenness because even Franklin said look this is a terrible condition but people they dont have the courage to say well Uncle Frank was drunk at Thanksgiving. They say well Uncle Frank got a little bit squiffy or Uncle Frank got a little bit tipsy or Uncle Frank got a little bit tiddly.  Let me just ask you this though. Cant you just make  I mean it seems like so many of these words are just made up on the spot. Cant you just make up some? Mr. You can. But every one of them and I spell out the rules in the book really easily. I have to find it in print. I have to find it in a novel. Part of the deal is there are always new ones coming along and the book comes out just now. And Ive already had people who have heard about this. And after this therell be more  I got one for you. Mr. Whats that?  Robert Siegeled. Mr.  Robert   Lets add that one in. Mr. That would -  Just for fun Mr.  but nobody - you cant do that.  Its only for public radio at this time. Mr. Only for public - Robert Siegeled.  I mean you could do them all Noah Adamsed. You know I mean you could do everybody. You could do anybody. I mean Scott Simoned.  Mr.  Scott Simonized. I mean you could do anybody.  Well okay were having a lot of fun with this. And these words are really fun but youre not making fun of people who have a serious alcohol problem. Mr. No nor am I celebrating what is a huge social evil a huge problem in this country and the rest of the world. But what I am doing I guess if Im celebrating anything its sort of the way we deal with language the way we treat each other the way we see each other. But I mean its not meant to be a validation of this condition. But its really sort of an inquiry into the way the language develops and the way that famous writers - I mean Dickens and all these writers in their writing right up to the most modern novelist - have to deal with this subject and so they come up with ways of describing it.   The Definitive Drinkers Dictionary and Ive been speaking with Paul Dickson. Thank you. Mr. Thank you.   To see illustrations from the book and to add your own synonym for being off me pickle go to npr.org.  Robert Siegeled. For the past week weve been branded here on ALL ine Branded very soberly I should add. Madeleines been co-hosting. You go back to California.  I go back to California. Its been such fun.  Its been great fun for us. And on Monday Melissa Block will be back.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 