 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  Patricia Marx writes the shopping column for the New Yorker and she is a former writer for Saturday Night Live. Her female lead in the novel is Imogene Gilfeather a lingerie designer with as Marx writes a cruel haircut tall and thin with jutting cheeks and fiery red hair she looked like a kitchen match that stubbornly would not light.  She has been described by one character as a big no. Imogene Gilfeather says things that I would not dare to say and does not become a better character in the end of the book.  She stays the same. She starts out saying when people are trying to fix her up with Wally Yez they say he is perfect for you. She says perfect is not my type. She is pretty happy or she thinks she is happy on her own right?  And I wanted to kind of reverse the conventional roles of man and woman in a romantic comedy the man being much more ardent the woman being much more committed to her work and committed to not making any commitments.  Okay. So that is Imogene Gilfeather. Her romantic foil is Wally Yez. He is some kind of scientist right? We are not sure exactly what.  He is some kind of scientist. I think he takes cats and makes them dizzy and studies them at some point and he looks at a lot of chipmunks. He is as enthusiastic as Imogene is not. He is just a happy happy guy. He is a big yes.  He likes instruction manuals. He really has fun with them.  He loves reading instruction manuals.  Let us talk about the format a little bit here. Here's an example of one of your chaplets in its entirety. Everyone has a mother. Another one. It is one of those things like soil erosion.  And you know I got to the end of a sentence and I thought well I have no more to say in this chapter. I also as a writer think visually and I like a pretty page so I thought this would be kind of a nifty look with lots of blank space.  You said at one point not in this book but earlier that you write comedy because you are too shallow to do anything else.  I say that hoping people go oh no you are really not. But they really do not. Being serious just makes me a little bit embarrassed earnestness does. So it is kind of superficial. You know I write the shopping column. I think I have proven my superficiality.  Is it ever sort of a burden? Do you feel pressure? You know I am a humorist. People are going to expect me to be funny. If I am just not feeling funny that day what do I do?  Oh gosh is it ever. It is at times like that that I wish I were a lawyer because I want somebody to say she is a lawyer. Say something legal or you know.  Well what do you do when you know people are looking at you just expectingly waiting for you to be funny?  Just say not today. Not on Thursdays. I do not know what you do. You come up with something. And then the advantage is if you are billed as being funny people laugh even if you say you know the wall is white.  Really? Oh you think they just go along with it?  Yeah. They do not want to not get the joke.  Well that is got to be a relief and tempting I would think.  Uh-huh.  Patty Marx why do not we end by having you read to us one of your chaplets. This is chaplet 224. It is a happy point an early point in Imogene and Wally's relationship.  Okay. There was always something to celebrate. The five month anniversary of the first time they touched each other on purpose. The three month anniversary of the first time they took public transportation together. The two day anniversary of the first time they saw each other with wet hair. The seven month three week two day four hour anniversary of when Wally really knew. They liked to reminisce about the instant that just went by.  It is Patricia Marx reading from her novel Starting from Happy. Patricia Marx thanks so much.  Thank you. 