 It is been more than ten years since the adventures of the boy wizard Harry Potter hit bookshelves. Now what series will have kids lining up at midnight at the bookstore and the box office? To help us read the literary tea leaves we are joined now by Judy Bulow. She is a book buyer at Tattered Cover Books in Denver Colorado. Judy thanks so much for being with us. Ms.  Thank you for having me.  What series could possibly fill the gap left behind by Harry Potter or is there a series that is already starting to do that? Ms.  Well Harry Potter was such a phenomenon from the first book to the last movie and the website that is now Pottermore. I do not think anything is going to fill that gap in that way for a while. But there is a series called The Hunger Games which is for slightly older readers and it is about a girl who must fight other kids her age for her own livelihood and for the livelihood of her family. And it sounds like it is very violent. It is but the way the author has written it it works very well. There is a movie coming out of The Hunger Games. It should be great. All of the Harry Potter movies were done with such quality and I think The Hunger Games will also have that quality.  Is that important for a book to reach blockbuster status that it also capture the attention of Hollywood? Ms.  Well I think it is but I have noticed that many Hollywood people kind of option a lot of movies that do or do not get made. There is one called Before I Fall which is Lauren Oliver. It is sort of a Groundhog Day for teens where she is dying but she kind of relives her day. Or there is one called If I Stay which is about a girl who is in a coma and she tries to decide whether she really wants to stay alive or whether she just wants to give up her life which is not the ideal life. And those have both been optioned. They are great books. I do not know if they will be made into movies but they would be wonderful movies.  If someone was just tuning in I think they might be surprised to know that we are talking about young adult fiction. These movies are really dark. Ms.  Yes it is very dark. I think teens and the demographic we are talking about after Harry Potter really like the dark dystopia. There is another wonderful book called Divergent and that is a book about a girl who is choosing one of five factions. She is in Chicago. It is the skeleton of its former self. It is in the future. She picks the most violent the most risk-taking faction. And she sort of evolves as a girl hero because in this one she wants to be better than the boy who is in it. And that is kind of a change from oh save me to I am as good as you to I want to be the best.  Okay we have seen wizards witches vampires seem to be everywhere right now. What is the next rage? Ms.  Well we have had the werewolves. We have had zombie books but now we are sort of getting funny zombie books. Like there is one called You Are So Undead To Me which I think is funny.  Ms.  Because it is about a girl who counsels zombies so they can go to the grave. But I think now it is falling angels shapeshifters into wolves and birds and sometimes into any animal they want to be still more dark dystopian novels still a few frothy girl novels. So there is kind of a extreme there. But I think we are into the shapeshifters now and that is fine and then also some very realistic books.  Judy Bulow it is been a pleasure to talk to you. All the best to you. Thanks so much. Ms.  Thank you.  That is Judy Bulow. She is a book buyer at Tattered Cover Books in Denver Colorado. 