 Heavy-metal concert can get pretty aggressive. Stage divers often try to climb up with the band and launch themselves into the awaiting arms of the audience.   In the city of Prague in 2010 this scene turned to tragedy. In an especially unruly show by the band Lamb of God 19-year-old Daniel Nosek fell off the stage hit his head and died weeks later. When Lamb of God came to play another show in Prague two years later Czech police arrested their lead singer D. Randall Blythe for manslaughter. They said he had pushed the young man to his death that night. Blythe tells the story in his new memoir Dark Days. D.  I did not really remember that much of the show because it was just a show like any other. There were a lot of kids with black clothes with long hair you know excitedly bumping into each other. Security was nonexistent basically. My band has very stringent security requirements. We require security in front of the stage security on the side of the stage a properly placed solid-faced barricade at least four to five feet from in front of the stage. There was a barricade there it was not the proper one. They did not place it properly. Security did not do their job they were not even visible to me.  Now the Czech police arrested you on a charge that essentially amounted to manslaughter. What did they accuse you of doing?  They said - well first of all they said I had given the audience unclear instructions inviting people up on stage which is never ever ever the case. And they said I assaulted this young man pushed him off of the stage with intent to harm him. And they arrested me at the airport. I walked off an airplane and at the end was a SWAT team. There were guys in body armor and masks and machine guns.  And tell people how long were you in there before the trial?  I was incarcerated for 37 days. Three of those were in the city jail and then they sent me to a 123-year-old prison named Pankrac Prison. It is very dilapidated parts of it are abandoned. It is unfit for human habitation in fact.  Now I have seen pictures and video of you. You seem like a fairly tall fairly imposing guy. And you have been to jail before. But this sounds like this was terrifying.  It was very scary because it was a foreign prison. Almost nobody spoke English. I really had no idea of what was going on. I had no access to any sort of media or anything that I could understand. All I knew was that I was a top news story in the Czech Republic and the news was not good. I was granted bail three days after I was arrested but unlike America when you pay bail there there can be objections to it. So the prosecuting attorney objected to my bail several times. It had to go through appeals court. It was doubled. It wound up being almost half a million dollars that we wound up paying. And eventually I left the Czech Republic and came back to America for about six months. At the end of six months I returned to the Czech Republic to face trial.  I am sure a lot of people would have never gone back to the Czech Republic. I want you to - if you can explain this - if you can read from page 111 in your book?  OK.  I decided I would rather die in prison - always a distinct possibility in the penal system - as a real man than live free as a coward because I was too damn scared to face an uncertain future in an effort to find out the truth. If warranted I would pay the price for a deadly crime I might have committed and do so without complaint. I still believe in and try to live by a concept that is sadly almost lost even ridiculed at times as anachronistic in our Western society - honor.  So you know I think a lot of people who were certain of their innocence would feel comfortable not returning and not consider that dishonorable to do. Why did you go back to Prague?  Well it was not - it really had nothing to do with you know the threat of extradition or the lack thereof because I never would have been extradited back for that. The government would not even cooperate with an investigation much less extradite me. The reason why I felt compelled to go back is because the family of this young man who died never once attacked me either in the press in private in the courtroom nothing. The fact of the matter is that a fan of my band was dead. And even though I had very vague recollections of what happened that evening and no recollection of this young man I thought that perhaps if I went back to court I could help them find some answers. Because these people - their son was dead. As a father of a child who died you know - I had a child who died due to a medical condition shortly after birth - I know that pain. And these people had no answer. So I thought if I go back maybe I can help provide them with some answers. And to be perfectly honest I wanted to make sure that I was not missing anything. If there was anything that came up in the trial that was indicative of the fact that I in fact was guilty and should be punished for this then I did not want to run from that because I would not be able to look at myself in the mirror any other way.  You were found not guilty but do you feel you know rationally or not any kind of sense of responsibility though for him?  Absolutely. The court found me legally not guilty but they found me morally responsible for the death of this young man and that is something I have to live with for the rest of my life. And it is not because I pushed anyone offstage but I did make a critical mistake in this situation and that is I should have stopped the show from the beginning. What would the audience have done? I do not know maybe they would have rioted. But I would rather deal with any of that than to have this you know - this fact of the matter is that a fan of my band is dead. If I had after the first couple of songs just said you know what? We are done with this - and walked offstage I think the kid would have been alive today. So that is something I have to internalize. It is something I have to carry with me everywhere I go.  D. Randall Blythe is the lead singer of Lamb of God. His new memoir is called Dark Days. Randy it is been a real pleasure speaking with you. Thank you so much.  