 The Girls is a new book with a lot of hype around it the kind of hype you would expect with reports of a seven-figure deal for a 20-something-year-old author. It is a work of fiction based on the infamous Manson Family murders. But writer Emma Cline told NPR's Lynn Neary it was not the cult that fascinated her. Cline was more interested in exploring how a young girl can brush up against evil without realizing it.  During adolescence a young girl wants to be seen more than anything says Emma Cline. She knows this to be true because he remembers the feeling. When she was a young girl an older man took an interest in her as she was walking down the street. She was 13. He was in his 50s. He is famous one of his groupies told her breathlessly. He knew people like David Bowie and the Ramones. Cline was impressed so she gave him her address.  It was sort of this moment where I was very attuned to the world around me and really wanted to belong and be noticed. And this person sort of noticed me and wanted to stay in contact and it seemed so benign to me at the time.  Other girls might have been more cautious Cline says. But it was only when she was older that she understood how strange and potentially dangerous the situation was. In her case nothing bad happened but it was that toxic mixture of naivety and neediness that she wanted to explore in her book about the young women who were part of a Manson-like cult. Her fictional cult also has a charismatic male leader but Cline did not want to write about him.  To me that story has been told so many times and is not interesting. And what felt a lot more interesting and more realistic is exploring this magnetic connection that young women especially can have with each other. It is such like an intense moment and these intense friendships are formed.  The girl and the center of Cline's story is Evie an unhappy teenager whose parents are getting divorced. She and her only friend have angrily parted ways. She is adrift and directionless as the summer of 1969 begins. Then she meets a group of girls who live in a commune near the town where she lives. Evie's attracted to them and their lifestyle. She wants to be one of them. Cline says she wanted to understand why.  What makes young women vulnerable to these kinds of situations? What is the psychology behind how they get involved in a group like this? We like to believe that you can avoid danger because you would see the signs but I think that is not really true. And there is this danger especially for adolescent girls.  One of the things this book is about is that moment in a young girl's life when everything could go horribly wrong.  Kate Medina is the editorial director at Random House. Medina says she knew she wanted to buy this book regardless of price almost immediately. It was Cline's description of the group of girls that first caught her attention.  It is the end of the second page and Emma Cline writes  the familiarity of the day was disturbed by the path the girls cut across the regular world sleek and thoughtless as sharks breaching the water. And it was that last sentence about the sharks that made me say OK this is a serious writer.  The coolest girl in the group is Suzanne who is everything Evie wants to be. Evie's desire to please Suzanne leads her into petty crimes and sexual exploits. She is alternately confused and thrilled by these adventures which are building to a murderous night that Evie barely misses. Cline says she wants readers to understand how Evie could be so taken in by someone like Suzanne.  Although she does these evil things I wanted to also have her be in some ways a sympathetic person or just someone who Evie truly loves and what it means to love somebody who could do something so terrible.  We learn early on that Suzanne is in prison for her crimes. Evie does not have that clarity. She did not make the decision to leave the group the night of the killings. It was made for her. She can never really be sure what she would have done if she had been there. The grown-up Evie who tells this story is left in limbo.  And I really thought of her as someone whose present had been taken hostage by the past in this way where she almost could not move past this one summer.  Evie fell in love that summer as teenage girls are wont to do and everything did indeed go horribly wrong. Lynn Neary NPR News Washington. 