 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. When Deborah Fallows went to live in China with her husband the journalist James Fallows she was armed with a few semesters of Mandarin study. Then she got to Shanghai and found she could not recognize or speak a single word of what she would been studying. She writes about her journey through the Chinese language - and her many missteps along the way - in her new book Dreaming in Chinese. Deborah Fallows has a Ph.D. in linguistics and speaks half a dozen languages but Chinese was another story. Ms.  I did not feel like I had anything to hang my hat on with this language. It just bore no resemblance to Romance languages Germanic languages Japanese anything that I would ever approached before. And there are some things about Chinese that are easy and then there are a lot of things about Chinese that are hard.  Well let us talk about that. You point out that Chinese has only 400 syllables unique syllables one-tenth of the number that there are in English which means that there are many many many words that sound exactly alike. Ms.  Homonyms...  And that can get you in a lot of trouble right? Ms.  It is homonyms run rampant yes.  Ms.  Like in English if you have say the word seal - seal the animal you have seal a letter but in Chinese you have just a plethora of things like that. The issue with Chinese is that they have these very few syllables. You do not -words like mah tah huh shi you do not get a lot of long complicated syllables like stretch or plump where you get consonants clustered together to give you all kinds of varieties. So there is very little to work with. And that actually connects directly to the tone system of Chinese. Since you have so few syllables to work with one of the ways out of that and distinguishing one syllable for another to make one word or another is to slap a tone onto it. So you can say shi. Shi. Shi. Shi. And you get...  And the meaning will change. Ms.  ...and the meaning will change with each of those.  You print a short little story in your book written in Chinese called The Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den. Ms.  That is right.  Which looks like a whole bunch of different Chinese characters on the page. But if you were to read it what would it sound like? Ms.  It would sound all like shi.  Every word. Ms.  Every word is shi. The tones might change but the amazing thing about this poem is that you can tell this entire story using one syllable. It is a real challenge to listen to especially if your ear is not accustomed to listening and using tones.  And the shi in this poem you are saying means lions market 10 eat and stone among other words. Ms.  Right among other things. It is a little fable and it is not a great story.  Ms.  It does not tell a wonderful myth but it is kind of interesting that you can tell a whole story using one syllable.  You write about something that happened to you one day when you had a craving an inexplicable craving for cheese when you were living in Shanghai and you went to Taco Bell. And you were trying to order takeout and just ran into a buzz saw of lack of understanding. What happened? Ms.  Right. I went in the door and was greeted by this young Chinese guy in a sombrero and little velvet vest and had practiced very hard what I was going to ask him. I wanted to do takeout. The word in Chinese for takeout is dabao. So I was not very good at tones at that point and trying to ask him do you have dabao? A complete blank look on his face. So I thought okay I am obviously using the tones wrong here so I will try dabao with other kinds of tones. So I was trying rising tones falling tones falling and rising tones any combination of tones I could get for the word dabao. Then I got the menu. I started mimicking - pointing on the menu pointing to the door as though I were taking a bag out the door...  Ms.  ...you know and thinking all this well come on. How hard can this be? Finally he went into the back room into the kitchen and came out with three or four other guys. I went through the routine again with dabao. Dabao. Dabao. Anything I can think of.  Ms.  And one of them had this look of eureka on his face and he said oh dabao.  Ms.  And then they all laughed and went into the other room and said yes they do you know yes they do. Yo they do have dabao.  And when you were asking in that Taco Bell for takeout they might have been thinking what? What would have sounded similar to what you were asking for? Ms.  There are a number of things some of them more embarrassing than others. I was maybe asking for a hug. And I...  These crazy Westerners.  Ms.  Yeah. You just never know what they will want.  You point one other thing that - well many other things but you do point to one glimmer you have into Chinese culture which has to do with the notion that it can be a very blunt language. To an American it might seem impolite that there are not sort of these grace notes I think you call them of please and thank yous that are added to things. Ms.  Right. When people ask you if you want something like would you like a glass of water? You would say bu yao which just means do not want or do not need instead of saying oh no thanks. I am not really thirsty. Maybe I will have something later.  Right. Ms.  With all this padding and softness that you use to communicate in what you think is a polite way in English you strip all of that away in Chinese. And it is just bu yao. Bu keqi do not want cannot. Bu shi is not do not. And I did feel very rude. But then I noticed this funny thing that was going on for example if you are in a restaurant watching a group of close friends eating or maybe it is a family eating you see this very delicate choreography. For example you have a common pot of chicken and maybe the mom in the family has got her chopstick and she is very delicately picking out the best little chunks of chicken to put on her child's plate. And you see the dad pouring tea or pouring beer for everybody else in the family as is appropriate before pouring it for yourself.  This is very polite normal standard behavior. And then in the midst of all this one of the kids will say gei wo yan give me the salt. It is like what is going on? Why this point of difference between what you see as polite and what you hear as being really rude? So I started to look into this a little bit and found that if you are inserting these niceties these softeners like pleases and thank yous the Chinese will see that as actually setting up a distance between you and the person you are talking to. So if I say please pass the salt your understanding that I have a certain degree of formality between you and me which you do not want to insert in that case. So in a family or between and among friends putting in the pleases and thank yous actually is setting up a distance between you. There is a degree of formality and even can be kind of offensive rather than saying hey what is going on here? You know you are my buddy. You are my friend. You do not need to say please and thank you. That is what is polite is when you strip away that kind of formality of please and thank you.  I am wondering if you got to the point where you were in fact dreaming in Chinese...   ...such as the title of your book. Were you seeing characters? Was that the language in your sleep? Ms.  I dreamed a little in Chinese but not a lot in Chinese. It was more like this odd dictionary dream where I was looking for a word. It was more like this frustrating experience with the tones where I was trying to say something and get it across and someone not understanding me.  Pretty much the story of your time there. Ms.  The story of my life in China.  Deborah Fallows thanks for coming in. Ms.  Thanks Melissa.  Deborah Fallows' book is  Mandarin Lessons in Life Love and Language. You can read an excerpt at npr.org.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 