 The true tale of how an unassuming British couple allegedly cheated England's most popular TV game show is the story of Quiz. It is a three-part miniseries now airing on AMC. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says it is also a story of how an unsuspecting TV titan was outfoxed by a pack of passionate fans.  One of the most surprising scenes in Quiz depicts producers and the TV network behind Britain's super-popular game show Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? unable to answer a simple question. Is it a crime in Britain to cheat on a game show? Here's the scene as the head of the network asked that question of the network's lawyer.    Well it is not not.   It is theft. It is a million pounds. If this was a bank vault or a diamond store in Hatton Gardens there would be helicopters by now.   All I am saying is is it a crime to cheat on a game show?   Well it is - it is well...   Stop saying well Lionel.   I am from legal. It is my job to say well.  That is the spirit that makes Quiz a British miniseries directed by Stephen Frears such a sly delight. It is a wry sometimes poignant look at how one of TV's most popular game shows may have allowed itself to get hacked. These days contestants sign extensive contracts. But if AMC's Quiz is to be believed back in 2001 when contestant Charles Ingram unexpectedly won 1 million pounds on the show producers had not even contemplated that contestants might help each other or worse. Just before Ingram competed the show is executives worried the contestants all looked homogenous. They were not wrong.    It is like they know each other and they are somehow sort of helping each other.   Is that against the rules?   It is against the spirit of the rules.   They are getting on and they are getting bolder. Now we think it almost feels like something's coming.  What was coming was a trial in which British Army Maj. Charles Ingram and his wife Diana along with another contestant were charged with using a system of coughs to cheat on the show. U.S. fans may remember the American version of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? as a blockbuster hit that saved ABC in 1999. But Quiz shows that the creators of the British show originally had a tough time pitching it to networks who worried it was a...    Fusty old game show.   It is not a game show. It is a quiz. That is the joy of it. People love a good pub quiz - a uniquely British invention combining our two greatest loves drinking and being right.  They ditch the dopey original name Cash Mountain crafting a format where contestants are asked increasingly difficult multiple-choice questions to reach a 1-million-pound grand prize. Succession co-star Matthew Macfadyen is perfect as Charles Ingram a well-meaning but kind of dimwitted guy whose wife Diana played by Fleabag co-star Sian Clifford was the real trivia nut of the family. Colluding with a network of supporters Diana teaches Charles how to get on the show and then coughs strategically to signal the correct answers including on this question about a British pop star.    Craig David.     You know when I am at home and I am practicing I guess wrong 80 of the time.    So I think I am going to go with Craig David.   Charles you never heard of him a moment ago.   No Craig David I am going to...  Quiz does a masterful job showing how the producer's naivete and fan's passion combine to create a situation with no easy answers. Viewers of Quiz will have a grand time coming up with their own responses. And that is my final answer. I am Eric Deggans. 