 Originality or the lack of it is not just a problem on the big screen. Summertime has brought a bumper crop of glossy dramas to cable TV including its highest-rated series TNT's The Closer. They are the kind of shows that would not seem out of place on the broadcast networks. And that says commentator Andrew Wallenstein is the problem.  Congratulations cable. Channels like TNT USA and FX have never been more powerful or more boring. If I see one more show with an established actor cast as a quirky detective I am going to scream. TNT has a four of them. There is Kyra Sedgwick as a detective on the The Closer.  Ms.   We owe a lot to our boss. It is the one thing that unites the LAPD.  And Jason Lee as a detective on Memphis Beat.  Mr.   Way we do it down here is detectives do not take the basics like 10-15s.  Or Angie Harmon as - wait for it - a detective in Rizzoli  Isles.  Ms.   I treated a senior federal agent like a perp. I tackled him in a creek.  All are so formulaic so bland so broadcast. Have we forgotten what cable used to be? Just think back to one of cable's most incredible discoveries like the then-little-known Michael Chiklis as the rough-edged cop on the FX series The Shield.  Mr.   You want to get off the dead bangers list you are going to play by the rules. First one is we still make the rules.  What passes for The Shield today? Well it is clearly had an influence on TNT's Dark Blue a fluffier take on undercover cops.  Unidentified Man 1   One's a little spicy. .  That might be better titled Powder Blue or Periwinkle.    I mean do you  like 15 of those bad boys.  The reason cable is not as scrappy as it used to be is that it became a victim of its own success. They are courting advertisers just as big as the broadcasters at this point. And since their schedules are also filled with older broadcast shows in syndication like Cold Case Law and Order NCIS they need to promote similar fare. Take USA which airs reruns of the Fox drama House. It is not a coincidence that one of its original series Royal Pains is also a medical whodunit albeit one that makes House seem as dark as Schindler's List.  Unidentified Man 2   I have a rash. Unidentified Man 3   A rash? Where? Unidentified Man 2   For my sake I hope you practice doctor-patient confidentiality.  Cable has not entirely lost its artistic streak. AMC is keeping the flame burning with the likes of Mad Men and Breaking Bad. But The Closer and Royal Pains they get like three times the ratings. And you wonder why cable cleaned up its act.  Andrew Wallenstein is an editor at the Hollywood Reporter. 