 Curtis Sittenfeld made a name for herself in 2005 when she published the novel Prep about an angst-ridden scholarship student at a fancy boarding school. Then in 2008 came American Wife. The main character was the first lady loosely based on Laura Bush. Now she' Sisterland. Reviewer Sloane Crosley says in all three what stands out is Sittenfeld's ability to enter the minds of her characters.  Here the story is about a pair of psychic twin sisters in St. Louis. You might expect to hear narration from both sisters but Sittenfeld does not do that. Instead  Kate. Kate first notices her senses as a kid. But after one particularly traumatic teenage sleepover involving a Ouija board and a popular girl she starts to feel ashamed. A dark presence informs her of impending deaths and affairs and all sorts of things not fit for teenage brains. Kate is so frightened of her powers that she adopts a kind of keep-making-that-face-and-you will-get-stuck-like-that mentality. You see the book Sittenfeld is writing is less about making psychics believable than about making psychic shame and embarrassment believable. OK. I know what you' Being a psychic is cool. Why should not Kate come to embrace her powers? Well  the other sister. Violet is less skittish than Kate. She is promiscuous judgmental overweight embarrassing and occasionally offensive. She also makes her living as a professional psychic. She may not have a regular job or be able to drive a car but at least she knows who she is more or less. When Sisterland opens Violet has just gone on local TV predicting a major earthquake. Vi's predictions threaten to unravel Kate's carefully manufactured world which of course was already unraveling before the book began. Of course Sisterland is more about sisters than psychics. The book's only major fault line is that Sittenfeld sometimes feels the need to act like a one-woman cleanup crew. She gets bogged down in flashback and back-story. Still Sittenfeld puts her empathetic abilities to use here. She creates a genuinely engrossing sense of suspense even when she herself knows precisely what the future will bring.  The novel is Sisterland by Curtis Sittenfeld. Our reviewer Sloane Crosley is the author of the essay collection How Did You Get This Number. 