 You do not need fiction to escape into a good summer read. Janet Webster Jones knows this. She is the owner of Source Booksellers in Detroit a store that specializes in nonfiction. It is actually not her first job.  I was a teacher in Detroit Public Schools for 41 12 years. And I started the bookstore almost 30 years ago now.  Jones enjoys books about people's experiences so we asked her for some recommendations. She started with Old In Art School by historian Nell Painter.  Oh yes this is my new hero or I should say shero . She is a retired professor from Princeton. It is a beautifully written book about her stepping into art school at the age of 64 I think it was. And the kind of questions she got - somebody asked her how old are you? And at that moment she felt the sting of ageism. She talks about what counts as art and who makes this decision. It helps us to know that at all ages we can reset our perception to learn to know things in new and different ways.  I know there is one choice you have that I am really intrigued by 'ecause it is a love story which is...  Yes.  A nonfiction love story makes me curious.   This is Alexis Clark. What she writes about is military history. And she found out about the black nurses that were assigned to Camp Florence in Arizona where German POWs were being held. Eleanor who is a black nurse and Frederick seem to have come together in unusual ways. It talks about her taking a day off from work going to the nearby town a long ride from the camp having in her mind getting a cool drink. And when she got there they denied her. She did all she could as she was dressed in her Army nurse's uniform to not show her frustration her anger her fear and her hurt. And when she got back to her surprise when she sat down with her other nurse colleagues she felt someone behind her. And it was Frederick who put a plate in front of her to say I am sure you are hungry. And he walked back to the kitchen. The book is just sweet. It is maddening. It causes you to think about humanity and the kinds of things that we do to people. And it is one that I just highly recommend.  Now this brings me to another one of your choices. It is a book about work. It is called The Long Haul. Tell us more about it.  Oh I love this book. This man is just wonderful. He is Finn Murphy. And he has a history of having lived a rather privileged life in the New England area. And he says himself that he kind of messed up. And so the only thing he had left after he messed up was his card to drive trucks. So he started a new life in Colorado. In the book he really talks about class because people think of truck drivers in a lot of different ways and usually it is not considered rather a high-class occupation. His prose is very engaging and lighthearted but yet he is sharing some very deep understandings of life on the road. So I love this book. I think it is a fine book talking about the transitions that men encounter in their life and have to find new ways of living and thinking.  Now I do not think we should end without noting that you turned 81 this summer.  I did indeed.  And despite all this talk of transitions  that we have talked about...  Yes .  ...In this conversation it sounds like you are just fine. It sounds like you are - found your home bookselling.  Yes I have found my place. And I keep searching for other possibilities for myself. We do not know what is in store for us in life. And I think I have found my spot but I do not think I ever lost it either.  Janet Webster Jones - she is the owner of Source Booksellers in Detroit. Thank you for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Well thank you for having me. I truly appreciate it.   The books she recommended are Old In Art School The Long Haul and  A German POW A Black Nurse And An Unlikely Romance.  