 New York filmmaker Ira Sachs makes relationship movies that are quietly observant about modern life. His last film was called Love Is Strange. His latest is called Little Men. But NPR critic Bob Mondello says it could be subtitled friendship is strange.  Two 13 year olds in Brooklyn - Tony a boisterous and athletic kid from the neighborhood Jake an awkward new arrival and budding artist. They meet for the first time when Jake drops some things he is carrying to his grandfather's wake and Tony rushes to help out.    Did you draw this?   Yeah. It is the sky above Camp Jupiter the day of the battle.   You are a real artist.   Not really.   Yeah you are. This is awesome.   You got it son?   Yeah I got it.   You know you are going to like this neighborhood. It is become a very Bohemian area.   It is just a reception.   I know but if you move in I can show you around.  Tony's heard what Jake has not yet. Jake's family is doing some belt tightening. His mom's a social worker. Dad's an actor and not a particularly successful one.    You said you were not doing this nonprofit stuff.   Things have changed.   You should applaud your father for being adaptable. It is what life's all about.  For financial reasons the family is moving into grandpa's old house. Also for financial reasons they are going to raise the rent on the store downstairs where Tony's mom makes her living. This will cause friction but not at first.    Jake is asking if Tony can stay for dinner.   And a sleep over.   Tony you want to have hot dogs and hamburgers with us tonight?   Yes.   That is a done deal.   Yes.   I just wanted to make sure with you.   No no no please. I cannot tell you how happy I am that Jake has a new friend you know it is not easy with them and other boys.  It is easy with him and Tony though. Soon they are racing around Brooklyn together - Jake shaky on his fancy in-line skates Tony leading the way on his low-rent scooter. As the boys become friends though their parents are drawing battle lines. The neighborhood is changing - Jake's parents part of an incoming gentrifying wave Tony's mom likely to be swept out in its wake. It is social upheaval that filmmaker Ira Sachs captures not in confrontations but in their avoidance - Tony's mom Leonor trying not to engage with Jake's parents.    Leonor you know that I am trained in conflict resolution and I am hoping to help here.   Has your husband asked you to do this?   No. I am not sure you know but he is rehearsing a new play.   No. I have not seen your husband.  The boys come up with a variation on that lack of engagement as they struggle with the mess their parents are making.    I am not talking to my mother anymore.   Why not?   She said you cannot come over. I do not think your dad wants me around anymore either. He may be too chicken to say it but I can tell.   Why are they so mad at us?   Our parents are involved in a business matter. And it is getting ugly so they are taking it out on us.   You are right. My dad was very cold to you. I will not talk to my parents then either.  Understated filled with small gestures and offhand remarks Little Men gathers force as it goes. Everyone's human. Everyone is trying and things are still falling apart. It is no accident that the screenplay has Jake's dad acting in Chekhov. Sachs has a touch much like that Russian playwright for domestic situations that are real and funny and wrenching all at once also for moments that do not need dialogue to have a kind of eloquence - Jake for instance skating where once he and Tony had sped along together now clearly more confident but on his own. Is that a loss? Is it growth? Little Men has the wisdom to let the viewer puzzle that one out. I am Bob Mondello. 