 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Madeleine Brand. If your idea of must-see TV involves competitors be they arty designers foodies or screaming housewives you are in luck. My next guest puts those shows on the cable network Bravo.   And she said I was on drugs.  Oh she said things about Greg. She said things about you.  I heard you were talking about me.  Never mind. She called you a crack whore.  How dare you  Ms.  Daniel please pack your knives and go.   He is 39. He is 5'5.  Oh geez.  Very very hairy.  Oh my goodness. It is scary Garcia.  Ms.  Everyone knows that the fashion business is ruthless. One day you are in and the next day you are out.  Project Runway Queer Eye for the Straight Guy Top Chef and The Real Housewives those are just some of Bravo's reality show hits. Andy Cohen greenlights them as Bravo's senior vice president of original programming and development and who watches them? Cohen told me that the Bravo audience is one that fits the network's brand which he described as food fashion beauty design and pop culture. Mr.  We have the most educated audience in all of cable and the most upscale audience in all of cable meaning the richest the people with the most money. And we have also isolated two groups. The one are the group that we call the Will and Gracers. And they are mainly urban women either single or married but are cosmopolitan and their best male friends who are often gay. And then the other group are a group that we call the PTA trendsetters. And they are women all over America who are the trendsetters of the PTA. They are the women who pick up their kids from school wearing the latest shoes and carrying the latest bag and they are trend-watchers.  So it seems like you have two different types of reality shows on Bravo. Mr.  Yes.  You have got the people who are talented and competing right? Mr.  Yes we have competitive reality and then the kind of what we call docu-series.  And so are these the ones - these are the housewives where you just watch people... Mr.  These are the housewives exactly. They are everything from Flipping Out which follows Jeff Lewis who is a OCD gay house-flipper who is incredibly entertaining to watch on and on or yes our entire franchise of the Housewives which now spans four cities. I call it sociology anthropology of the rich.  But also I would call it a guilty pleasure because watching them... Mr.  Total guilty pleasure yes.  Well I kind of do not want to admit that I like watching it.  Mr.  You are not alone.  Of course I do not have any problem admitting I watch Project Runway. Mr.  Right. Well you are not alone.  Mr.  You are not alone. Although you know people are flying those Housewives flags higher and higher as it becomes more and more of a phenomenon. I bet there are a ton of NPR listeners actually who are obsessed by The Real Housewives.  And will not admit it. Mr.  And a ton that probably will admit it because they are dying for someone to talk to about it.  Mr.  The thing that is fun about the Housewives is talking to your friends about it.  Well and also feeling superior quite frankly. Mr.  Well you know we do something with the editing that is called a Bravo wink. We wink at the audience when someone says I am the healthiest person in the world and then you see them ashing their cigarette. That is a very kind of lame example of the wink. But we are kind of letting the audience in on the fun. But I think that what we are not doing is we are not trying to make fun of these women. We love our housewives.   Kim was irritating the crap out of me. She is yelling at me. She is putting her hands in my face. She is screaming. She is lying. She is denying her lies. You need to chill out. Mr.  And the thing about it is they cannot stop themselves. I think that is sometimes where the fun comes in.  There was a recent article in The New York Times that said reality show contestants a lot of them not just on your network but on other ones as well are being - they undergo a grueling schedule. Mr.  Yes.  They are kept exhausted. They work 18-hour days. Mr.  Right.  They are given alcohol in some cases... Mr.  Right.  ...or at least they have access to alcohol. They are deprived of any outside contact. They cannot make phone calls. Mr.  Yeah.  And all of that with the unstated goal of getting them to melt down and to cause some fireworks that we viewers want to see. Mr.  I think that the shows that we produce that fall into the category of people who are put into what some would consider to be extreme situations these are competition reality shows. And these are shows where it is extremely important that everyone is treated the same and that everyone has the same opportunity to win each challenge and ultimately the show. And for that reason we do keep them in something of a bubble. And by the way does being in that heightened bubble of reality exacerbate emotions and make you more focused on the game and sometimes heighten your reaction to what you are doing? Absolutely.  I mean but do you ever feel that with these contestants that you are crossing the line sometimes in terms of how you treat them. Not in terms of them having unequal treatment but just in terms of them not being treated humanely maybe in some circumstances? Mr.  No I think they are treated humanely. I mean we have doctors on the set. We listen to their concerns. And they are all very cognizant of what they are getting into. I think even someone from Project Runway who was quoted for that Times article you were referring to I know her well and I know that she would go back and do it again in a second. It is an exhausting schedule. I am not taking away from that. But I think everyone is treated humanely and it is not how we work. We are interested in finding the next great chef. We are not interested in having the next nervous breakdown.  What about Project Runway because now... Mr.  What about it?  Let us talk about it because... Mr.  What show? I have never heard of that show.   That is the show that I mean aside from Queer Eye that is what really put Bravo on the map. And now it is... Mr.  It did after Queer Eye yeah.  ...now it is on Lifetime. And I am just wondering if you will be able to recapture that. I mean... Mr.  Recapture the magic of that show or...  Yeah. I mean it was a cultural phenomenon. Mr.  You know Project Runway was a really special show and we had a great five seasons with it. We loved that show and we loved the stories that it brought to Bravo and the creativity. And it was a magic five seasons.  But are you worried at all that with Project Runway going to Lifetime and you are focusing now on the Housewives that the image of Bravo will change a bit maybe change from talent to trash? Mr.  I am not. I - you know we have got so much on Bravo and coming up on Bravo and I think we have so much more going on than The Real Housewives. And I think The Real Housewives is a great you know great addition to the portfolio. I think it brings a lot of viewers under our umbrella. And I think they stay and sample other shows. So I feel great about what we have coming up. And there is much more kind of in the design and art and fashion landscapes to come.  Andy Cohen is Bravo's senior vice president of original programming and development. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you.  Ms.   All things just keep getting better.  Andy Cohen also has his own program on Bravo. It is a talk show called Watch What Happens sort of like a gay Dick Cavett Show.    All things just keep getting better. Ms.   All things just keep getting better. All things. All things. All things just keep getting better.   All things just keep getting better. Ms.   All things. All things. All things just keep getting better.   All things just keep getting better.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 