 Now how is this for another summer reading option? A new Hollywood biography about a 1940s screen siren who was better known for her beauty and her marriages than for her acting ability recently hit the bookstores. Is  The Secret Conversations a good read? We asked our movie critic Bob Mondello.  Country girl Ava Gardner arrived in Hollywood in 1941 aware that she could not act but gorgeous enough to think that that did not need to slow her down. In the book we are told that her beauty which reportedly intimidated Elizabeth Taylor won her not just film roles but a wedding ring from Mickey Rooney - who she divorced before she turned 21 - also from bandleader Artie Shaw - she called those two her starter husbands - before a headline-making marriage to Frank Sinatra that lasted four entire years - for her a virtual marathon. Then there were the movies. She appeared on safari in Mogambo...    Well bless your big bony knees.  ...in the tropics in Night of the Iguana...    Honey you just lie down the hammock and I will fix you a nice rum Coke.   No no no.  ...in a role created specially for her in Snows of Kilimanjaro...    I will bet I am the only person in the whole darn place who is only trying to be happy.  ...as a sexpot dancer in Barefoot Contessa...    Half in the dirt and half out. In many ways it is been beyond my dreams.  ...and in a few dozen other pictures in a four-decade career that was cut short by a debilitating stroke. All in all a mother load of promising material for journalist Peter Evans to mine in his posthumously published and sadly dead-on-arrival  The Secret Conversations. Secret because after doing months of interviews Gardner got cold feet about the book and wisely based on the result withdrew permission to publish a deal theoretically sealed by her death in 1990 at the age of 67 - or not. Two decades later Evans got permission from the star's estate to use the interviews in a book not about her life but about her fraught relationship with him on the memoir that never got published an exasperating tale of drunken 3 a.m. phone calls missed appointments and discussions about what to wear for an audience with a book agent. And because Evans died before he finished the book interspersed with all that filler are the few chapters he would completed about her Hollywood days - almost nothing about her films and some not-terribly-revealing details about her marriages. The book's prose is blunt and its interests tawdry. Evans wonders for chapters on end how he is going to get Gardner to talk about whether Sinatra was well-endowed. She never enlightens him and I suppose you could say he pays her back by painting a none-too-generous portrait of the Ava Gardner that he says could always make me laugh but who he chooses to depict as a cranky vain annoying profane and fiercely stubborn has-been. I am Bob Mondello. 