 Director Kelly Reichardt's films live between the spaces of words unsaid. Her body of work includes Wendy And Lucy Meek's Cutoff and Old Joy. All of her films are marked with deliberate pacing and sparse dialogue with the Pacific Northwest as their backdrop. Her latest movie Night Moves is no different. This one follows the story of three young environmentalists played by Jesse Eisenberg Dakota Fanning and Peter Sarsgaard who plan to blow up a hydroelectric dam in protest. But Night Moves is less about making a political statement than it is an intimate study of its characters.  I like working on a small scale. I mean you know in my hands it would be 12 Hours A Slave - what happened in those 12 hours?  Kelly Reichardt described Night Moves as a thriller with a small T.  I like to get down to the moment-to-moment action in something and find the tension in those smaller moments that are not super over-stimulated. So a certain turn can have - you know become a big moment that in another setting might be you know someone just stepped on a stick and it cracked.  Now I am going to play a clip here. And this is a scene between Peter Sarsgaard who plays the character of Harmon and Jesse Eisenberg - Josh. And what they are talking about is the cash purchase of the boat that is going to be used in this crime.    She paid for it.   How much was that boat?   Ten grand.   Rich daddy. I do not see why she has to be here though. She is done plenty already.   It is part of the deal.   I do not see why she just does not go home. We can take her down to the train station tomorrow morning. This is not the same as those other shows my friend. This is on a different level you know that.  Kelly Reichardt this is a scene - it was actually kind of hard to find a scene that had a lot of talking.  Not talking but sort of this is a rapid level of conversation practically for this film. Can you talk about your style little bit?  I do think that there is a lot that takes place in between the dialogue and around the dialogue. And I guess I think the sort of language of the movie happens outside the dialogue for the most part. But...  Meaning in the silences?  In the silences and you know in I guess visual storytelling in a way where the camera is and where the edit is or how people move or what they are doing in the silent moments - a look a pause - and how you can use quiet to present tension as opposed to you know raising the score and heightening every tense moment. You can do the opposite of that and create tension also.  Right most films that would be described as a thriller there is that kind of like  dun-dun dun-dun dun-dun dun.  Yeah.  It is going to get louder and louder like...  Yeah they put that in our trailer. So I saw the trailer projected last night and it has all these like  and I was like wow. You know I had to tell the audience that would not actually be happening in the movie. You know I guess I do spend so much time and energy on sound design. And so I always think that the sound designs are pretty complex. They are super minimalist but it is true I guess they are quiet in terms of voices. But did you hear the mosquitoes in the background there? There was things going on.  Kelly Reichardt when I read descriptions of your work or reviews or critiques there is this kind of persistent thread about it being quiet and meditative - or when people are being more critical that nothing much happens and that the endings are sad. Do you feel like some of that is misread or that you know some of it is our own expectations about say what a thriller should deliver?  I do think there is that. I do not really feel like it is my job to give everybody everything that they are already expecting. You know I think it is good to not necessarily scratch every itch right when an audience wants it. I mean otherwise we all just sort of come in knowing what we know and leave knowing what we know. But I do not think these films are for everybody anymore than any film is. I mean I go to the movies and I feel so assaulted by the loudness of everything. So I do not know. I feel like every film has its own speed. I thought of Night Moves as my big action movie so.  I guess it is all relative.  That is director Kelly Reichardt. Her new film is called Night Moves. It is out in theaters now. Thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you for having me.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 