 A NASA spacecraft is on its way to an asteroid. The robotic probe launched yesterday and will collect a bit of dirt from the asteroid and bring it back to Earth. This is not the only asteroid mission the space agency has in the works. NASA also wants to send astronauts up to study an asteroid. And NPR's Nell Greenfieldboyce reports that the human mission has a lot of critics.  The idea of visiting an asteroid goes back to 2010. President Obama went to Kennedy Space Center and announced he wanted astronauts to go out beyond the moon and ultimately to Mars.   We will start by sending astronauts to an asteroid for the first time in history.  Trouble is flying people to an asteroid turned out to be really hard. The trip would take months. So NASA settled on a slightly different plan - send a robot out to retrieve an asteroid and bring it over to the moon. That way the astronauts could study it in lunar orbit.  It was not sending people to an asteroid it was bringing an asteroid to people. But you were still demonstrating some of the technologies that NASA wanted to demonstrate as part of its long-term goal of sending humans to Mars.  Marcia Smith is a space policy analyst and consultant. She says the original so-called asteroid redirect mission also proved to be daunting. It was difficult to find a small asteroid to target.  They ultimately made the decision to not move an entire asteroid but just pluck a boulder from the asteroid surface and bring the boulder to the astronauts. So that is the current plan.  Having a robot go out tens of millions of miles grab a multi-ton car-sized boulder and then drag it to the moon plus sending people up to study this rock will cost something like 2 billion. Smith says a lot of people are asking this question.  If your long-term goal is to go to Mars do you need to spend 2 billion doing this mission or can you spend it better doing other things?  NASA says this is worth the money. Michele Gates is NASA's program director for the mission. She says when a crew flies up to the captured boulder in the mid-2020s it will be a significant advance.  It will be the first time we have brought humans back to the lunar vicinity. They will actually be 50000 miles past the surface of the moon - farther than people have ever been before.  And Gates says the mission will use a new kind of solar-electric propulsion.  This technology that we will be demonstrating is truly a leap from where we currently are and a significant step and contribution to what we will need for deeper-space human missions.  But others say if you just sat down and tried to chart a path forward to Mars it is hard to imagine that you would include capturing part of an asteroid. Leroy Chiao is a former astronaut who works with NASA's Advisory Council. He says if he was still part of the astronaut corps he would be psyched to fly around the moon.  And if there happened to be an asteroid there that we can fly in formation with or you know a boulder that is fine. But I would be just as happy not flying in formation with a boulder .  Given that NASA's stated goal is to get to Mars in the 2030s he just does not see the point of this.  On a technical level I do not think it is worth doing. But in order to satisfy the president and the White House administration's desire to do something with an asteroid this I think - I believe this is what NASA figured out they might be able to afford.  He says this asteroid mission is a product of budget constraints and politics. He personally thinks we would learn a lot more about how to explore Mars if we did something like set up a moon base to test out habitats and rovers and space suits.  But frankly you know the moon was perceived as President Bush's program so I do not think that was really a starter politically.  It is the next president along with Congress who will have to decide where astronauts should go next - whether NASA should still boldly go to a piece of an asteroid or do something else. Nell Greenfieldboyce NPR News. 