 I am on the National Mall here in Washington D.C. just under the shadow of the National Gallery of Art. Now this is a very popular spot for joggers from all over the country and I am about to join them. But first I have got to get a very special pair of shoes on. Now these are not your traditional running shoes. They actually look more like gloves except they are for your feet. And when you wear them it is supposed to feel like you are barefoot. Now a number of companies are making shoes like these now and we will explain why in a moment. When I get back to the studio we are going to talk to David Willey who is the editor-in-chief of Runner's World magazine. But first I am going to try this barefoot running thing out for myself. I just got to get my playlist queued up. Here we go.  So it actually feels pretty good running in these barefoot shoes. And I am running on gravel on the Mall so it should feel uncomfortable. But I got to say these soles are pretty thick and it almost feels like my feet kind of know what to do intuitively.  Okay we are back in the studio now and David Willey is joining us. He is the editor-in-chief of Runner's World magazine and he is at member station WDIY in Bethlehem Pennsylvania. David welcome to the show. Mr.  Thanks Guy.  Why are these shoes all of a sudden becoming so popular? Mr.  It is interesting. It is like the life cycle of almost any product sort of ebbs and flows right and running shoes really were kind of invented in the '70s by a guy named Bill Bowerman who literally poured rubber compounds into his wife's waffle iron.  And the modern running shoe was born  Wow wow. Mr.  the waffle shoe as it was called. And after that happened other competitors started adding new features to help with stability and something called motion control. And now there is sort of a slightly larger movement of foot to kind of back away from that. And as you said your feet kind of know what to do. And the barefoot running advocates - one of the things they like about is that they think it actually reduces injuries and that running shoes have become built up so much over time that for some people they are actually causing injuries.  Yeah. People say that running shoes affects your gait. Mr.  That is right. When you take you shoes off you land a little more on your forefoot so a little more on the middle of your foot.  Yeah yeah. Mr.  Whereas when you have shoes on the average person typically lands a little bit more on the heel. And here's the thing if you are a very efficient and biomechanically gifted runner running barefoot probably could work for you. But the vast majority of people are not blessed in that way. They have got some biomechanical inefficiencies. So for the greatest group of people running shoes probably do a little bit more good. And there is also this barefoot running for most people and running in these shoes - Nike will even say this about their line of Nike Free shoes - they are training tools. One of the advantages of barefoot running is that it strengthens the small muscles and ligaments and tendons in your feet and your ankles. So as long as you do it that way and maybe something that you mix in you know with your regular running week it really can help your running and help you get stronger and healthier. The concern I have is that a lot of people you know hear about these new shoes and read about the vbrooms and maybe hear about this book called Born to Run which is that bestselling book and feel like oh I can just throw my running shoes away and I will just start tomorrow and I will become a barefoot runner. You know if a lot of runners or all the runners out there in America did that tomorrow the vast majority of them would get hurt very quickly and would have to stop running for a long time.  Do you have a sort of partisans of barefoot running who just write in and say you guys are biased you know you are just anti-barefoot running? Mr.  We do get that sometimes. Then we get people who believe in barefoot running saying that we are promoting running shoes for the wrong reasons and running shoes are bad and we are being irresponsible. But there are very very few true barefoot runners out there. And running is a really great community very collegial and very positive. And for the most part the people that I have seen who know barefoot runners or encountered them in races they are really curious and they always come up and sort of ask questions and ask them what it is like but they are not ostracized in any way. And the people who are barefoot runners you know they sort of see that it works for them but do not necessarily all think that everybody should throw their shoes in the trash tomorrow.  That is good to hear. Mr.  Runners they are pretty chill.  Yeah. Well they are running. I mean of course they are. They are going to  their bodies all the time. Mr.  We are all high as a kite.   David Willey is editor-in-chief of Runner's World magazine. He joined us from WDIY in Bethlehem Pennsylvania. David Willey thanks for coming in. Mr.  Thanks a lot Guy it is a pleasure. 