 Gabby Rivera writes strong Latina characters from the queer Marvel superhero America Chavez to the Puerto Rican protagonist in her new novel Juliet Takes A Breath. It is the coming-of-age story of a college kid from the Bronx trying to figure out who she is.  Feminism - to understand what it meant in real life outside of textbooks and if I could ever call myself a feminist. To get the hell out of the Bronx. Lesbians - to chill with all the lesbians and see if there were different ways to be one to make sure that I was one to find out if I was something else. Me - messy emotional book nerd weirdo chubby brown human a jumble of awkward bits and glory.  Rivera borrowed the story from her own life. Like Rivera once did Juliet heads to Portland Ore. to intern for a white feminist writer. And the learning curve is steep.   Juliet listens to music easily recognizable from the early 2000s artists like Ani DiFranco.    From the shape of your shaved head I recognized your silhouette.  So when we spoke I asked Gabby Rivera why she set the book back in 2003.  I was like 19 in the early 2000s right? When I was coming out during this time I was very much like a part of white lesbian circles and trying to understand the like what is a Tegan and Sara and an Ani DiFranco. And like what is this world?    And I said look at you this morning. You are by far the cutest...  And we did not have like gay marriage yet. And there were still - I never in my mind would have imagined that like I would be out and talking about like my book and talking about me as an artist in this way. I was not in the closet but I just imagined that the way that queerness sometimes is like a secret society that I would always be in my secret society.  Right. And setting it in this time allows you to do that right? It is a little harder...  One-hundred percent.  ...To do that in the time of Tinder and Grindr and  you know...  Yeah exactly.  Let us say not the wood-paneled spaces that people might have met in.  Totally. And it was also - there was never any artists that were out. I had to like project - you know what I mean? - where it was like damn Selena's  so beautiful. I wish. Or like oh Chilli from TLC I wish. And it was just like making up what I imagined queerness could be like what LGBT stuff could be like you know? So it is also very much - you just had to hope . Like you hope you are not the only gay you know what I mean?  Juliet goes to Portland Ore. And she experiences a kind of culture shock from New York. And not just as a New Yorker - right? - but as somebody who is now embracing her sexuality but walks into a world where people are really well-versed in this stuff. How did you want to show the class differences because that can be jarring as a young person to encounter?  That is definitely not something that is on like the forefront of her mind - right? - because she is just like running in the world. But I think it really hits home when she is left the Bronx and has gone to Portland Ore. and sees like how white it is - right? - and like is like where do I fit? And where she finds her first initial place is like a city bus - a city bus like full of people of color. And she sits on the bus and is like damn like I feel safe here. I feel seen here. These are my people. And so I think for her it is like a moment that routes her in her experiences. I do not know this class question is like actually also a little confusing.  Oh sure. No let me re-ask it. So when I was a kid I was bused from my school system to a majority white school. And like I would see things that I was like wait what are trophies you know? I was like 10 or 12. And things people took for granted I had no clue existed. And there were moments in the book like with Juliet where she noticed people were not locking their doors.  Ah yes. OK.  There were just these little signifiers. And I wondered kind of how you came up with them or if they were things you experienced.  Ah yes yes yes. OK. So in that respect then yes there are definitely some cultural like class-based differences for Juliet. I think that is a great example right? So even for me personally growing up in the Bronx my parents were like even if we are sitting outside in front of our house my father's like lock the doors. We have got to lock the doors. Did you close the window? And it is like you know just in case somebody tries to rob us while we are all here having a barbecue right? Like you know - and the same with the car doors. And so Juliet is used to these kind of like procedures.  There is an early scene where Juliet comes out to her parents really her whole family. And this is right before she leaves her Portland Ore. for this internship that she is sort of created.  Yeah.  And it is not a moment of complete acceptance. It is not rejection but it is not totally acceptance. And it hangs over her throughout the book. Can you talk about in what ways you wanted to reflect a coming out experience if not your own?  Yes. Oh my gosh I love the coming out part of the book. It is - OK so there is this general coming out narrative where it is like you come out and your parents are like you are banished. We hate you right? And you are thrown out into the world. And that is such a real narrative right? Like that is why so many - like 40 of homeless youth are LGBTQ youth. That is not a joke. And then at the same time while we hold space for that there are still experiences like mine - right? - where my parents - my mother specifically was not at all happy or - she was actually terrified when I came out and closed up. And literally in the same conversation where she was like I cannot accept this I do not want this for you like I turned around and was like well then let me know when I have to leave. Ah wait. And she was like hey like I love you. Like you are my kid. And maybe I do not understand what this is all about but this is your home. And I am your mom. And I love you. And so there is just this baseline for us to like have and maintain the love that we have always had. I wanted also to be very clear for young people coming out what their work is. And your work is not to make your mom accept you. That is your mom's work. Your mom has to work to understand what she needs and in the best ways that she can love you. Your work is to just live authentically and as honestly as you can.  What is next for you in terms of writing?  Oh my gosh . Well I am super excited. I am working with Boom! Studios right now. I have got a new original comic series coming out in November called b.b. Free. And it is about this 15-year-old girl on an adventure with her best friend Chulita. They have a little radio show. It takes place like 100 years in the future in a post-climate-change America. So all the topography and the landscape and the weather is different.  But there is still radio.  Yeah there is still radio.  So already I like this. I am already into this.   Yeah there is still radio and you know also magical powers because b.b. Free just might be the second coming of Mother Nature.  Oh is that all?  Yeah. Listen I have the biggest imagination. And Boom! Studios is like yo Gabby let us run with it.   Well Gabby Rivera thank you so much for speaking with us.  Hey Audie thank you so much for having me.    After winter after winter...  That is Gabby Rivera. Her novel is Juliet Takes A Breath.    Change it comes eventually. Everything... 