 To a summer ritual now. Usually around this time of year more than 125000 people pack downtown San Diego a massive gathering to celebrate their favorite comics and movies and TV shows and more. Well that is not happening due to the pandemic but the 2020 San Diego Comic-Con is kicking off today. Like so much this summer it is online-only which actually comes with some benefits. Fans can watch panel discussions on YouTube instead of waiting in endless lines - fans including NPR books editor Petra Mayer. Hey Petra.  Hi.  Hey. So can we start with a visual please?  .  Because costumes are a big deal at Comic-Con and I know you are never one to let an opportunity slip by. So whatcha  wearing?  Yeah. I mean what was I going to do with it you know? I cannot wear it to the con. So I am...  True.  ...Wearing a green-and-gold medieval dress a gold serpent-eating-its-tail ring and a hand-mounted light-up plastic fireball. And people out there who are my folks will know what I say when I say that I am an Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah.  I have no idea what that is but I am in awe...   That is OK.  ...And now insanely jealous as well. OK. Now that you are in your fabulous costume we have established what kind of events are you looking forward to? What can you actually watch now that it is all gone online?  Yeah. So there is about 350 panels scheduled on YouTube. I think given what is going on right now the Max Brooks panel is going to be popular. He is going to talk about zombie outbreaks versus real disease outbreaks. There is a couple of big TV panels. There'ill be a lot of people there from the Star Trek universe including Patrick Stewart. Yay. The Walking Dead always has a big presence. HBO is going to be there with shows like Lovecraft Country and His Dark Materials. Lin-Manuel Miranda will be there for that. Also yay. There is going to be an online exhibition hall so you can like click on all the vendors and do your convention impulse buying from home. And as you said actually this is one of the benefits because like if you have actually been to San Diego Comic-Con you know you can last about 10 minutes on the show floor crammed in like sardines before you want to start throwing punches. So...  .  ...Being able to shop virtually is great. And of course also the Eisner Awards which are kind of like the Oscars of comics will be held online on Friday.  You almost persuaded me with that sardine comment but it still seems like this is an event where you just want to be there. You want to be in the crowd.  Yeah. I mean that is the thing about San Diego in particular that you do not really see at other conventions. They have these big interactive experiences and they are called activations or immersive marketing which sounds kind of weird. But what it actually means is that you get to dress up like a zombie or a Viking or reenact a sequence from a TV show. It is really fun and none of it is happening this year unfortunately.  Speaking of things going on sometimes news gets made at Comic-Con. The big studios show up. They announce you know movie TV deals. Anything percolating this year?  Yeah. No. Not much is going on. The - you know so many movies have been delayed. The major studios have almost no presence here this year because you know things like Black Widow or Wonder Woman which you would normally expect to have a big presence - there is just nothing. There is a couple of Marvel-adjacent TV panels. DC I do not think is present at all. They are actually doing their own event called DC FanDome next month. I mean I think you can get like an official Batman con T-shirt but that is it.  What are you most excited for Petra?  Bill  Ted Face The Music. Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter and even William Sadler who played Death - they are going to be there. I am so excited for that. And then there is going to be a retrospective panel with Charlize Theron talking about all of her awesome action hero roles so that is going to be so cool.  NPR's Petra Mayer giving us a little preview there of a very different San Diego Comic-Con this year. Thanks Petra.  You are very welcome.  