 Wonder Woman brought in a hundred million dollars at the box office last weekend. Two more films about women open this weekend. Salma Hayek stars in Beatriz at Dinner and Kate Mara plays the leading role in Megan Leavey. Critic Bob Mondello says both Beatriz and Megan are in their own ways also warriors.  Beatriz is a masseuse stranded one evening at the beachfront home of wealthy clients.    You can just stay for dinner. It is just a work thing is the only thing.  Cathy regards Beatriz as a friend after she helped their daughter recover from cancer.    No no no no no no it should be fine.   I can even wait in the car if you want.   Do not be silly.  The dinner guests include a real estate tycoon everyone seems to be courting. Brash a big-game hunter he is from the moment he arrives oil to Beatriz's water.    Can I get another bourbon hon?   Oh no Doug this is Beatriz. She is staying for dinner.   Oh you were hovering. I just figured you were a part of the staff.   Do I know you?   Doug's famous. He is been on the news.   I do not know why. I think I know you.   Ever danced in Vegas ?  And things deteriorate from there. Played by John Lithgow the big shot almost cannot help reminding you of someone. Though the script was penned before the election its conversations...    When I first came to the United States a long time ago...   Did you come legally?  ...Pick up on themes and volatility that are still in the air. Salma Hayek's Beatriz is not any more diplomatic than the developer. And when he starts talking about hotels he built in Latin America she remembers one.    It closed. It was only open for a year.   Mine do not close.   This tenderloin was amazing.   So was the fish - so buttery flaky.   This hotel destroyed my whole town.  Got to love the wives' attempts to steer the conversation to food. For a class-based allegory Beatriz At Dinner is nicely observed. But the arguments are a little on-the-nose and the filmmakers do not quite know where to go once they have set their main characters in opposition. Hayek and Lithgow are terrific. Everybody is really. But the script pushes them into corners and that is pretty much that. No one was going to push the real-life Megan Leavey into corners not her mother who balked when she decided to join the Marines...    I just do not know why you want to do this.   Yeah I know you do not.   Just so you know running away is not going to solve anything.  ...Not her drill instructor...    Hang up that phone. Tuck your shirt in.  ...And certainly not the officer who gave her cleanup duty with the canine corps in basic. It was punishment. It was not going to work but then she encountered a German shepherd as anti-social as she.    I have been watching this dog all year. He is the most aggressive dog I have ever treated.  It would not be true to say that it was love at first sight for either Megan played by Kate Mara or Rex played by a German shepherd named Varco. But with some struggle mostly on her part they do manage to bond. Rex a bomb-sniffing dog was being prepped for assignment to Iraq where Megan finds common cause with another trainer.    I am Matt Morales. I will be your tour guide today.   Megan Leavey. Who is that?   That is Chico. Chico sit. I trained Chico to lick the enemy to death.   Nice.   So where you from?   New York.   You are not a Yankees fan though right?   Born and bred.   Oh come on. Dagger to my heart - really? Well I guess we will never speak again Megan. Chico we do not talk to Yankees fans right? Good boy.  Director Gabriela Cowperthwaite's spare handheld camera work comes into its own once the canine teams are out in the field.    We need one dog team for a road sweep and surrounding area check.  The film becomes a tense military procedural.    Dog up. Leavey check the vehicle.  The film is only about half over at that point and where it goes afterwards is surprising. So I will let you discover it yourself. Suffice it to say that real life threw more curveballs at Megan Leavey than even talented screenwriters could throw at Beatriz. Both women happily are undaunted by challenge. I am Bob Mondello.  