 It is summer in Harlem. It is blazing hot. But that has not stopped famed tailor Dapper Dan from holding court on the street in front of his atelier.  How you doing brother?   Yeah Dapper Dan two I as not through with you.  I met up with Daniel Day to talk about his new memoir. It is called  Made In Harlem. It is about his journey from hustler to respected tastemaker and businessman. Today he is wearing a pale mint-colored suit jacket over a couture vest and matching pants that he designed himself for the European fashion giant Gucci.  This is fine polka dot Gucci loafers.  Are those gold moths on the back of your shoes?  Are they? Yes. The cheapest jacket I have inside is 2700. So the people in my community I know cannot afford that. So I make sure I stand outside and engage them every day.  Oh this is beautiful.  Is not it?  So now he is selling jackets for nearly three grand. But when he was a kid here in Harlem his family did not have that kind of money. He tells a story in his book about shopping for an Easter suit with his father.  We went to Ripley's department store. I was going to get my first suit. You know I think I was in the eighth grade. And we went to Ripley department store. I saw a charcoal brown suit with pinstripes. I loved it. My father was going to give it to me right? We was going to get it on credit because we could not pay cash. We did not have the money. And so I said Daddy let me see the contract. And I read the contract and figured out the mathematics. And I said Dad you going to end up paying 2 12 times what this suit is worth. I said do not get it Dad you know. And we came on out the store. And on the way down the steps my father stopped me. And he said boy - I got to take my glasses off - he said boy do not you know you can read? Boy you can read you know. And I am saying - I am looking at my father's face you know and the intensity of his face right? Then it all came back to me 'ecause my father only went to the third grade. And he had to teach himself to read. So everything I - I know that I could read my way out of it.  Did you ever get your Easter suit?  My Easter suit? No I never got it. I never got it. I got a better suit. I got something that suited me for life. So I am glad. That is one suit I am glad I did not get.  Daniel Day is now partners with Gucci. The fashion giant struck a deal with him in 2017. But when he was making clothes in the '80s he was not asking permission to use the Gucci logo. Back then after he would been making and selling furs for a few years he noticed a trend - designer bags by brands like Gucci and Louis Vuitton were printed with the label's logos all over them. And Dan thought I can do that but bigger.  So when I saw the designer bag I said wow just imagine - if I can have them walking around looking like that bag I could change the whole game.  He bootlegged the logo prints and made bespoke suits and dresses even custom upholstery for cars with the material. The actual clothing labels were not making anything like this. And so Dapper Dan became a favorite designer for rappers and hustlers Harlem's black and Latino clientele with money to spend money the major fashion houses did not welcome. Dapper Dan was the king of hip-hop fashion before the labels shut him down in the '90s. Oh my gosh. So where are these photos from?  Each picture that you see on the wall tells a story.  Now one photo jumped out at me. It is the rapper Rakim in the legendary Gucci-patterned jacket Dapper Dan made for him.  The black leather jacket black leather plonge with gold-colored Gucci G's all over and trimmed in metallic gold. That is a historical jacket. That is probably the most important jacket in hip-hop.  It is also if I am reading the book correctly part of the transition from outfitting gangsters in the neighborhood to having more of hip-hop artists come in right?  Back then the rappers wanted to be like the gangsters. They wanted to dress like the gangsters. Today we have the opposite going on. The gangsters want to be like the rappers. And Eric B. and Rakim those were the first ones that really - gangsters really liked their style.  When you wanted to get into furs you studied and learned the business. When you wanted to get into making custom clothes you studied and really went around to manufacturers and learned things. And you always call this process sciencing .  Very challenging.  And you do it over and over again though.  Over and over again. And you know what? I find it exciting. Right now my children think I am crazy because I stay on the Internet. They have no clue to how important this is to me. I could press a button and get information that I used to have to go into garbage and get. You know that was not revealed to me. I had to find the factories that sew it find a way to get in there and talk to the owners talk to the workers. But I am glad - in a way I am glad because I did work that nobody else was willing to do and nobody else had even thought about. And that is what made it exciting for me to find out how something is put together.  You said that you now have access to information that you used to have to scrounge around to get. Can we talk about that? Like what are some of the obstacles that any other person who was opening up a store at that time would not have had to go through? Because you talk in the book about people not selling to you right? You know the kinds of furs you got at first were not very good. It just seemed like there was a lot - you could never just get a straightforward contract for something.  I started by going to trade shows to see what kind of machinery was involved in making a garment. In addition to that I would go to people who made these machines and people who use these machines to try to - pretend I was going to place an order with them so I can see how they work. And the first thing I do when I go in there to talk to them and tell them what I want to do I would shake their hand look in their eyes and look behind them to see what they are reading or see what books are on their desk. I would look for information like that. And I would always try to find a person of color that work there if I could not get the information. Then afterwards I would like pay them you know tell me something. And if that did not work then I would go through their garbage when they close - all kind of things like that.  So when did you start to think of yourself - and I do not know if you do now - as a designer and think of the business not just business and another kind of hustle but a creative part of yourself?  See that is the good word. I like that. The first word you used - designer - I do not like. The last word you used - creative - that is what I do like. That is what I think it is.  Now do you think of yourself as a designer?  I consider myself one who creates clothes and fashions clothes and uses it as a vehicle to fashion young minds. That is my goal. I want to tell stories that change people's lives like I make clothes that change people's attitude about how they feel about theyself . That is it. That is the core of who I am. I tell stories about what I did how I did it that could change them. I make clothes to make them feel different right away. You understand? Those are the two things I like doing.  Daniel Day Dapper Dan thank you so much for speaking with us.  Oh thank you. Thank you for coming here and listening to a crazy man from Harlem talk about his life.  It turned out OK.   I think you turned out OK.   Dapper Dan. His new memoir is called  Made In Harlem.  