 Stephen Colbert who hosts The Late Show on CBS brought back a familiar character last night on his first live program from the Republican National Convention in Cleveland. Stephen Colbert was the old Stephen Colbert. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans says it is what his show has been missing since Colbert took over from David Letterman.  When The Late Show first announced it would present two weeks of live shows centered on the Republican and Democratic conventions I wondered - how would Colbert handle this? Now it seems obvious at least for the first show. They have resurrected Colbert's old Comedy Central program The Colbert Report.   Hello nation.   Did you miss me? I know I did.  It is been about a year and a half since we have seen the blustery right-wing pundit character Colbert played on The Colbert Report. When he returned Monday night he revived a classic moment from the very first Colbert Report episode where Colbert redefined how we talk about politics and news by creating a new word.   Eleven years ago I invented a word truthiness . You see...   ...Truthiness is believing something that feels true even if it is not supported by fact.  Last night Colbert coined another new word inspired by GOP nominee Donald Trump to describe a political world beyond truthiness called Trumpiness .   Truthiness has to feel true but Trumpiness does not even have to do that. In fact...   ...Many Trump supporters do not believe his wildest promises and they do not care.   Earlier in the show Colbert's old character was introduced in a skit featuring his old boss former Daily Show host Jon Stewart. The bit featured Colbert visiting a cabin in the woods finding Stewart in a beard and old bathrobe surprised to learn that Trump was the GOP nominee.   The guy who did a McDonald's commercial with the Grimace?  Same guy.  The guy who filed for bankruptcy in 1991?  And '92.  And 2004.  And 2009.  That guy?  Yes.  It all feels like a call back to the days when Colbert and Stewart were at the center of the pop culture zeitgeist sharply challenging political and media institutions. More recently Colbert struggled to define CBS's Late Show and himself. On The Colbert Report when the host needed to make a cutting incisive point he could do it as his blowhard character. As himself Colbert's a nicer guy so those moments have come less frequently. He has however been pretty tough on Trump which continued last night. In fact Monday offered a hint of how a little of that old Colbert Report impertinence could elevate The Late Show. In a pre-taped segment Colbert hopped on the RNC stage in Cleveland before the convention began. He was decked out in a blue wig and eyebrows like the TV host character from The Hunger Games giving the RNC a new name.   So it is my honor to hereby launch and begin the 2016 Republican National Hungry for Power Games.   Look look I know I am not supposed to be up here but let us be honest neither is Donald Trump.  Other comedy shows will offer some special coverage of the RNC this week including The Daily Show With Trevor Noah Bill Maher's Real Time Samantha Bee's program Full Frontal and a special edition of Saturday Night Live's Weekend Update. But Colbert struck first earning a ratings boost and new creative juice with a live show that reminded us just how effective and entertaining a satirist he can be when he takes the gloves off. I am Eric Deggans. 