 For San Francisco residents who use the Bay Area Rapid Transit system this will be a familiar announcement.   Fruitvale Station.  The stop on the Oakland side of the bay was the site of a police shooting four years ago that led to massive protests. Now the event that inspired those protests has inspired a movie. The film Fruitvale Station has won prizes at both the Sundance and Cannes film festivals and critic Bob Mondello says it deserves every bit of the buzz it is getting.   several young black men seated on a transit station platform white officers standing over them. There is shouting scuffling but nothing that looks worrisome then what sounds like a shot. The movie proper backs up roughly 24 hours from there. It is the morning before the calendar ticks over to 2009. Twenty-two-year-old Oscar Grant now played by actor Michael B. Jordan is telling his girlfriend things are looking up. He is bluffing but he means it. They have a 4-year-old daughter he adores and is great with. And though he is had a checkered past he says he is determined to do better. Two years earlier he would spent a much less pleasant New Year's Eve in jail talking to his mother.   No he does not want to go back to that. So he heads out to convince an ex-boss to hire him back. And as Oscar goes through his day struggling to stay positive in a world that keeps trying to knock him off stride first-time director Ryan Coogler does something at once subtle and smart. He lets us see the Oscar that transit cops will see that night - dressed urban-tough looking sketchy - as we hear the Oscar his family knows.   As the day goes on you register Oscar's warmth and generosity how yes he can be irresponsible but also means well. Mundane stuff really. He is just a guy. And that night over his grandma's gumbo as he is talking about his plans to go into the city to watch the New Year's fireworks his mom says what any protective mom would say.   And we slip into Greek tragedy.   Fruitvale Station is not really a surprising film except insofar as it is rare to see such a warmly emotional big-screen portrait of black family life. The director who grew up just north of Oakland and is about the age Oscar would be today has said that there was that-could-have-been-me aspect to the story. He is given it an immediacy and resonance on screen that reflects that with help from a striking performance by Michael B. Jordan who is mostly had supporting roles before this on TV's Parenthood and Friday Night Lights. Together star and director get you to look at and think about a flawed young man you might not give a second thought if you saw him on the street. And also to look at and think about that reaction and other knee-jerk reactions and the consequences they can have. Fruitvale Station does not have anything shattering to say about the case or the man really. But it may well leave you shattered by his story. I am Bob Mondello. 