 If you are seeing a lot of familiar faces back on TV you must be checking out the new fall lineup. The big networks are in the thick of premieres. And among the various family shows medical dramas and sitcoms  stars of the past getting a third chanceeven if their most recent shows were total failures.  Tonight begins the new ABC sitcom Cougar Town about a newly single mother dating again after going through a divorce.  Ms.   Would you give her a break? The dating pool is pretty limited when you get divorced at her age.  And if you do not understand the slang term cougar this show probably is not for you.  Ms.   The point is all of the single guys our age are either broken gay or chasing younger girls.  Cougar Town also marks the return of Courteney Cox who became a household name in the 1990s as part of the megahit NBC sitcom Friends.  Ms.   Hmm. This cake is amazing. Hmm. Ms.   My god get a room.  Ms.   I would get a room with this cake  In the risk-averse world of television it should come as no surprise that an actress with a hit under her belt would land another job but Cougar Town is not Cox's first starring role post-Friends. She played a sleazy tabloid editor a couple of years ago in the short-lived FX series Dirt.  Ms.   I have asked for the sales numbers twice. What is the top? Unidentified Woman 1   Terry's bringing them over. Ms.   Bringing them over? Call her.  Never amounted to much in the ratings  How come the failure of Dirt did not kill Cox's chances to get another show? This is after all Hollywood  You are only as good as your last picture. And Cox is not exactly an aberration. At least seven different actors headlining new fall shows have careers that roughly follow the same pattern. Patricia Heaton and Kelsey Grammer are back this year in their own shows even though they tanked two years ago in the same series called Back to You.   Ms.   I am just saying I am not the only one who thinks you are rude. Mr.   Yeah? Well you know what they call you? Miss Rigid.  And then there is Julianna Margulies formerly of ER.  Ms.   The client is a second-grade schoolteacher Jennifer... Unidentified Woman 2   Lewis. Ms.   She was arrested for killing her ex-husband?   Making it look like a botched carjacking.  She is back this season with the new legal drama The Good Wife which should not be confused with her last legal show Canterbury's Law which lasted six episodes last year. Good luck Good Wife. And while we are being catty does being just one member of an ensemble cast like ER or Friends really qualify an actor for starhood? It is as if the networks expect these people to coast into viewers' hearts on the fumes of goodwill generated by their old shows. Perhaps networks are willing to gamble on these actors because failure on TV happens so swiftly that nobody recalls it. I mean do you remember Canterbury's Law? The truth is it is so much easier to market a show around a familiar face. It helps cut through the clutter of the fall season but an easy sell does not necessarily make for a good show and this fall the networks may find that out the hard way.  That is commentator Andrew Wallenstein of the Hollywood Reporter. 