 A very different kind of drama also set on two wheels opens in theaters today. It is the story of a bike messenger who finds himself a wanted man. The movie is called Premium Rush and that is an appropriate title says critic Bob Mondello.  A character we have yet to meet flies through the air in slow motion on a busy New York street at the start of this movie. He is wearing a bike helmet which is a good thing because as The Who is Baba O'Riley pulses in the background and numbers come up on the screen telling us it'33 p.m. he lands with a thud on the pavement.   For a second or two he lies there staring at a car careening towards him a woman mouthing his name a bike that lies crumpled at his side. You might want to take those moments to catch your breath. You will not be offered many other chances because a few seconds later the film rewinds to leap back in time and tell you how he got there. Played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt this peddle-pumping courier is Wilee. His nickname is Coyote though he is more the Roadrunner in this story scooting up alleys and darting against traffic to get away from a corrupt cop who covets something he is picked up for delivery.   The detective who is both menacing and hapless as played by Michael Shannon is at a real disadvantage driving a car. On Manhattan's jammed avenues he cannot begin to keep up with Wilee who is given up a legal career for what he makes look like a contact sport zipping through Manhattan on a stripped down fixie a bike with no gear shift and no brakes. In a flashback Wilee's girlfriend who is also a messenger wonders if he has a death wish.   Writer-director David Koepp who is written dozens of action scripts from Spiderman going all the way back to Jurassic Park does not try as a director to freight any of this with meaning apart from being the latest reason to think that Gordon Levitt's star is only going to burn brighter. Premium Rush is just a fun ride. But the director does do a couple of things in it that are unusual for Tinsel Town. His New York actually looks like New York with a largely Asian Hispanic and African-American cast and that is really New York they are all careening through at breakneck speed not some studio back lot. Gordon Levitt even did a lot of his own stunts and took his own falls as an end credits outtake makes clear all of which means Premium Rush offers a pretty decent end-of-summer adrenaline rush. I am Bob Mondello.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 