 Three years ago comedians Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon made a movie called The Trip. They traveled around Britain dining arguing and doing celebrity impressions especially of their favorite actor.    I have not heard your Michael Caine but I assume it be something along lines of - my name's Michael Caine.   That is the very thing I do not do.   Do your Michael Caine.   I say Michael Caine used to talk like this in the 1960s right? But that has changed. And I say that over the years Michael's voice has come down several octaves - let me finish.  But Coogan and Brydon have now made a sequel to the trip called The Trip To Italy. Our critic Bob Mondello says it too is filled with impressione.  There they are tooling down the via Monte in a rented mini. Steve Coogan driving Rob Brydon reading from a tour guide and pretty quickly establishing that this trip will live up to the highly sophisticated standards of their first.    Producing Italy's greatest red wines - Barolo Barbaresco Barbera Hanna-Barbera.   Suffering succotash. I thought I saw a pussy-cat. I did.   The Trattoria Della pasta.  OK. We are roughly two minutes and in and already it will have occurred to you that there is a risk here. A risk that has in fact occurred to them as well.    It just feels odd doing something for a second time. It is like trying to do a sequel. Is not it? It is never going to be as good as the first time.   Godfather 2.   Two which is the one that people always mention when they try to search for an example of a sequel that is as good as...   Just when I thought I was out they pull me back in.   What is this licking thing you always do? You look like some sort of small gecko.   It is what Pacino does.   That is what he does. Just when I thought I had made two terrific movies they go and make another.  Pacino of course is just a warm-up for the main event or what you think is going to be the main event because they have other pecce to fry this time. So they get Michael Caine out of the way a mere nine minutes in.    Did you see him in The Dark Knight Rises? And his voice gets even more emotional than it is ever done in the past before. I do not want to bury you Batman I will not put you into the ground in a little box. I will not do it Master Bruce I will not do it.   I am not going to bury another Batman.   Another Batman? How many Batmans has he been burying? How many are there?   I have buried fourteen Batmans.   I have buried fourteen Batmans with their little pointy ears in a box.   I am not going to bury another nylon cloak with pointy ears that people wear at birthday parties.   And then Christian Bale says . I want to be a Batman. I do not want to be a normal guy.  And they are just getting started. In the first film Coogan came across as a full-of-himself diva. Brydon as a pleasant family man. This time they turn that dynamic on it is head. It is worth mentioning that these two are playing fictional versions of themselves. What is not fictional in their trip to Italy is the gorgeous Italian coastline director Michael Winterbottom has them romping through. Or the food they barely notice though it will have you famished by films end. Or the yacht they commandeer bellowing all the while.    .   Do not turn your back on me.   Around the horn we are going.  I would follow these guys around the horn in a second. Maybe that is where they will head next time. I am Bob Mondello. 