 Author Peter Heller has followed eco-pirates through the Antarctic Sea to duel with Japanese whaling fleets. He is journeyed through the belly of the deepest Tibetan gorge. But it was not until he got into surfing that he found himself in over his head.   It gives you all of this and not a single stand-up ride time again day after day. It gives you nothing back but tumbles wipe-outs thumpings scares and you return. You are glad to do it. In fact you can think of nothing you would rather do.   Peter welcome to the show.  Thanks for having me.  All right. So I am going to start off with what I hope is not an insult but to say that this whole surfing idea actually started with a midlife crisis right?  You know I just did this big thing. You know now am I supposed to do another big thing or could I just do some little things for a while? And the phone rang and it was a friend of mine who was a corporate lawyer. He would been transferred from Chicago where he was very happy to Huntington Beach Surf City USA and he asked me if I would come out and learn to surf with him.  And what I love about this is you guys basically just buy the shorts buy the board and show up at the beach and kind of assume we will be able to take this up pretty quickly.  Yeah.  And this is where you first hear the term kook right?  Oh yeah. I mean you know taking your board and trotting into the water at Huntington Beach would be sort of like you know you and I saying let us go to Yankee Stadium you know hit some balls with the Yankees. It is you know it is just not done.  You bleeping kook. Get the bleep out of the water you know or I am going to bleep you up. And it kind of hurt my feelings really.  Well what is the definition of that term? Give us the full sense full impact of what was being hurled your way.  Yeah kook. I mean it is a beginner but it is not a neutral term. I mean it is a clueless hopeless beginner. It is the guy that paddles up to the other surfers at the lineup who are very quiet you know and just chatters away like it is a cocktail party and you know gives a rebel yell when he does manage to stand up for a split second and drops in on people you know when it is not his wave cuts people off and collides and basically he is just a menace. And that was me.  What gave you the idea to go from being a complete kook to essentially at least not embarrassing yourself in front of the pros in six months? Because you decided to take out a six-month chunk of time.  I just thought she was you know - I loved her and I thought you know if I invite her and we go on this trip down the coast of Mexico and try and learn from experts along the way and I thought if I invite her you know maybe you know I could get to know her and maybe you know I could actually learn you know how to love someone else while I learned to surf.  You really kind of put herself out there with that.  But - so I did that. You know I invited her you know the surf the love story and then you know I found out there is this whole other element to the surf deal which is you know the oceans are in big trouble and that started to really dawn on me at the same time.  Now as a journalist you have covered whaling pirates and the sea but all of this has been I guess essentially from the surface. And in this book you are not in a boat. I mean you are in the water. You are actually at one point I think hanging out with sea lions. Talk about how surfing actually changed the way you see the ocean.  And there is something about being on the ocean that way you know on a surfboard you know lying down on a surfboard. You feel this you know communion with the ocean and the wave the surfing part actually becomes - for me it became sort of like the cream. You know it was like that is cool that you could actually catch a wave and surf also you know on top of this.  Now not to give away the ending here but you actually now live on a lake or near a lake in Denver. And I was actually pretty surprised because I did not think you would walk away from surfing.  You have to let go to a power that is greater than you. And I think you know those are really good things to practice you know if you want to live with someone else and have a good relationship. So they get drummed into you every day without you know meaning to.  Peter thanks for talking with us.  Thanks for having me. It was great. 