 From the small screen to the big big big screen. Theater owners are gearing up for what they hope will be a blockbuster weekend with the final chapter in director Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy.   The Dark Knight Rises opens at the end of the week on both regular and IMAX screens with tickets for some midnight IMAX showings already selling for upwards of 100 on sites like Craigslist. Even though true IMAX screens can be as tall as eight stories high millions of moviegoers could find themselves paying the premium IMAX ticket price for a much smaller screen. So what gives? Joining us now to help us understand this is James Hyder. He is the editor and publisher of LF Examiner which calls itself the Independent Journal of the Large Format Motion Picture Industry. Welcome Mr. Hyder.  Hi.  Now I remember growing up IMAX films as something you could see say at a museum on like a huge curving screen but now you can see films labeled IMAX you know at your neighborhood multiplex. So when did this happen and why?  Well IMAX had gotten into a lot of museums as you said in its early part of its existence and around 2008 they introduced a digital system that they aimed primarily at multiplex theaters which could not afford to build the huge screens that you were talking about and wanted something exciting for their customers. And most of these digital IMAX theaters are in existing auditoriums that they did not build a new theater as they had for the museums - a giant screen. It is an existing auditorium. They make the screen a little bit larger but it is not quite as large as the average theater in a museum.  So what is the difference in your experience? I mean what is the definition of IMAX?  Well IMAX claims officially that the experience is the same no matter what IMAX theater you go to. A lot of people feel though that IMAX was really synonymous with the giant screens. The average in a museum was around 60 by 80 feet and the average in the multiplex is quite a bit smaller than that.  So is the film quality different?  Well in the original classic IMAX theaters they were actually using 70-millimeter film. In these new multiplex theaters they are using a digital projection system and many people feel that the digital is a very sharp and clear image but it is not quite as sharp as the film image. The film image contains a lot of information and it is considered to be the highest quality film format and that of course why director Chris Nolan wanted to shoot his film with the IMAX cameras.  Is there any evidence that these technologies are drawing more ticket buyers?  Yes. IMAX claims that they are drawing quite a few more visitors to the auditoriums and their expansion into new markets have been quite high.  Because for the regular theatergoer I mean sometimes it feels a little ridiculous. You can choose between a 3-D version a 2-D version a 3-D IMAX version a 2-D IMAX version. And at a certain point you do not know if you are just totally getting taken for a ride there in terms of the ticket price.  Well it is right. I mean I think theater owners have found that just like in the supermarket when you give consumers a lot of choices they seemed to prefer having lots of choices over none. And so I think they try and fill all the market niches they can with all the different formats that they have. But you are right. There is quite a bewildering array of options and it is a question of what is worth it for your money.  And since you are the expert James Hyder what do you prefer when you go to see a blockbuster? I mean are you an IMAX fan? What to you is worth the ticket when you go to the movies?  Well as it happens I do not care for some of the films many of the blockbuster films that are now appearing on IMAX theaters. And I used to go out of a sense of professional obligation to see everything that IMAX released but I gave up that some time around the time of one of the boy-band films. I forget now which one it was. But no if I am going to see a film and I think I will go to see Dark Knight Rises I will go to see it in an IMAX film theater.  James Hyder thank you so much for explaining it to us.  It is been my pleasure Audie. Thank you.  James Hyder editor and publisher of LF Examiner the Independent Journal of the Large Format Motion Picture Industry. 