 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR West. I am Arun Rath. It is hard to imagine a living writer more accomplished than Margaret Atwood - novels poems short stories children's books essays and works that defy classification. She is distinguished herself in every possible way. Margaret Atwood is somehow able to write fantastic tales that are deeply literary and infused with a brilliant sense of humor. At 74 years old her wit is as sharp as ever.  When you are writing fiction everybody thinks you are secretly writing about real people and things. But if you write an autobiography they think you are lying as one does.  Atwood's latest book is a collection of wonderfully weird short stories. When we spoke I asked read part of the title story Stone Mattress. I will just set it up - there is an older woman who is gone on a cruise and she happens by chance to encounter the man who had raped her when she was a young woman.    And he does not recognize her.  Yes.   But she recognizes him. The next morning during the chartered flight north to where the ship is floating on the Beaufort Sea she considers her choices. She could play Bob like a fish right up until the final moment then leave him cold with his pants around his ankles. A satisfaction but a minor one. She could avoid him throughout the trip and leave the equation where it is been for the past 50-some years unresolved or she could kill him.  And she goes for option three.  It is kind of set up in the first sentence of the story where...  Yeah.  ...Where it says at the outset she did not intend to kill anyone. So you think well  that was at the outset.  It is interesting about these characters it is really striking about all of them is how they are in the later part of their lives but they are really still so deeply affected by what happened in their youth.  And you will be too.   Yes it does seem to be a human characteristic that in fact those things - although you may forget about them in your 20s - they are the sub-layer upon which your life is based. And they come back.  You know although not many of us get the chance to address them so intimately or in the case of this character so violently.   You would be surprised.  You have a character in this book it is from the first three stories in this  collection they are interconnected. And in the first story you have an aging writer who is created this fantasy world. And it is kind of - kind of B literature sort of by her own reckoning this place called Alphinland. But it becomes more real to her - more important to her over time.  Well it becomes more real to her and more important to her because it is an escape from her actual life. And talk to any writer on that subject. But she starts her series for pulp magazines back in the early '60s before any of this kind of writing had a cachet. So think of a world without comic-con. You know it did not exist back then. And people wrote these things for the pulps under different names because you did not want to have the same writer all the time.  Now I would not want to be in a world without comic-con necessarily but at the same time...  You would not want - let us examine that - you would not want to be in a world without comic-con. That is a pretty firm commitment.  It is. I will stand by that.  Well I would not want to be in a world in which people did not dress up from time to time. It would be very boring.  Right. Is there - in this character Constance in Alphinland - I just wonder reading about her in this world that she is created is it a fear for a writer like yourself who has done so much writing that in a way you become trapped by what you have created?  How old are you?  I am 44.  Oh do you feel trapped by anything yet?   I feel trapped by a lot of things.  Are any of them of your own creation?  Well that is kind of deep.  It is. It is quite deep is not it? Yes. Well that was the question you asked me.  Yeah I would - but I am supposed to ask the questions. I am not supposed to reflect on myself.  There are no rules. In Alphinland we make up our own rules.  .  Ok let us put it another way. In Alphinland Constance has got a couple of other people trapped in there.  Yes.  For instance she is got her old boyfriend in a barrel in a  wine facility. And she is got her old rival for that very boyfriend shut up in a stone wall and attacked by bees. So she is acting out but in a way that does not actually harm the real people or so we believe.  I read that you are working on a book that will not be read for 100 years - intentionally - something that is called The Future Library project.  Is not that good? So I was approached by the Norwegian Library of the Future. It is called the Future Library. They are building the building - the new library - and in that new library there is going to be a room. And they are growing a forest in Norway and it will grow for 100 years. Does this recall Sleeping Beauty to your mind? And each one of those 100 years they will invite one writer to write a manuscript. It can be anything. It can be a novel a poem nonfiction. And all that can be told about it is its title. So each one of those hundred years the manuscript will be presented and put into this room in the library in a box - sealed like a genie in a bottle. And at the end of the 100 years they will cut enough trees from the forest to make enough paper to print the book of these books of all of the manuscripts that have been put in the boxes.  See you agreed to do this so obviously there is something about this you find attractive or at least intriguing.  There is a number of very attractive things about it. First of all I will not have to deal with the critics. Think of that. Second it is a lot like the message-in-the-bottle metaphor for writing any book. So any book that you write you write it and then you publish it - that is the bottle part - and it goes out on the sea of wherever books go. It flows hither and thither and you do not know who may read it. So this is the same except that there is a 100-year gap. As the writer you will never know what people think of it. You will also never know whether they understand it because the language may have changed in that time. Being a practical person I did think immediately I will have to get archival paper and non-fade ink or else they might open the box and find nothing in it.  That is Margaret Atwood. Her new book of short stories is called Stone Mattress. It is out on Tuesday. Margaret it was great fun speaking with you. Thank you.  Lovely speaking with you. 