 We turn now to the chief justice of film our Bob Mondello. Bob you are not supposed to laugh just yet.   That was very nice actually.  Bob and I are here sitting behind a plate of caviar canapes and with a fine bottle of Chateau Lafitte.  Right with a really huge screen in front of us for the movie screening. Actually it is a five-year-old laptop and we have loaded it up with a trailer that I am kind of intrigued by.  This is not a luxurious private screening room. Bob tomorrow you are going to be on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED previewing the fall films but today you want to focus on one film that you are really excited about.  Well I am psyched because the trailer looks so cool and it is not at all what I was expecting. It is a picture called The Informant. And it is directed by Steven Soderbergh who you know is sometimes doing really interesting stuff and sometimes doing very strange stuff.  Yeah.  It stars Matt Damon. And it is about the whistle-blower Mark Whitacre who basically exposed price-fixing at Archer Daniels Midland back in the 1990s which leads you to expect something like Erin Brockovich or The Insider right?  Right.  But as you will see when the trailer starts the tone is a little different.  Mr.   What I am about to tell you it involves something very large.  Let me just stop here for a sec. That is Matt Damon right?  Yeah I know but 20 pounds overweight and with this horrible moustache.  Yeah.  He looks really a stranger.  Mr.   Corn goes in one end and profit comes out the other. Weird right? It is not just lysine. It is citric. It is gluconate. There was a guy who left the company because he would not do it. He was forced out. The gluconate guy he is out of a job.   It really sounds like an interesting film does not it?  And it is funny right?  It does look funny. The last time I can think of that a true story was done funny in this way and was nonetheless true to what it was about was Catch Me If You Can. Do you remember that one? Spielberg directed that.  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. With Leonardo DiCaprio.  That is right. And  A very good film.  Yeah it was terrific. Everybody liked it. And I think that is the tone that this is going for. And the thing that I love just before the end of the trailer he is about to go into the courtroom with his lawyers   Mr.   Listen I have not been telling you guys the whole truth but I am going to clear that up in there today.   What?   So anyway I think it sounds like it ought to be very interesting. And you know you never know and I have seen lots of trailers that were really fantastic and then the picture did not turn out to be but this one looks like it is  I mean it is pretty hard to screw something up with Matt Damon in the lead right?  Well you would think although he has not always been good. What was that one where he was half of conjoined twins? I mean there   Oh yes.  There are things that no one should be asked to do. But anyway I have hopes.  That is NPR's chief justice of film Bob Mondello.   You like that very much.  I do.  Previewing the new film The Informant. You can hear Bob's complete fall movie preview tomorrow on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. Bob thank you so much.  It is always a pleasure. 