 There are at least two Judy Garlands. In the 1930s and '40s she was the sweetheart movie star the girl next door - think The Wizard Of Oz or Meet Me In St. Louis.    Clang clang clang went the trolley. Ding ding ding went the bell.  And then there is the older Judy - scrutinized by the media struggling with alcohol and pills financially unstable - as in the later years of The Judy Garland Show.    Stormy weather.  This is where we find her in the new movie Judy - a few years after the end of that show not long before her death at age 47.    I do not have a home. I cannot even get a manager.   London would offer you a lot of money.   Talk of the town.   ...Is desperate to do a deal with you.   You are saying I have to leave my children if I want to make enough money to be with my children?  That is Renee Zellweger playing Judy Garland. The movie centers on a run of shows she did in London - sometimes blowing audiences off their feet sometimes falling far short. Zellweger sings all the songs. I asked her what she knew about Judy Garland before taking this role.  Not so much - I sort of took her for granted. She was always there on the turntable reel to reel. And she was Dorothy of course you know?  So you step into this role playing a woman who has been caricatured thousands of times often by drag queens. How do you thread the needle between accuracy and parody?  Well like you said there are a lot of things that are recognizable as uniquely Judy just characteristics which have been - I would not - I do not know if they have been parodies as much as celebrated in our culture for decades. And so those things are pretty well-established and nonnegotiable and that is just about coming to familiarize yourself with those things and watching videos and watching performances and interviews etc. But...  So you like immersed yourself in all of that like took a Judy Garland master class.  Oh yeah. Oh certainly. I mean and - come on - what a job to have. You know what I mean?  .  I was spoiled rotten. And you know the treasure trove is vast because her legacy is extraordinary. And thank you Internet you know?  I mean can I just ask - since you have dug so deeply into that. I think anybody who has any familiarity with Judy Garland has kind of a hit list of the best moments but you have watched moments that certainly I have not and probably many listeners have not. Is there one that you were like oh this is the gold nugget I have been looking for? Like if somebody's going to go to YouTube right now what should they pull up?  Oh goodness Ari. There is a billion zillion that seemed essential.  .  There is one interview that I would go back to quite a bit and it was when a very very young Barbara Walters sat down with her and her children Lorna and Joey. And she seemed so vulnerable. And she was putting on a brave face but you could tell that she felt there was a lot that was hanging in the balance in this televised appearance and feeling so exposed.   If you had not been an actress if you can imagine being anything else but an actress what do you think you might want - to have wanted to be?  Happily married and just a nice lady.  And that seemed key to me in sort of filling in the blanks between what is on public record and people's speculations about what her experiences might have been and then you know the ugly things that were written about her at that time. I felt like now wait a second. This is not a woman who is past her prime with respect to her performance ability. In fact she is probably more powerful in her ability to emote and connect with people with empathy in singing these songs about love and loss and hoping for better things having lived those things herself you know? There was a different way to look at her not as a victim but as heroic...  Yeah.  ...In what she was able to navigate.  There is a moment in the film when she talks about the tension of being a fully realized human and being kind of a persona in front of a camera. And this is a moment when she is fighting for custody of her children. I want to ask you about this. Let us listen.    What?   The fights over custody your children living away from you.   I mean if I am the terrible mother they like to write about well you tell me how I end up with such incredible kids.   But I was not suggesting...   Well no. Everybody suggests things like I am not a real person. But I am you understand? I am only Judy Garland for an hour a night. The rest of the time I am part of a family. I just want what everybody wants. I just seem to have a harder time getting it.  Did you identify with that part of the Judy Garland character? When you read that part of the script did you think oh yeah I know what she is talking about?  Well I understand it. Yeah I do I mean in a way that I might not have maybe 15 years ago. But that is not unique to my experience. That is anybody who has a public job whether it is sports or broadcasting or you know - you should hear what they say about you.  Yeah but nobody knows what I look like.  You should hear what they say about you Ari.   I read Twitter. I know what is out there.  You do? Really? No.  You do not? You do not read Twitter?  Oh gosh no. No good could come of that.  Let us talk about the songs. Because the focus of the movie is the series of concerts she did late in life you do a lot of singing as Judy Garland. So tell me about what it took to do some of the most well-known songs performed by one of the world's most famous singers?  Well the first step is to take that part out.   Do not let yourself be aware of that.  Compartmentalize that part...  Yeah.  ...And cloak it in a very substantial layer of denial.  .  And then you know there is just a lot of learning to do and a lot of exercises.  You mean just like singing lessons vocal exercises.  Yeah just to keep pushing until something that sounded like it belonged in the song was coming out of my mouth.  The last song we hear is her most famous - Somewhere Over The Rainbow. And the context in which we hear it is not pretty. It might be beautiful but it is also broken which at that point the character is. Tell me about the choice not to give the audience the transcendence and instead to give them the kind of falling short of aspirations.  I guess I might have looked at it not as falling short but as a different kind of triumph - the triumph of refusing to quit the triumph of tenacity her beauty as a performer despite her inability to fully access her instrument at that point in her life. I do not see that as sad. I see it as remarkable. It is more beautiful that you refuse to let go of that belief that things will be good again.    And the dreams that you dare to dream...  Renee Zellweger it has been a pleasure talking with you. Thank you so much.  For me too Ari - thanks for having me.  