 A near record summer for movies wraps up this weekend. Superheroes and dinosaurs dominated the first half. Tom Cruise Cher and Crazy Rich Asians took over in the second. Now Hollywood has to figure out how to keep the momentum going. In his fall movie preview critic Bob Mondello says the film industry will follow its summer of sunshine by going seriously dark.  Superheroes schmuperheroes - this fall Marvel's bringing us a super anti-hero.    History starts today.  You have heard the setup before - guy walks into a lab gets superpowers when bitten...    I am feeling really sick.  ...Not by a spider by an alien symbiote...    I am hearing a voice.  Eddie.  ...That thinks they are a team.    If you are going to stay you will only hurt bad people.  The way I see it we can do whatever we want. Do we have a deal?  Together they are Venom who you may remember as a scaly guy in one of the Spider-Man movies. And quite a few of the season's other fantasies lean just as hard on darkness.    I cannot move against Grindelwald. It has to be you.  That is Professor Dumbledore enlisting Newt's fantastic beasts to stave off slavery for all muggles in The Crimes Of Grindelwald. And in Disney's Nutcracker And The Four Realms it is not even safe to traipse through the land of the Sugarplum Fairies.    Be careful who you trust.   I have been expecting you .  Stories of a more down-to-earth sort are often not much cheerier - the historical epic Peterloo for instance.    The corrupt order will come crashing down.  Mike Leigh has mostly directed movies with titles like Life Is Sweet and Happy-Go-Lucky. Peterloo is about a 19th-century massacre where chants of liberty or death were met decisively with death. The Wild West saga The Sisters Brothers...    You do not stand a chance.  ...Is a grim tale of gold greed and guns while the urban tragedies Monsters And Men and The Hate U Give were both inspired by the shooting of young black men by white police officers.    What did you do?  I do not want to bum anyone out but many of this fall's stories about teenagers are pretty downbeat. Actor Timothee Chalamet who discovered first love in Call Me By Your Name discovers crystal meth in Beautiful Boy.    I am sorry Dad. Why do not we just have lunch and talk? We can do that right? Please.   You think that you have this under control.   You are just embarrassed 'ecause I was like - you know I was like this amazing thing like your special creation or something and you do not like who I am now.   Yeah who are you Nic?   This is me Dad. Here this is who I am.   This is not you.  That is Steve Carell playing his father. Elsewhere there is a boy who refuses medical help that could save his life in The Children Act. White Boy Rick concerns a 14-year-old drug trafficker. The Argentine film El Angel The Angel is about a baby-faced serial killer. And in Boy Erased Nicole Kidman has a gay son whose religious father threatens to disown him.    Open the door now.   Mom.   They say sometimes you got to hurt a child in order to help them but a mother knows when something is not right.  If there is a bright spot in the season's darkness it is that women are so frequently the ones putting things right especially in thrillers where they mostly do the rescuing rather than being rescued - Halloween say where that guy with the mask is back and Jamie Lee Curtis' Laurie Strode is now a grandmother.    I pray every night that he would escape.   What the hell did you do that for?   So I can kill him.  There is also an avenging mom in Peppermint and a pair of ferocious Lizes in Lizzie about that Borden girl who took an axe and gave her father 40 whacks and also in The Girl In The Spider's Web.    Are you not Lisbeth Salander the girl who hurts men who hurt women?  Nor do you want to cross Viola Davis when she teams up with the director of 12 Years A Slave for the crime saga Widows.    Why should we trust you anyway?   Because I am the only one standing between you and a bullet in your head.  Other women will strut their stuff in more literary ways in an adaptation of the James Baldwin novel If Beale Street Could Talk from the director of Moonlight and in the biopic Colette with Keira Knightley as the writer who penned novels for which her husband took credit.    My school stories?   Yes that could be Willy's next novel.   Are you writing for him too?   Yes.   He is made you one of his ghosts already.   I believe William based Claudine on your school days.   Yes I think I had a little something to contribute.  Ghostwriting of a more comic sort is done by Melissa McCarthy in Can You Ever Forgive Me?.    I am embellishing literary letters by prominent writers.   Fanny Brice one of my favorites - I could give you 75.   Oh.   I could give more for better content. It is a bit bland is all.  So she punches it up.    Yeah I can definitely get a lot more for this one. I mean the P.S. makes it priceless.  Other comedies include a charmer that Robert Redford swears will be his last acting gig The Old Man  The Gun.    So you walk right up. Look her in the eye and you say madam this is a robbery. And you show her the gun like this. And you say I would not want you to get hurt 'ecause I like you I like you a lot. So do not go breaking my heart now OK?   You are not serious.  Also hitting light notes are family films like Smallfoot which flips the Bigfoot legend on its head and has yetis telling campfire stories about us who they see as terrify creatures.    With feet that were amazingly freakishly small.  Also for kids - a new Grinch movie...    Today we will do mean things and we will do them in style.  ...And the return of a videogame hero in Ralph Breaks The Internet.    Should not it be Ralph Wrecks The Internet?   Yeah since he is Wreck-It Ralph.   Yeah but break the Internet - it is like a thing.   Right. It is just - wreck the Internet kind of sounds better does not it?   You are not wrong.  While I am talking about the return of characters we know I should mention that fans of Judy Garland and Barbra Streisand will want to check out the new A Star Is Born.    Almost every single person has told me they like the way I sounded but that they did not like the way I look.   I think you are beautiful.  This time Lady Gaga is the singer on the rise and Bradley Cooper the fading star who gives her career a boost.    I am off the deep end. Watch as I dive in. I will never meet the ground.  Other showbiz stories will be told in the documentaries Maria By Callas about the opera singer Love Gilda about Gilda Radner Quincy about Quincy Jones and The Great Buster about silent film genius Buster Keaton. And if those do not satisfy your thirst for true-life stories there are biopics galore including The Happy Prince with Rupert Everett as Oscar Wilde...    Your appreciation has been most intelligent.    I congratulate you on the success of your performance.  ...Also The Front Runner with Hugh Jackman as a high-flying politician who fell to Earth...    My name's Gary Hart and I am running for president.  ...First Man with Ryan Gosling as Neil Armstrong who made one giant leap for mankind when he set foot on the moon...    Space exploration changes your perception.  ...And Mr. Robot's Rami Malek as Queen's lead singer Freddie Mercury in Bohemian Rhapsody.    Galileo Galileo...   Do it again one more.   How many more Galileos do you want?   Roger there is only room in this band for one hysterical queen.   Ready Freddie?   Let us do it.  Mercury's story was both triumphant and tragic. HIV took him in his prime.    You need to slow down Freddie.  So it fits nicely with the tenor of the fall.    I just need a bit of time.   What if I do not have time?  After Thanksgiving things will brighten considerably. But I am out of time so we will save Mary Poppins and the other year-end attractions for later. I am Bob Mondello.    No time for losers 'ecause we are the champions of the world. We are the champions my friends. 