 There is a story Zulfu Livaneli likes to tell a short one that somehow manages to capture the remarkable sweep of his life. He calls it his passport story.  My first passport was a false passport - I mean a fake passport.  Livaneli is a Turkish author and musician. Today he is famous enough to fill a 500000-seat amphitheater. Back then not so much. And he ran afoul of the country's military-backed regime.  I was in military prison in '72 '73. And then I escaped with - from Turkey with a false passport. I was not known then thanks God.  He made it to Sweden where he got passport No. 2.  A refugee passport which is terrible because you cannot move. You cannot travel. I mean and they had no respect. Then you have to go to police station each week or something.  After a few years in exile he was granted amnesty and made it back to Turkey where he got passport No. 3 a regular Turkish one. His music career took off - so did his writing career and his film career. He is a director too. He was named a goodwill ambassador to came with a perk.  I got the highest passport the red passport of the United Nations so with the immunity and everything.  And eventually he was elected to parliament in Turkey which gave him passport No. 5. The passports were different colors and each came with its particular set of baggage.  I am the same person. You know I am always the same my ideas and everything. But I received different kind of attitudes according to colors of this paper taken out from my pocket .  Livaneli's novel Disquiet was just translated into English and it centers on a modern-day refugee from Syria. The story unfolds in a city that has as many identities as Zulfu Livaneli has passports.  It is Mardin. It is an ancient town. And Armenians Kurdish Arabic Turkish - I mean all these kind of people are there. You can see minarets and synagogues and the churches - Orthodox churches early Christianity churches. I mean it is a very interesting town amazing town.  And relevant to the story that you set out to tell it is near the border with Syria. And so it is very much a border town.  It is a border town. And there is refugee camp there. We have almost 5 million refugees in Turkey from Syria. Some of them stay there. That is why I wanted to tell story from that magical town.  The main character in your book Ibrahim is sort of pulled between that town where he grew up and the sort of cosmopolitan bustle of Istanbul. And he says he feels like a tourist...  Yes. Yes.  ...In his own country. And so for you as a well-known writer and musician who has traveled the world and particularly Turkey have you ever experienced that feeling that he describes?  Yes because we have a deep identity crisis here. Our past is East and the Eastern country with Islamic country. But we had a revolution in the beginning of the century in the 20th century and we became a secular country. And we grew up in Western culture. In schools I mean the Western writers you know struggle between the lifestyles. I mean we have many countries within one country. And that is why...  It sounds like you are saying that the experience is not unique to an individual the experience is intrinsic to Turkish identity.  Yes it is Turkish identity. And people now especially under the last government people are really polarized and they hate each other and - because they want to interfere there to their lifestyles. Some people - I mean millions of people like to have alcohol or entertain themselves I mean with a girl and you know boy at the street and they kiss each other. But in some towns when you go to the East I mean this is impossible. They blame you I mean if you live like this because it is really a polarized country now.  The central narrative of the story is a search for a refugee a Syrian refugee in Turkey. And you yourself have experience as a refugee.  Yeah.  How did that help you reflect on the experience of this present-day refugee character?  Yeah. I was in Sweden but Sweden was very nice. I mean there were not many refugees at that time and workers. But that time I lived five years there. And I learned a lot being a refugee and live in a different culture. That is why I found myself in a real isolated - like a moon station. Then I thought about my country - past and the future and the other cultures. So this created me. I can say this is really really important part of my identity.  Did you see that version of yourself in this character of this female refugee from Syria who you created for this novel?  Not the same situation I think. But what happened? I mean this book sold a lot. But we have 5 million refugees. And of course there are racist people in Turkey. They are afraid of the Syrians. They do not have common language. They do not have anything in common. And they say OK they are taking our jobs. I mean they are criminals or something like that. You know this kind of racist people. But after this book it made a great impact on Turkish society. And so many people wrote me that we understand these people now. They are suffering as well. So I think this was kind of the function of the literature these days. It worked really well.  Zulfu Livaneli's new novel is called Disquiet. Thank you so much for talking with us about it.  Thank you Ari Shapiro. Thank you very much. 