 The border-crossing love story I Carry You With Me won a pair of awards at last year's Sundance Film Festival. Then its release was delayed by the pandemic. This week it finally opens for general audiences and they will discover says critic Bob Mondello that it does not just cross borders it also crosses genres.  Ivan looks to be in his early 50s when we see him in a New York subway. He is musing about a past in 1990s Mexico that was filled with waiting - waiting for the mother of his 5-year-old to let him take his son for a play date.   .  Waiting to cook not wash dishes while his restaurant boss urges him to be patient.   .  .  Waiting for a relationship that can work in a Mexican society that forces gay men underground.   .  That is Gerardo a teacher saying you would be a very complicated boyfriend. And he is got that right. Even as they slip into a steady relationship Ivan is thinking that things would be better in the U.S. - less homophobia a likelier shot at becoming a chef. And when his son's mom realizes Ivan is gay and will not let him visit anymore he takes the plunge toward the border telling Gerardo...   .  He will be away for one year.   .  Ivan has always believed that life has something special waiting like a surprise. Gerardo he says...   .  ...Is my surprise but you arrived a little too soon.   .  I Carry You With Me is the first narrative feature from documentary-maker Heidi Ewing. She is working from a story that the real Ivan and Gerardo told her over the course of several years. She filmed them going about their lives then working backwards from that documentary footage she scripted their backstory and found actors to play them in their early 20s and also in childhood when they dealt with fathers...   .  ...Who were differently oppressive.   .  .  .  .  The result is a distinctive sometimes wrenching hybrid decades-spanning swoony dramatic nonfiction - a story of hope and sacrifice in which men who cannot be gay in Mexico and cannot be undocumented in the U.S. find themselves trading one sort of hiding for another. The documentary and narrative pieces do not always fit neatly together but the performances the handheld camera work the simple truths of prejudice poverty and peril make it easy to glide past rough patches. I Carry You With Me is about a dream of America that did not go according to plan. But then what dream does? I am Bob Mondello.  