 Preschoolers and their parents may know this voice.    I am Peppa Pig.  This is my little brother George.     This is Mommy Pig.  .  The award-winning British cartoon about Peppa Pig her family and her animal friends airs in more than 180 countries. She is starred in movies and stage shows and has her own YouTube channel. There are Peppa Pig games and toys even a theme park in England. And now Peppa's released her first album. NPR's Mandalit del Barco caught up with her.  Harley bird the voice of Peppa Pig for almost 13 years sits poolside at a Santa Monica hotel as children splash about.  Hello.  The peppy redheaded 17-year-old is here with her mom her little sister Olivia and little brother Roscoe on holiday.  Ooh .  Bird's also here to promote Peppa Pig's first album in which she sings about friendship balloon rides and her favorite pastime.    Jumping up and down in muddy puddles - splish  splash splosh  splish splash.  Peppa Pig debuted in the U.K. and Australia in 2004 and has been on Nick Jr. in this country for the past eight years. The cartoon was voiced by two other actresses before the producers found Harley Bird.  Peppa is a 4-year-old pig. She is very cheeky and funny. She is quite bossy. She is quite a bossy piggy.  Harley Bird - that is her stage name - was just 5 years old when she landed the role. Here's her mother Gill Riley.  She was just a little quirky little bit different and she definitely had something about her.  My mom just realized that I was quite a dramatic girl and I just sounded like a pig. That is it. I could not really read at all. All I knew I was just speaking because I mean it was my real voice at the time. I mean it is still my real voice but I have to like change my voice to like sound younger and a bit higher and more kid-like. Hello. I am Peppa Pig.  Along the way Harley Bird did learn to read and to snort.   Here are some other fun facts about Harley bird. She has a black belt in kickboxing. She works at the village pub. And Prince William once waved to her. She is studying for her A levels to get into university and would like to become a casting director. She and her family live on a farm in a small village called Tring. She travels to London to record Peppa Pig then returns home to feed the chickens.  I have two pigs called Peppa and George. They are very cheeky. There was one time when I went in to go feed them in the morning and they started eating my wellies whilst I was still wearing them.  Bird acted in the 2013 movie How I Live Now had a small part on TV's Doctor Who and starred in the Disney series So Sammy. As Peppa Pig she won a prestigious BAFTA award when she was 9. Bird seems surprised to learn that some critics call out the show for fat-shaming Daddy Pig and that Peppa Pig is considered a subversive symbol in China.  I do not really have anything to say about it. It is such an innocent thing that to be made into anything more is like a tiny bit ridiculous.    Bong  bing  boo  bing bong bing bing bong bingly  bungly  boo.  Harley Bird does not take her singing too seriously and jokes about performing at Coachella.  Lil Nas who did Old Town Road he was tweeting something about doing a collab . I am so in with that definitely. I mean I am in America. Find me. Let us collab.  Peppa Pig's album dropped the same day as Iggy Azalea's prompting the rapper to tweet it is over for me now. The piggy tweeted back Peppa's so fancy. You already know.    She is Peppa Pig. She is Peppa Pig.   I am Peppa Pig.  Mandalit del Barco NPR News.    Bing bong bing bong bing boo we are all animals at the zoo. 