 Sometimes in the fourth or fifth year of a relationship people fall into a rut or get into an argument about something that in hindsight is kind of small. Well that dynamic is at the core of a new show called Forever premiering today on Amazon. It was co-created by writer and director Alan Yang who won an Emmy for the Netflix show Master Of None. NPR's Andrew Limbong asked Yang how to make a relationship work - on screen at least.  The sky looks a little sad and it is kind of cold on a beach along Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu. Maya Rudolph and Fred Armisen are working out this exchange between their characters.  You always say flush out. It is flesh out. You add flesh to something to make it more full. Flush out does not make sense. You sound like an idiot.  Flesh. Flesh. Fleshed out. Fleshed it out. The committee fleshed out the proposal. Either could work.  Let us do one more and say...  That is Alan Yang directing the episode. He and other writers toss out lines and suggestions.  And then make sure to say committee fleshed out the proposal. OK yes I see what you are saying.  Flesh. Fleshed. Fleshed it out. I fleshed it out. The committee fleshed out the proposal. OK yes I see what you are saying.  Great. I am glad we got that settled.  Cut.  .  Got it.  I cannot tell you anything about the plot of Forever without spoiling it but you are getting a pretty good sense of the theme.  You know we have all of these highfalutin ideas about soulmates and true love and passion and all those things. But a lot of being in a relationship that lasts a long time is the smallest  possible. And can you get through that stuff with that other person? Like do we leave glasses in the sink or do we put them away? You know stuff like that will really  determine...  Yeah or also the small jokes stories.  That second voice is Matt Hubbard also an Emmy-winning writer for 30 Rock and co-creator of Forever. He is the married one of the two.  Things you do with your spouse - I think we both believe that conflict from marriage can arise from that but also strength.  In a follow-up interview Alan Yang who is never been in a relationship longer than three or four years says they wanted to staff their writers' room with married people so they could share their stories.  Conflicts and arguments that felt real that felt grounded that felt genuine and earned.  Like Yang's first movie 2014's Date And Switch. It is about a teenage boy who comes out to his best friend and is based off a real-life event. But Yang gained most of his writing chops on the NBC sitcom Parks And Recreation where he says co-creators Greg Daniels and Mike Schur taught him that no matter how funny any scene line or shot has to be true to the character.  Alan really locked into that I think. He - like that made sense to him in some fundamental way.  Mike Schur co-creator of Parks And Recreation and the guy who hired Yang. Schur says that Yang's attitude fit the central tenet of the show.  He is relentlessly positive about the world and about what people are capable of and how bright the future is and how every day is better than yesterday. I mean it is very infectious and somehow not annoying.  Yang was a writer throughout the show is run including the episode where the main character the relentlessly positive Leslie Knope gets married.    Oh my God. We are getting married tonight. This is really great.   Yeah.   You are either in or you are out buddy.   I - it was my idea. I am totally in.  .  Alan Yang's positivity goes beyond what is on screen. Yang's parents came to the States from Taiwan. And when he and I spoke it happened to be the same weekend a certain movie about insanely wealthy Asians was coming out. And when I asked about it he gave a response that is been practiced locked and loaded.  It is just the beginning. We should celebrate. We now have - what is it? - two Asian-centric movies in 25 years. And how many movies do we have about dogs? You know  there is a hundred movies about dogs. There is heroic dogs. There is villainous dogs. Yeah there is six Air Bud movies where a dog plays sports. I mean there is...  Dogs get to live. Dogs gets to die. Dogs get to be in movies without being asked questions about what this means for canine diversity in a human-dominated industry. Issues of race and identity and species are not central to Forever. But they will be in Yang's next project and he will continue to mine relationships for conflict. Are your folks still together?  They are not. And that will be addressed in my upcoming film .  As optimistic as Yang might be he is clear-eyed that most relationships do not last forever. And that can be good too. Andrew Limbong NPR News.  