 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Noah Adams joining Robert here in the studio for few days.  Mm-hmm.  And now here' corporate comedy trainer. In California Judy Carter teaches people to use humor to make themselves better at their jobs. We decided to put her to the test. At our suggestion earlier this year she accepted an assignment that would demand all of her special skills. Ms.  My mission was to find the most serious person I could and give that person a comedy makeover and what better place to find serious people than the U.S. military. So I went to the naval base in Port Hueneme California and asking around I quickly discovered that Captain John Heinzel was my man.  I cannot say that I have ever seen him funny. I have seen him serious. I have seen him measured.  I would say he has a very good chance of casting a role as Spock in Star Trek. Ms.  Even Captain Heinzel himself realized that he was indeed seriously comedy challenged.  I have been told I am not funny so do not ever try.  Ms.  It does not help that he has a long complicated title. Capt.  I am the commanding officer of the Center for Seabees and Facilities Engineering and the commanding officer of the Navy Civil Engineer Corps Officers School and the director of the Naval Facilities Institute. Ms.  Does that all fit on your card? Capt.  No.  Ms.  Basically he trains new naval officers and cadets on the history of the Civil Engineer Corps. But the trouble is he tends to put them to sleep. I listened to a tape of one of his presentations. Capt.  This climate consolidation went from 18 to five and then ultimately down to one - Navy installations command. As to the installations coming on is now - our commander is now... Ms.  Somebody wake me up. Clearly a comedy intervention was required and quickly. Captain Heinzel is scheduled to give a presentation on civil engineer history in a month. I searched for a ray of hope that he had something anything for me to work with. Have you ever been called the life of a party? Capt.  No. Ms.  Have you ever been invited to be in a talent show? Capt.  No. Ms.  Are you Jewish? Capt.  No. Ms.  This is going to be hard. We started by punching up the opening of his speech with a comedy classic list of three. Now anytime you have list the third one has to be funny. Capt.  Okay. Ms.  Serious serious funny. Go ahead. Capt.  How many of you have read the history of the Civil Engineer Corps that you got in your read ahead packet? Okay.  Okay. Capt.  How many of you have not read it? Okay very good. You are honest. And how many of you are here for the Robert Allen No Money Down seminar? Well you are in the wrong place.  Capt.  That is meeting elsewhere. Ms.  Do you like that? Do you think... Capt.  I think it has potential. I would have to work on it though to make sure the delivery came off smoothly because if you stumble over it you are dead. Ms.  Next we had to add a runner to his presentation. Do you have any idea what a runner is? Capt.  Somebody who runs. Ms.  Not quite. Not quite. It is a - a runner is something that runs through your entire act that you keep coming back to it.  can we talk?  I do not get no respect. After the most boring part of your show - presentation you need to say is not this exciting? And that' Hoorah. Capt.  That is right.  Now how do you... Capt.  It will not be hooah it will be oorah.  Oorah. Capt.  Oorah.  I told him to add a personal touch to his talk and make fun of himself. Let us face it everybody else was already. Capt.  I do get wild in my personal life and take risks. Yesterday I drank milk two days past the expiration point. And I actually read the unrated version of The History Of The Civil Engineer Corps.  Ms.  Any... Capt.  And it kept me awake.  Ms.  Oh good you are ad-libbing very good. This gave me hope that not only was he getting it but he was actually looking forward to doing it. Capt.  If I deliver that after a couple of these they will be like holy mackerel this is not your typical Navy lecture. Ms.  I left the captain to practice for his upcoming presentation. Over the next few weeks I coached him over the phone then returned to the base a month later to see him in action. It was the big day.  Ms.  You look a little tense. Talk to me.   Capt.  Well just nervous about jokes not - not going well. Ms.  What is the worst thing that could happen? Capt.  They do not laugh at a joke so then it - they start to lose respect for the position. Ms.  And this is all from no one laughing at one joke? Capt.  No one laughing - several jokes. Ms.  Hmm. He was not the only one stressed out. Sitting in the auditorium waiting for him to go on I was sweating bullets - or torpedoes or whatever they sweat in the Navy. Did my comedy makeover take? Capt.  And how many of you are here for the Robert Allen No Money Down seminar? You are in the wrong place. All right. I have been practicing that joke for three weeks  Capt.  And I finally got it. And you guys laughed. Ms.   When you get a laugh do not make it seem as if it is your first one ever even if as in this case it is. Capt.  I tell you I am not as serious as you might think I am. I was just out on a function last week with my aloha shirt untucked.  Ms.  Lighthearted self-mocking check. Capt.  Hey. Is not this exciting?  Oorah. Capt.  Okay you are paying attention. Very good very good. Ms.  There is his signature runner. Oh smart move -  A top 10 list a la David Letterman about his newfound approach to life. Capt.  Here are some ways where you know you are taking yourself too seriously. Your idea of sweet talk is yes drill sergeant right away drill sergeant  Capt.  Culbertson that is you right?  Yes sir. Capt.  Okay. And the number one way that you know you are taking yourself too seriously as Civil Engineer Corps Officer is when your wife's water breaks in the middle of the night and you tell her to call the public works trouble desk.  Capt.  Okay thank you very much. You are off. Carry on. Ms.  Captain Heinzel was a hit. Woohoo. I met him backstage - or rather by the hall of missiles for a recap. Was this at all fun for you?  Ms.  Or was it totally painful? Capt.  No no it was fun it was good. Ms.  Okay. Capt.  Yes. Ms.  All right. Capt.  Oh was just - let us see.  Capt.  It was as painful as going to the dentist without Novocaine. Oorah.  Ms.  Mission accomplished. Captain Heinzel is funnier and America's shores are safe. For NPR News I am Judy Carter.  Judy Carter is the author of The Comedy Bible.   This is NPR National Public Radio. 