 The owners of a popular San Francisco bar and restaurant received a mysterious package this week.  packing peanuts photos a typed letter and a left arm. Not a real left arm but a very famous one. It belongs to the mannequin at the entrance to Lefty O'Douls. Three years ago a pair of tourists ripped the left arm off the mannequin Lefty. The real-life Lefty was a San Francisco baseball legend who died in 1969. The mannequin Lefty greeted diners and barflies in a baseball jersey and since the theft has done so minus the arm for which the real O'Doul was renowned. Now the left arm is back at O'Doul's along with documentation of where it is been. And joining us is the owner of Lefty O'Douls Nick Bovis. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Oh thank you.  And tell us about the package that came in the mail yesterday. Mr.  Well we got a package and our cocktail waitress opened it up and it scared her to death. There was an arm in there you know surrounded by peanuts and she thought it was a live body part.  Now  Dear Bar Patrons of Lefty O'Douls. What did it say beyond that? Mr.   It is been over three long years since my abduction from my home at the left shoulder of my mannequin by a drunken patron.   And where did the arm say it had been? Mr.  It went off to Des Moines Iowa.  Des Moines Iowa. And there are photos of the state capitol in Iowa. Mr.  Yeah. Everywhere they went with the arm they took pictures. They have it with the sculptures the state capitol with this big cannon. And it went to I guess Christmas parties. And it made friends with other mascots. And he had some fun with touring the state capitol building. He even went for a sled ride.  The arm this is yeah. Mr.  The arm yeah.  Yeah. And the arm was recounting its travels over the three years it was abducted. Mr.  Yeah.  So far as you can tell did the arm spend all of its time away in Iowa or did it go elsewhere in the Midwest? Mr.  No they did not give me all the details but it was other places and we are trying to get all of the locations it went. But the pictures that came back were not always labeled. But it looks like he had a good time.   The arm. Mr.  Yeah.  How can you keep this arm down in the bar in San Francisco after it is seen Des Moines huh? Mr.  Yeah I know. Now it refers to in the letter too that it is going to miss his friends back in Iowa so we are going to have to make the sister city now of Lefty O'Douls.  And the mannequin will now be back with two arms at the entrance? Mr.  Yes. We'00 today.  I am sorry we will have to miss that. Mr.  We will send you pictures.  Okay. Well Mr. Bovis before you go just a word about the late great flesh and blood Lefty O'Doul. Batted .398 to lead the National League in batting in 1929. Managed the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League from 1937 to '51. Spotted a young local who played the outfield named Joe DiMaggio. Championed baseball in Japan after the Second World War. Mr.  Yeah the morale of the country was down after the war and they brought the Seals team with his buddy Joe DiMaggio who just got married to Marilyn Monroe and they all went over together and they had a big tour in Japan and it was a big hit. And now baseball's probably one of the most popular sports over there.  So the arm's return could be big news on two continents actually. Mr.  Yeah the Japanese came by to take pictures of it today - some Japanese tourists.  Well Nick Bovis owner of Lefty O'Douls Restaurant Bar and Grill in San Francisco. Thanks so much for talking with us. Mr.  Yeah thank you. 