 Well now to street gangs drug dealing and the LAPD on the big screen. Those ingredients are so common to police thrillers it is hard to imagine a filmmaker coming up with a fresh take but David Ayer keeps trying. He wrote the Oscar-winning movie Training Day and now he is written and directed another his fifth film dealing with cops and cartels. It is called End of Watch and Bob Mondello has our review.  Brian Taylor and his best buddy Mike Zavala  a camcorder. Taylor is taking a film class and breaking department rules by documenting their days which mostly go like this.    Dude are you going to hook up with a Mexican girl?   You keep trying to hook me up with one.   You should marry one of my cousins.   If they are anything like you I would not be able to stand an hour with them.    Waking up in the morning  like hey can I tell you story? Here's a story about this and a story about that and a story about that.   It is better than like hey do you know the new kind of flavored coffee I have? The barristas are excellent.   You like coffee dude.  Played by Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Pena these are good guys good cops dealing daily with all kinds of horrors from missing kids to human trafficking.    What are we looking for again?   Dope money and guns.  And somehow staying unwarped professional and decent. This should not be a remarkable story but in Hollywood where cops are mostly considered interesting only when they go rogue it kind of is. Yes these guys are cocky and pumped up those badges on their chests a power trip but also a responsibility that they take seriously. Taylor and Zavala are street in the words of one of the gang-bangers they deal with meaning worthy of trust which does not protect them when they make decisions above their pay grade.    We are all good. .  Following up on a discovery they should have turned over to detectives they end up on a drug cartel's hit list which ratchets up the stakes in a tale that is already been pretty drum-tight with tension.    Bro you okay? We are shooting our way out of here bro.  Writerdirector David Ayer is not trying to break new ground in End of Watch. The elements he employs are plenty familiar including that TV-style mini-cam footage that lets the audience ride shotgun shootouts pumped up by Red Bull and coffee even the buddy banter that tells you these guys would lay down their lives for each other. But Ayer is serving all of it up not just with the kind of urgency he is so good at but with an emotional undercurrent that makes it feel remarkably real. End of Watch is one thriller where the adrenaline rush considerable as it is serves character which turns out to be considerable too. I am Bob Mondello. 