 Live performances are returning but the sexy new series Desert In suggests that digital opera could be here to stay. It just launched on the streaming site operabox.tv. WBUR's Andrea Shea has more on the genre- and gender-bending miniseries.  In a lot of ways the Boston Lyric Opera's commission Desert In is pretty un-operalike  and that is exciting for the company's artistic director Bradley Vernatter.  On set we were saying this is not an opera. It is not a TV show. It is an opera. It is a TV show. It is a music video. It is all of the above. And it happens to be driven by an opera company and says OK yes and what else does this art form look like?  Desert In looks surreal like an opera David Lynch might have dreamed up. Each short episode unfolds in a mysterious magical motor lodge. A quirky infomercial captures the hotel's cosmic purpose.    Are you grieved bereaved tired of living alone? Why not check into the Desert In?  Vernatter says the pandemic's disruption liberated Desert In's creative team from conventions that have dictated what operas can be and how they are made.  It is sort of the antithesis of how our industry would typically create an opera in every sense of the word. You know we would usually take two or three or often five or six years to develop a piece with a single composer and a single writer.  Desert In has eight composers one for each episode. The series kicks off with music by Pulitzer Prize-winning co-creator Ellen Reid.   Desert In is about what you will sacrifice to connect with someone you have lost. It is about where you lose yourself in that and how far it takes to get yourself back.  Along with director James Darrah and playwright Christopher Oscar Pena Reid invited world-class artists from different fields and communities to the table for a mind meld.  Some people were TV. Some people were TV and opera. Some people were more in theater. And yet together all of those varied voices make this beautiful mosaic.  Boston-area playwright Kirsten Greenidge was one of eight writers in Desert In's virtual writers room.  This is definitely my first opera. I would never written opera before so it was a little bit daunting.  Also new for Greenidge was scripting a same-sex love scene between two men an experience she wanted to honor. She says her writers room colleagues gave her confidence and support.  We meet Ion and Rufus. And I am horrible about giving this a voice. I am like very careful. Like I do not want to give too much away.  In Episode 1 Ion and Rufus are at the hotel for what looks like a steamy weekend romp. The actors who played them on location do not sing on screen. Instead unseen vocalists conjure their feelings and thoughts.    We are here in this place. Let us not ruin this place.  We also wanted to be able to center voices of color which is not always what one would see in the world of opera.  My joke always has been that the best thing about going to the opera is that when you wake up you are at the opera.  Justin Vivian Bond plays the Desert In's lounge singer.  And I do not think people are going to sleep during this.    My boy spirit of the breezy spring.  Bond a transgender cabaret and Broadway artist thinks this genderfluid made-for-TV opera served up in bite-sized episodes could be an entry point for new audiences.  I know that a lot of people that are friends and fans of mine that do not get to go to the opera very much are going to be watching it and I think they are really going to like it. Does that mean it is going to translate so that they will go to see a show at the Met next year? Probably not.  Even so Bond believes this genre-bending presentation born of pandemic necessity could be a sign of things to come in the contemporary opera world on screen and on stage.  A harbinger if you will.  For NPR News I am Andrea Shea in Boston.  