 Some movie titles tell you exactly what the movie's going to be about. Others do not. The new documentary Do I Sound Gay? falls into the first category. The comedy Tangerine which has nothing to do with citrus falls into the latter. Our critic Bob Mondello caught both.  Do I sound gay? Really do I? I think I do. But if I do what does that mean exactly and should I care? That is more or less the starting point for documentarian David Thorpe who is fine with being but less fine with sounding gay. He begins his movie by clearing his throat...   .  ...And reading the opening credits.   Impact Partners presents aloud a ThinkThorpe Little Punk production a film by David Thorpe.  Then he poses the title question to folks in the street.   Do I sound gay?  And they tell him.   Yes I think you do sound gay. Not as much as I do but...  Yes yes.  No in Francais no. In English I do not know .  Yes.  Having established that people think he does sound gay he then sets out not just to change the way he sounds but to understand why he wants to change it - a quest that takes him to academics voice coaches psychologists and columnist and gay activist Dan Savage.  A lot of gay men are self-conscious about sounding gay because we were persecuted for that when we were young. When you are young and closeted and trying to pass you police yourself for evidence that might betray you.  So there are stereotypes to avoid but that does not say where the stereotypes come from or why they are negative. A film historian posits that the pop culture cues are everywhere - in Disney villains say.    Peter Pan will be blasted out of Neverland.  There was this is Peter Pan and it kind of got carried across to The Jungle Book.    I thought perhaps you were entertaining someone up there in your coils.  Not to mention Jafar in Aladdin.    Perhaps I can divine a solution to this thorny problem.  Scar in The Lion King.    Oh I shall practice my curtsy.  And the list goes on.  If you think of very very young children you know they could be growing up with the idea that real evil or villainy can be connoted by a gay man's voice.  Thorpe does not stop there. He breezes through other influences - super 8 films of his own childhood and visits to a speech therapist. In the process he learns to alter his voice and to question the notion that that could ever be a good thing and ends up presenting a light entertaining argument for being your own self - whatever you sound like. One person who does not need to hear that message is the heroine of Tangerine Sin-Dee Rella the transgender LA prostitute who is going to be her own self no matter what anyone thinks in this micro-budget dramedy. How micro-budget is it? We will come back to that. But first meet Sin-Dee on her first day back on the street after a month in the slammer as she greets her trans friend Alexandra in their favorite doughnut shop.    Merry Christmas eve .  She plunks down a celebratory doughnut with extra sprinkles.    Are we supposed to share it?   Yes we are supposed to share it. I am broke. .   How have you been?   The estrogen has been kicking in. My body looks good.   Oh honey.   So I got some good news to tell you.   What?   I have been keeping a secret about me and Chester.   I know what it is. You are breaking up with him? Thank God - because honey if he going to be cheating on you like that...   Wait - whoa whoa whoa. What?  Cat out of bag and the film's barely a minute old. When Sin-Dee discovers that her rival is a biological woman she goes uncharacteristically silent for a moment and then smiles to herself.    What are you plotting?  And they are off. Director Sean Baker offers up a largely plot-less but seriously busy Christmas Eve on the fringes of LA's sex industry. A bargain-basement tour in many ways but also an innovative one. Baker shot Tangerine entirely on iPhone 5's fitted-out with anamorphic lenses so the images would have a widescreen look. The result is grainy but perfectly cinematic. And shooting with iPhones lets the director keep up with his characters as they race from brothel to doughnut shop have sex with johns while going through a car wash humiliate unfaithful boyfriends and support each other when the rest of the world looks askance - which it almost always does. Sin-Dee for instance dragging her biological woman rival by the hair to a nearly-empty bar where her pal Alexandra has gotten a bartender to let her sing.   .  Because humiliating Chester is just payback. Behind that tinsel-draped microphone Alexandra is living her dream for a night. And say what you will about Sin-Dee she knows what is important.    Yeah.  I am Bob Mondello.    Clap. Clap for her. Yeah girl that is right. She did that. Yes she did that. 