 A fast and presumably furious 212 million - that is what Vin Diesel and his hard-driving pals have made in China so far with their latest blockbuster. F9 premiered overseas last month while waiting for pandemic-shuttered cinemas to open in the U.S. because as its star says in an ad...    There is nothing like that moment when the lights go down the projector ignites and we believe.  Now in a moment we will talk about the enduring success of the nine-film Fast Saga. But first Bob Mondello reviews this latest installment.  If you have seen the F9 trailers you have seen the film's first big set piece. Our motley Heroes have driven across a minefield somewhere in Central America escaping unscathed because they are just so darn fast. And now Dom and his wife Letty are in a black sedan pursued as is their habit by missile-shooting helicopters headed for what their map said was a bridge one of those cable and plank things...    Where is the bridge?  ...That we have already seen disintegrate. So as they approach the edge of a very high cliff over a very deep chasm...    No no Dom.  ...There is just a single pylon left sticking up. Naturally Dom aims for it and hits the gas. And would not you know? The car catches on a metal cable as it goes sailing into space swinging them around like Tarzan on a vine or maybe like a yo-yo on a string landing them with a crash on a different cliff.   The helicopter pilot assumes - not unreasonably - that they could not have survived and flies away.    Well that was new.  That is the idea though after eight of these shindigs new is getting noticeably harder to pull off not that director Justin Lin who is made four previous installments is out of ideas.    Man we messing with magnets now?  He just has to inflate them these days. So besides that swan dive off a cliff we get an armored truck the size of a locomotive doing a somersault and a car launched into orbit.    Please tell me that is not a Pontiac Fiero strapped to a rocket engine.   Impressive I know.   No.  And Vin Diesel's Dom and his team globe-trotting from Tbilisi to Monte Quinto - yes I had to look that up - to save the world while dodging whole platoons of assassins all of them breathtakingly bad shots.   Everything definitely grander in F9 if less tied to any sort of real suspense - vast and spurious maybe. The grandness is also unrelated to plot of which there is quite a bit mostly centered on family.    Been a long time Dom.   Little brother.  Estranged by a tragedy in their youth Dom and his supervillain-ish sibling played by a tight-lipped John Cena spend much of this reunion's 2 12 hours glowering at and pummeling each other. That probably sounds like more fun than it is - actually most of this does I am guessing.    Crank it all the way up.  Cars and comaraderie notwithstanding though there is bound to come a point when elaborately staged mayhem and even deliberately preposterous world domination fantasies just feel overdone. Give F9 points for a real-world domination fantasy that involves getting people back into theaters. But here's hoping that once it is lured the crowds back it will clear the way for F10 to be less labored and more a labor of love. I am Bob Mondello. 