 OK if I say eighth grade what comes to mind - Drama? awkwardness? Please let me think about anything but that? A new film out this week dares you to walk those halls once again but this time in the age of Instagram. The film is called Eighth Grade and it tells the story of Kayla a shy 13-year-old girl in the last weeks of eighth grade navigating the turbulent waters of pool parties school dances awkward romantic advances and underappreciated video blog. And unlike previous generations she has to do all of this in a sea of social media.    Hey guys. It is Kayla back with another video. So the topic of today's video is being yourself. Being yourself can be hard and it is like are not I always being myself? And yeah for sure. But being yourself is like not changing yourself to impress someone else.  The film was written and directed by comedian Bo Burnham. And like the film's protagonist Burnam spent some of his teen years posting to YouTube.    'ecause I am Bo yo. I am the greatest rapper ever and whether you - whether - whether you think you are better or not - you are better you are not - do not need a sweater - I am hot. If I cannot think of another rhyme then I ought to think of one.  But unlike Kayla Burnham's comedy videos went viral and launched his career as a stand-up comedian. Now 10 years and many millions of views later Burnham has made his directorial debut with Eighth Grade. The film is already generating a lot of buzz and some excellent reviews. And so we are really glad that Bo Burnham is with us now from our studios at NPR West in Culver City Calif. to tell us more. Bo Burnham congratulations. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me. I appreciate it.  So let me just get this out of the way for people who are wondering. You are a grown man now. You are...  I am yes. I am growing - but yes 27.  Growing 27 got your driver's license and...  Yes.  ...All of that good stuff. So what made you decide to tell a story through the eyes of a 13-year-old girl for your first feature?  You know I was just really setting out to try to tell a story about what I was feeling at the time which is I was feeling anxious and I feel like it was linked to the Internet somehow. And you know I wanted to talk about what it felt like to be alive right now. And to me that felt confusing and weird and strange and anxious and unsure. And so I realized that I was describing Eighth Grade at a certain point. So I went online to watch a bunch of videos of young people talking about themselves. And the boys tended to talk about videogames and the girls tended to talk about their souls. So it was like OK. I think it is probably  going to be about a girl. And I also wanted to make a movie about this age that did not feel nostalgic and was not a memory. I like nostalgic movies but I wanted this to be visceral and present. And it being a girl sort of forced me to not be able to project my own experience on this. This is not a story about my younger self.  Well I confess that I have an in-house focus group. I have two people in my house who just finished eighth grade...   And one of them is a girl. And I...  In-house focus group - I like that.  And I took her to see the film - the screening. And I asked her if it rang true. Like there was a particular moment when the principal was dabbing you know trying to be cool. And I said gee that seems kind of corny. And she said but so very accurate .  Yeah. Yeah. The corny is intentional. There is - the cringe is meant to - yeah. We are trying to honestly portray kids and then honestly portray how adults have no idea what kids are going through .  Let me just play this scene from the film where Kayla is shadowing a group of older high school kids at the mall. She is hanging with them both studying them and wanting very much to be a part of them which is also something that very - rings very true at that age. And I just want to play a clip from where the older kids are talking about the differences even in their age group from what they saw when they were in eighth grade. Let me just play that. Here it is.    She is a different generation than us. She is...   She is not a different generation.   Yeah she is.   She is four years younger than us. I mean...   OK. But people who were like four years older than us felt like  50 years old.   That is like blatantly not true.   Your sister?   My sister just sucks.   OK. But like on top of that she did not have Twitter in middle school and we did. That made us different.   Kayla you are not different than us.   Well yeah - when did you get Snapchat what grade?   Fifth grade.   Fifth grade?   Jesus.   What?  OK tell me about that scene.  I had felt a disconnect from people - you know I had felt as close to people 10 years older than me as I did to people three years younger than me because I realized that like these once-in-a-generation sort of social innovations were happening every six to eight months. So it was like you know if generations were defined by I do not know a Walkman and then like vinyl now these new radical changes were happening every you know eight 12 months. And so my thought was maybe they still are happening once a generation and the generations  are - gaps are just shrinking. When I was on social media it was like MySpace which was like OK post a profile picture of yourself and list some of your interests and list your friends. And now it is Instagram Twitter. What do you look like? What are you thinking? What do you look like? What are you thinking? Those are really baser deeper stranger questions. And the way kids interface with it I think changes the way they feel about the world and themselves. So I am just interested in that. I do not think these things are decorative and trends. I think that - I think they will reach much deeper than that.  What is motivating your interest in this? I mean because on the one hand - I will just be honest. Looking at this as a parent I am thinking OK. What do I do? What do I do about this? Like what do I do about this? And I do not think that is your motivation. But I do not feel like your motivation is simply let me just record and document this. I feel like as an artist you are pointing us in a certain direction of concern. Does that fair to - is that...  Yeah well...  Is that fair? So what would that be?  I think - so - well I think I want to subjectively document it which is different than like objectively documenting it like a you know anthropologist or anything. I think I am trying to describe honestly what it feels like for me. And that is the truth. I am doing this on behalf of really myself. I mean I felt like the Internet was not being represented correctly. There is so much commentary on the Internet. There is so much commentary about the Internet. And for me we are just not at a place where we have even gathered the information to have those conversations so I just kind of wanted to do some emotional inventory and say this is what it feels like personally on a personal level. So we can maybe have a conversation about the Internet that is a little more subtle than Russia you know or cyberbullying. You know because that is like how we talk about the Internet and there is a much much subtler conversation about you know how it makes us feel in our tummy you know and the weird choice we have at the end of the night between every piece of information in the history of the world on our phones and the back of our eyelids. That is a really intense weird sort of thing to be swinging between.  And it is interesting too because your experience with the Internet is that it - you get the best of it and the worst of it in some ways. I mean you got this marvelous exposure for something that just started out as kind of a fun personal project and yet it did kind of change your life right?  Yes. I mean I would not be here without it. And that is the thing about the Internet. It would be so much easier to address if it was just bad. If it was just bad we would just tell the kids and everybody to get off their phones. But the truth is it is - it just deepens every possible thing the good and the bad. It is giving exposure to voices that would not be heard. It is giving visibility to people that would not be heard. And it is setting the country on fire. We are connected more than ever and we are lonelier and we are numb and we are stimulated. You know we are self-expressing and we are self-objectifying. So it is all of the things which is confusing to me and why I felt like I just wanted to explore it subjectively from emotional standpoint.  That is Bo Burnham. He is a comedian screenwriter and director. His new film Eighth Grade is in theaters now. He was kind enough to join us from our studios at NPR West in Culver City Calif. Bo Burnham thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you Michel. Appreciate it. 