 Harry Potter is setting records again. The latest big-screen installment of the adventures at Hogwarts collected almost 160 million in North America in its first five days. That is the sixth highest opening in Hollywood history and the biggest ever for a Harry Potter film. The first five Potter films made 1.4 billion in North American alone and more than twice that across the globe. Our critic Bob Mondello happens to be in Buenos Aires Argentina and he got to see Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince there. Bob hola.  Hola how are you?   How are you? How is the Harry Potter film playing down there?  Well in fact it is not quite playing yet. It did not open because of gripe A which is what they call the swine flu. But the movie theaters are operating at sort of half-capacity. They are asking people to sit in every other row so that they are not too close together. The idea is people are not supposed to congregate.  So you saw a critics' screening.  I did see a critics' screening with other critics. The critics liked it - or they seemed to anyway.  We were packed very close together. I hope I do not catch the flu.   I hope not either. Bob before we talk about this film I want to ask you about Daniel Radcliffe who plays Harry Potter of course. Recently he' on Broadway in London he was in Equus. There was a nude scene.  Yeah.  He is now almost 20 years old and he is playing a 16- to 17-year-old you know wizard. Is he plausible in this film?   Well to the extent that wizards are ever going to be plausible I suppose he is. I did not question how old he was. The kids all look older but these novels were built in such a way that the first one I think we met Harry Potter when he was about 10 years old and each new novel takes place in a new year at Hogwarts Academy of Magic. So they go through the school year and they emerge a little bit older each time and the actors have been doing that too. Now the movies have mostly kept up with actual real time. I think they will finish filming them when they are all about 21. That is still young enough to play 16 or 17 on screen. I mean remember they made Brad Pitt look that young in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and you know he is got to be in his 40s now. So it is plausible.  Right.  What is interesting I think is that the kids have gotten older and they look more substantial and so the movie becomes a little more substantial as a result.  And from the clips I have seen Bob it looks as if this movie really deals with teenage romance in a way that none of the other Harry Potter films have.  Well that is true although I have to say I took my 14-year-old nephew a few years ago to one of the Harry Potter movies and Hermione who is one of Harry's two best friends came down some steps in a - she was all dressed up in a dress and she was you know a pretty little girl to me and my nephew looked at her and said she is a fox.  And I thought oh. You know it just did not occur to me that way. But clearly the audience they have been growing up too and so they are thinking about other things. I think there is no question that everybody is interested in romance in this one. Ron Weasley for instance at one point he eats some cookies which were intended for Harry Potter. There is a girl who is madly in love with Harry and who has sent him cookies laced with a love potion. Magic is everywhere at Hogwarts and Ron eats the wrong ones and falls madly.  Mr.   It is no joke. I am in love with her. Mr.   All right fine. You are in love with her. Have you ever actually met her? Mr.   Oh can you introduce me?   So it sounds like hormones running wild in that scene.  Totally and actually throughout the movie. I do not know if you have seen any of these but there is something called Quidditch that they play in this?  Right the broomstick game.  Yeah. It is basically soccer but in three dimensions. It takes place you know flying around a field on these brooms and it is mostly played by boys and in this one they are all sort of looking for support from the girls who are down in the stands. And I am sitting there and I am thinking you know Freud might have looked at this and said well sometimes a broomstick is only a broomstick but there is - you look at it differently this time than you did in the previous ones. It inflects everything in the movie though. I mean romance is very much present in it.  Now you have liked most of the previous Harry Potter films.  Yeah that is true.  And I understand with this one Bob you are actually on the same page as the movie critic for the Vatican's official paper which formally endorsed this movie this past week.   Well probably not for the same reasons. But you know this is more an adult picture than the other ones were and I think the audience is growing up with Harry and it is getting to a place where the movie has to be good. It cannot just be a collection of magic tricks. And this one I think is a pretty good movie. It just - it kind of works.  NPR's Bob Mondello still keeping up with the movies from Buenos Aires. Bob thanks so much.  It is always a pleasure.  You can see clips from the new Harry Potter movie at our Web site npr.org. 