 Hollywood's much delayed summer blockbuster season is barely one weekend old and already it is Labor Day so it is time to talk about fall movies. The spy thriller Tenet proved over the weekend that pandemic-weary audiences will return to cinemas for the right film. So assuming it is safe where you are what is the next right film? Well we have got some possibilities in critic Bob Mondello's fall movie preview.  When the coronavirus struck Tinseltown's men all hightailed it to next year - Vin Diesel in Fast  Furious 9 Tom Cruise in  Maverick even Gru in the Minions. So fall falls to the women and they are hitting reset by looking to the past.    The Avengers were not my first family.  Marvel's Black Widow.    Natasha my sister after all this time what brings you home?   We have unfinished business.   Who is we?  Two trained assassins working together - this is how Scarlett Johansson's Black Widow upped her game between Civil War and Infinity War.    OK. You got a plan or shall I just stay duck and cover?   Yeah. My plan was to drive us away.   Well your plan sucks.  Family am I right? For a DC superheroine played by Gal Gadot the problem is an envious gal pal played by Kristen Wiig.    You have always had everything while people like me have had nothing. Well now it is my turn.   Barbara what did you do?  She is become an apex predator in Wonder Woman 1984. The '80s were a time of relative enlightenment for women in the non-comics world as opposed to the 1940s depicted in the espionage thriller A Call To Spy.    Churchill has asked us to create a secret army of spies.    This is a rudimentary operation.   Women will be more inconspicuous.   Make sure they are pretty.   For you or for the Germans?  And things have not changed much by the 1970s as contestants in beauty pageants well knew.    We really believe beauty is not just skin deep. The girls also have charm grace good deportment.   Swimsuits.  The film Misbehaviour recreates the 1970 Miss World pageant Gugu Mbatha-Raw lining up on one side...    I am the first Black South African to take part.   I am the first Miss Grenada.  ...Keira Knightley on another.    They are turning oppression into a spectacle. Let us make a spectacle of our own. We would infiltrate the theater.  About that same time singer Helen Reddy was fighting Capital Records when she wanted to record the song that gives her biopic its title.    I am woman hear me roar in numbers too big to ignore.   It is kind of angry.   It is man hating.   Jeff you OK with this?   What are you doing? You want to lose your recording contract?   This is more than just a song to me.  She would be joined on movie screens by fellow feminists Gloria Steinem and Bella Abzug played by Julianne Moore and Bette Midler if the producers of the biopic The Glorias had not decided to stream it instead to get the widest possible audience by Election Day. Other films centered on women include Kajillionaire about an unhappy teenager in a family of petty criminals...    She learned to forge before she learned to write. No actually that is how she did learn to write.   So what do your parents do hun?   Hun - you have never called me that. I bet you could if it was a job though right?  ...And the French film Sibyl about a psychotherapist who is corralled into refereeing disputes on a film set.    Action.   I just have to sit back and watch reality destroy things.   Keep the drama fictional if you do not mind.  It is worth noting that all of these films do not just feature women. They were directed by women. A woman director will also tackle the fall's most awaited genre flick.    I just moved in around the corner.   The old candy factory.   I am an artist.   You' Nia DaCosta's Candyman produced by Jordan Peele will hold up a new mirror to the racial and gender issues of the original which is not to suggest that men will be missing in action this fall. In fact Netflix just kicked Oscar season into high gear by announcing David Fincher's black-and-white 1930s-style biopic Mank about the man who wrote Citizen Kane. And elsewhere men will have their usual swagger whether contending with an extinction-level event in the disaster flick Greenland...    John go.   I swear I am going to get my family into that bunker.  ...Or solving crimes in a ridiculous mustache in Death On The Nile...    I am Detective Hercule Poirot and I will deliver your killer.  ...Or interfering in a daughter's love life in Sofia Coppola's On The Rocks.    So Dean's going away a lot on business trips?   Dad.   Raise your hand if that sounds fishy.   He is not like you. He is a good guy a great dad.   Sure. It is nature. Males are forced to fight to dominate and to impregnate all females.  Enlightenment's still a work in progress obviously. There are some interestingly paired films two about kidnappings - Infidel in the Middle East...    No one knows where you are. And it is going to stay that way.  ...And Let Him Go in the American West.    That girl cannot protect her child.   Margaret Jimmy's her boy.   He is your grandson.  Opening within a couple of weeks of each other are a pair of unrelated but similar-sounding thrillers Ben Affleck in Deep Water and Matt Damon in Stillwater. And another pair of films deal with weighty end-of-life issues Grandma Susan Sarandon doing her best to control her passing in Blackbird...    Anna Chris you up yet? I am dead soon. You coming down? That should do it.  ...Bruce Dern losing control to dementia in The Artist's Wife.    It is very hard to look inside and paint when it is all gone.  There are even twinned documentaries - Time shot over two decades as a woman struggles to get her husband out of prison...   My twins will be 18 next month. They have absolutely no idea what it means to have a father in their house.  ...And Aggie about an art collector who sold a painting for 165 million and put the proceeds toward prison reform.   We went to San Quentin. I had people come up to me and say what in the world did you want to do that for?  Does all this sound less than fully escapist considering we have been cooped up in isolation for months? Well Pixar to the rescue with Soul.    Today started out as the best day of my life.   Back here tonight first show is at 7.   Yes . I did it. I got the gig.  Open manhole cover.    Must have been sudden for you.   Is this heaven?   No. It is the great before. This is where new souls get their personalities quirks and interests before they go to Earth.  Soul is Pixar's first film to be led by African American voices. Also animated is the comedy Connected about a dad who wishes his family were less connected.    How about we make 10 seconds of family eye contact starting - put your phone down - now? No you are allowed to blink. It is just eye contact.  Naturally as soon as the family goes off the grid robot technology runs amok. And a live-action indie comedy shares that basic plot idea. Jack and Su turn off their phones for a few days in the woods and when they turn them back on...    What do the voicemails say?   Hi Sunita . Are you watching this? Those rats in New York they are not rats.  An alien invasion.    They are talking about it on Fox  Friends.  The film's called Save Yourselves! - perfect title - as opposed to a sweet collegiate romance...    Do you want to like go hang out?   Yeah. Yeah. I would love to.  ...With a truly terrible title taken from a fraternity party spot I cannot say on the air.    Yeah. Yeah. Shouse is having a party.   Like the house is called Shouse?   Mmm hmm.  Seriously the movie is adorable. It is like the producers have a death wish - crazy because as another title will tell you this is no time to die.    Why would I betray you?   We all have our secrets. We just did not get to yours yet.  No secret that Daniel Craig is hanging up his tux as 007 after this one - social distancing no doubt along with the rest of us. I am Bob Mondello. 