 For millions of people this phrase...    He got money.   ...Conjures a specific image - a young woman's face mouth open eyes wide. It is a meme that launched the career of Quinta Brunson. She is now a TV writer actress comedian and author and her new book describes the difficult path that led her to this place. It is called She Memes Well. Quinta Brunson told me that growing up the youngest of five children in Philadelphia with conservative religious parents she was always told that she should pursue a stable career but that is not what she had in mind.  Becoming a performer comedian - anything other than a teacher really - seemed very far-fetched. So I kind of split off into this separate world where secretly I was doing improv classes. And I would come home...  You literally - like you snuck off to Chicago...  I did.  ...From Philadelphia to take classes at Second City and did not tell your parents that that is what you were doing.  Did not tell my parents. And I like came back home. My mom was like where were you? I was like doing drugs.  .  Anything was better than...  Than doing comedy.  ...Taking improv classes.   So you moved to Los Angeles. You get a day job at the Apple store and you get a chance to do a comedy show where you create a character that now tens of millions of people have seen. This is the girl who is never been on a nice date.    Excuse me waitress. Where you all get your water? Oh my God you got money.  So you created these YouTube videos with the character and it completely took off. And you start getting recognized on the street even in the Apple store where you are working. What was that...  Yes.  ...Moment like for you?  Yeah. Well first correction - they were Instagram videos. I never actually was on YouTube. I never actually made a YouTube video.   Right.  They just got...  And it was like the earliest days of Instagram video.  Absolutely.  Like some have said you were the first viral Instagram video which...  Seriously.  I do not know if that is possible to fact-check but it is been said.  I do not know if that is possible to fact-check either but it has been said because I started using Instagram video like as soon as it happened because it was not a thing. I do not think we knew the potential of Instagram at that point. It was just like - that was back when Instagram was very pure. Like...  Right. Nobody knew what an influencer was necessarily.  Exactly. It was not a thing yet. But as far as like getting recognized and stuff it was surreal I think because that - you know I talk a lot about celebrity and fame in the book and what it is and what it means now. But at that time with that kind of notoriety people recognizing me - I am doing air quotes for people who cannot see this - it was like oh is it this easy to be recognizable? And I think I was thinking that to myself because I was like that was a fluke. That was - I did not do that on purpose. And now people are recognizing me.  Yeah.  But I do not have any of the things that go with that like most of the other people.  You were not getting paid for those videos.  Right. Not one thing - not the pay...  .  ...Not the house not the fanciness. So it was odd.  So you got a job at BuzzFeed where your job was to make videos that would go viral and you were hugely successful. Like these videos had tens of millions of views.   It is also super-easy for bae to kiss you on your forehead. It is right there even when you are wearing heels.  This is a video about advantages of being short we should say.  .   Shopping's awesome because your size is usually available. But even if it is not there is always the kids section. I as not ashamed.  So what do you think you learned from that experience that maybe made you a different kind of comedian from the standard like coming up through the ranks of doing standup in small clubs the path that so many people who are in comedy right now have done?  Yeah. I think working at BuzzFeed Video specifically kind of taught me about like the science of relatability where you know those BuzzFeed videos - the era that time in those videos all had a - there was a format to it. There was an idea behind it that you know you are making these videos that someone from here in America can understand but also someone in Mongolia somewhere can understand because that is how universal the concept is.  Yeah. It also just feels kind of like whether a joke lands or not might be subjective but whether a video gets seen and shared is measurable.  Absolutely.  Like you can actually put numbers to whether a thing landed or it did not.  Absolutely. Yeah. And there are things that you would do on the internet that would not go - that would not get a chuckle in a comedy club or you know in standup or as a sketch. There are tweets that are hilarious and super-shared and well-shared. But if you said it out loud in real life it is not as funny. So these are all different stages really. I consider the internet just another stage and you have to tailor the performance for the stage.  Interesting. So you were in the first season of the HBO show A Black Lady Sketch Show which has been nominated for Emmys. And let us listen to a clip of one of the sketches from that.    Unfortunately my clients were not unable to attend this hearing but I am sure they would appreciate it if we took some time to find out how my girl over there got her goddess locs all right.   Thank you girl.   I see you. I see you.   I am suing your clients and I...  This is a courtroom scene we should explain.  .  So especially after growing up not necessarily seeing yourself reflected in the comedy that you were watching just tell us what it was like to be surrounded by other funny people making comedy all of whom were Black women.  Yeah weirdly cathartic in a way I did not expect at all. I do not know. It was not necessarily a worry of mine until I realized I have been denied it so much. Like and I have my own like collectives and like my own friend groups of Black friends who do comedy. But actually like performing and creating a piece of work on this sketch show with other Black people Black women was like man this is a thing that Adam Sandler gets to do all the time. That is crazy .  Just be with people who have the same life experience he does...  Yes.  ...And not have it be a thing.  Right. And I was like that is nuts. Like I do not...  .  Seriously because I even think...  Yeah.  ...As a woman period you are probably not getting that experience that often of being with an entire other group of women. But how many like dude movies and shows have there been?  Right.  Groups of dudes typically white dudes you know doing their thing.  OK. I have to end by asking about a show you created and starred in that is not out yet called Abbott Elementary.  Yes.    I am Janine Teagues. I have been teaching second grade here at Abbott Elementary for a year now. The staff here is incredible.  And this is a show where you play a second grade teacher.  Yeah.  And because you say in the book your mother raised you with the expectation that you would become a teacher I have got to ask how she feels about you finally being a teacher but maybe not in the way she imagined.  Yeah. She was super-happy. I think it is a way for her to get to live her dream of me being a teacher. And especially because this show is a mockumentary style like I think she really gets to feel that. So she is very proud but not because I created a show for ABC but because I am a teacher.   Did you have that in mind at all when you were creating this show? Were you like oh this is going to make my mom feel happy?  A little bit for sure. But ultimately I just think that her story as a teacher - which is nothing unique - it is the story of many teachers in America many public school teachers. I just think it is super-special. And she watched the pilot and was just like you really nailed it. Like you nailed it. And that meant a lot to me.  Quinta Brunson's new book is called She Memes Well. Thank you so much for talking with us today.  Thank you.  