 We are going to stay in Latin America. The pandemic has also affected how people watch TV there as it has pretty much all around the world. But we are not just talking about a lot more eyeballs on streaming services. In Mexico the pandemic has led to a resurgence of the telenovela the corny TV melodramas that for decades ruled the country's airwaves. Recently though ratings were down - way down.    No.  Then came the pandemic and the audience numbers soared again. Natalie Kitroeff wrote about this for The New York Times and she joins us now from Mexico City. Welcome.  Thanks.  So first just - I have to ask why were telenovelas on the? Decline. Are not they a staple of Mexican television?  Yeah. This is iconic programming. It became one of the nation's most important cultural exports. It was a really big thing. And you know it started to decline because it was kind of declared obsolete. I mean these are these soaps that are based on drama and love affair and face-slapping and operatic baritones. And you know they were declared too simplistic to compete with much higher brow higher budget programming from Netflix HBO - I mean the kind of thing that you know The Sopranos kind of programming. It was seen as a loser as a business model.  So the irony is that in quarantine a lot of people are turning away from on-air TV here and choosing to stream entertainment online. So what accounts for this surge in TV viewership the telenovela in Mexico?  Well the telenovelas air on broadcast channels. So in a country that is being hammered by the economic crisis as well as the health crisis this is really accessible for the average Mexican family. But you know there is something else at work here which is that they are easy to watch. They are comfort food. This is not a show that you know will kind of raise your hackles. This is calming. It brings some tranquility into your day which you know people here do not have a lot of these days.  So the mac and cheese of TV.  Yeah Basically. I mean it is nostalgic. It is the stuff that you watched with your mom on the couch you know when you were growing up and that people are still watching with their families you know crowded into houses not able to leave in self-quarantine.  and has the pandemic also changed the demographic of who is watching the telenovelas?  Interestingly Yes. I mean young people - the ratings are going way up with that crowd. And you know I talked to a lot of folks who are making fun of these shows on TikTok and Twitter and Instagram and they say that they are not watching them but the numbers say differently. They have been tuning in. And a lot of young men have actually been tuning into these shows.  And is this new content? Have the telenovelas studios been churning out new episodes or is this rerun territory?  They have been able to continue to produce new episodes through the pandemic. But it is also the reruns. I mean it is both. You know you have seen the finale for Te Doy La Vida which is one of the most popular telenovelas had an estimated audience by the network of 10 million people which is the most watched telenovela episode since 2016. So you are seeing - I mean it is off the charts. It is it is pretty remarkable.  And how has the pandemic affected filming if they are putting out new content? Is there social distancing? What are the measures they are taking?  Well there was a brief pause mandated by the city government here. But then they restarted. And yes you know there is no more kissing. There is no more sex scenes. There is much less physical intimacy. I mean there is no touching. All the conversations happen at a distance. Folks are doing their rehearsals in face masks and face shields. I mean you can imagine that that kind of cramps the style a bit but the viewers do not really notice the difference. I mean when you are not touching or seeing anyone in your daily life just to see two humans interacting on the screen that can be pretty cathartic.  So what are some of the shows that have been most popular during this pandemic? You wrote about one that involves miracles that solve people's problems which seems like a good theme for 2020.  That is right. So there is the regular kind of love story ones. I said Te Doy La Vida and Destilando Armor Rubi. These are kind of more classic novellas. But La Rosa De Guadalupe or The Rose Of Guadalupe is the one that I focused on. And it is not even a novella. It is really a melodrama. And it follows the same plot every single time. People get into trouble. They pray to the Virgin of Guadalupe who is a major religious figure here the most important perhaps. And a miracle happens. They feel - a kind of a saintly wind comes across their face and their problems are solved. And it happens every single episode. There is no variation. And as you can imagine in 2020 that kind of resolution that kind of neat ending happy ending is something that I think has given people just a moment of respite.  Natalie Kitroeff is a New York Times correspondent based in Mexico City. Thanks for speaking with us today.  Thank you so much. 