 The show BoJack Horseman is an adult cartoon that takes a surreal approach to some universal human challenges like work self-esteem relationships. The show is creator Raphael Bob-Waksberg now has a new collection of short stories. It is called Someone Who Will Love You In All Your Damaged Glory. And while the tone is similar to BoJack Horseman - funny and sometimes dark - these stories all swirl around one central question.  The premise is that love in all its forms is difficult and challenging. And the question the debate is is it worth it? And I think there are stories that are very pro love.  .  And then there are some stories in the book that take a more cynical view of it. I wrote this book over a long period of time and I think my own feelings about love have changed in that time.  You talk about this in the acknowledgements. You thank your wife and you write about half these stories are from before I met her and half since and I am convinced that if you lined them all up in the order they were written you could pinpoint the moment where my heart became whole which is first of all just such a beautiful turn of phrase...  Well thank you.  ...And second of all makes me wonder what that looks like in short fiction that moment that your heart becomes whole.  The moment. Yeah. Well I would say it would be the - the first large story is about a couple getting married which is very much based on the wedding that I had with my wife or was trying to plan with my wife...  Except this one involves sacrificing goats and...   Yes. I said based on .  ...And ritualistic eggs and other parts of a wedding that we do not necessarily see every day.  Right. So a lot of this book takes place in a world that is slightly adjacent to our own perhaps. And my wife and I are both Jewish and we really wanted to keep our wedding very small and very simple. We did not invite a lot of people and a lot of people were very upset about that. But we really wanted to keep it simple and not have a big to-do. And I was shocked that even when we were both in agreement about that of how complicated it was to just have this small simple wedding. And some of the things we wanted I could not explain to you why it was that - you know why must we get married under a chuppah? I do not know but we both have to. Or like the food - I go oh we will just get like some takeout. It is only 20 people. We are not getting takeout for our wedding.  And then I thought we were on the same page on this.  I thought we were on the same page.  We have had conversations about this.  We are going to do it small and simple yes but it is still going to be a wedding. It is not going to be a potluck in the backyard.  Could I ask you to read a section of this story?  Sure. I would be happy to. OK. The kid - the narrator is named Peter and his bride - his affianced Dorothy have decided that at their wedding we are not going to sacrifice any goats.  Much to the dismay of everyone around them.  Yes. And Dorothy says can we do that? And he says Dorothy it is our wedding. We can do whatever we want. And that is where we find these characters now.  But doing whatever we want turns out to be a real headache when we are applying for our marriage license. How many goats are you going to sacrifice to the stone god asks the woman at window five. We are not going to sacrifice any goats to the stone god I say proudly. It is not that kind of wedding. The woman looks down at her form and then back at us. So just like five then? No says Dorothy. Zero. The man behind us in line groans and makes a big show out of looking at his watch. I do not understand says the woman. You mean like one or two. The stone god is not going to like getting so few goats. No I say not one or two - zero. We are sacrificing zero goats to the stone god. She crinkles up her nose. Well there is not an option on the form for zero so I am just going to put you down for five.   What appeals to you about translating that universal debate into a world that is so specific and kind of unrecognizable because of the sort of bizarre fantastical elements that you weave into it?  You know it is funny because I think the story is very recognizable because - yeah. Because the premise of the story is a similar kind of thing but all of these Jewish traditions are subbed out for made up traditions. But I think all the arguments - all the conversations about it are just as ludicrous in the real world. And so this story which you know involves yeah goat sacrifice and marriage cloaks and promise eggs to me is one of the more grounded realistic stories in the collection.  One of the stories in the collection is called Missed Connection-m4w - men for women - and it begins sort of like a Craigslist post in missed connections and then evolves from there. And you actually first published this on Craigslist. Is that right?  Yeah. What the story is about is about this guy who cannot work up the nerve to talk to this woman sitting on the same train car as him. And in fact 60 years pass where they...  He also cannot get up and leave.  He - yeah. Well 'ecause he is paralyzed by this idea of who this woman is even though he never actually talks to her. But - so I had the idea to write this fake missed connection and just post it anonymously on Craigslist.  And?  And it got huge. I do not know.   What happens? How does something go viral on Craigslist? I do not even know.  I do not know. I mean I tweeted about it and then it started getting passed around. And you know people started writing posts on blogs. I think someone called it like the most beautiful Craigslist missed connection post ever.   That is a very competitive category.  Well there are a lot. I mean it is an art form in itself. And the whole thing was terrifying to me.  Why?  Well - because I think there are people who read that and thought this random New Yorker had this experience that moved him to write this beautiful thing. And I was afraid that people were going to find out that oh he is a professional writer right? He is not just like...  Yeah.  ...Some - this was not just a magical moment. I feel - I thought people would feel manipulated.  I think they would have felt manipulated if it had been like sponsored by Tinder like actually viral advertising for something.  Right right right. The reveal was this was all a marketing thing.   Yeah.  But I still felt like I wanted people to live in that fiction of whatever they believed. Like I did not want to burst that bubble.  The title of the book is very long.  Yes.  It is Someone Who Will Love You In All Your Damaged Glory. And I love that phrase damaged glory and it comes in the context of a story where a drunk woman slurs into the narrator's ear you deserve someone who will love you and all your damaged glory. What does that phrase damaged glory mean to you?  What I like about it - what I think it invokes - or evokes. Does it invoke or evoke?  I think it evokes.  Yeah. What I think the phrase vokes  and then you can edit in an en or an E.  Right. Just say en and E and - yeah.  What I think the phrase means is this feeling of glory that as humans who exist there is something marvelous about us something magical something stupendous something exemplary. And I do not mean that in a religious way but perhaps religious adjacent that we are touched by God you know that we have a spark. But also by nature of being on this planet we are scarred and weathered and corrupted by the world outside of us and the flawed architecture inside of us. And so I like the phrase damaged glory because I think it represents that. And I do believe that we are all worthy of somebody who will love us in all our damaged glory.  Raphael Bob-Waksberg thanks for speaking with us today.  Well thank you so much.  He is the creator of BoJack Horseman and his new collection of short stories is called Someone Who Will Love You In All Your Damaged Glory.  