 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeline Brand.  I am Melissa Block.   And that angsty theme music foreshadows the return this Sunday of the hit show Mad Men. This will be the third season on cable channel AMC. Mad Men is set in the early '60s the world of ad execs on Madison Avenue their troubles lives and unhappy families and lots and lots of cocktails and surrounding them the most impeccably designed 1960s sets and fashion. Amy Wells is the set decorator for Mad Men working at a frantic pace to find just the right vintage fabric or Brillo box or Formica. Ms.  It is a seven-day shoot Melissa so you can imagine it is like being on a constant scavenger hunt.  You mean one episode shot in seven days? Ms.  One episode. So like today we are having the production meeting. Earlier in the week we had the concept meeting and that is when we get the script. So I will get the script maybe four or five days ahead of time and it is like the race is on.  You know I am picturing you at the beginning of the scavenger hunt like poised on runner's blocks but somebody with a starter gun and it is like Ms.  Yeah.  you know just go go find it. Ms.  And I think that actually during that meeting my blood pressure goes up really high because I am like - and I am writing really fast and going oh my God oh my God oh my - and sometimes I am texting other people to start looking for things right away you know? Sometimes I will just buy something at a thrift shop not even knowing if I am going to need it.  And you know it will come in handy? Ms.  Oh yeah or I will walk in there and find an old stereo and you buy it immediately. You see a TV you get it right then and there. You do not even kid around. An old refrigerator that is squared out is the hardest thing to find. So the minute that comes up you just like - you are inside the refrigerator going through it and you know smelling it unfortunately but  I bet.  Ms.  That is kind of what - those are the kinds - old stoves wall ovens. Oh good wall oven is something that'ill make me just practically faint with joy.  Well we are starting season three. Ms.  Right.  And how would you describe what is different about the set and the decoration of the set now compared with the first two seasons? Ms.  Actually you know we will see if the audience notices it but the carpets are dirtier. We were not allowed to have them cleaned.  Really? Ms.  Yeah. The desks are more worn out. Everything has actually gotten the wear and tear of the last three seasons and Matt loves it. And the more real the better for him.  Now Matt is the show creator. Matthew Weiner. Ms.  Matt Weiner is our creator and producer. And  And he is known as a - well would you call him particular obsessive fanatic about detail? What would your word be? Ms.  He is all three of those but he describes himself and what he wants so clearly and with so much joy that you just embrace it. You know like last week he asked for gum under the desks. He said I do not want this place to look clean. I want it to be real real real. You know he does not want it - he wants to show decay.  Gum like wadded-up gum? Ms.  He wanted gum under the desks. And you know of course I would shut up at that point but I felt like saying we are never going to see the gum under the desk. And believe me if we wanted to see the gum under the desk I would put it under there you know? But he really wants that feeling of reality.  Amy Wells I have to ask you about the turntable that is in Pete Campbell's office the young ad exec. Ms.  Uh-huh.  And he has a turntable it looks like it is sort of a suitcase turntable. Ms.  Mm-hmm.  And that is Ms.  Another hard-to-find little thing.  It is great. It is green. Ms.   thing.  Dark green? Ms.  Uh-huh.  Tell me about that. Where did you find it? Ms.  I think I found it in my hometown of South Pasadena. And I think I have paid like 150 bucks for it and wondered if I could get it for less you know? That sort of thing because we do this on a very tight budget.  What is your budget? Ms.  Am I allowed to say my budget?  Yeah. Ms.  Yeah. I think I can. I think I have said it before. For my department it is 25000 a week for rentals and purchases and manufacturing. So imagine getting all the drapes made and buying all the fabric to make the drapes and renting all the furniture. A lot of times I would buy the furniture because you cannot find it in a rental house.  There is a scene in the premiere of season three coming up Ms.  Mm-hmm.  that is set on an airplane. It is on an airplane flight from I guess New York to Baltimore Ms.  Mm-hmm.  it is a TWA flight. Ms.  Mm-hmm.  And it is upholstery like we just do not see anymore in the interior of that airplane. Ms.  Mm-hmm.  Where did you get the plane or what became the plane? Ms.  Well we got the seats from a plane rental place here in Hollywood and there were very few available. So we had to create the shot in such a way that we would not see a lot of seats all at once. And then that upholstery fabric I bought and I reupholstered it.  Oh you did? Ms.  Yeah because the planes are really beautiful and really elaborate just fantastic the designs of them. When we did the research it was just awe-inspiring. You only wish that planes look like that. The detail that people went through in those days was just so well worth it. I mean when I look at it I just - I really appreciate it.  And wish it were back. Ms.  I do. I do. You know I see the lack of detail and I think it is those details in life that make life more interesting. It seems like everything is so homogenized and bland compared to how it used to be.  Well Amy Wells it is fun talking with you. Thanks so much. Ms.  You too Melissa. Thanks.  Amy Wells is the set decorator for Mad Men. The third season premieres on AMC this Sunday. And you can see what some Mad Men sets look like at the new npr.org. 