 YouTube star Bo Burnham is known for the rapid-fire comic videos he started making as a teenager. He is now 27 with an impressively diverse resume - musician comedian writer producer singer-songwriter rapper actor poet. And at this year's Sundance Film Festival he added movie director to that list. Critic Bob Mondello says if you are familiar with Bo Burnham's caustic sense of humor the comedy in his new film Eighth Grade will surprise you.  Kayla is 13 precocious sweet a middle school student who like a lot of kids her age spends even dinnertime with eyes glued to her smartphone ears sporting earbuds.    Kayla one more week of eighth grade huh?   Huh?   I said one more week of eighth grade right?   Yeah.   That is crazy.   Yeah huh?  Dad's trying. He is aware that Kayla does not have many friends and that she is eager to hang with the cool crowd in school but is falling short.    I think you are so cool. Maybe you just need to put yourself out there a little.   I am going to stop eating with you...   Hey I am saying...   ...If you keep doing this...   You said I could say one thing.  Dad does not realize but she is actually hearing him when he says to put herself out there. As a bulwark against loneliness she makes life advice YouTube videos that she does not really expect anyone to watch. They are sort of pep talks for herself.    So the topic of today's video is putting yourself out there. OK so like what does that mean? Where is there? Well there can be anywhere that you would not usually go you know maybe because it is like weird or scary or something like that.  See she got it. Her fear is that she will always be as tentative and nervous as she is now. But a friendly high school senior lets her know that that is kind of normal.    I was a complete mess when I was your age.   Really?   Eighth grade is the worst.  An invitation follows to join her and some high school pals at the mall a huge deal for Kayla if she can just survive the drive over with her dad.    Can you not look like that please?   What? Like what?   Just like the way you are looking.   Looking at the road?   You can look at the road Dad. I obviously did not mean that. Just like do not be weird and quiet while you do it.   Sorry. Hey how was the shadow thing?   No you were being quiet which is fine. Just like do not be weird and quiet 'ecause like I look over at you and I think you are about to drive us into a tree or something. And then I get really freaked out and then I cannot text my friend. So just like be quiet and drive and do not look weird and sad.   OK.  So he smiles.    That is worse.  That is worse. Pretty much everything writer-director Bo Burnham has done before this would lead you to expect snap and snark from Eighth Grade. But he is encouraged Elsie Fisher to make Kayla vulnerable and observant and then put her in situations that are played less for laughs than for smiles of recognition - the boy who is so determined to impress he undermines himself with every phrase the pool party as rite of passage the crush that goes unexpressed because how could you ever get those words out?    Just grabbed my phone had to charge it.   Yeah I mean sometimes I charge it too my phone. I...  Eighth Grade turns out to be an appealingly generous portrait of adolescent awkwardness also of parental awkwardness though Josh Hamilton's fumbling dad is a keeper. And more than anything it is a reminder that things move really fast at that age.    She is a different generation than us. She...   She is not a different generation.   Yes she is.   She is four years younger than us.   She did not have Twitter in middle school and we did. That made us different. When did you get Snapchat? What grade?   Fifth grade.   Fifth?   Fifth grade? What? Yo see?   See?  But there is hope for understanding. After all Bo Burnham is 10 years older than these high school seniors 14 years older than Kayla. And Eighth Grade proves that he not only gets them but he can make audiences get them. I am Bob Mondello. 