 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. The transformation starts with an omelet. An omelet laced with chili powder and lots of cilantro. An omelet that tantalizes the taste buds of a frosty French restaurant owner and finally convinces her that the young Indian immigrant who is landed across the street from her fancy restaurant has a true gift with food. That omelet is a turning point in the new movie The Hundred Foot Journey. A movie about food tradition and the clash of cultures. It stars Helen Mirren as the restaurant owner Madame Mallory who rules her Michelin starred kitchen with a firm hand.    Now last night we served this. Miserable overcooked asparagus. In this restaurant the cuisine is not old tired marriage. It is a passionate affair of the heart.  And Helen Mirren joins me now from New York. Welcome to the program.  Thank you I am so excited to be here. I listen to your program all the time. It is a great honor.  Well we are glad to have you here and as you listen to that seen are you transported back to France in that kitchen?  Yes I am and I am transported back to my early dream of wanting to be a French actress. You know I listened to my slightly dodgy French accent it is not bad but it is not absolutely great. But I have so wanted to be a French actress when I was younger.  Why a French actress?  Because when I was in my 20s I was always more attracted by European filmmaking. I also felt that the way actresses were in Europe was just much more interesting more layered more - they just fascinated me more. So I sort of had this yearning to be a French actress.  To be French - actually to transform yourself somehow.  To be French Yes. just to be French.  Well now you have maybe the next best thing which is to portray a Frenchwoman in this movie The Hundred Foot Journey. Let us set up this story here. OK so your character is running this beautifully elegant French restaurant in a tiny village in the south of France. And then a loud family of Indian immigrants comes to town starts its own restaurant 100-feet-away hence the title of the film right across the street. And that is where the clash begins.  Yes indeed. And you can imagine in a small town you know that would be rather alarming. You have a very well established very beautiful restaurant that you have worked for and in for many many years and you have been climbing up the culinary ladder you know towards hopefully a second Michelin star. And then as you say immediately opposite opens up this noise colorful lights you  know Indian restaurant with such a different attitude to cooking. Equally wonderful of course and that is what the film is about it is to learn to appreciate and understand that although they are so very different in their attitudes to preparing food and presenting food they have absolutely equal value.    This is flavor that is fighting against the chicken.   I did some spices for flavor.  Coriander garnish and .  But why change a recipe that is 200-years-old?   'ecause Madam maybe 200 years is long enough.  Your character Madame Mallory has huge disdain for this family when they move in and the food that they are cooking she says is..  Oh no. absolutely.  ...cannot be called a restaurant.  No it cannot be called - fast food ethnic  is not really a restaurant. There is an element in the French that is like that you know and I am a huge Francophile. But there is an element of this immense - well you know chauvinist is a French word chauvinist is a feeling that you are really the best in the world at everything. And for a while I concurred with the French in their opinion of themselves. I did think everything French was the best.  How did you slip into this character of Madame Malory and play a Frenchwoman? Did you find yourself standing differently moving differently?  Well you know Sir John Gielgud always said it all comes from the spine and he is absolutely right. Posture is everything and it is nice to play a role where you have to remember to stand up straight. But in general posture is one of the secrets of life and longevity I think probably.  And I love that it all comes from the spine.  It all comes from the spine. It is a very very - he was very absolutely right.  I am talking with Helen Mirren her new movie is The Hundred Foot Journey. You have talked a lot over the years about roles for women the possibility of good roles for women and especially women who are older - at a different stage in their career.  You know I have to say I have not talked a lot about that. Journalists have talked a lot about it to me. But I have not talked a lot about it. And I have always responded for the last 20 years with exactly the same response do not worry about roles in drama. That is not your concern. Worry about roles for women in real life because as night follows day roles for women in drama will follow. And when you have a female president of America which hopefully maybe you will very soon. When you have female heads of hospitals of legal firms of schools of universities you will have roles for women in drama. And that has happened. That' absolutely happened.  So you are seeing a transformation.  Of yes but also behind the camera which in a way is a more important transformation.  In terms of who is directing?  Not just directing it is not directing for me. It is the camera crew it is the cinematographers it is the sound people. There you are seeing more and more women coming into the industry which I think is really exciting.  So just their presence as women on the set makes a difference.  Yes hugely. I mean when - where I started in film for the first 20 years of my experience in film the set was a very masculine environment. It was very macho very testosterone-y you know very locker roomy. And it was not necessary but you know you have to sort of gut it out.  You - you have been appointed for more than a decade now you have been a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.  Is that the full title? I did not know that.  I think it is. I had to look it up.   But you are a Dame.  Dame Commander. It sounds very military.  Well you know from this perspective I think titles may seem silly titles like that. And I wonder for you is it a meaningful thing was it - did it feel like a honor? Did it - did it bring something to your life that you were happy to have?  I still cannot believe it honestly. It is been 10 years I just have never got used to it. And it still seems utterly weird to me I just do not feel like Dame material.  Yeah. What does it imply do you think?  It is a wonderful honor. And I think my great sadness was that my parents were not alive to see it because they would have been so amazed and they were not monarchists my parents at all very fierce Republicans. But I think they would have recognized it which is what it is it is an honor from your country. An as the daughter of an immigrant my father was not born in Britain he was born in Russia. So you know they would have been so very very proud I think. That look look what we all did together because I am who I am because of them. There is absolutely no doubt about that.  Well Helen Mirren it is been a pleasure to talk to you. Thank so very much.  Thank you. That was great. 