 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am David Greene. Aziz Ansari is one of the few Indian faces in Hollywood but his stock and trade is not ethnic humor. There are other reasons his character on the NBC sitcom Parks and Recreation is so appetizing.    Zerts are what I call desserts. Tray-trays are entrees. I call sandwiches sannies sandoozles or Adam Sandlers. Air conditioners are cool-blasterz with a Z. I do not know where that came from. I call cakes big ol' cookie. Fried chicken is fri-fri chicky-chick. Chicken parm is chicky chicky parm parm. Chicken cacciatore? Chicky catch. Tortillas are bean blankeys and I call forks food rakes.  That is Aziz Ansari as Tom Haverford in NBC sitcom Parks and Recreation. The South Carolina-born comedian has his first leading role in a film out this weekend called 30 Minutes or Less. But the 28-year-old actor did not take the typical route to the big screen. Aziz Ansari's path to comedic fame went through NYU's School of Business.  I just started doing stand-up while I was in college. And the summer of my freshman year which is the summer of 2001 I did not have any aspirations to be in movies or TV or anything like that. I just liked doing stand-up and wanted to get better at it the same way someone would like to get better at playing guitar or something like that.  So you feel...  I - yeah. And so I just kept doing it. And then as I got better different opportunities opened up and I became noted for my stand-up. And then I made some short films with some people and that led to a sketch comedy show on MTV called Human Giant that I did for two seasons.    What is up? I am Sergia.  Michael.  Michael. What is Michael want?   Tadpole wants to swim with the big fish.  Oh boy. You think you got what it takes huh? Well take a bleep on Mount Rushmore and call me Jefferson buddy. This place will eat you up.  How important is it for you to write and develop your own projects like Human Giant the MTV sketch comedy?  I think it is super important. That is what I am doing right now with films. I am developing a few films for me to shoot next time I have a hiatus from Parks and Rec. And not a lot of stuff not a lot of scripts out there are really funny. And then if the script is funny the chances of there being something for me to do that fits me well it is hard. So it would better you have a lot better odds if you develop stuff yourself and you know go for it.  I once heard you say that one of the things you are really proud of with your character on Parks and Recreation Tom Haverford that he could be played by anybody. I do not know if I believe that but you said it is not a role specifically for an Indian actor. And I think the same can be said for Chet the character in 30 Minutes or Less. Is that important to you? Do you not want to be sort of you know pigeonholed as an Indian actor playing an Indian role?  I just - I am very happy when I am able to take roles from white actors. So you know if a part's written for a white guy and then I get cast...  You want it.  ...I am very proud of myself. It is like a victory for all minorities.  Well I mean in all seriousness ethnic-based humor I mean some comedians do sort of get rooted in it some could say stuck in it. I mean do you feel when you head out on stage to do stand-up are people - you know your audience is just expecting an Indian comic?  Not anymore. I think I have done so much stuff that people kind of know my style of comedy. My comedy especially my stand-up is really just about whatever's going on in my life you know what I mean? It is much more personal. If I do do anything about my ethnicity I am very specific about it. In the last special that I did I told the story about how I was doing an interview and someone asked me if I was really excited about the success of Slumdog Millionaire. And to me that was an interesting idea to explore in stand-up.   I was doing an interview once  So you must be pretty psyched by all this Slumdog Millionaire stuff.    And I was like yeah I am. I have no idea why though. I had nothing to do with that movie. It is just some people that kind of look like me that are in this movie that everyone loves and winning Oscars and stuff. And I was like whoa whoa whoa. Are white people just psyched all the time? It is like Back to the Future that is us Godfather that is us Godfather Part 2 that is us Departed that is us Sunset Boulevard that is us Citizen Kane that is us Jaws that is us. Every  movie but Slumdog Millionaire and Boyz n the Hood is us.  A lot of comedians will say there is nothing like doing stand-up. Is that where you are most comfortable?  I do not know if it is where I am most comfortable but that - I mean if I had to pick one to do the rest of my life it would probably be that I think. But this year I pretty much just did stand-up and lived in New York and was like writing stand-up and touring. And I was like wow like even if you know I got fired off Parks and no one ever wanted me to do a movie again I could just do this and I would be extremely happy. And I would make a living that I am really pleased with.  I want to talk about the new film 30 Minutes or Less. It is just released nationwide on Friday. I saw the film. It is absolutely nuts. I mean it is like 90 minutes of absolute craziness.    OK. Here we are. You got the handguns?   .  These look to be real.  Get down on the - get down on the ground and give me the money in the bank.  How am I supposed to get you the money if I am on the ground?  Go get the money in the bank and then get down on the ground afterwards.  All right. I will be right back.  It is pretty funny. You guys were not exactly professional bank robbers doing this.  No. I mean part of the fun of that movie was that the characters are these guys that watch all these action movies all the time you know movies like Die Hard Point Break and things like that. So when they robbed the bank they kind of you know trying to get into the mode of these characters they have seen in movies that they watch.  And no offense you are not like screaming Bruce Willis when you are robbing that bank.  Yeah. That is what is funny about it is I am not Keanu Reeves. I am Aziz. So it is not really intimidating.   And your first leading film role really. I mean you were on screen almost this - the entire 90 minutes.  Yup. My brown bearded face on that screen the whole time.  Well I mean making movies stand-up sitcom what else is left? And what do you still want to add to the repertoire?  My RB album.   You have to drop us a little RB before we let you go. I mean if that is where you want to go eventually.   I do not know if I can do that for you today David.  That is actor-comedian Aziz Ansari up-and-coming RB star and current star of the new film 30 Minutes or Less which is in theaters now. Check it out. He joined me from our NPR West studios. Aziz Ansari thank you for coming in.  Thank you for having me. 