 When Saturday Night Live launches its 40th season this month there will be a new anchor in the highly coveted Weekend Update chair - Michael Che. Che is leaving his job as a correspondent on The Daily Show and returning to SNL where he was a writer last year. Che was behind some of the show is funniest and most controversial sketches at a time when it was taking heat for its lack of diversity. We are going to revisit our June interview with Michael Che starting with a sample of his standup.   You ever lie so bad on your resume that you cannot believe you did not get the job?   You want to go back to footlocker? - like really footlocker? Who the  do you hire? That has eight years mayoral experience.   And a degree in physics. Who is this amazing shoe salesman?  I do not know why that makes me laugh when I hear it but I think it sounds like something somebody would say to you like at a bar or on a bad date. Like it is a character in a way.  Well no yeah I do not know. That - that is like a real joke to me.  Oh that... .  No because that is like something I really really really went through a lot like trying to get a job with no college history not much work history. It is like impossible you know like. People would leave school to work and now it is like if you leave school you cannot work.  And you think that is why people really respond to that joke?  That is why I respond to the joke. You know you do not need to be an A student to do everything. This country ran with non-A students running it for a long time. It might just - this is very strange because I am just - it feels like I am talking on an island. I have no idea from - the whole world... .  I know. Well welcome to my world right? Yeah.  It is crazy.  You think you are having a private conversation my friend you are not.  Yeah no.  But let us take it deeper.   The thing is once you got into comedy you went hard right? I mean I read one profile where they talked about you doing five shows in two hours. What was behind that? I mean did you feel like I got to play catch up? Or...  It was I got to play catch-up. And it was also like just to make it clear - it is not just me. Like I am not the only one with that ethic. It is kind of the scene you know. Like it is so competitive. Your brain has to be sharp in order to do it. So the more you are on stage the faster things come out. Doing one show a day or one show a week hurts. It is hard to do comedy that way.  What hurts about having too much downtime?  It feels foreign a little bit. You are just slower. You know like when you are doing comedy constantly you are organized. You know where everything is. You know how to get out of it. You know how to stretch it. But like doing SNL I stopped doing spots and then I would finally do some sets. It would take me so long to kind of get in the rhythm of it. And then by the time I am in the rhythm of it I have got to go back to work and then I am not doing stand-up anymore. So it is really weird.  And as you mentioned you have been a writer for Saturday Night Live. You have done a lot of great sketches this past season.  Thank you.  There is like the Zach Galifianakis dress. Basically he is like a bigoted man in an MM suit apologizing.  Yeah racist Jim yeah.  And we have this one - Black Jeopardy.    Mark the board is yours. LOUIS C.K.  OK good let us go over to white people for 200.    White people are always lying about this...    Mark. C.K.  What is we do not have any money?   Yes. The truth is we would have accepted any answer.   That was Louis C.K. playing a professor in an alternate world black version of Jeopardy.  Yes Black Jeopardy.  Tells us a little bit about the idea behind...  Alex Treblack.   Right Kenan playing Alex Treblack. Michael Che how did you come up with this?  Well it actually - I did not come up with it. It was Bryan Tucker came up with the idea. He was like I want to do like a black Jeopardy thing. And then we were like laughing. And we were just like pitching on it. And it kind of was just one of those sketches that took it like an hour to write just really fast funny jokes that made us laugh. And people loved it. And people hated it.  Yes yeah.  So it was . It is exactly where I want to be in comedy.  Oh really?  Yeah I love that. I love stuff that polarizes a little bit 'ecause it feels like it is on the edge. It is like the same things that people love about you or going to be what they hate about you you know.  Well some of the criticism came from this idea that when you do this kind of comedy is it clear when people are kind of laughing at that disconnect between kind of black and white culture. Or are they laughing at us quote on quote as black people right? Like in the past like Dave Chappelle has talked about that tension...  Yes.  ...When he had his show. Talk a little bit about walking that line.  I feel like if that sketch was on a Chappelle's Show if it was on Key and Peele or if it was on a black show it would have been received a lot differently. I feel like it would have been received a lot better from black people. People kind of look at us and are like these are white guys making fun of black people as opposed to this is a black writer's take on a thing. But as writers we have to just write what is funny to us and put it out there. You know this is a live show. We find out something's not good the same time you find out it is not good. You know...  When we are not laughing on our couch.  Yeah like that sketch worked. But I mean there is times where we can put something out and you will hear the audience not like it. You know so it is tough to do when it is not a real thing. We are not saying that black people are dumb. Black people have like this thing - I have it. Like we all have it. We have this kind of embarrassment where we do not like white people to find out our little insecurities and our little quirks. We do not really like that that much. It is kind of - we are like do not let them know. That is ours. That is for us. Do not let them know what we laugh about kind of thing which is silly to me but it is also - I get it because I feel the same way sometimes too. That is why I am OK with any backlash because I am like yeah I know where it comes from. I just happen to be on the other side for this one.  But it sounds like some of the humor also comes from it being a little uncomfortable and you do not mind that.  I love that. It is great. That is the - why would you want to be comfortable?   This is comedy.  Are you that guy you know with your friends as well? Like you say something that is that dry and everyone's like are we supposed to laugh at that?  I surround myself with people that kind of get that. I am like that with strangers. They do not know if they should be comfortable enough to laugh. But my friends get it. Like they know where we come from. Like I come from a project. And we laugh. We make fun everything. I have six brothers and sisters. My mother has six kids from two different marriages. And we would just sit around making fun of each other's dad. And all our dads had real problems.   My brothers and sisters we love each other. And we would just make fun of how our dads were addicts and how terrible they were. And that is how we had fun you know. We still get together and make fun of each other. Like that is how we show love because we all go through that same kind of pain. It is like showing your battle scars. Like man remember we went through that? And we are laughing about it.  Well Michael Che we wish you the best of luck. Thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me.  Comedian Michael Che. He spoke to us earlier this year. He is just been named the new co-host of Saturday Night Live's Weekend Update segment. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 