 How far you would go to help a friend is one of those classic existential dilemmas. And that question is at the heart of a new film called Crown Heights which is out this weekend. As NPR's Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi reports the film tells the true story of a man imprisoned for more than 20 years for a murder he did not commit and the friend who finally got him out.  Crown Heights begins in the spring of 1980 with a single gunshot ringing out on a Brooklyn street corner. But the film is less a whodunit than a chronicle of the personal nightmare that murder set in motion.    When the police arrested me that night that was it. I have not been back home since. My life ended right there. Most of these prisoners they know deep down they put themselves here. But I do not have that comfort.  That is Lakeith Stanfield playing Colin Warner an 18-year-old immigrant from Trinidad wrongfully convicted of the murder. Warner's case happened against the backdrop of a crime wave in New York City and a tough often indiscriminate response from law enforcement. And his conviction was based on coerced false testimony. The film also follows Warner's childhood friend Carl KC King who spent years fighting for justice even in the moments when Warner himself lost hope.    Why are you still at this man? You got your family. You got your job. You got your life. Why you keep wasting your time on me?   It is not just about you. It could be me in here.  King spent more than two decades raising money for lawyers tracking down witnesses filing appeals. In 2001 his friend Colin Warner was finally exonerated and released from prison. A few years later their saga was featured on This American Life. That is how the story ended up in the ear of Crown Heights director Matt Ruskin on his drive home.  Really I could not get their voices out of my head after I heard their piece.  Ruskin knew the story had the makings of a feature film. And after convincing Warner and King that he would do their story justice he set to work on a script that drew heavily from primary sources.  Carl had become sort of the chief archivist of this case in the process of putting his appeals together. So when I started he just handed me this binder of basically everything which was court transcripts depositions from witnesses police reports autopsy reports.  Ruskin chose up-and-comer Lakeith Stanfield to play Colin Warner. And he says that Stanfield's dedication to the role was clear throughout.  Usually in between scenes actors will be taken off to somewhere comfortable. And Keith asked to be held in another prison cell.  This one cell in particular I do not know why I was like I want this to be my trailer. And in between takes I would just sit in there. I just kept telling myself this is nothing compared to what he had to experience. So if I wanted to embody the character I had to feel a little bit uncomfortable sometimes.  This story also resonated with former NFL player Nnamdi Asomugha who plays Carl King.  It was written really artfully. It was not saying that all cops are bad and it was not destroying everyone in the legal system. It was saying that there was a criminal justice system at that moment that was more interested in conviction than in truth.  Asomugha says that beyond the film's critique of American criminal justice the story of Carl King's perseverance and Colin Warner's dignity spoke to something more universal.  Fifteen minutes after he gets out of prison he is got a microphone in his hand and cameras on him. And the first thing he says is I am not mad at anybody. I forgive everyone that put me in this position. The first thing that struck me I am like that is what it means to be human.  Sixteen years to the day after Carl King submitted his final appeal to win Warner's freedom Crown Heights premiered at the Sundance Film Festival.   .  And the real Colin Warner and Carl King were in the audience with their families. Warner says it was tough watching his own story play out on the big screen.  A lot of the feelings came back. It is feelings I do not want no more. I am trying to lessen their impact on me even though those experiences make me the man I am today. It is time to move on. And this is what I am trying to do now move on with my life create a family and just watch my family grow up.  Still Warner says he hopes his story can offer strength to prisoners who wrongfully sit behind bars today fighting for the vindication that he finally found. Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi NPR News. 