 Now news from the world of children's television. It is official. The most beloved pair of bachelors on TV are not gay.  Hey Ernie. Hey hey the place looks great.  Yeah.  Look at all the decorations.  Yeah does not it look nice Bert?  This week thousands of people signed an online petition asking for Sesame Street's Bert and Ernie to get married but as NPR's Neda Ulaby reports PBS has released a statement that says the two are best friends - no more no less.  The statement was very sweet. It says Bert and Ernie were created to teach preschoolers you can be good friends with people who are very different from you.  Ernie I do not . Ernie.  Honestly my first reaction to this was that I was glad that they are not making Bert and Ernie a married couple because frankly I think Bert can do better.  That is Time magazine's TV critic James Poniewozik.  Ernie is kind of a jerk to Bert. You know he tricks him he lies to him he steals his pizza. It is not you know a loving adult relationship to me frankly.  Ah Ernie.  Bert deserves you know a nice man who is going to treat him right.  Ernie tell me how do I look?  With your eyes Bert.  Somewhere Jim Henson is laughing just laughing.  Kate Clinton is a lesbian comedian. She says if we are going to go ahead and project things onto hand puppets she is going to project Bert and Ernie as being so radical they are standing up for gay people's freedom to not get married.  You know like in New York people are like before they even say hello they are like are you getting married? You are like could you back up?  See this is an important lesson for children. Do not pressure gay people to get married. Obviously public television needs to tread carefully politically says James Poniewozik given its history.   The network that brought us Tinky Winky also said in its statement that puppets do not have sexual orientation which as James Poniewozik points out does not exactly stand up to scrutiny.  Elmo has a mom obviously which does sort of raise the philosophical and biological question of little Muppets needing to come from somewhere.  But some mysteries are best left unplumbed. The real shame says Poniewozik is that parents like him who watch Sesame Street with their kids will now be denied that little frisson of are they or not?  Why I like you.  Oh Ernie.  Neda Ulaby NPR News. 