 And now we are going to take some time to sort through some of fall's new offerings. There are sci-fi fantasies reality shows detective dramas and a number of series about raising small children. There' Playboy bunnies a fairytale police procedural and a fetching group of flight attendants who seem to conjure up the coffee tea or me idea of a working girl. For more on the fall landscape we are joined by Eric Deggans. He is a TV writer for The St. Petersburg Times and he also writes an online blog called The Feed. Welcome back Mr. Deggans.  Thank you.  What new shows stand out for you?  In terms of what I would like I guess I would say the New Girl starring Zooey Deschanel. They call her adorkable.   It is a new term that they have coined about her. She is dorky and adorable at the same time.    I was going for like a hot farmer's daughter kind of thing. You know like oh I am going to go milk my cows.  And then in terms of drama I like Terra Nova the science fiction show that was sort of masterminded by Steven Spielberg and involves this family that goes back 85 million years in the past. It is compared to a mix of Avatar and Jurassic Park.    Citizens of 2149 together we are at the dawn of a new civilization. Welcome to Terra Nova folks. Welcome home.  Good season for women in Hollywood yes?  It really is. I did the math. It was not that hard.   But actually out of 27 new shows I think there is about 15 that star women as the main leads - everything from a remake of Charlie's Angels to the Playboy Club to a look at the stewardesses of Pan Am.  Now we have talked before about a show called Men of a Certain Age whether they are emoting too much or not enough.  I call it Men of a Certain Age for dummies.   That is basically what it is. A lot of these shows took the more complex themes that were on Men of a Certain Age the late  got cancelled. But a lot of shows took those themes of men feeling put upon in a modern world and they turned them into cartoons. Tim Allen is probably the best example of that. He has a show called Last Man Standing where he is going to be spending more time in a home with a wife who has her own career and three relatively grownup daughters.    He is a man's man. But lately he is realizing...   What happened to men?   He is not in a man's world anymore.   I will take the truck. You can take the minivan.   You will take the truck. I will drive the minivan. You are not kidding right now are you?  In a way it is sort of vaguely insulting I think to imply that because men are different these days they are more open with their feelings that somehow they are less macho. These shows have the subtle message like as women get more powerful the men are somehow disadvantaged. They do not know that that is true.  A lot of shows about raising kids. And for a time it seemed like Hollywood was running away from the family-based sitcom.  Yeah. Well you know I think there is some practical reasons for that.   You know it is like kids are kind of hard to deal with sometimes on a set and...  And they grow up. And they...   And they grow up. That is right. You know Steve Levitan who is the co-creator and executive producer of Modern Family said during the Emmys on Sunday you know Modern Family was almost an animated show. That is how much they did not want to have to deal with kids on that show.   But I think Modern Family one of its impacts is that shows are more willing to feature children in part because networks realized they got to reach out to this audience.  Eric I want to ask you about a couple of shows that I find a bit intriguing -Grimm this very adult fairytale.  Yeah. You know TV is always trying to find a way to reinvent classic themes. Grimm is a way to reinvent the cop drama. You basically have a typical police procedural but laid over that is this idea that one of the detectives had passed down in his family this ability to see fairytale characters who are disguised as average people. So on the very first episode there is a big bad wolf who eats and kidnaps young girls who wear red.    What kind of animal could do this?   A bear cougar a wolf. This is the only track we found.   It sounds like what happened to Monsoon Creek Falls.   It is the same deal hiker and a bobcat.   The bobcat was not wearing boots.  Another show that looks interesting Read Between the Lines. Is that another stab at Cosby's success because it happens to employ one of the Cosby kids now grownup playing the role of the husband?  Well everybody is trying to figure out a way to reach out to minority audiences audiences of color people who seemed to be underserved. And everybody also wants to tap a bit of that Cosby magic. You know The Cosby Show came along and kind of brought new life to the TV comedy and convinced people that TV comedies were worth doing again. So everybody kind of thinks that we are on the cusp of that again. You know Modern Family is doing well. Glee is doing well. So we will see if they are able to present something that is close enough to that that they can stick around for a few seasons.  Eric Deggans it is always good to talk to you.  Thank you very much.  Eric Deggans is a TV critic for The St. Petersburg Times. 