 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. So if you are thinking about taking in a movie later on tonight or this week critic Joe Queenan is here to offer up some suggestions. Joe Dinner for Schmucks what did you think? Mr.  Motion picture for schmucks.  Okay. How about Grown Ups? Mr.  Definitely the worst movie of the year.  Okay Sex and the City 2? Mr.  No it is terrible. It was a terrible movie.  As you have probably guessed Joe Queenan is not that high on the film industry at the moment and in fact in a recent article in the Wall Street Journal he called 2010 the very worst year in film history. Joe is not that a little harsh? Mr.  No and part of it is that in the spring there is a number of movies that you are really looking forward to summer movies. One of them was Robin Hood and that was dead on arrival. Iron Man 2 was a dud. And Inception is the only one of the major movies that is come through. That is the only movie that people were waiting for that I think is really really good.  Okay but the worst ever? Mr.  Well I mean maybe 1911.  Mr.  Even in this decade which has not produced that many great movies there is always something. There is always  last year there was Avatar and then there is movies like The Hurt Locker. A few years ago The Lord of the Rings movies. There have been you know a number of exciting movies that people talked about. And then there have been a number of movies that came out of nowhere like Slumdog Millionaire which we do not have this year like March of the Penguins which we do not have this year like Life is Beautiful which we do not  we just do not have those movies coming out of nowhere. What we have is a lot of sequels and more and more movies that are in 3-D.  I mean people are talking about Inception and The Kids Are All Right and Toy Story 3. I mean so I mean there are some good films this year. Mr.  There is a couple of good films. I mean that is the thing is that you are not talking about every single movie coming out that you are hating. You are talking about movies coming out and it is like yeah Brooklyn's Finest that is okay. Repo Men that is okay. There is a lot of movies that are okay. Where is the movie that you are going to get excited about? But if you sit in a movie theater and you watch as the previews come up I sit there and I can feel the audience just sort of saying yeah another Adam Sandler movie another bad Chris Rock movie.   Adam Sandler Kevin James Chris Rock Grown Ups. Mr.  I suspect that the reason the number of people going to the movies is going down is because the movies are no good. That is a wild theory but it is mine.  You seem to have a particular dislike of Shia Shia Shia Shia Shia LeBeouf. Mr.  He looks like George Bush as a young man. He really like scares me. It is like we had to go through that thing with Bush and now it is over and now this kid's coming back.  Mr.  No he is being asked to do Tom Cruise's job. Good luck kid.  And Jake Gyllenhaal also do not like him very much. Mr.  No that is not true. I do like him. I do not like him as an action figure. He was fantastic in Brokeback Mountain. He is been fantastic in a number of movies. I like him very much. I do not buy him as an action figure and neither did anybody else.    I have seen its power with my own eyes. Releasing the sand turns back time. Only the holder of the dagger is aware of what is happened. Mr.  The action-figure job after Schwarzenegger and Stallone and Harrison Ford kind of vanished that job was open and it looked like it was either going to be Vin Diesel or The Rock. Well it did not work out with Vin Diesel and it did not really work out with The Rock and then The Rock started making these kiddie comedies. So The Rock I do not think he wants the job.  But two of those Stallone and Schwarzenegger will appear in a film this fall right? Mr.  I think it is  no it is next week The Expendables.  Oh next week. Mr.  Oh yeah it is Friday the 13th. It is next week. I am going to see it. And that is one of those movies where it does not matter whether it is any good. A bad comedy is just bad whereas a bad action film it is still vaguely worth seeing. I have seen the trailer for The Expendables. It does not look very good.  Mr.   .  Everything. Mr.  But you know what? Again here's another thing that is very interesting okay? Mickey Rourke in Iron Man 2 basically spent most of the movie in front of a laptop. He was like typing the whole time. And it looks like he is doing a lot of typing in this movie and I' Why would you put Mickey Rourke in a movie if you have got him typing? Get him out there doing his Mickey Rourke thing.  Given that you know there is still quite a bit of 2010 left do you think you might be jumping the gun a bit here? I mean you know Hollywood sometimes waits to release these movies closer to the voting period for the Oscars in December. So I mean... Mr.  Yeah but those movies no in the fall they bring out movies with you know Tilda Swinton those movies that win Oscars and sell A tickets. If they have got great movies that everybody's going to go see like Batman movies those movies come out in the summer. The winter was bad the spring was bad and the summer was bad. So where is the movies for May and my entourage?  That is Joe Queenan. His essay on 2010 as the worst movie year ever appeared in last week's Wall Street Journal. Joe good luck with the rest of the year. Mr.  Thank you. 