 Police in Ferguson Missouri are bracing for the possibility of a large protest there tonight as the community outside of St. Louis marks two weeks since a white police officer shot and killed unarmed black teenager Michael Brown. The last three nights have been relatively quiet and peaceful with smaller demonstrations following several nights of unrest in the wake of the shooting. In the predominantly African-American neighborhood where the most violent protests have taken place NPR's David Schaper reports on the generation gap between residents and how they view the protests.  Racial tensions have cooled considerably in Ferguson after nearly 10 days of loud raucous and sometimes violent protests during which some agitators would throw rocks bottles and Molotov cocktails at police who responded with rubber bullets smoke bombs and tear gas.    Do not shoot. Hands up.  Among those in the midst of the violent demonstrations last week was 20-year-old Marcus Mopkins of Ferguson.  Yeah there was a couple of people shooting at the posts. They is where they should have been.  You think they should have been?  Yeah. If you ask me I would have shot the police myself.  I asked why and Mopkins says it is not just because of the shooting of Michael Brown but what residents here say is a long pattern of police harassment of young black men and the aggressive police efforts to contain and disperse the protesters.  I just - I am fed up. I am ready to cause damage myself.  That kind of frustration worries other residents of this mostly African-American part of Ferguson who are anxious the protests could turn violent again any time.  Ron Reynolds 57-years-old. I work at Boeing and our neighborhood is messed up right now.  Reynolds is standing in his driveway one recent night as a police helicopter hovers over the protesters a couple of blocks away.  We are residents here. Everything that is going on - it reflects us. It reflects us.  Reynolds worries that some of the burned and looted businesses will not come back and some homeowners may move out too. And Reynolds says by turning violent the protester's cause for justice might be lost.  I think differently about what is going on.  This is Reynolds' 36-year-old stepson Charles Jolly.  I think it is a generation gap and I understand the young people.  Jolly says some violent protesting in Ferguson is necessary.  I do not condone all of it but you would not be here if that was not happening. It would not get a lot of notoriety and it would probably just be swept under the rug.  I understand the way my son feels and you cannot blame them. That is their generation.  Again 57-year-old Ron Reynolds.  Our generation is - you try to be peaceful. Like Martin Luther King say you turn the other cheek. But this generation as not going to turn the other cheek it is simple as that. They are not going to do it. They are not going to it. They are tired.  They have been harassed more than we have.  That is right.  They are harassed on a daily basis.  Fifty-four-year-old Adrian Ellis is an electrician who lives across the street. He says he understands the frustrations of the young protesters but Ellis worries that violent protesting helps perpetuate a stereotype of the black community being violent. And while the protests have chilled considerably the three men all worry about the still-simmering racial tensions beneath the surface of Ferguson especially Ron Reynolds says if police officer Darren Wilson is not charged in the shooting of Michael Brown.  You can bet Ferguson is going to burn.  A grand jury began hearing evidence in the case this week. David Schaper NPR News Ferguson Missouri. 