 The rail tunnels connecting Manhattan to the mainland are more than 100 years old and they are starting to fall apart. This summer electrical problems led to major disruptions for tens of thousands of commuters and other travelers but that is a small inconvenience compared to what could happen if one of the tunnels had to close for extended repairs. NPR's Joel Rose reports.  The work week got off to a rough start for New Jersey rail commuters. A disabled train blocked one of the two rail tunnels under the Hudson River to Penn Station during the Monday morning rush hour. That left thousands of people scrambling to find another way into Manhattan.  This really sucks much worse than past summers yes.  Ira Kaplan and Katherine Beckett  were among thousands of commuters who took a train to Hoboken where they waited on sweltering platforms for another train to New York.  In delays my entire start to the day makes me have to stay longer at work in order to make up for the morning that I missed.  Mass transit delays in New Jersey are not unprecedented but this summer has tested even the most battle-hardened commuter. In July power cable failures in the Hudson River tunnels caused massive delays for days in a row. Commutes that normally take an hour grew to two even three hours. High-speed train service between Washington D.C. and New England slowed to a crawl.  It is the bottleneck for the entire Northeast corridor.  Tom Wright is the director of the Regional Plan Association in New York. If one of these tunnels were to fail Wright says the economic implications for New Jersey would be dire. But he says the impact would ripple up and down the East Coast through Boston New York Philadelphia Baltimore and Washington.  The economies of these cities are all completely connected together and so the travel up and down this corridor is absolutely critical to the economy of the United States. And it relies on these train lines under the Hudson River. They carry an enormous number of people every single day.  Roughly 200000 daily riders. Amtrak owns and operates the tunnels under the Hudson River but most of those riders are actually on commuter trains. Amtrak did not build the tunnels either. They are 105 years old and Amtrak CEO Joseph Boardman says they have less than 20 years of service left - maybe a lot less.  We have been saying for quite a while that the reliability of the tunnels because of their age and the lack of ability to really rebuild them was going to cause more and more problems. And we are seeing that happen now.  Right now Amtrak can squeeze 24 trains an hour through the two tracks of the tunnel but when one of them to close for repairs that number drops to just six trains per hour. The tunnels are so busy that Amtrak has to do maintenance work in the middle of the night when one of the tunnels is closed.   Here we go guys.  The tunnels under the Hudson River are dimly lit and narrow - just big enough for the trains to fit. The walls are the original concrete that is worn away in spots revealing the brickwork underneath.  For hundred-year-old tunnels they are in pretty good shape.  Bill Mew is a senior engineer with Amtrak who is been working in these tunnels for decades. Mew was here three years ago when the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy filled these tunnels with saltwater. The tunnels reopened just days later but ever since they have been plagued with maintenance problems. This week Mew says Amtrak's engineers are replacing one 400-foot stretch of an electric cable that is 15000 feet long.  It is now 2 oclock in the morning. They will start pulling the cable. Without incident it should be able to get pulled in by 3 - 15. Load up the material and be out of the tunnel by 4 oclock so we can run traffic at 5 a.m.  But this is just a short term fix. Rail advocates say what is really needed is a second set of tunnels under the Hudson River. So do New Jersey commuters Susanna Einstein and Philip Schweiger.  Yeah it is crazy. I do not really know what it is going to take. I feel like there is going to be like a tunnel collapse or something. Like what is going to happen to make people actually like speed up the process?  It is especially frustrating knowing we have had a solution for years and years. It would be nice not to have to wait for everything to fall apart before we fix it.  There was a plan to add new rail lines under the Hudson River known as the ARC Tunnel but that project was canceled in 2010 by New Jersey Governor Chris Christie who said his state was picking up too much of the bill. Christie now says he supports a tunnel. Here's Christie in an interview on WABC Radio last month.   If we are all in this even-Steven if we are are all going to put in an equal share then let us go build these tunnels underneath the Hudson River and walk away equals. We are all in equal for the up-front costs and we are all in equal for the cost overruns.  But now it is the governor of New York Andrew Cuomo who seems reluctant to pay for a tunnel one that Cuomo argues would mostly benefit commuters from New Jersey.   It is not my tunnel. Why do not you pay for it? There is no moral legal or ethical reason why the state should be looked at to fund it.  Amtrak has a new plan to build more Hudson River tunnels known as Gateway but that project has a price tag of at least 14 billion and no dedicated funding. Tom Wright at the Regional Plan Association says there is no time to waste.  Best case scenario it is going to be a dozen years before a new tunnel is built and operational. And the chances that there is going to be a much more significant disruption in the service over the next 12 years is close to a hundred percent.  Disruptions that could make this summer's delays look minor. Joel Rose NPR News New York.  