 Millions of Floridians did heed warnings to get out of the way of Hurricane Irma so we wanted to know what some of their experiences have been. We were able to reach Taylor Roberts. She is a nurse in the pediatric intensive care unit of Golisano Children's Hospital in Fort Myers. Thanks for joining us Taylor Roberts.  No problem.  So you have evacuated to - what? - Punta Gorda?  Yeah. So we went an hour north of our home.  How does it look where you are?  Well it was not until about a couple minutes ago but actually our front door just swung open. So we had to close it and lock it. And we were going to put something in front of it. But it is pretty - it is pretty windy now.  I mentioned that you are a nurse in the pediatric intensive care unit at a children's hospital. I was wondering what - how does that work? How is it decided who stays and who goes?  Well we have a team A and team B. So we all sign up for whatever team we want to be on. Team B comes in before the storm so that team A can get ready. And they will pack up all their stuff. So they are allowed to bring their family. They are allowed to bring their pets. They are there right now. They are going to be there for the duration of the storm and until they call an all-clear. And so then they will send us a text or a message and they will tell us the all-clear has been called. And team B is activated. And then we have to go in for however long it takes.  Have you ever been through something like this before?  Not really.  Are you scared?  Yeah. I mean not for my safety right now mostly for my home. We came here because this place is sturdier than our house is. And it is pretty much like a waiting game. When are we going to be able to go back? When are we going to be able to know if it is still there you know?  What is the worst part of this for people who have never been through something like this?  I think not knowing. Hurricanes when they come it is - it could do this or it could do this. And they just have a cone. And you think OK I am not in that cone but then it can shift last second. You never know. It is just the waiting and the hoping that you are in the right place.  That is Taylor Roberts. We reached her in Punta Gorda Fla. She just evacuated from Fort Myers. Thanks so much for - and hang in there. We will keep a good thought.  Thank you. 