 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. Thousands of people have descended on Bardstown Kentucky this week. They have gathered to celebrate one of the state' bourbon. It is the 20th Annual Kentucky Bourbon Festival and as Rick Howlett of member station WFPL reports the barrel-aged Kentucky spirit is enjoying a remarkable surge in popularity.  Just take a little sip hold it on the palate for a count of 1000 2000 then slowly swallow.  One of the festival's opening events is a tasting. A sellout crowd turned out to sip bourbon one of which was Woodford Reserve where Chris Morris is the master distiller.  So you are looking for barrel character fruit spice grain character.  These are heady times for Kentucky bourbon a drink that is more than 200 years old and made under strict content regulations. Bourbon can be aged only in charred oak barrels and could not be mixed with any other type of spirit. According to the Kentucky Distillers Association about 95 percent of the world's supply is produced in the Bluegrass State and association president Eric Gregory says more of the world is enjoying it.  In the '70s and '80s bourbon was in a downturn.  the vodka gin and rum and things like that. Bourbon just was not seen as a cool drink. It was your grandfather's drink. And it really was the growth of the single-barrel and small batch bourbons in the late '80s early '90s that really have been driving the bourbon revolution.  They are also selling the bourbon experience. Tourists can follow the Kentucky Bourbon Trail through six distilleries. It drew 400000 visitors last year. One of the stops is Wild Turkey in Lawrenceburg where 76-year-old master distiller Jimmy Russell presides over a brand-new 50 million operation.  If it smells good - it is like a bakery - you know you are making a good product.  Jimmy Russell has been making Wild Turkey for nearly 57 years. The plant now produces more than a dozen varieties.  For many many years it is a Southern gentleman's drink. And then now you know everybody's drinking bourbon. And the ladies drink as much bourbon as the men do right now.  Bourbon traditionally has not been marketed to women.  That is Carla Carlton also known as the Bourbon Babe. That is the name she is given to a blog she just started up. She talked bourbon over drinks at Louisville's historic Seelbach Hotel.  I like my bourbon neat. I kind of - I have to admit I like the double take that I often get from the server when I order bourbon neat and they say you know you do not want to mix that with something? No I want to actually taste the bourbon.  Joining us is Bernie Lubbers Jim Beam's whiskey professor. He travels the world holding bourbon tastings to promote the company's brands. Lubbers says the craft has held fast to its 200-year-old roots. New drinkers are embracing the old tradition and the complex flavors enticed from that simple mix of cooked grains distilled and matured in charred oak barrels.  It is truly American. It is truly pure and it is cool and retro to like bourbon.  And Kentucky's bourbon makers are raising a glass to their new prosperity. For NPR News I am Rick Howlett in Louisville. 