 A massive heat wave is sweeping over two-thirds of the country this week. From the Plains to the Rockies to the Northeast tens of millions of people are under heat advisories and warnings. And high humidity could make it feel well over 100 degrees in some places adding to the misery and to the danger. Mose Buchele reports from member station KUT in Austin.  David Kong is standing on a street corner in Austin starting a shift holding up a big sign for a real estate company. He is out here all afternoon with the heat index set to hit triple digits. But he is ready.  They say there is no such thing as bad weather just poor planning.  So he is attached a small portable fan to the sign.  Well yeah. No you are absolutely right. Look at it. Check it out. Fan - so good.  Like a lot of people in Austin he is greeting the heat wave with kind of a shrug. It is not that it is not hot. It is that here it is like this a lot of the time. Here's how Madeline Ortiz put it. She is a UT student from San Antonio.  Like for the past few years I feel like it is just been getting hotter. So like I guess I have gotten acclimated to it. But other than that it is like just not normal.  She is right. Here the average annual temperature has risen by 4 degrees in the last four decades. This century we are averaging 38 triple-digit days up from 13 last century. Burton Fitzsimmons is the chief meteorologist for Austin's Spectrum News. He says Texas is not the only place getting hotter.  Extreme heat to you and me by Austin standards is a lot different than let us say 70 degrees in Anchorage - in fact they just hit 90 their all-time high just a few weeks back - versus let us say New England where 90 is one thing but 100 is something else.  He says other places are starting to see the kind of weather Texans have endured for decades but it is all part of the same thing.  All over we are seeing these signs of our warming planet.  It is happening at night too. The National Weather Service says overnight lows in many places are expected to only get down to the upper 70s or lower 80s. That could break dozens of overnight temperature records. Experts are urging people to take care. Cities are opening cooling centers advising people to stay indoors and extending hours for public swimming pools. Another concern - strained power grids which could leave many without air conditioning also overwhelmed emergency rooms - experts say communities will need to get used to planning for all these things as the warming climate makes heat waves like this one more common. For NPR News I am Mose Buchele in Austin. 