 In Baton Rouge today officials called an attack that left three officers dead a calculated ambush.   This was a diabolical attack on the very fabric of society.  That is Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards at a news conference today. Police painted a step-by-step picture of what they said was a methodical assault on officers. NPR's Frank Morris has more on the new details in the investigation and how the community is doing.  Police say Gavin Long a 29-year-old African-American was well-armed carrying two assault-style weapons and a semi-automatic handgun. And he was cunning. Colonel Michael Edmonson the superintendent at the Louisiana State Police says Long stalked officers through a maze of businesses firing on them ruthlessly.   There is no doubt whatsoever that these officers were intentionally targeted and assassinated.  At one point in the attack police say Sheriff Deputy Brad Garafola saw what was happening and left a sheltered position to help an injured officer. Long killed him and then the other officer who was already down. In the end it was a hundred-yard shot from a SWAT team that killed Long. Police officials say they take solace in what they say was a heroic and skillful response to the attack. And out in the city residents remain on edge. At the sight of the shooting at a gas station car wash and beauty supply store on a big commercial strip bouquets and shiny balloons are heaped on a banner advertising fast food pizza. It is a shrine to the fallen officers and a police chaplain's here for comfort.  We pray for their families their security and all our law enforcement here in Baton Rouge and throughout the country in your precious name Jesus Christ.  Jesus.  Amen.  Amen.  Stacy DeJean  is here clenching flowers in remembrance of her friend Matthew Gerald a 41-year-old officer with two young daughters murdered yesterday. She is trembling but she says that the tragedy will ultimately make Baton Rouge stronger.  I think the most important thing is that we stick together. We do not let outside things influence us and get us stressed out. We continue to pray and stick together as a community.  But Gregory Hill  an off-duty African-American officer working security here today sees it differently. Hill says the shootings are tearing this community.  It is dividing families. It is dividing people on the job. It is taking a toll. It is like an ulcer. It is been put in place and now it is starting to eat away.  Hill's sympathies are with his fellow officers who he says suffer from the actions of a very few malevolent cops. And then there are people like Kien Adeson  a slender 31-year-old small business owner facing the sweltering heat today in a crisp blue shirt and tie. Adeson who just stopped by soda says he is faced far more than his share of abuse from the police - even a false arrest. But he is among those calling for calm calm and understanding.  As a black American right now we are just bracing ourselves and we - you know we protecting ourselves. We sit on the fence right now because of what is going on. It as not that we mad at the police we want to kill them we want to hurt them. No it is not like that. We just want to protect us to make sure it do not keep happening. That is all. We just do not want it to keep happening.  A lot of people seem to be hunkering down here today and sense that the forces shaking this community may be paused but are not likely finished with Baton Rouge. For NPR News I am Frank Morris in Baton Rouge. 