 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Today could be a big day in the lives of millions of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. The government began accepting applications for what it calls deferred action for childhood arrivals. Those whose applications are approved will get immunity from deportation for two years. This is specifically aimed at allowing qualified young people to study and work in the U.S. legally.  Applicants have to be under the age of 31 and they must have come to the United States before they turned 16. For tens of thousands of undocumented high school students it could remove some obstacles to going to college. We will explore that in a few minutes. But applying for deferred action also carries some risks as NPR's Joel Rose reports.  On the first day to sign up for deferred action hundreds of potential applicants showed up for free legal advice at a church on New York's Lower East Side.  I knew they would understand the Spanish interpreters - for screenings.  The line stretched around the block. Inside the church basement dozens of applicants waited for help filling out their paperwork. Mubashar Ahmed was one of them.  Half of me is saying OK it is real. The other one is asking is it real? So now seeing it is actually believing it you know? Like looking at all these people signed up to do it I am like OK OK. This works.  Ahmed is 26 years old. He is in college studying chemical engineering. He hopes deferred action will give him a chance at continuing those studies in the U.S. and at ultimately getting a job in his field.  For the first time I know that I can do this over here without having to give up on everything that I have worked on you know and all the people that have supported me.  Ahmed is one of an estimated 110000 potential applicants in New York state alone. Nationwide more than 1.7 million people could sign up for deferred action. What they are applying for is not permanent legal status something advocates of the so-called DREAM Act had been pushing for. What applicants would get instead is essentially a promise from the federal government that they will not be deported for the next two years during which time they can study and work legally. At a press conference today local lawmakers including New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn urged Congress - and the president - to do more.  This is a great day. It is a great step forward. But it is not enough. We want to make sure the DREAM Act is no longer the dream act that it is the law.  In the meantime Quinn urged New Yorkers who can to sign up for deferred action. Still not everyone is rushing to do that.  There is obviously huge fear.  Muzaffar Chishti directs the New York office of the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute. He says many potential applicants are worried about coming out of the shadows because anyone who applies for a deferred action but gets rejected will have told the government quite a lot about themselves.  So it is a big risk. And since there is no guarantee in this program that just because you apply that you will get the benefit it is a cost-benefit analysis - which every individual will have to frankly make themselves.  Those risks may be most serious for people who have had a brush with the law. The Obama administration was careful to limit the deferred action program to those with no felonies or serious misdemeanors on their records. But that has not been enough to placate the administration's critics. Roy Beck is the president of NumbersUSA a nonprofit that advocates for lower immigration.  Unemployed Americans are now going to have about maybe 1.8 million more people added into the legal workforce to compete with them for this limited number of jobs. So there is a cost to this and the cost is to the most vulnerable young Americans.  Critics also accuse the Obama administration of circumventing the will of Congress to change the country's immigration policy and pandering to Latino voters in an election year. It is not clear what would happen to the deferred action program if Republican Mitt Romney is elected in the fall. And that worries potential applicants like Nathalia Narciso of New York. Still she is planning to apply for the program.  When people ask me about this I always let them know. I am like you know just remember that they could take this away at any moment. I am worried but at the same time I - you know it is a risk that we have got to take. And I am willing to take it.  Judging by the lines for legal help at St. Mary's Church a lot of potential applicants may have come to the same conclusion. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 