 Iran announced today it has seized a British-flagged ship in the Strait of Hormuz - this after the White House announced that a U.S. warship destroyed an Iranian drone yesterday. President Trump had these tough words for Iran today.   We hope for their sake they do not do anything foolish. If they do they will pay a price like nobody's ever paid a price.  Iran for its part denies that any of its drones were destroyed. For more on all of this we are joined now by NPR's Tom Bowman at the Pentagon. Hey Tom.  Hey there.  OK so let us just start with this Iranian drone destroyed not destroyed. What is going on? What do we know so far?  Well U.S. officials are saying what was assessed to be an Iranian drone was destroyed by this electronic jamming device this air defense system aboard the USS Boxer while it was in international waters in the Strait of Hormuz. And we are hearing from Pentagon officials that the drone which I am told was unarmed was on an aggressive course toward the Boxer coming within a thousand yards. The U.S. sent several warnings and it kept coming. Now in the past the U.S. says Iran has deployed drones that interfere with flight operations sometimes at night. Also some drones used by Iranian-backed Houthi rebels had been filled with explosives. So this was a safety concern and the U.S. crew destroyed the drone. Now beyond that the U.S. is now saying there was at least one Iranian helicopter heading toward the American ship and the Boxer actually sent up one of its own helicopters to intercept it and essentially shoo it away. Also beyond that some small Iranian fast boats were closing with the American ship. They were warned off.  And it is correct that Iran is still denying that it has lost a drone.  Right. Iran has said it did not lose a drone said all were accounted for and suggested maybe the U.S. shot down one of its own drones. And everything is moving pretty quickly. Britain said Iran seized a British-flagged vessel in the Strait of Hormuz.  Right.  Now the official Iranian news agency says as far as the British-flagged tanker the ship had turned off its tracker ignored several warnings by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards before being captured.  There is a lot of moving parts here. How does the seizure of the ship play into all of this about the drone?  Well it makes everything more tense not only with the U.S. and Iran but of course now Britain.  Yeah.  And the latest Iranian move may be retaliation because the British seized an Iranian ship in the Mediterranean two weeks ago. There were indications it was smuggling oil to Syria. Now the crew of that ship is still being held in Gibraltar. Meanwhile the U.S. is trying to set up a maritime security force that would protect ships in the Persian Gulf and nearby waterways. The U.S. would provide I am told overall command and control. Other nations would provide either patrol or maybe escort ships in the area. Pentagon and State officials are actually working on this today. And right now we have no sense yet of what countries will take part.  Can you just take a moment here to just step back and explain what set off this latest round of tensions between the U.S. and Iran?  Well it really all started well over a year ago when the Trump administration pulled out of the Iranian nuclear deal and reimposed stiff sanctions on Iran. Some Pentagon officials had spoken in favor of the deal including then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. He and others believed it kind of kept a lid on Iran. And since then there is been a real concern at the Pentagon that the more hawkish voices in the White House - national security adviser John Bolton Secretary of State Mike Pompeo - they could lead to serious military action with Iran which they say would be disastrous. So now we have some military action but Secretary Pompeo said just today the president is willing to sit down and talk with Iran with no preconditions.  That is NPR's Tom Bowman from the Pentagon. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome. 