 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand in California.  I am Robert Siegel in Washington. And we begin this hour with the challenges facing two health care initiatives initiatives which could offer lessons for the nation's health care overhaul. In a moment we will check back with Howard County Maryland's program. It is called Healthy Howard.  First to Massachusetts. It was the first state to mandate that everyone have health insurance. As NPR's Tovia Smith reports due to the state's budget crisis Massachusetts is now poised to drop 30000 legal immigrants from its coverage.  Since Massachusetts' health insurance program went into effect the rate of uninsured here has dropped to less than three percent - that is the lowest in the nation which averages 15 percent. But with state revenues now in a free fall lawmakers say Massachusetts can no longer afford to extend coverage as generously as it has been. Massachusetts House Speaker Robert DeLeo.  These are a whole host of tough decisions that we are going to have to make. There is no way that anyone at end of the day that I could look at this budget and say you know what? We have been able to adequately provide for everyone.  Covering immigrants is more expensive for the state because even though they are in the U.S. legally they are not citizens and do not qualify for federal assistance through Medicaid. DeLeo says the most vulnerable immigrants such as children the elderly and the disabled will not lose coverage. State Rep.  I think on the whole with what we were given as a hand that we played it - we played it pretty well.  Governor Deval Patrick is pushing legislation to restore about half the funding for coverage of legal immigrants. But with state revenues down some three billion dollars Michael Widmer of the nonpartisan Massachusetts Taxpayer's Foundation says even that compromise may not be possible. Mr.  The state is facing a really desperate fiscal situation and all programs are on the chopping block. And it is just pain pain pain. Mr.   Why am I losing my health insurance and what can I do next?  Ahuhanio Hernandez an El Salvadoran native who lives in Boston is one of hundreds of immigrants looking for help now from the advocacy group Health Care for All. Hernandez has been fighting prostate cancer for the past two years. Mr.   In my case I need to see many doctors because my cancer is not cured. I have two appointments coming up this month. I cannot go without health care because the truth is I do not want to die.  Hernandez a janitor who works the overnight shift says it is unfair to single out hard working legal immigrants like him. Mr.   I pay my taxes I pay my insurance so we contribute to this country. And then all of a sudden they say we are going to cut your insurance?  Advocates argue that dropping the 30000 immigrants coverage will only end up shifting cost around to other state programs and to hospitals. Brian Rosman is research director at Health Care for All. Mr.  A lot of the savings are . We are not going to save in the long run and even the short run savings. It is like a balloon you know. You can push down on one side but it is going to pop right up on the other side.  Indeed yesterday a city hospital Boston Medical Center sued the state arguing that it is being forced to pick up too much of the cost of treating poor patients. It is all got advocates worried about the message being sent to those in Washington who are trying to overhaul the nation's health care system. Eva Millona is head of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition. Ms.  This sends the whole nation the message that you know the Massachusetts experiment does not work and health care reform cannot be done or that yes it can be done halfway by excluding immigrants in the process.  Rather than discourage national efforts Massachusetts' experience should only underscore the urgency advocates say for the federal government to come up with a federal solution. As one put it all this proves is that the states cannot do it alone. Tovia Smith NPR News Boston. 