 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Robert Siegel. Now a story about something you can hear every day on our program but that we almost never talk about - not a single-payer health-care system the funding credits. That is what public radio people call our very short simple commercials in particular this one.  Support for NPR comes from the estate of Richard Leroy Walters whose life was enriched by NPR and whose bequest seeks to encourage others to discover public radio.  I heard that for the first time several weeks ago and wondered who Richard Leroy Walters was. Out of sheer curiosity I Googled the name and was soon reading an article in the online newsletter of a Catholic mission in Phoenix Arizona. Mr. Walters had remembered the mission in his will too. It turns out he died two years ago at the age of 76 and left an estate of about 4 million. Now what distinguished Mr. Walters from any number of solvent  He was homeless. He was a retired engineer from AlliedSignal Corporation an honors graduate of Purdue with a master's degree and a former Marine never married no children estranged from his brother and homeless but not friendless. Rita Belle is a registered nurse who met Walters at a senior center 13 years ago. Ms.  He always came in with a little backpack on and a cap on and always kind of looked at me and - but very reserved and I am very outgoing and outspoken  Hey you got a minute? Can you sit down and visit? And we would have a coffee there at the senior center.  They became friends. Rita Belle stayed with him when he was ill. She became his nurse and ultimately the executor of his estate as well as one of the beneficiaries - all this despite some pretty fundamental differences between them. Ms.  He was an atheist and I am a very profound practicing Catholic and I would never met an atheist. And that just blew my mind that somebody could not believe in the Lord.  In fact Rita Belle volunteers at the mission with the newsletter which like NPR and several other nonprofits got about 400000 from Mr. Walters. Rita Belle knew him as a very well-informed man who could fix her air conditioning someone she just assumed had a place to live and then he told her he had no home. She heard that he slept on the grounds of the senior center. He told her that he ate at a hospital and used a telephone there or at the center. Ms.  And I am sure that is when he was making his trades and so on. He was involved in investing we talked investments a lot.  You mean as he was homeless and going to the senior center and to the library he was managing investments? Ms.  Oh yeah all his own investments did always his own income tax. Mm-hmm.  When Mr. Walters retired he evidently retired from the world of material comforts. Ms.  He did not have a car. He just kind of gave up all of the material things that we think we have to have. You know I do not know how we gauge happiness. You know what is happy for you might not be happy for me. I never heard him complain. He would kid around sometimes and say I guess I will just take a hotel and I would go oh yeah if you had the money you would would not you you know things like that and he would just laugh.  It turned out he did have the money. He could have gone and stayed in a hotel. Ms.  Yeah he could have. He could have.  Evidently among the few possessions of Richard Leroy Walters was a radio hence those announcements we hear now and again on NPR stations. 