 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Today more revelations about U.S. government surveillance. The Guardian newspaper has published documents that showed the government collected data on email traffic for 10 years beginning just after 911. And that included messages to and from Americans. The documents explain how the government justified that domestic surveillance which was the forerunner for the programs that have been in the news in the last few weeks. Well joining us to explain it is NPR's Larry Abramson. And Larry how and when exactly did this particular surveillance program begin?  Well Robert right after 911 there was a huge concern about additional terrorist attacks. The administration says well the FBI is looking at internal threats the National Security Agency is monitoring foreigners but nobody is watching threats coming into the United States from overseas. The head of the NSA had already sought permission to gather international communications data before 911. And the Department of Justice said no it is not legal. But after 911 everything changed. President Bush authorized this email surveillance program under his executive power and it was set into motion.  And what was the NSA actually looking for as they combed through this data?  Well we have heard some of this information about this program before. But what they were looking for is not the content of emails but the to and from information. And then they fed that data into a computer tool called Stellar Wind. Stellar Wind track not just whether person A was contacting person B but it would also say well maybe person B has been in contact with person C and D and E. And it would set up this chain this communications chain that could be very useful and let them build communities of people who have important connections. They established a metadata analysis center that was manned 247 by people who used to be analyzing Russian communications traffic during the Cold War and they got to work.  Larry how many people knew about this email monitoring program?  Well Congress was told within days. But the Bush administration controlled the actual documents that gave the legal justification for this program incredibly tightly. There is a draft report by the inspector general of the National Security Agency and it was published by the Guardian. And this documents says that the NSA had to physically pick up these orders at the White House show it to the people who needed to know before they could go on with this work. Eventually 3000 people found out about this program that it existed and that included many members of Congress.  Was the FISA court involved in this as it was in the other programs that we learned of?  Well the top judge in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court was informed. But there were no court orders for this activity for the first two and a half years. And then in 2004 the Justice Department started to raise concerns about continuing this warrantless surveillance. After that the surveillance court started to sign orders for this bulk collection. But the full court all of the members of the FISA court were not briefed until 2006 after media reports and The New York Times told us about warrantless wiretapping.  Larry explain the connection between this program and the other surveillance we have been hearing about recent the PRISM program and also the banking of all the metadata phone communications.  Well these documents show that this is how the government's surveillance programs evolved after 911 and became PRISM and the Verizon program that we have been hearing about. Now the White House says this program that we are talking about the email surveillance has stopped as of 2011 which means it went into the Obama administration. But the Guardian says there is evidence that some of this email collection is still going on.  OK. Thank you Larry.  Thank you.  That is NPR's Larry Abramson. 