 It is hard to measure the things that vanish when a fire sweeps through a town - homes the mementos inside of them places that have held memories for generations. Here's how reporter Margaret Alicia Garcia who writes under her married name Meg Upton described the experience in Plumas News quote my defiantly quirky beautiful adopted hometown turned into a ghost town last night. That is the beginning of her eulogy for the town of Greenville in Northern California. It was largely destroyed by the Dixie Fire this week. Margaret Alicia Garcia welcome to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. And I am sorry for your loss.  Thank you.  First tell us how you and your family are doing. I know it is been a huge week.  It is been stressful. And for - most people outside Greenville are talking about it as a week but the fire is not out. It is only 35 contained. And we have been living with this for 24 days. So it is almost a month. And before August 4 it was waiting for destruction and now we have had it.  In the eulogy that you wrote you describe Greenville as an island of misfit toys. Can you tell us about that?   Yeah. So we are quirky. First of all Northeastern California has a - is sometimes known as the Deep North where we are definitely in red country as it were. But in Greenville it does not play out that way. The island of misfit toys comes from - we come from all walks of life. We found our way to the mountains. There is a lot of us from Southern California from the Bay Area. And we live side by side you know hippies ranchers self-proclaimed rednecks. I am not saying that pejoratively. That is a self-identifier for people. And we just all make this beautiful place our home. And I have been up there 19 years. My mother's been up there 20.  So when you first describe Greenville to somebody who is never been there like what is the thing you mention first?  Well just the hillside that unfortunately burned is just gorgeous. It is very dramatic. In Plumas County it is beautiful overall. It is called the Lost Sierra for a reason. It is just this gorgeous bit of mountain and forest. But it is - the hillside comes up from the valley floor. And you feel like you just you know stepped into an entirely different world.  One line of the eulogy you wrote that jumped out at me was we were recent survivors of Paradise too. The Town of Paradise was decimated by the Camp Fire in 2018. You know people who lived through both?  Yeah the property the my husband and I were developing we got to know the people who just bought the lot right below us. And they had survived the Camp Fire. And so they were buying up here feeling like it was a more secure area. And they are not alone. Greenville actually had an influx of people after the Camp Fire.  And now you write the bulk of Greenville is gone. Do you think it can be rebuilt? Do you think it should be?  That is a good question. I talked a lot to people over the last couple of days and one of the things going on is - for the downtown that was burnt there is a lot of families there that are extended families. So we are not talking about one family losing a house. We are talking about one family their grandfather's house their grandmother's house their cousin's house. They are all gone. And so where normally you would lean on you know the one person in your family whose house was saved like there is no one to lean on. So in that respect I do not know how we survived that. That is a hard thing to come back from. Also since the Paradise Fire a lot of people who had fire insurance have had it canceled.  Which makes it harder to rebuild.  Makes it a lot harder to rebuild. So I imagine what is going to happen is the people who did not have insurance are not going to be back.  That is Margaret Alicia Garcia a reporter from Greenville Calif. speaking with us from Southern California about the destruction in her hometown after the Dixie Fire. Thank you so much.  Thank you Ari. 