 Imagine a city with hundreds of liquor stores but not a bar in sight. That is the situation for marijuana in Denver. Pot is legal in Colorado but the capital city outlaws pot bars the kind of places you would find in Amsterdam. This leaves tourists who flock to Denver to get high without many legal places to do so. Colorado Public Radio's Ben Markus reports the city's trying to find a solution.  It is a busy Friday afternoon at LoDo Wellness a recreational pot store downtown. And bud-tender Delaney Mason is talking up a marijuana strain called Space Queen.  It is really cheesy is what I love about how cheesy that bud is. It is like Parmesan cheese yeah.  Parmesan-scented marijuana. There is a dizzying array of pot for all tastes - anything a customer could want except a place to use it if you do not have a home in Colorado. Mason has to inform tourists that there is no smoking in the store or on the street or in the parks or in most hotels.  So I tell them it is up to their discretion as to what they want to do with that information  basically. I cannot tell anybody to break the law. That would not be a very good employee.  So many tourists have turned to edible marijuana which is more discrete. Nearly 5 million edibles were consumed in Colorado last year. But Tom Shoulders who road tripped here with a friend from California wants to smoke it.  I would be polite about you know. I would not be doing it like obnoxiously on this tourist street out front. But I will just go around the corner or something. No one's going to care dude.  Actually the police department cares. They have handed out more than 1000 public consumption citations just last year. This is not what pot advocates had in mind when they promoted legalized marijuana. So they collected signatures to put yet another measure on the ballot this time allowing pot use at many bars and restaurants in Denver. Here's Mason Tvert with the campaign standing in front of City Hall.  Our intention with pursuing this initiative was to reduce the likelihood that adults would consume marijuana publicly on the streets or in parks and instead consume it in private establishments.  But in an odd twist Tvert was at City Hall to pull his measure from the ballot because he says the city surprisingly came to his group looking for a negotiated solution.  It is been too many years that it is been the people trying to pass these laws and the city resisting it. We were very excited to be able to work with the city together to create a policy that everyone agrees is the best step forward.  It was city councilman Albus Brooks with lots of nervous bar and restaurant owners in his district who reached out to the marijuana advocates.  Yeah I represent all of downtown and I had a pretty frank conversation with him.  But they got his attention and now the city is working on crafting a pot club ordinance. Brooks would not go into detail what he envisions and it is still not clear how the city will address concerns about stoned driving. Brooks sits on a bench in a park near his home children playing on a nearby swing set. Adults are at picnic tables. The smell of marijuana is in the air. Kids he says should not be exposed to this.  The ones playing in the playground right here are the ones I think about. And we are making - we are putting together legislation for their future. And so it has to be thoughtful.  Which means it could take months still leaving many with nowhere to use like Nick Kissinger from Wisconsin. He left the LoDo Wellness pot shop confused as to what to do with this purchase.  To remain within the confines of the law yeah that is a problem because you got to break the law. I mean they should change that.  In the meantime many visitors to Colorado looking to get high are in for a buzz kill. For NPR News I am Ben Markus in Denver. 