 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Listen to the political discourse this election year and you will hear about jobs the economy the deficit health care. But there is one word you' guns. Even after two mass shootings this summer talk of gun control is almost nonexistent. Still gun rights advocates are as engaged as ever especially in Texas. NPR's Wade Goodwyn met up with two leading gun rights advocates there to find out what is on their minds.  Texas House Representative Wayne Christian was born two blocks from where he now lives in what is called Deep East Texas.  We were not wealthy people common laborers. But that was typical in rural East Texas at that time.  Christianity says that when he was growing up by first or second grade an East Texas boy would accompany his father or grandfather on a hunting trip. But before he got a gun he had to learn how to act how to address the other men respectfully to watch how it worked. In these rituals of the woods you saw and were seen. If you did well somebody might suggest that on the next hunt you be awarded a rifle. And on the drive home with your dad you would get a loving smile and a clap on the back. Christian says words need not be exchanged and often were not.  I remember my dad and my granddad my dad mostly. I think it was deer hunting that we first started going to and I would go with them and just sit with Dad and watch what was going on. And then finally when they put you by yourself in a stand that was quite a time of growing up. And I was probably small enough that I was really kind of scared.  The Piney Woods of East Texas is more Deep South than Wild West. But regardless of the geography these hunting traditions rooted in rural culture have been passed down through many generations. Fifty-two -year-old Rick Campbell is the Shelby County judge.  We are at Ashton Hill. My grandfather every time he got a chance to buy river bottomland he bought river bottomland. He accumulated over 4000 acres of land and had 14 and a half contiguous miles of the river.  East Texas has changed in Rick Campbell's lifetime. Quite simply what used to be vast tracks of empty land has filled up with people. It is a big reason gun ownership is declining in America down 40 percent since 1977. The wilds where hunters once roamed now sport track housing and doublewides. But here on Campbell's big farm is a little piece of what once was. And like many of his peers who came of age in the '70s and '80s Campbell saw no reason for his daughters to be excluded from the rituals he grew up with.  I guess when Brook was about nine years old I had killed my first deer when I was eight so she was sitting in my lap and a little buck walked out at about 400 yards and she said Dad I can take him. I said well let us try to get him a little closer. And sure enough the buck ends up about a hundred yards out and she is sitting in my lap and she gets the .270 deer rifle up against her shoulder. And she said Dad you want me to shoot him in the neck? And I said that is right right in the neck. Two seconds later she dropped that deer a little six-point.  Standing on the very ground where the story took place Campbell tries but cannot keep the pride from his face.  I gave her that knife and I said now here's where you cut. And I put the blood on her and she had to take a finger and taste it. The same experience I experienced with my dad that he taught me.  When asked how he feels about the general state of gun ownership in America and in Texas Judge Campbell says this...  I feel good about it. I think the Second Amendment right and the First Amendment right I think they are equally as important.  And Campbell's colleague Wayne Christian feels the same.  Well of course in Texas I feel very satisfied very good. I think Texas is protected. But of course the national leadership in Washington the Obama administration is a great threat.  Although President Obama has never made gun control a issue as a candidate or president Christian nevertheless does not trust the administration.  Because of their friendship with the United Nations with the worldwide treaties with weapons control with ammunition control and taxation of ammunition to have a president and administration that you start hearing even them negotiating on these type things are great concern to those of us who believe in our freedom.  Both Christian and Campbell believe the administration is using the United Nations as a back-door channel to restrict American gun rights through proposed small arms treaties. Wayne Christian.  Inside the United States we are talking hearing taxation or fees and regulations that can be put on the sale of ammunition. You know they cannot control the guns so they are going after the bullets.  The treaty Christian is referring to was designed to keep arms away from African warlords and was actually opposed by the American government. Nevertheless it would be difficult to overstate the level of distrust East Texas gun owners have for the Obama administration. Judge Rick Campbell does not trust the president either. But even he is taken aback sometimes.  I have friends who just do not order two or three boxes of shells. They order them by the thousands. And it is like what are you getting ready for?  Although Campbell is not preparing for a possible invasion of U.N. troops he shares the sentiments about the president.  He is done these things with the health bill. He will do the things with the U.N. treaties to take our guns away from us.  At his farmhouse Campbell goes to his gun safe.  It will hold about 40 guns. And I have got about 25 in there. But I have got some really neat guns. I have got my grandfather's .22. I have an STW. I have an AR-15 a Smith  Wesson .22-250.  Some of the rifles are for deer. Campbell has got many beautiful shotguns because he is an avid duck hunter. The AR-15 which is essentially the military's M16 Campbell uses to hunt feral hogs. We go out back and the judge lets fly with the semiautomatic.   I have got a night vision scope on it. 00 in the morning and I turn on my little trusty night vision scope and I smoke them.   All of them. But I can shoot 30 shots in eight seconds. And I have killed as many as 26 out of 30 shots at night with that gun.  As for any willingness to compromise on something like limiting the size of ammunition clips Campbell says if he could trust the Democrats not to ask for more and more he would consider it. But he says he cannot trust Democrats in general and he certainly cannot trust President Obama. And he says liberals mistake gun owners' distrust of the president for something it is not.  It is not a black thing it is a liberal thing.  As for the mass murders that take place in this country seemingly like clockwork  Guns do not kill people people kill people. And if there were more law-abiding Americans carrying concealed handguns the psycho murderers could be shot before they did even more damage. If you need convincing Christian and Campbell can tell you stories until the cows come home about how the bad guys got stopped in their tracks. The NRA shares these tales of successful self-defense with their membership like sweet candy. There is no disputing its organizational success. The push for gun control in this country is deader than Campbell's hogs. Wade Goodwyn NPR News Dallas. 