 Caravans of President Trump supporters are hitting the road across the country even after one of these mobile rallies turned deadly. This past weekend car and truck convoys rolled through Michigan New York and North Carolina. And while most of these events have been peaceful tensions have flared. NPR's Joel Rose reports.  Hundreds of motorcycles cars and trucks drove through the streets of Long Island last Saturday waving Trump flags and honking their horns.   It goes on and on and on.  We stretched for a very long distance - I mean miles back.  That is the organizer Shawn Farash. Even he was surprised by the turnout.  There is a lot of us out here. There is more of us out here than we know.  Farash describes himself as just a regular guy. He works in advertising not politics or show business. But he does a really good Trump impersonation.   You are talking about all of these people. They come out in their cars. They do not have to do it but they want to do it. And I tells you you do not have to trust the polls. Just look at the people who are showing up every weekend the silent majority silent no more.  In the age of social distancing these boisterous caravans have spread from Long Island to Los Angeles. They are promoted on social media sometimes by people who have never been politically active before. One event gained notoriety last month in Portland Ore. where a supporter of a far-right group was killed after clashes between participants in the pro-Trump caravan and counterprotesters. And then there is what happened over the weekend in Elon N.C.   On Saturday a pro-Trump caravan drove through town hurling insults and white supremacist slogans at a lone protester on a street corner.  I heard exactly what they had to say and it was hate.  Megan Squire studies far-right extremist groups at Elon University where she is a professor of computer science. Squire was holding up a Black Lives Matter sign. In the video she shot one driver shouts no they do not. Others shout white power.   White power.  I mean he even like cupped his hands to make sure and he enunciated. I remember thinking that at the time. I was like wow. You really wanted me to hear that - creepy really.  The caravan was organized by a local activist who is well-known for defending Confederate monuments. He did not respond to a request for comment. Car caravans emerged in the spring as part of protest against state lockdown rules. Those protests were coordinated in part by pro-business lobbying groups in Washington. Organizers of the latest caravans say these are grassroots efforts and that they do not condone violence or racism.   Thank you guys. Wow. This is...  Christina Medema addresses the crowd before a caravan she helped organize on Saturday in Grand Rapids Mich. She is a stay-at-home mom and says she would never done anything political until now. Video from the event is circulating on social media.   Most of America is on Trump's side.  That clip and videos from other caravans have been posted by RT. The TV network is funded by the Kremlin. Experts say it is a Russian propaganda machine that tries to highlight divisions in U.S. society. But Christina Medema does not see it that way. She says American media just will not cover this story.  It made me a little bit disappointed in our local news outlets for sure.  She is not the only one who wonders why national media only cover these caravans when something goes wrong.  This is about making America patriotic again.  Keith Lee is one of the organizers of MAGA Drag The Interstate a group that is helping coordinate caravans on the major highways around big cities. Lee says convoy organizers deliberately try to avoid clashes with counterprotesters.  We do not condone any racism racist comments. We do not want people dragging a Black Lives Matter flag underneath their truck. If we see any of that stuff they are out of there.  Lee says his group has helped organize caravans in 46 states so far. They are planning to host caravans nationwide during the first weekend in October. Joel Rose NPR News.  