 The Pacific Crest Trail is one of the nation's iconic hiking routes. It stretches more than 2600 miles between Mexico and Canada and this year a record number of people are hiking the Pacific Crest Trail. In fact as many as 500 are expected to finish the entire trek. From member station KPLU in Seattle Bellamy Pailthorp reports on how the experience is changing as more people do it.  Wow. I am on the Pacific Crest Trail at an iconic part of it called the Kendall Katwalk. It is a narrow shelf that is been blasted into the mountainside. All around us 360-degree views of the rugged peaks of the North Cascades. To the south there is about 2400 miles of the trail that go through Oregon and California all the way to the Mexican border. To the north there is less than 250 miles to go if you want to reach Canada and the end of the trail.  It is always an adventure. You never know what is around the next bend.  That is Namie Bacile a construction worker turned full-time long-distance backpacker. He is not surprised at how popular it is become.  Bound to happen. The first time I did the trail in '92 there was like 19 of us. So I have seen it grow over the years and it is the same way with all the trails.  He remembers a spike on the Appalachian Trail 15 years ago when Bill Bryson's book A Walk in the Woods became a bestseller. And now a bestseller about the PCT is being made into a Hollywood movie. Wild by Cheryl Strayed will star Reese Witherspoon. That is driving the latest boom. Bacile says a lot of good things come with the big numbers.  A lot more trail work a lot more involvement a lot more resources. And like I say it is a long trail. You stretch all those people out. And I still go. I can go all day long and not see anybody.  But it can get busy where the thru-hikers come off the trail to get their supplies and do laundry. They often gather at the homes of people they call trail angels.  This is a hiker dorm. We have got bunk beds here or they can sleep outside. We have got two acres for them to go camping on.  Andrea Dinsmore and her husband Jerry have converted one end of a large garage into free lodging for hikers. They call it Dinsmore's Hiker Haven. The Dinsmores have already hosted more than 250 hikers this year.  Every year we have more here than we did the year before by about 50 hikers. So you know better not get too much bigger.   Along with the increasing numbers the Dinsmores have seen the gear get much lighter over the years. To finish the trail before snow starts covering the passes in Washington thru-hikers have to put in 20 to 30 miles a day for five months. Among them is 28-year-old Jessie Chism. She says she is whittled the weight of her backpack down to about eight pounds not counting food and water.  I have heard horror stories about 60-pound packs and I do not - I would have never made it if - I would have injured myself long ago should I have ever tried a heavier pack.  Chism quit her job as a hydraulic engineer with the Army Corps to make this journey. She is part of the growing community that rejects the idea that the Pacific Crest Trail is only for super-buff hardcore hikers.  I believe that everyone has a business on trail and it is not difficult. I did 200 miles of it in flip flops because my blisters on my feet had exploded. So I did it in flip flops and so it is just getting up and walking. And I think that anyone could do it.  Of course that view is colored by the invincible feeling of someone who is just put 2400 miles behind her. Parts of the trail would not be safe without boots. Other parts are accessible enough that even a reporter can make it up there and back in a day. For NPR News I am Bellamy Pailthorp in Seattle.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 