 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  Jennifer Gonnerman wrote the story for New York Magazine and she joins us now. So glad you are with us Jennifer.  Thank you.  Now your piece is called The Knock at the Door but it was not the knock of a social worker on a parent's door. Instead Chereece Bell the social worker was the one who received the knock at the door. Tell us more about Chereece Bell. Who is she?  A child on her caseload died a child that was supposed to be supervised by one of her caseworkers and she lost her job was forced to resign. Six months later while she is sitting at home doing the laundry waiting for her son to come home from school suddenly there is a knock on the door. And this time it was some detectives from the Brooklyn district attorney's office coming with handcuffs to lock her up.  And she winds up finding herself in a very different position not someone who has sort of overseen cases where people are charged with all kinds of things. She herself was charged.  Exactly. It was a very brutal experience of course. You know one day she is a city supervisor. The next day she is on Rikers Island in a jail cell trying to figure out how to make bail trying to figure out if she is going to be convicted of these charges which if she is she could face up to four years in state prison.  And how did it lead to her criminal charges? What did they find in an investigation?  You know of course when the child died her superiors at the child welfare agency went into the computers to figure out what was she doing what was the caseworker doing and they found almost no notes you know which is obviously very startling. It looked like they would been doing nothing and that ultimately led to them being forced to resign and nobody could have predicted this. And ultimately this led the Brooklyn district attorney's office to bring charges and to charge both workers with criminally negligent homicide.  How does Chereece Bell explain that absence of notes?  So from her point of view she feels her worker was making the required visits. They would discuss it occasionally and to her knowledge there was nothing amiss going on.  I would like to know a little bit more about the other side in this case the prosecution. What is at the heart of their case and why would that office take this rather extraordinary step of arresting workers from the administration for children's services? This is the first time this has happened in New York City.  Right. I mean it is a very good question. You know when these two individuals were arrested they were all over the local media here in New York. Their pictures were on the front page of the New York Times and when I saw their pictures you know immediately I assumed well they must be the most incompetent people in the office sleeping at their desks leaving early. I mean of course you would assume that if they would been arrested.  Of course really the question there is a much narrower question so they are talking about guilt or innocence in a case of criminally negligent homicide. And in the words of the lead prosecutor in this case she alleges that by Chereece failing to perceive that this child was at specific risk to be injured and to be killed and not acting as she and her caseworker were required to act they committed criminally negligent homicide. And those are the words of Jacqueline Kagan who is the lead prosecutor in this case.  So since you asked the broader question what is the answer? Was this a case of personal failings or larger systemic problems?  And so I think a lot of the inefficiencies that are baked into the system whether it is the court system or the child welfare system come to play in this case and really need to be examined closely you know to really sort out that complicated question of how much of it is personal feelings and how much of it is systemic failings.  What happened to the four year old's mother and her family members?  The four year old's mother - her name is Carlotta Brett-Pierce - is now in jail as is her grandmother. The mother is charged with murder. The grandmother is charged with manslaughter so their cases are pending and they will likely go to trial early next year.  Now I have to say Jennifer this piece is very sympathetic to Chereece Bell. Is this story a piece of advocacy journalism on your part?  And you know the story of what this job is actually like and what the day-to-day work conditions are for these workers has never really been told at least not in New York City because the agency does not really permit them to talk publicly so I feel like we as a public are very ignorant about the stresses of this job the frustrations the challenges. And I saw this story as an opportunity to sort of crack that open and find out how the agency really worked and what the jobs were truly like and so that is what I really tried to do in this story.  What is been the reaction to the story so far?  You know every day people really relate to this story. One of the challenges that Chereece Bell was up against in her job was that she was essentially doing two jobs. She was the supervisor of a unit and these units had previously had two supervisors. And so she was doing two jobs and begging for you know an assistant. And I think the idea of somebody doing two jobs and then being punished when things go wrong a lot of people can relate to that.  Jennifer Gonnerman's piece in New York Magazine is called The Knock at the Door. Jennifer good to talk to you. Thank you very much.  Thank you Michele. 