 In Southern Louisiana waters are receding. Towns are beginning to dry out and people are starting to take stock. An estimated 40000 homes have been damaged by the record flooding. Tegan Wendland of member station WWNO visited the town of Denham Springs. It is just outside Baton Rouge. There more than 80 percent of homes were flooded and cleanup has just begun.  As the fog lifted this morning residents began streaming back to their single-story clapboard homes on Oak Street. It is usually a quiet residential area but today loud generators are running and yards are piled high with waterlogged furniture carpet and trash. Khalli Hagan just finished renovating her home before the floods hit. Now her dad Jerry is here to help her rip out the floor they just put in.  Smells real good on that. I worked on this house for the last...  Ten years. J.  ...Ten years so...  Kind of a bummer. J.   Yeah it is. K.  But we can - we can redo this. J.  Yeah. K.  We can.  Hagan's house is raised up on cinder blocks so she only got about 6 inches of water inside. Most of her neighbors' homes had several feet. And unlike most people in Denham Springs she had basic flood insurance. The Britton's did not. Just across the street Danny Britton and his sister spent the morning hosing out the mud from their elderly parents house.  You know we - we are trying to keep our parents away from here for right now 'ecause it is just too stressful for them and they are not physically able to do a whole lot. So maybe we can get it in order.  The mayor of Denham Springs is Gerard Landry. He lives just down the street. I met him as a guy on a tractor pulled up and yelled for directions.  Where you going?  Over this way - can I get back there behind the school?  Yeah. When you first walk on this street and there is just slimy mud everywhere and you see and smell fish oil gasoline that is all the - that is all the contaminants that are in this water that just overflowed and took over the whole city. OK look there is some little girl's leopard-skin suitcase OK? It is just hard to see.  Landry's making his rounds checking on neighbors. And his neighbors are checking on him too. Terry Finley asks if his house was flooded as well.  Hey.  Hi good morning. How are you?  Fine I am doing fine. How are you?  Good. Good. Did you all take water?  Yes madam we have water also. We have water. We will get to it eventually.   I think you know?  I know. We are going to get - we are going to get there. It is just devastating.  He says for now he is just trying to make sure everyone's safe and accounted for. He finally received some food and fresh water he requested four days ago from a state agency. Most people still do not have electricity. He is keeping the overnight curfew in place to prevent looters. And as people get back to their homes they can file for federal assistance through FEMA and get up to 33000. Terry Finley has already contacted FEMA for help but she has not yet filed for insurance. She is been taking photos to document the damage.  Furniture I can replace but my kids' pictures - my son is special needs. He has autism. And he is just a wonderful artist and we lost probably everything that he is ever drawn. So that really upsets me but you know...  Are you going to draw your mom some more pictures?  Pretty much.  As she drags wet living room furniture out to the curb she says she is avoiding checking a photo album in a back room. She is afraid to find out if she is lost that too. For NPR News I am Tegan Wendland in Denham Springs La. 