 Buying a car today means choosing between dozens of makes and models and all sorts of trims and options. A century ago drivers had a more basic choice. It came to what powered the wheels. Mark Arehart from member station WDDE in Delaware takes us on a shopping trip for a very old car.  An antique street organ plays in the East Coast heat and steam hisses from a small train that encircles the Marshall Steam Museum in Yorklyn Del. Here volunteer mechanics restore maintain and drive automobiles that a hundred years ago would have left car buyers with a dilemma.  You would have had to choose between gas steam and electric.  That is Executive Director Susan Randolph. She says in the 1910s there was no sure winner between the three types of technology and choosing a car often came down to how it started up.   John Hopkins has been working on antique cars here for nearly 20 years. He starts a 1914 gas car the classic black Ford Model T. He turns a crank at the front of the car. It takes a couple of tries and some elbow grease.  But you do not want to push down because then if it decides to come up that is when it can break your arm.   For buyers who want a car that is a little less dangerous to start there is the long green 1913 Stanley steam car. It has its own drawbacks Hopkins says as he grabs a blowtorch to spark the igniter fuel under the hood.   It is like a kettle on a stove top. The water in the tank has to heat up before the steam can power the engine. This takes 45 minutes sometimes longer. If you do not want to use a blowtorch or wait 45 minutes there is the all-electric 1916 Rauch and Lang.  Because you did not have to fire up anything. You did not have to crank anything. Just put a key in and go.  Mark Russell invites me inside and zips us around the park's main road. We are not going very fast but I am holding on like I am in a Ferrari. Whoa and we are moving right now.  And we are moving.  This whole time we have been moving .  Yeah. This car will go about 20 25 miles an hour on flat ground.  But we could not go far. These cars needed electricity to charge something not every household had 100 years ago and they had a range of just 30 miles. As history tells us this vehicle and its technology faded into the past like a dying battery. With the advent of standard turnkey starters it was the gas-powered car that would win this automotive arms race at least until Tesla and other modern automakers came along to drive us into the future. For NPR News I am Mark Arehart in Yorklyn Del. 