 For many it is a rite of passage. Around the same time you lose your first tooth you learn to ride a two-wheeler. But for some it just never happens the two-wheeler part that is and it is a source of embarrassment for years. The longer you go without learning to ride a bike the harder it is to do. Well now a growing number of grownups are swallowing their pride and signing up for bike riding school. NPR's Tovia Smith visits the first day of class for one group in Somerville Massachusetts.  For many adults the hardest part about learning to ride a bike is just admitting it is a problem. Ms.  Every time I say I do not know how to ride a bike everybody laughs out loud.  You are nodding and laughing. Ms.  Yeah pretty much the same thing happens to me.  Twenty-seven-year old Lisa Moris and 22-year-old Stephanie Marin finally decided they had suffered enough. They swallowed their pride and signed up for bike riding school.  Now you guys need to find helmets.  For the most part these are accomplished adults  engineers executives and professors  who are neither fraidy cats nor unfit.  I have hiked on Mount Monadnock.  I hiked the learner's trek in Peru.  And you are wearing a Boston Marathon jacket. Ms.  Yes.  So you run the marathon. Ms.  Yes.  But you cannot ride a bike. Ms.  No.  Like many here Annie Choquette from Korea says bike riding just was not taught to girls where she grew up. Others took a bad spill they never got over. Moris says she just never learned but decided she had to last summer after her friends all rented bikes and she had to ride an adult-sized tricycle. Even worse she managed to crash it. Ms.  Yes I know laugh. I know it is funny.   And you think you are going to ride a two-wheeler today? Ms.  I do not know if today but that is why there is four sessions.  Ms.  So now you all have brakes two brakes in front of the handlebars there.  At a large playground instructor Susan McLucas has lowered everyone's bike seats so they can reach the ground flat-footed and she is taken off their pedals. The first assignment is to simply stay upright. Ms.  Okay now push off a little bit and get your balance by turning whichever way you start to lean.  With feet dragging the students slowly start to roll. Ms.  Well turn yeah turn as long as you do not run into somebody.   Like a bunch of drunken sailors they bob wobble and weave across the pavement. Ms.  Not too fast. Ready with the brakes. Ms.  I forgot I had brakes.  It does not take long before the class divides into the high achievers and the rest.  Ms.  Do not laugh.  While Moris struggles to stay up some advanced students have already put their pedals back on. Ms.  Uh-huh beautiful. Man you are a natural.  Is this normal that people can do all that in the first class Moris asks as if suddenly transported back to the insecurities of second grade. McLucas becomes as much therapist as teacher. Ms.  No negative thinking here. Ms.  I have to get my head back in it. I can do it.  Newly determined Moris heads off on her own to concentrate. Ms.  The fear factor is lessening.  And suddenly it clicks. Ms.  Yeah yeah woo-hoo Lisa. Ride them cowgirl.  Moris is all smiles. Ms.  Now I know why people ride bikes. It is almost like you are flying.  Just one day of bike riding school and already some major lessons learned. Ms.  When I started to look at what other people were doing that is when I got rattled. So I realized that like if you are focused you are able to succeed but when you are so concerned about other people it just does not work out very well.  You get off-balance. Ms.  Exactly. You get off-balance.  It is one small ride for Lisa Moris and one giant leap for these grownups. Tovia Smith NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 