 Communities from Michigan to Massachusetts face a heightened risk of Triple E virus. It is a rare but potentially deadly mosquito-borne illness. Officials say this is one of the worst years for Triple E and that cases are both more widespread and numerous than in recent years. NPR's Angus Chen reports on how threats of the disease are affecting life in Massachusetts.  Since Fairhaven Mass'. risk for Eastern Equine Encephalitis virus became high and a local woman died after contracting it last month Mark LaFreniere says he is not taking any chances.  You never think it is going to happen. And then when someone that lives a few streets over from you passes away from it it is like oh start spraying everything.  He always sprays himself and his dog with mosquito repellent before going on walks and he stopped walking outside at nighttime or sunset to avoid getting bit. Mosquitoes pick up the virus also known as Triple E from birds. Then they can transmit it to people or as you might guess from the name horses. Usually they are the first ones to get sick and trigger towns to go on high alert for the illness. That is what happened in Holliston Mass. where one of Nancy Dubin's horses caught the virus in late August.  His name was Bruin.  Dubin is a horse farmer in Holliston. There is no human vaccine available but there is one for horses that she uses every year. But Bruin being a very young horse got sick anyway.  He was walking into walls and stuff so it was definitely affecting his brain.  And he died. Triple E infects the central nervous system and can cause severe brain damage. It is a very rare disease but it kills about a third of people who become seriously ill. So far at least 27 people have contracted Triple E this year and six have passed away. It is a particularly high number of cases says Mark Fisher an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  There are a number of factors that contribute to that. That includes changes in birds and mosquito populations that transmit the viruses.  States reporting cases include Massachusetts Rhode Island Michigan Connecticut and New Jersey. In some states cases are appearing in places where officials do not normally expect to see Triple E. Catherine Brown is the state epidemiologist for Massachusetts.  Working with a community that is dealing with it for the first time that is unusual. But also it has been very challenging.  There are fewer mosquito control resources in these communities and residents are not used to rescheduling events to avoid being outside between sundown to sunrise as Triple E guidelines recommend. Meghan Siegel lives in Sherborn Mass. She says her family started taking the guidelines more seriously after hearing about the people and horses who got sick.  Since then we have kind of reined in our sunset level activities.  She is the coach for her daughter's fourth grade soccer team. She says thinking about whether to reschedule or cancel outdoor practices has taken a lot of energy too.  I just think about the family just north of us who had a child who contracted it and the child's in critical condition. And so it is my call if we have practice or not. It is a decision that I think about you know two or three times a week. And it is a lot.  But there is a light breeze today and the fields are dry. Mosquito control projects have also been spraying insecticide from planes this week. And Siegel says everyone always uses mosquito repellent now.  Lots of empty cans of it laying around but it is kind of what we have to do I think.  Those are enough precautions to allow practice to go on she says. But it stops at 6 p.m as does any outdoor play for her own kids close to sunset though hopefully not for much longer. Massachusetts epidemiologist Catherine Brown says the risk for Triple E already very low is waning as winter comes. The mosquitoes are dying off. For NPR News I am Angus Chen.  