 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. In Colorado today some optimism despite the hundreds of homes that have been destroyed by a wildfire. Since Saturday the Waldo Canyon fire has scorched an area about four miles wide by seven miles long. Wind and hot dry weather helped fan the flames and helped them spread quickly. Now as NPR's Jeff Brady reports from Colorado Springs the weather has improved for fire crews.  I am looking across a valley toward the foothills of the Rockies. There is brownish-white smoke coming up from a few spots one near a subdivision. Earlier I saw huge orange flames as big as trees there. The entire region smells like one big campfire but Jerri Mar with the U.S. Forest Service says she is optimistic because forecasters have lifted their fire weather warnings.  Today we are really excited because today is the first day I am thinking in like maybe five or so days that we have not had red flag warnings. You know we have been standing out here and the wind has been hammering us.  Along with cooler calmer weather about half of the nation's wildfire fighting resources are now focused on this and eight other fires in Colorado.  We have resources on this fire from an alphabet soup of agencies.  Rich Harvey is the incident commander for the Waldo Canyon fire. Among the agencies the Department of Defense. Of particular concern the sprawling Air Force Academy campus which appears to have been spared. Harvey says local fire agencies from across the west also are showing up.  I am from Carson City Nevada. A Carson City Fire Department engine just showed up today to help so we are putting those folks on the line.  The Colorado Springs Fire Department says crews are having an easier time protecting houses now. In the past day no more houses were lost. At a La Quinta Inn even before the housekeepers were finished making their rounds today Lisa Reeves and her family checked in.  We have just been hanging out. We went to a friend's house for a couple days. They have no air so it is hotter than blue blazes in there so we are coming back to the hotel to stay here for a bit to cool off.  Reeves is among the more than 35000 people who are still not allowed to return home. She her husband two teenagers and a Shih Tzu named Boston evacuated Saturday. Even with aerial photos showing entire neighborhoods leveled by fire Reeves hopes her house is not among the hundreds destroyed.  We just do not know. We can see from the mountainside how it is all burnt and stuff there and you just cannot see really any houses and what is going on. And of course they are not letting you anywhere near it.  Reeves says she registered her address with the city. Once a list of damage is compiled authorities plan to call each homeowner individually. Jeff Brady NPR News Colorado Springs. 