 And Howard first remind us exactly what Warren Jeffs was convicted of and why the Utah Supreme Court overturned that conviction.  This girl testified that she repeatedly told Jeffs that she did not want to marry her cousin. And after the ceremony she repeatedly told Jeffs that she could not bear the prospect of sex with this man. She was 14 years old after all. But Jeffs told her she had a religious and a wifely duty. Now the Utah Supreme Court ruled that the judge misstated Utah's sexual consent law before Jeffs was convicted and sentenced to two consecutive terms of five years to life. The justices threw out the conviction because of those jury instructions and ordered a new trial.  Is this a technical error in the jury instructions or is there a legal principal a matter of substance at stake that could effect the second trial?  There are multiple issues. One of them is whether juror should have considered the notion that Jeffs knew he was sending the alleged victim off to be raped that rape is what he intended that he intended to assist the rapist when he pressured her to marry him when he pressured her to consummate that marriage. The connection in the jury instructions was not so direct. It basically instructed the jury to determine if Jeffs in his role as a religious leader acted in a way even unintentionally that resulted in this rape.  Well do you think that distinction will make a difference in the second trial make a conviction more difficult?  You know that is a key question and prosecutors are not committed to the answer to that just yet. They say they are going to take time to consider the ruling. It was a complicated legal standard to begin with and it is even more complicated now given this ruling for her part an attorney for the alleged victim in the case says that she is ready to testify again if there is another trial.  Howard this is the second legal victory for Warren Jeffs and just last month similar charges were dismissed in Arizona. Are these cases just not winnable?  Well you know in Arizona the two alleged victims in that case indicated they would not testify so yeah the charges were dropped there. But Texas still has active charges and they have been trying to extradite Jeffs prosecutors in Texas. The Texas charges are more straightforward. They involve bigamy and sexual assault of a child. And there Jeffs is actually the alleged assailant and not just the facilitator of an assault and in Texas prosecutors have documents and other evidence that they seized in a raid on an FLDS ranch there in 2008. They have church marriage records and photographs. It appears that prosecution there may be tougher going for Jeffs.  Thank you Howard.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Howard Berkes in Salt Lake City. 