 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Big wildfires that burn hotter faster and longer so-called megafires are becoming the new normal in the West. Already this year more than 2 million acres have burned. Tens of thousands of firefighters battle those blazes but only 17 people nationwide are qualified to lead the folks who fight the megafires.  They are called Type 1 Incident Commanders and they are the elite of the elite in wildland fire fighting. These commanders manage the most destructive and complex wildfires the ones that often make national news. NPR's Nathan Rott caught up with one of those incident commanders on a fire in Southern California. She is the first and until recently the only woman to attain that rank.  A line of fire engines rumble off of Southern California's Pine to Palms Highway into a dusty field. The drivers' faces are smudged with soot. Across the highway helicopters land in short brown grass filling with water and fuel. The scenic San Jacinto Mountains behind them are bare and black burnt clean of tree and bush by the mountain fire. It is a 22000-acre blaze that is destroyed 23 structures and forced 6000 people to evacuate. And it is still growing in two directions. There are towns on either side. Jeanne Pincha-Tulley watches as one helicopter rises and veers north towards one of the fire's flanks.  The firefighter in me is like yeah I wish I could go up there. But I got all of this other crap I got to deal with so I am like really?  By all of that other stuff she means managing a multi-million dollar natural disaster commanding over 3000 firefighters two dozen aircraft and oh yeah protecting both of those towns. Pincha-Tulley is a Type 1 Incident Commander one of 17 nationally and one of only two females to ever hold that rank. In the world if wildland firefighting she is tops though you would not guess it by looking at her command post. It is a bare bones trailer tucked in a row of others on what the fire camp calls Main Street. And it is a place that most firefighters do not even get to see. From this near empty shell Pincha-Tulley directs a 20-plus-million dollar firefighting effort. Wearing leather loggers boots and fire resistant pants she orders air tankers plans road closures and weighs contingency plans laid out by her operations chief. It is like being part military strategist part small town mayor. And yes it is a lot. So excuse her if she is blunt.  You know these options suck. I want you to know that.  Pincha-Tulley has a reputation for being straight forward. She calls it as she sees it.  Does that mean I am calm cool and collected? No. I joke a lot because screaming is not a good idea. It just does not inspire confidence you know.  It works. People listen. In a workplace that is predominantly male Pincha-Tulley is...  The queen of a testosterone poisoned world.  But this is a serious business and it is gotten more serious since she started her fire career back in 1979.  You used to see a 20000 to 30000 acre fire maybe twice in your career. Now you see them I do not know you can see them twice in a month.  Pincha-Tulley started firefighting like most young men and women do. She started on a hand crew hers in the Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie area outside of Seattle.  That first week they put us through all of this fire behavior they put us through how to use the tools how to use the safety equipment and then we went prescribed burning and I am like really we get to do this for real? And I just thoroughly enjoyed it and never left.  She worked her way up through the ranks on hand crews and helicopter crews to captain and chief aiming for the highest position a wildland firefighter can achieve a Type 1 Incident Commander. It is like being a general in the military.  Think of us as 911. We are the last - there is no one else for us to call. We are it. We are really good at taking chaos and making order out of it. We are used to taking complicated and making it work.  She is been an Incident Commander for nine years which is remarkable they usually step down after five. The job is demanding and requires a lot of time away from home and Pincha-Tulley has two children. But there is just not that many people out there with her level of experience. It takes decades to get where she is and frankly she is not ready to leave. This is her home away from home even when it is going up in smoke which it probably does where her deputy Vaughan Miller gets back from a flight around the fire.  So what did you see in the blaze?  It does not look good chief. Just to be honest with you that thing's starting to heat up up there. Yeah that is heating up. That one's actually gonna be bad because you are going to have to then get people out of the way of that thing.  She decides to put out more evacuation warnings.  It is a big decision. Do not misunderstand me it is a huge decision but I have dealt with fatalities. That is bigger.  She says houses can be replaced. Firefighters cannot.  We cannot replace those 19 kids in Yarnell or the 25 people total we have lost already this year.  That is what being a Type 1 Incident Commander boils down to she says balancing resources and risks and what-ifs. Pincha-Tulley may prefer to be on the fire line using a shovel instead of cell phone but with more than 30 years of experience few if any are better qualified to call the shots. Nathan Rott NPR News. 