 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. One couple wore slinky evening dresses another tie-dye T-shirts and jeans. One couple exchanged their vows in sign language. It was a same-sex wedding marathon yesterday at city hall in Minneapolis as Minnesota's law legalizing gay marriage went into effect. 00 in the morning Minneapolis Mayor R. T. Rybak officiated at 46 weddings on the marble stairs inside city hall. Mayor Rybak is taking a break from his wedding duties today and he joins me from city hall. Mayor Rybak welcome to the program. How is your voice doing today? MAYOR R. T.  My voice is doing good and I have not married anybody since so I think I am back to real life.  Well let us go back. This all started back in May when the Minnesota Senate voted to recognize gay marriage rights. And you shouted something into the rotunda of the capitol. What was it that you shouted?  I said if this thing passes come on down to city hall and I will marry you. I did not quite realize how much work that would be for my staff around me but it was also an incredible labor of love.  Did the first of those 46 marriages that you performed feel different from the last ones? I mean did something start out feeling very historic and by the end it felt routine?  Well when we did the first wedding it was obviously historic and deeply significant. When I started the second I started it by saying to the crowd now we begin the process of making something that is been historic become the routine. And that I think is very important. And certainly by the end of the night it felt different. However we made a huge effort not to make this a conveyor belt of love. And I studied up a lot on the couples before and read their bios. In between weddings I would run up the marble staircase to the second floor meet them talk to them for a couple of minutes really get grounded on why they were doing it come back down the steps take my position. Then they would come down then we would start all over again. And we did this you know 46 times. The reason that was important is that people should not have to wait a minute longer after waiting all those years. But they should also know that this was not just them getting rammed through but it was really about the uniqueness of each of them and boy did that come out.  And what were some of the things you heard in those conversations that struck you about the couples and the stories that they told you?  I overwhelmingly heard that most never expected this to happen in their lifetime. I heard wide varieties of why people got married many of the ones that you hear in any other situation. But I think in this case there were some who knew there were 515 pieces of Minnesota law tied to marriage. And so their health care their home et cetera mattered. There were some people who talked about some range of emotion that I guess you could summarize by saying they wanted to be treated just like everyone else. And Kathy and Margaret the first couple we married talked to me about when they were filling out the application. Kathy was coming to work for the city actually. She filled out the paperwork. It was the day after her honeymoon after her commitment ceremony and she had to fill out the box - single. These things are about law but they are about the idea of being able to see people together. And I think how people see you through their eyes matters. I saw people look in the eyes of somebody they loved and it change at all because of a marriage but it did change how other people look through other eyes.  Well there is at least one conservative group in Minnesota that says it will work to defeat the state representatives who voted for the gay marriage bill. Is it fair to say do you think that the support for same-sex marriage that you see there in the Twin Cities is not shared in a good part of the state?  The people in MinneapolisSt. Paul are clearly more open to this issue than the rest of the state but it is clearly not accurate to say that there is an enormous gap in different parts of the state. There is a level of support but what is very interesting is when you look at the couples that we married the vast majority of people who I was marrying started in other parts of Minnesota. And I think people in rural parts of America are far more open on this issue not because they go to some political meeting but because it is a person they were at church with a guy on the football team. And as those stories more and more come back to hometowns and as people become more comfortable being there you will see what is happening already in Minnesota. This marriage amendment that would have banned all of this was defeated not just because people in MinneapolisSt. Paul felt a certain way but because people all over the state felt that way. And I think that is the real good thing.  That is Minneapolis Mayor R. T. Rybak a wedding officiate 46 times over. Mayor Rybak thanks very much.  Thank you. 