 In Southern California an estimated 80000 people have been given mandatory evacuation orders in the face of a fast-moving wildfire. The Blue Cut fire as it is called is threatening tens of thousands of homes north of San Bernardino and more than a thousand firefighters are doing everything they can to stop it. NPR's Nathan Rott is at the firefighting command post just south of where the fire is burning. He joins us now. And Nate from everything we have been hearing this is a fast-moving fire. What are you seeing?  Well yeah I can actually see it spreading from - right from where I am at right now - or at least the smoke of it. We are only a few miles away where the fire is burning here at the  command post. And we have got a pretty good view up the Interstate 15 corridor from here which is where the fire started and is still burning. Earlier this morning during the morning briefing for firefighters here the smoke was pretty subdued and down in the bottom of the valley. But it is really picked up here in the last couple of hours as the temperature has gone up and the winds have picked up too. I do not know if you can hear the wind in my microphone but we are getting some pretty good up-canyon gusts here. And that is basically what happened yesterday when this fire went from being reported to more than 30000 acres in about 24 hours. Here's how San Bernardino County Fire Chief Mark Hartwig described it.   It hit hard. It hit fast. It hit with an intensity that we have not seen before and a very wide front.  How is this Blue Cut fire unique?  Well it is and it is not. I mean there are destructive wildfires that burn in this part of the state and other states every year. I mean yesterday when California Governor Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency for this fire it was the third fire-related state of emergency he would called in just 24 hours. From what I have heard from firefighters here though and just from the experience of covering a lot of these fires this is different in terms of its intensity and its impact on people. I mean the fire is racing up mountains. There have been fire tornadoes. Interstate 15 which links Los Angeles to Las Vegas has been shut down. More than 34000 homes are being threatened and more than 80000 people have been given evacuation notices. And I mean for perspective that is enough people to fill Dallas Cowboys' football stadium.  You mentioned that 80000 people but are all of them really leaving their homes?  No and that is been a huge problem for the firefighters here. I actually went to one of the evacuation centers south of the fire earlier today and there were fewer than 100 people checked in there. The woman in charge of that Red Cross shelter and another north of the fire says that fewer than 250 people total stayed at a shelter last night so 250 people after some 80000 were told to evacuate. Now some of that is definitely due to the fact that people have family in the area that they can stay with or are staying at hotels instead of the shelters. But a large part of that is also due to the fact that a lot of people just have not evacuated their homes despite warnings and despite pleas from emergency responders. I talked to a man at the shelter earlier who did flee an area called Lytle Canyon. He said he only left because he was 86 years old and cannot move around like he used to. If he was younger he would have stayed he said. And he said a lot of his neighbors had decided to stay.  And at this point what do we know about the damage to homes and businesses?  Well it is hard to say definitively. I will let Mark Hartwig the fire chief that we heard from earlier answer that.   There will be a lot of families that come home to nothing. If there is a bright side a silver lining there are some homes that were saved.  Now I am sure we will get better numbers in the coming days.  That is NPR's Nathan Rott. Thanks so much.  Thank you Audie. 