 In the Pacific Northwest former mill towns have tried to reinvent their economies after decades of the timber industry's decline. And for the last few years rural communities have welcomed data centers. Oregon Public Broadcasting's Amanda Peacher reports from the small town of Prineville.  Facebook engineer Angie Weatherman is on a mission. She walks briskly through the data hall a warehouse as big as a few football fields. She passes rows and rows of tall metal boxes full of little blinking lights. These are Facebook servers.   Our ticketing system has notified us that we have a broken piece of hardware.  Her job is to fix that broken hardware. That background hum is the sound of thousands of fans that run constantly to keep Facebook servers cool. Weatherman pulls out the problem server.  This one says it is a DIMM failure. So we are going to open up the case.  You are just troubleshooting all day.  All day long yep.  Before this job Weatherman spent 10 years also working as a server technician at Les Schwab Tires in Prineville. When the company moved its headquarters to Bend Ore. she faced a two-hour daily commute. When Facebook built its data center she immediately saw a chance for a better job.  Yep. I watched sites every day for opening positions.  This job pays well and means she gets to stay in the rural community where she grew up.  I have lived here my whole life. My family all lives here. I just - I love it here.  Basically what Prineville was was Les Schwab Tires a lot of mill a lot of blue-collar workers.  That is Prineville mayor Betty Roppe. The construction of Facebook and later Apple's data centers amounted to an economic shift in Prineville. The data centers do not employ nearly as many people as the old timber mills once did but they do provide roughly 300 jobs that pay a lot more than most in town.  It is been a good business to bring to our community.  The problem is this also means housing costs are going up and that is creating a housing crunch. Seventy-two-year-old Caroline George hauls a basket of clothes and sheets into the local laundromat.  This is all new to me the laundry thing.  She and her husband moved here from Redmond Ore. where they did have a washing machine. They wanted to live in a smaller town like Prineville. For three months they have been looking for housing but have not had any luck. In the meantime they are living at a campground.  We are looking for a rental and we cannot find anything.  In four years rents rose more than 56 percent in Prineville. That is one of the highest increases of any city in the nation according to Zillow. And George says most rentals cost more than her 850 monthly budget.  And I went and seen a grungy one. It was 1080. I went and seen another one. These are all waiting lists by the way. There is nothing available here. It is a six- to eight-month waiting list.  The city is scrambling to create new housing units including some that are more affordable. But that will take a lot of time. For now the data center construction is causing rents to go up.  There is a lot of jobs - lots. But there is nowhere to live.  This is the conundrum for smaller towns and rural parts of the country. When tech companies come in they solve some problems by creating high-paying jobs. But they also create problems when the cost of living skyrockets. So while the data center boom is helping some people move up a side effect is that others are being forced out. For NPR News I am Amanda Peacher in Prineville Ore.  