 Lake Mead is rising. For the first time in more than a decade the water level in the country's largest reservoir is going up. Heavy winter snowfall in the mountains of Wyoming Utah and Colorado is melting and flowing into the Colorado River which feeds Lake Mead. And as NPR's Ted Robbins reports that is good news for a parched region.  The sound of moving water is usually soothing. When it is rising water lapping at the dock of the Las Vegas Boat Harbor though it is practically cause for celebration.  It is a wonderful thing.  Gail Klein manages the harbor which is really a good 20 miles from Las Vegas. It is a floating marina with a restaurant gas station and slips filled with more than a thousand boats. Everything has to move with the lake level. Down and out when it falls up and in towards the shore when it rises. For a long time until just two months ago it is only gone out.  That is the first time we moved the marina in versus following lower lake levels since 1997. And we all got together and thought do we remember how to do this?  And?  Yeah yeah it always comes back.  Although it is not cheap Klein says it will cost close to a million dollars to move the whole thing a number of times before the lake stops rising. But she is not complaining. Who in the arid Southwest complains about more water? And her business is - sorry - staying afloat.  This is a power boat those are speedboats.  Lake Mead is the country's fifth most visited national park. But recreation - boating camping fishing - is not even the main reason it was created when water began filling the canyons here in the 1930s.   Hoover Dam and its power plant work around the clock to serve water and power needs of the Pacific Southwest.  Who knows if the people who created that old government film realized that roughly 30 million people in California Arizona and Nevada would eventually depend on Colorado River Water from Lake Mead? By last year the level had dropped so low that cities in Arizona and Nevada faced not getting their allotment.  When we woke up on September 1 2010 a very short time ago we were looking at the very real probability that we could have some shortages.  John Entsminger is assistant general manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority. He says the current wet year means no shortages for now.  I guess we just do not want it to be seen as a panacea. It is one good year in a period of 12 extremely bad years.  Lake Mead is expected to continue rising through the end of this year. Still it will not come close to its highest water level marked by a white ring of calcium carbonate deposited on the cliffs surrounding the lake in the 1980s.  I guess to put this entire thing in perspective. By the end of this calendar year with the lake coming up as much as it will Lake Mead will be at 56 percent of capacity.  Which is why water utilities all along the Colorado stress water conservation. But conservation is apparently not enough. The Pacific Institute a water policy group recently released a study showing cities using Colorado River water have reduced per capita consumption by an average of 1 percent each year between 1990 and 2008. That is huge. Southern California has especially reduced water use. Problem is during the same period population grew so much in places like Phoenix and Las Vegas it negated the savings.  So as great as this year has been the pragmatist on the water management side of the equation would say we are now back to half full.  Still better half full than facing a shortage whether you are on a farm in a city or out on Lake Mead in a boat.   Ted Robbins NPR News.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 