 In California's Central Valley thousands of people are now reporting that their wells have run dry. Even some entire towns are close to running out of water due to the historic drought in the state. There are lots of steps in the works to address this crisis but as NPR's Kirk Siegler reports there are also worries these fixes might not work in the long run.  Rural Tulare County Calif. is now being called the epicenter of this drought and here's why. At least 1300 residential wells have now run dry affecting at least 7000 people. When your tap starts spitting out air here Paul Boyer and his team are who you call.  They are hot. They are a little hot there.  Under a punishing mid-afternoon sun Boyer's helping muscle down five of these hefty 400-pound water tanks from a semi flatbed. He helps run a local nonprofit that is in charge of distributing the 2500-gallon tanks to drought victims.  Yeah we have done this before yeah .  You want me to move my rental car? These are the kinds of tanks you see attached to homes in many parts of the developing world. In Tulare County it is an urgent matter. So far only about 150 of them have been distributed.  That means actually there is more than 1100 homes that do not have this.  Now if you are without water these tanks are definitely a lifeline. They can supply a typical family for about two weeks.  It definitely - this should only be a temporary solution because hauled water is very expensive. But without this it is difficult for people to stay in their homes because you need that water for flushing your toilet taking a bath washing your dishes.  A temporary solution - it is why Boyer is trying to keep an eye on the long term. One plan is to try to get people in rural areas hooked on to municipal water systems. That is what is going on outside the small town of Farmersville. This is a largely poor neighborhood just outside the city limits - mostly farm workers. People raise chickens and goats under improvised backyard shelters. In Frank Zamora's dusty front yard even the cactus looks wilted. And next to it he is just dug an open trench that leads out to the street. Now thanks to a million dollar grant he and his neighbors are about to hook on to city water which is good because Zamora figures his taps will run completely dry any day now.  When I water maybe let us say for 10-15 minutes then it will start throwing air already so I got to stop wait for the well to go back up and then I can use the water again.  The idea is that by hooking people like Zamora on to a municipal water system the risk is spread out and cities are in a better position to regulate and control what water is left. They also have more money typically and could possibly afford to drill new deeper wells. At least that is the thinking anyway.  I feel - yeah I feel a little bit of security. And hopefully we will get some - we are all hoping for some rain so if not we are going to be in a big jam.  And that is just it. Just because you are hooked up to a city system does not necessarily mean there'ill always be water. This drought is so bad that if it goes on much longer the worry is that cities in the Central Valley will also start running out of water. Most cities here are already completely dependent on underground aquifers and groundwater is getting depleted at a record pace.  Hi. My name is Milt Stowe. I have been the mayor of Porterville for approximately a year - just a little over a year.  Porterville has been distributing water to about 7000 people in the neighborhood just outside the city limits where most of the wells have also run dry. The city has set up water distribution centers where people can fill up jugs and barrels for free and also take a shower. But Mayor Stowe is trying to figure out how much longer his city can reasonably do this.  That is a big concern because it is going to put our city in jeopardy. We are not - you know we were not counting on using the water for the incorporated areas but you know we cannot let them go without water.  Stowe says Porterville has enough water to supply its people through this summer. But even this fall - that is an open question.  It is very stressful you know? It has come to a point where you know we are getting close to like - to figure out something else to do - getting water from other areas. And we are going to have to start begging.  Begging for water. People here worried and some are even considering packing up and leaving altogether. At one of Porterville's volunteer-run aid stations Humberto Hernandez is loaded up his Suburban with donated cases of bottled water. He is grateful for the help. His taps ran dry six months ago. He and his wife have three kids at home including a six-month-old baby.  .  Hernandez who is lived here for 30 years says it is been tough and the family cannot live like this much longer. They will wait it out another month.  .  We have lots of family in Colorado he says. The drought is not as bad there and there are farm jobs. Kirk Siegler NPR News Porterville Calif. 