 In Oklahoma the muddy waters of the Arkansas River are receding after heavy rains pounded much of the state. Residents are now coming back home to take stock of the damage. Michael Zimmerman and Linda Merrill had just bought a house in Sand Springs outside Tulsa. Merrill says they barely got any note as the floodwaters were coming. She would never experienced anything like it before so they just grabbed what they could and got out.  We took a bed two chairs our dogs two suitcases of clothes.  And some dishes.  And some dishes. We did not have time. It came that quick. Twenty-two days we lived in this house and we lost everything.  The couple sent us photos of their home with water halfway up the front door. Today they were back at the house lugging its soggy contents out to the curb with a little wagon.  It just looks like a total mess. It is got 4 feet of sheet rock taken out of it right now just in the kitchen the living room just like water running out of the wood. And this backwood - I do not know if that is mold or what.  You said that you would only lived in the house 22 days. You just made your first payment on it. Is this the first home that you two owned together?  Well we had a double-wide mobile home. And it is 40 years old. They do not last as long. So we decided we would look and find us a house and purchase one so we did - and got 22 days in it.  Linda you said you would never experienced flooding before. So I can imagine the two of you were not in the mindset of buying flood insurance for example.  We were told we did not need insurance - flood insurance.  Really? Who said that?  Well I have a letter from FEMA that states we do not need flood insurance because we are not in a flood zone. This was our retirement home. He is 62. He is had a stroke. I am 55 and cannot work because of my back. And now we are destroyed because we we have to start from nothing. I feel so bad for all these people not just ourselves.  You said that you have nothing now. What is your situation at this moment? Are you calling insurance companies still? Are you calling FEMA? Kind of where do you begin?  Well we began with doing a lot of work ourselves.  Even with your back?  Yes. We had no help. I called every organization out there but they would tell me there is so many people flooded it could take weeks. Well when you are flooded you cannot give it weeks.  Are you thinking about staying in Sand Springs? Are you thinking about rebuilding there or moving on?  Well we cannot leave our loan. I do not want to mess up my credit. So we are just going to have to stay here and rebuild. I do not want to but there is nothing we can do. I mean you got to you know.  It is odd to hear kind of birds in the background now - right? - after this terrible natural disaster. But I realize I am not hearing much of anything else. Is there any activity in your neighborhood?  Yeah. There is some volunteers next door. They are tearing his sheet rock out. I think they are supposed to come to my house next. But like you say seems like nothing's here.  So right now you have not seen anyone from the city from FEMA from the state?  No.  So I am not even sure what to ask next. You are saying no one's around to help. And it sounds like this is going to be tremendous financial strain. What is your - what is your conversations like right now? How are you guys thinking?  What do you think Linda?  Well I can tell you what we think. Every day we wake up and we thank God we are alive that we were not caught in this flood that we were able to get our dogs out. We just now realize that we have to start one room at a time. That is the only way. When we can afford paint we will afford paint. We will stay till we can afford what we need and then do the work ourselves I guess. That is all we have.  Well Michael and Linda I want to say thank you so much for telling us your story. I know that this feels like an impossible time. And I want you to know that we are all thinking about you and that we wish you the best.  Thank you very much.  Thank you so much.  That is Linda Merrill and Michael Zimmerman cleaning out their flooded home in Sandy Springs Okla. 