 We are following news this afternoon of a shooting incident at the Capital Gazette. That is a local newspaper in Annapolis Md. There are at least five fatalities and several people have been gravely injured. A reporter inside the newsroom said a lone gunman fired into the offices of the Capital Gazette. WYPR's Joel McCord is at the scene. He joins us now. And Joel I know there was a briefing earlier by the acting police chief there for Anne Arundel County. Can you tell us what you have been able to learn?  We - well as you said we know there are five fatalities several other folks injured taken to nearby hospital. We know that the shooter is in custody. We have no ID on the shooter yet. We know that they have the weapon but they are not telling us thus far exactly what that weapon is. A friend of mine Chris  who works at the Capital says it is - the dead are - among the dead are a photographer an editor and one reporter but we do not have any IDs.  And police have said that the scene has been contained. And you are saying the report is just one suspect for now.  Right. They just did a briefing just a couple of minutes ago and was asked - we have asked them and phrased the question several different ways. But the best we can get is one suspect in custody and apparently nobody else.  How did this information get out this afternoon? Can you tell us more about the scene there where you are?  Well 40 p.m. this afternoon. The first officers here were here within 60 seconds because their station's not very far away. I can tell you because I live right near here that I was on my way to the post office when I just saw one police car after another screaming into this location here on Bestgate Road. It is right across from Annapolis Mall. It is a lot of low-rise office buildings that sort of thing. And right now there must be - there got to be a hundred police cars at least and officers all over the place. They have got the building contained as I said and that is - and we are still waiting for the next update.  And Joel before I let you go the Capital Gazette - can you tell us a little bit about the paper itself?  It is about a 35000 40000 - well more than that - maybe 50000 circulation daily owned by Times Mirror. There were six - there are six to seven reporters two photographers a couple of editors worked there plus the business folks out of this office building on Bestgate Road. You know no presses like there used to be and you know real community kind of paper really focused on what - Annapolis and the surrounding Anne Arundel County.  That is Joel McCord of member station WYPR. Thank you.  You are welcome. 