 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. Americans are becoming more accepting of gays and lesbians and in some cases transgendered people. At the same time a new generation of young people is challenging our understanding of gender. They are calling for more fluid categories beyond just male and female as NPR's Margot Adler explains.  It began with a speaking event at Oberlin College in Ohio. I was at dinner with the college chaplain and 16 students on his interfaith council. I was startled when everyone introduced themselves saying their name what year they were what they were studying and then described their preferred gender pronouns. I was not taping but it sounded similar to these high school students introducing themselves to me recently in New York.  I am Russell Lasdon and I use hehimhis pronouns.  I am Ketzel Feasley and my PGP's are sheherhers.  For those of you who have never heard this done as I had not this is happening on many campuses. It is a way of being supportive or an ally to those who are transgender or gender non-conforming. Those who are not cisgender - that is their emotional gender identity does not match their biology. I admit my first reaction was it felt cult-like and I thought these people are paying 50000 a year for college and this is what they care about most - what pronouns you use? When during my college days we were fighting for civil rights registering voters in Mississippi and facing tear gas and fire hoses. But then I stopped and thought about it. I went to one of the smartest people I know in the lesbian gay bisexual and transgender community Carl Siciliano. He is the executive director of the Ali Forney Center for LBGT homeless youth. Of the nine homeless young people who have been murdered in New York since he ran the center seven of them he says were transgender. They experience more violence at home at school and on the streets.  It is just so abundantly clear to me that trans kids face an enormously disproportionate burden of the bigotry and the hostility and the hatred that is directed against the LGBT community.  So he says to me these college students you saw identifying with transgender people the most marginalized group in our society how different is that from you when you were in college identifying with the most marginalized and joining the black Civil Rights movement? He brought me up short. I had to think long and hard. But the fascinating thing with this generation in high school and college is they are going way beyond transgender. They are arguing for a world beyond the gender binary - beyond male and female. And it is something that many people over 30 like myself are totally unaware of. Joy Ladin is a transwoman a male to female transgender person who has written a memoir Through the Door of Life a Jewish Journey Between Genders. I am an old fashioned transsexual she says. In other words it was fairly simple she felt like a woman wanted to be a woman but she was in a man's body.  The folks who are cutting edge and exciting they are gender fluid they are gender complicated they are gender queer. They have some kind of much more dynamic relation. But if you are a transsexual like you just want to relocate yourself from one side of the gender binary to the other. I do not want to blow up the gender binary.   She went to a Jewish women's retreat anyone who defined themselves as a woman was welcome - genetic women trans women. But some of the younger people were uncomfortable. They wanted to get rid of the word woman altogether.  And one young woman there said yeah I almost did not come here because it called itself a woman's retreat. And it says you know if you define yourself as a woman you are welcome. And I and the other trans women there were like excuse me we just got to this gender could you wait a few years before you eliminate it.  At the Elizabeth Irwin High School in New York City there is a student group called Spectrum. The title was chosen because it seemed to represent what students were thinking and feeling much more than gay students association or LGBT or even eer. I asked Harry Fernandez a sophomore at the school who identifies as a gay male what he means by queer.  Kind of straying from the norm not being what society tells you to be regarding your sexuality your gender who you love.  Becka Luna Liebowitz a freshman in the group uses Q for another word.  I myself I guess you call it questioning.  But some students are going further. At one college that Joy Ladin visited things were so fluid you could make up a different pronoun for a different event.  So you can be sheher at one event and then you go to lunch and you say OK now I am hehim. And then one charming young woman told me oh yes today I am just using made up pronouns.  We encountered high school students who said I want you to call me Tractor and use pronouns like zee zim and zer. And in fact I reject the gender binary as an oppressive move by the dominant culture.  That is Lynn Walker a director at Housing Works an organization that provides housing for those with HIV. About 10 percent of their clients are transgender. Walker teaches a course called Trans 101 for all new hires. When she started coming across people who were gender non-conforming in so many different ways she began to ask new questions.  And then part of the intake is to say well what pronoun do you like today? It might be just today.  Because Walker has clients who might be Jimmy one day and Deloris the next.  Once you develop the habit of saying oh that person that is a she that is Delores. It does not matter that she looks rather like Jimmy or looks like she was called Jimmy by her parents.  And your decision does not depend on gender reassignment surgery which is expensive and is something often only a certain class of people can do. What you look like she says is not always who you are.  In a perfect world your gender would just be what you want it to be. Gender would sort of just be an individual title not really a male or female thing.  That is Harry Fernandez again from the Elizabeth Irwin High School.  But that is a perfect world. That is not the one we live in now.  Although things have gotten more open and fluid at least in certain places  If we lived in a world where gender was seen as less fixed would reassignment surgery for transgender people be as common? Lynn Walker remembers talking to a trans friend on the West Coast who went through her transition in the 1970s. She told Walker...  If I were growing up now the way things are I would never have had surgery because it would not be necessary. But I thought it was necessary then.  One of the paradoxes of culture says Joy Ladin is that innovation is often driven by young people.  And we say oh you know they are pushing the boundaries they are exploring new ways of being. All of that is true. But part of what enables them to do that is that they are not really sure yet where they are going.  Ladin believes that in the future male and female will always refer to some people but not all. The reins of gender expression will become looser. Margot Adler NPR News New York. 