 The USGS estimates the damage from the earthquake at more than a billion dollars. In Napa emergency managers are making their initial assessments. Napa City Manager Mike Parness explains the process.  Tonight after we have looked at all the properties all of the infrastructure one of the first things we will be doing in the next day or so is sitting and trying to figure out what does this mean in terms of infrastructure impact - private public - as well as economic impact.  The extent of that economic impact will come down to two things - tourism and wine. And you do not get much of the first without the second. NPR's Richard Gonzales has been talking to people in Napa's wine industry.  David Graves co-founder Saintsbury Winery had already seen the chimney of his home collapse so he was expecting the worst as he made his way to his winery at dawn.  When I came to work yesterday - or I came to check on the winery yesterday - it looked like a complete shambles on the barrel room.  But Graves says a measure of luck was with him. First the quake struck in the predawn hours so no one was at work and no one got hit by one of those barrels.  And thankfully we had bottled everything from the 2013 vintage so there was literally nothing in those barrels.  Graves says he did lose 25 cases of what he calls his vineyard's history - that is his collection of past vintages that cannot be replaced. Carla Bosco is the director of communications for Bouchaine Vineyards makers of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay. The good news she says is that the winery sustained no structural damage but Bosco says workers there discovered 40 barrels had been thrown off their racks and crews are in the process of determining how much might be salvaged and re-barreled.  It is just a lot of wine to mop up. So we were closed for the day yesterday but we are opened for business today. In fact we are getting 10 tons of grapes delivered to process here very shortly.  But those barrels I mean is it possible to keep those barrels strapped down?  Not really because they have to be moved quite frequently. They need to be tapped and rotated - so there really is not an efficient system to strap them down because every time you would strap them down you would have to be unstrapping them and moving them - probably within a few days.  Like representatives of other wineries contacted today Bosco had no cost estimate on damages. The talk was still about the quake itself. Emma Swain is a CEO of St.  Today people are kind of digging out a lot of glass and a lot of mess and trying to assess what the damages and what the next steps are.  There is a widespread sense of relief that the quake was not worse. And David Graves of Saintsbury Winery says the blessings of the Napa region outweigh the risks.  You cannot have our landscape that is so wonderful for making wine without having had and living in a seismically active place. So it is hard to remember that when your house shaking and things are crashing to the ground. But in the cold light of day when everything seems OK probably good to remember that.  A little perspective from the Napa Valley's 13 billion dollar wine industry. Richard Gonzales NPR News. 