 The White House counterterrorism chief delivered a stinging indictment today of the Bush administration. John Brennan said tactics such as waterboarding in his words undermined our national security. Brennan promised a new approach to the global war on terror. For starters he argued we should all stop calling it that. NPR's Mary Louise Kelly reports.  The term global war on terror has been controversial almost from the beginning. And today John Brennan left no doubt the term is not in vogue anymore in Washington. Mr.  Describing our efforts as a global war only plays into the warped narrative that al-Qaida propagates. It plays into the misleading and dangerous notion that the U.S. is somehow in conflict with the rest of the world.  And it is not just the terminology that Brennan objects to. In his speech today at a Washington think tank he said it was wrong to think military power could solve the long-term problem of global extremism. And he said President Obama is restoring perspective to counterterrorism efforts. Mr.  The fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place. No longer defining  indeed distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies.  The new approach is two-pronged Brennan said using military strikes to hammer al-Qaida to be sure but also using economic and political tools to fight the root causes of terrorism. How much of this is actually new is open to debate and certainly none of it will be easy. The Obama administration is struggling to come up with new policies on the interrogation and detention of terrorist suspects and Brennan admitted with closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay by next January as President Obama has ordered. Mr.  We are working hard to realize that vision. We are going to get there and whether or not you know we come in a week or two early or right on time or whatever. There are a number of things that are - there are dependencies here.  Such as whether Congress cooperates. Still it is notable that John Brennan President Obama's counterterrorism chief would not guarantee Guantanamo will close by next January. Mr.  I do not have a crystal ball that I can say with certainty because at this point it is unknowable exactly how many people will be transferred in next week month several months and what the conditions on the ground will be on 1 January and 21 January. Mr.  It is not surprising frankly that they are still grappling with all of the complexities frankly that the prior administration grappled with.  That is Juan Zarate who listened to Brennan's talk today with a unique prospective. He held Brennan's job until this past January. Zarate was President Bush's chief counterterrorism adviser. He says he remembers wrestling with the same problems when it comes to Guantanamo. Mr.  How do you return some of these individuals to their home countries? How do you try some of these individuals either in criminal court or military commissions? Or how do you hold people who are just too dangerous to release who cannot be prosecuted because of problems of evidence or of alleged coercion and other problems.  Zarate says the fight against terrorism has entered a new phase since his days in the White House and that overall President Obama is doing a good job. What has not changed he notes is al-Qaida is still out there still determined to attack the United States. Mary Louise Kelly NPR News Washington. 