 Bill Cosby's sentencing hearing has begun at a courthouse in a Philadelphia suburb. A sentence could be handed down as early as tomorrow. The 81-year-old comedian faces the possibility of lengthy prison time for drugging and molesting a woman 14 years ago. Today's proceedings opened with a debate over whether Cosby should be declared a sexually violent predator. More than 60 women have accused the famed entertainer of sexual misconduct. This one resulted in criminal charges. Reporter Bobby Allyn of member station WHYY was at the hearing in Norristown Pa. He joins us now. And Bobby first just tell us a little bit about what it was like in court today.  You could feel the suspense in the courtroom. Cosby's main accuser Andrea Constand - she took a seat in the front of the courtroom surrounded by her lawyers and her family. And then you know about a half dozen Cosby accusers all sat together in the back of the courtroom sometimes audibly sobbing. For them and for Constand this hearing's been a long time coming. Remember the case is nearly three years old and some of Cosby's alleged sexual assaults date back many decades. So the prospect of seeing Cosby finally punished created a palpable intensity in the courtroom.  Who actually gave testimony and what did they have to say?  So Constand herself was the first to take the witness stand and it is the third time she has sat there in that very seat and confronted Bill Cosby. This time she kept it pretty short. She spoke for I think less than a minute and she said quote all I am asking is for justice as the court sees fit. Then Constand's mother father and sister all took the stand at different times and described how you know since Cosby attacked Constand just how their lives have morphed into a nightmare. And the mother you know said that that is included sleepless nights emotional pain the media mobbing their house in Canada and many court battles including this criminal case. Earlier in the hearing though prosecutors called a psychologist to the stand who said Cosby is a quote sexually violent predator as you mentioned at the top and that Cosby is likely to reoffend.  So the prosecution expert witnesses - they are calling him a predator saying he is likely to reoffend. What did the defense say? Did we hear from Bill Cosby at all himself?  Cosby did not speak at all. The defense said that there is a chance he is going to address the court tomorrow. The defense strategy was to underscore his age. Remember he is 81. He is legally blind. He does not have a criminal record. He has a long history of philanthropy. They talked about how he was once in the Navy and his contributions to American culture. They are really trying to downplay the charges and really emphasize his age and his advanced age and just how he is frail right now and should not go to prison.  Now Judge Steven O'Neill has a range of options when it comes to sentencing right? And I know that Bill Cosby has already spent - what? - five months under house arrest.  Yeah.  What are the indications about where the sentencing might go?  Like in most sentencings it is - you know it is hard to get inside the judge's mind. But what we did learn today is what the prosecution's pushing for and that is the maximum possible punishment available under Pennsylvania law 10 years in state prison. That is what they want for Cosby. Cosby's lawyers though say that he should just be put on house arrest where as you said he is been for five months.  What happens next? What is the timing here?  So the judge said he intends to hand down his punishment for Cosby tomorrow morning. And like I said there is a chance that Cosby will himself take the stand and address for the first time these charges. We have not actually heard from Cosby. There is been two criminal trials and we have never heard from him himself. So we might hear from him. And whatever happens Cosby can appeal. But most legal experts watching the case say that is not likely to happen if he gets incarceration before he is taken away in handcuffs to a prison cell. But we will just have to see what Judge Steven O'Neill does.  That is Bobby Allyn from member station WHYY. Thank you for your reporting.  Hey thank you. 