 We have been hearing these stories for a while now of black people being challenged and even arrested for doing ordinary things like waiting for a friend at Starbucks. But over the past couple of weeks there have been even more episodes to add to the list of white people calling the police to challenge black people including children for doing things like selling cold water cutting a neighbor's grass using their own neighborhood pool and now campaigning for office. Oregon State Representative Janelle Bynum - who is by the way the only black member of the Oregon House - was canvassing in her district outside of Portland on Tuesday when she was approached by a sheriff's deputy. It turns out a resident of the neighborhood had called the police because she decided representative Bynum's door knocking was suspicious. We are talking with Representative Bynum and she is with us now at Oregon Public Radio. Representative thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you for having me.  So this is not your first campaign right? So presumably you have knocked on doors before. What was your reaction when you saw the sheriff's deputy approach? What was going through your mind?   Disbelief I think is probably the first feeling that I had - and a little upset that the person did not come talk to me. I think that is the main feeling I had because you know I had been out there for a good hour and a half and anybody that wanted to come talk to me could have come and talked to me. I mean Oregon is a very friendly place. And so I was just kind of baffled as to why I did not look approachable.  What was the encounter with the officer like?  He was very pleasant. He was pleasant in an Oregon way so to speak. He got out of the car and he said let me guess - you are probably selling something right? So I introduce myself as the state representative. I think it was so incredible for me because he believed me.  Really? Why? Why was that incredible?  You know there is this expectation I think when you tell an officer something that they will demand some proof - some ID some something. I had my campaign flyers with me and so you know maybe he saw that. But you know he was well within his rights - I think - to ask me to sit down on the sidewalk with my hands behind my back like I see on TV. He was well within his rights to go as far down as he could to humiliate me in that circumstance and he did not.  And of course I am going to ask do you think race was a factor in this person's decision to call the police rather than approach you directly? We know that you are African-American. I do not know what the race of the person who called was but the - or is rather - but The New York Times just looked up that zip code and they say that the census indicates that it is a - it is not a terribly diverse you know area.  .  So do you think that race played a part in this encounter?  It certainly played a part in how I reacted. And one of the things that I have learned in canvassing is that I do not fill in the blanks for my constituents in what they think and how they feel. That is kind of the point of canvassing is for them to tell you you know what goes into their decisions. So the caller told me that she was concerned about the safety of the neighborhood. What went into that decision that she made - I do not know.  So you were able to speak to her - the person who called.  Well first let me back up a little bit. I asked the officer. I said can you take me to that house so I can talk to this person? And I made that request as a part of establishing or re-establishing some dignity in the situation. I had been accused of looking suspicious and I felt like the caller needed to see my face and she needed to look into my eyes and she needed to hear me say I was actually here on her behalf. So he went to his car and came back with his cellphone and the caller was on the line.  What did she say?  She apologized. I accepted. I offered to go by her house and like leave a note or you know just try to make amends - again just to have that human interaction which I think we need so much of especially when there are incidents where people feel suspicious about something. Because you never get that opportunity to go back and have person A tell person B this is why I thought you were suspicious - and you know person B saying well I was doing this and it is normal to me. And that is how we can be I think better neighbors.  But she was not willing to meet with you.  No.  Well before we let you go you are a state representative and - which means you get to participate in shaping policy and law. And I am wondering if there is a remedy that you see to this?  Well some people have asked me if legislation is the answer. And I say you cannot legislate humanity. I think if police department procedures included an opportunity for dialogue between people when we have these instances when officers are trained to make sure that the person who is been accused and has not done anything feels whole after the incident because you have created a victim right? And so I think it is more of a mind shift than any law could ever mandate.  Well that was Oregon State Representative Janelle Bynum. She is a Democrat who represents parts of Portland and its eastern suburbs. She is running for her second term in the state House. Representative Bynum thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 