 One of the hallmarks of a baseball game is the sound of vendors hawking cold beers in the ballpark. But the voices you will hear are mostly men's. At Nationals Park in Washington D.C. there is only one female beer vendor who works every game. As Mikaela Lefrak from our member station WAMU reports she is also one of the best they have.  At a typical Washington Nationals home game around 60 vendors in neon-yellow shirts walk up and down the aisles selling food and drink. The most popular by far is beer. And Christy Colt is great at selling it.  Bud Light Stella Shock Top IPA.  She works in the lower-level sections along the first base line. She stops every few steps to chat with her regulars and crack open a few beers.   Colt is 35 with dirty-blonde hair that she keeps tucked in a bun underneath a Nats cap. She is surprisingly soft-spoken for someone whose job it is to get attention.  I guess I do not really like the spotlight on me but I kind of need it when I am doing this.  Colt carries around 60 pounds of beer and ice in her blue bin. In a quiet room away from the stands she tells me she gets lots of questions about it that her male colleagues do not.  I cannot tell you how many times I have been told like oh it is too heavy for you. Like how do you carry it? You are a girl. Like does not it hurt your back or your shoulder? And is not that heavy?  It is but she can handle it. She is average height but fit and she is been doing this job for 10 years now. But to some people she still stands out.  People take pictures of me all the time at games. Like oh I remember seeing a girl beer vendor.  It is definitely a very physical job.  That is Jeff Scheidhauer the operations director for the company that manages the ballpark's vendors. He says that they do not get a lot of female applicants. In Japan where baseball is also wildly popular almost all beer vendors are women. But here in the U.S. it is a traditionally male role. Scheidhauer says he is not sure why. To him it is a challenge no matter what gender you are.  So not many men and women vendors latch on because it is pretty tough work.  Drunk fans are part of the job. Colt thinks that keeps some women away.  When you mix alcohol and physical labor - I do not know - I do not know how to say it - sometimes there is inappropriate comments.  When that happens she tells her supervisor. She says he is confronted drunk fans for her before. But for the most part she says the fans are great. She is become good friends with a lot of season ticket holders like Biff Henley. He finds her at the top of his section before the game gets underway to say hi.  She is just absolutely wonderful - great human being. We encourage people to buy from her .  I do know a lot of people.  Colt waves goodbye to Henley and starts making her way down the steps right behind the Nationals' dugout.  Bud Light Stella Shock Top IPA.  When she is not hawking beer she teaches middle and high school history at a charter school. She saves up her vending money to travel and go see musicals. Vendors can bring in a couple hundred dollars a game.  And it is probably more than I would make like tutoring or any other part-time jobs.  Colt grew up a Chicago Cubs fan and she is grown to love the Nationals too. So talking baseball with her customers - that is a pitch that works. For NPR News I am Mikaela Lefrak in Washington. 