 The Trump administration's new asylum rule hit one group especially hard. Thousands of asylum-seekers have already been waiting in Mexican cities for their turn to cross the border legally and make their case to U.S. authorities. Now this new rule says to get asylum most of them first have to apply for protection in a country they travel through on their way to the border. KERA's Mallory Falk reports from Ciudad Juarez.  A crowd gathers outside Centro de Atencion Integral a Migrantes. This is where migrants come for their chance to cross the border and claim asylum in the U.S. It is scorching here over a hundred degrees but there is a little bit of shade and a woman is selling ice-cold soda and water from a small cooler. Most days a Mexican official calls several numbers off a waiting list and a lucky few get to cross the international bridge.  .  Orlando an asylum-seeker from Cuba says he is been here three months. He only gave his first name because he worries speaking out could hurt his asylum case. Right now U.S. immigration officers limit the number of asylum-seekers allowed into ports of entry each day. Orlando says he is been playing by these rules and it is unfair that they are changing now.   People get in line. Everything is regulated. They give you a number to be able to cross. And out comes this - that you have to have political asylum in a third country.  But he says that is not really an option.   Mexico Guatemala Honduras - what kind of asylum can they offer and how can people be safe there?  Immigrant advocates say those countries can be dangerous and their governments cannot protect these migrants but the Department of Homeland Security says many of their asylum claims are quote meritless. And officials say they are trying to discourage migrants from making the treacherous journey through Central America and Mexico. That is little comfort to the migrants already gathered in Juarez.  The information for them is of course unsettling.  That is Enrique Valenzuela. He is with the state government in Chihuahua Mexico and helps maintain the waiting list for asylum-seekers.  They have been waiting for two or three months. And well they believe that maybe they should not have been waiting.  Valenzuela says he is not entirely sure how the new asylum rule will affect the migrants in Mexico. And he says it is hard not to have any answers for them. He only heard about the rule change on Monday. It went into effect Tuesday.  They have trusted the local authorities and this list system has gained a lot of credibility among the people who are willing to wait.  Valenzuela says there are currently some 5000 people on the waiting list though he suspects some have returned home or tried to cross a different part of the border. He says the irony is that this new rule does not apply to migrants who already crossed illegally instead of waiting at a port of entry.  .  Orlando the Cuban asylum-seeker waiting in Juarez says there is a lot of uncertainty. For now he is keeping his name on the waiting list and hoping something changes. The American Civil Liberties Union has sued to try and block the new asylum rule saying the Trump administration overstepped its authority.   Until it is gone through Congress or a judge has ruled on it it is just a thing Trump has put into place.  Orlando says he plans to wait until all that plays out. For NPR News I am Mallory Falk in Juarez Mexico.  