  We want justice. We want justice. We want justice.  This was the scene last night outside of an apartment building in Seattle. A young mother named Charleena Lyles was shot to death in her home by police. At least one of her children was nearby. Lyles' relatives are accusing police of not doing enough to de-escalate an encounter with a person known to have mental problems. NPR's Martin Kaste is in Seattle where he is been following this story. And Martin Charleena Lyles was about 30 years old. He had three kids and her family - they are saying that she was pregnant. So what do we know about what led to this police shooting?  Well Audie the - this all started with a call for a - for officers to come to take a burglary report. She called them to her apartment to say someone had been in her apartment and stole - stolen some things. Usually just one officer shows up for a call like that. It is Sunday morning. But in this case two showed up and that is where this case was already kind of different because she was already in their system as a potential danger to officers. You can get a sense of that when you listen to this audiotape we now have from the dash cam system on their squad cars. The two officers are talking with each other about a previous encounter involving her at this apartment.   Wait. Is this the one with like...  Yeah.  ...The three kids?  Yeah yeah. But this gal - she was the one making all these weird statements about her and her daughters are going to turn wolves and...  It is kind of hard to hear there. It is a scratchy recording. But they are talking about this previous incident where she was saying bizarre things about turning into a wolf or her children would turn into wolves. And in that incident we now know she also threatened officers at that time with a large pair of scissors. And during that confrontation apparently the officers drew their weapons. But at that time - this was about two weeks ago - they were able to talk her down without shooting her.  So there was a previous confrontation but now you have police going in essentially preparing for the possibility of trouble. How come it did not end as before? Like why did it end with Lyles being shot?  Well that is the pressing question here. This is going to be examined by multiple entities it should be said - the police department's own special force investigation team then something called the Office of Professional Accountability. And there may even be a county coroner's inquest here. And what they are going to be looking at most likely here is whether the officers had a chance to de-escalate the situation whether they had the time or the space to do it. If you listen to this audio there is some indication that they may not have had a lot of time. So far what you hear when you kind of listen to the part where they are now at the apartment they are taking the report things seem to have changed tone very abruptly. She is talking to them very normally about what got stolen. She mentions a stolen Xbox. There is this four-second pause and then you hear a commotion. You hear her say you ready? She uses an expletive to presumably address the officers. And you hear the cops react.   We need help. We have .  Hey get back. Get back.  And at that point there is a commotion here. We are not going to play the whole thing 'ecause it contains the sound of the gunfire that killed her. But there is this increasing sort of escalation in tone. Get back. Get back. And they shoot her.  It is also not clear whether she actually attacked the officers right?  We do not know anything about her stance about what she did with the knife that she supposedly was holding. The police have not described the knife in any detail. We do know that there may have been children present. We hear their voices in the background or at least one child's voice. It is not clear though how that may have influenced their decision on whether to deescalate or how to handle the situation.  Martin you have reported on the Seattle Police before in part because they have been in a process of reform one of federally monitored consent decree. So how does that affect what is going on here?  Well they are going to be looking at this very closely 'ecause this is what it was all about. This whole process for Seattle started when a elderly Native man was shot for holding a knife downtown. Now we have this situation again - someone holding a knife with cognitive problems. It will be looked at closely.  That is NPR's Martin Kaste in Seattle. Martin thank you.  You are welcome. 