 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. In this part of the program we are going to pick up the phone.   That call came in August of last year to Carol Patterson of Courtland Ohio. The caller as she said was a paid solicitor from InfoCision. A telemarketing company also based in Ohio. On its website InfoCision claims to raise more money for nonprofit organizations over the phone than any other company in the world. It holds or has held  the American Diabetes Association the American Cancer Society March of Dimes Foundation and full disclosure it is also worked on behalf of some public broadcasting stations. But a new investigative report in the October issue of Bloomberg Markets found that in many cases most of the money raised by InfoCision never makes it to the nonprofits they say they are supporting. The story focuses on one technique used by InfoCision telemarketers.   Well they call and they say they are not asking for money but they are asking for you to volunteer and send out a solicitation letter to 15 of your friends or neighbors.  David Evans wrote the story for Bloomberg Markets.  And people perceive that since they are saving the charity the stamp that this is actually an efficient way to raise money.  So you actually pieced together the numbers though behind the contracts that InfoCision has had with these charities. And what do they say?  Well indeed we found for a four-year period from 2007 to 2010 InfoCision raised about 425 million dollars for nonprofits. And most of that money was kept by InfoCision - 52 percent - with the minority going to the charities. And in the case of some charities it was actually much much less than that. And the most alarming thing that we found is that the solicitors are taught using scripts to lie. To tell people that most of the money is actually going to the charity when in fact most of the money is going to InfoCision. And when I asked for example the vice president at the American Diabetes Association why that was it was explained to me that people would not give money if they knew the truth.  I want to play a part of one call from an InfoCision representative who in this call was calling on behalf of the American Cancer Society. And actually she had called Paul Kolb of Cleveland Heights Ohio. And what she did not know is that Kolb happens to be an investigator for the Ohio Attorney General's office.  Then does the money go to you guys and then to the American Cancer Society?  No we only get like 22 percent. Only 22 cents of the dollar. We do not get that much but I mean taken out the Cancer Society gets 78 cents of every dollar. The other 22 cents is separated...  So David did the Cancer Society really get 78 cents on the dollar?  No. In fact we found the Cancer Society never got more than half. And typically they got less than half of the money raised. In some cases they got zero. In 2010 it was even worse than that. In 2010 the contract with InfoCision estimated that the Cancer Society would get 44 percent of the money. The script that was being used that was approved by the Cancer Society told folks that about 70 percent of the money overall was going to the Cancer Society. In fact when the reports came in we found the filings that showed how much the Cancer Society actually got for 2010. And it was zero. And in fact the Cancer Society had to pay a 113000 dollars to InfoCision in addition to turning over the 5.4 million dollars that had been raised.  Why would this charity or any charity sign a contract in which they would not make any money which in fact they would lose money?  Well for example the American Diabetes Association told us that they are hoping to get names so they can get more money from in the future. But they said. Richard Erb a vice president at the American Diabetes Association told me if we came into it and said geez I am not going to make a dime on this do you think we would have anyone who would give us money? In other words they cannot tell people the truth in order to get money through telemarketing so they have to conceal that the vast amount of money that is actually going to the telemarketer.  So it sounds like they were it was very much a long-time practice. I mean InfoCision is a big company that is been around for awhile.  InfoCision has been around for 30 years. They have been very profitable. There is a stadium in Akron at University of Akron that is now called InfoCision Stadium because they gave 10 million dollars. There is a graduate program of business at the University of Akron that actually has an InfoCision call center paid for with a 3.5 million dollar donation where there is a dozen phones and students learn how to be telemarketers as part of their graduate education.  Now we have discussed this as being deceptive and perhaps unethical. Is it actually illegal?  Well it is definitely illegal to lie. InfoCision paid a 75000 fine in February to the Ohio Attorney General's Office after they were accused of lying about the amount of money that was going to the charities. And they were also accused of having their employees pose as volunteers in order to coax money out of donors.  What kind of response did you get from InfoCision? Were you able to talk to them?  Well InfoCision declined an interview. They did give us a statement in which they said that they have been servicing these charities for many years. And they have many happy charity clients.  David the last thing I would want to do is discourage people from giving to charities generally. So what is it that people could do given this information that you are telling us to avoid this altogether? I mean how can you give to a charity and know that your money is actually getting to the charity?  Well I think an important thing people can do is research and not to be responding to a telemarketer's call. But to do your due diligence and find out if this a charity that you really want to give to.  David Evans thank you so much for talking with us.  It is been a pleasure to be here.  David Evans is senior writer with Bloomberg talking about his article Duping the Donors in the October issue of Bloomberg Markets. InfoCision also sent us a statement. It reads and I quote It is important to understand that most charities use telemarketing as part of their overall fundraising strategy. Without proactively attempting to renew lapsed members or acquire new members any charity will ultimately lose its membership through normal attrition and in time may no longer exist. Once the lapsed member has been renewed or the new member has been acquired all their subsequent gifts will provide significant net return to the client over time. The statement goes on For profit businesses roll out new customer acquisition types of campaigns all the time such as free giveaways of sample products. Consumers do not question this strategy even though it drives up marketing costs.   This is NPR. 