 By now the flooding and other damage from extreme weather is something you have heard about. Now here's a crisis you may not have heard much about - overdoses believed to have been caused by the use of synthetic marijuana. Here in Washington D.C. officials say medics evaluated 118 people between Wednesday and midday Friday for suspected overdoses and transported nearly 100 of them to the hospital. And according to The Washington Post officials are looking into five deaths that they think may be related to the overdoses. In July more than 300 people overdosed in Washington D.C. in a three-week period. But this is not a problem limited to Washington D.C. In New Haven Conn. last month 70 people overdosed. We are joined now by Washington D.C. Fire and EMS Chief Gregory Dean to tell us more about this. Chief thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you.  Can you tell us any more about this recent spate of overdoses?  Well we cannot tell you why. We can tell you what we are doing here in the District to address it. So the mayor has asked us to bring all of the partners together. So we have a fire department. We have law enforcement. We have Health and Human Services. We have the medical director. We also have our Department of Forensics. Everybody has a part in this health - and our behavior people. So the fire department is responding and we are providing service to the patients.  I am going to stick a little bit more with the why if you do not mind...  OK.  ...Because these all happened within blocks of one another - in fact right near our offices here. Any idea why that might be?  So I do not know that I can answer the why. You know we are putting resources over there trying to see if we can deal with it such as police if they are looking in the areas that we have seen a constant flow of patients be it Health and Human Services if they are are providing services making sure they have water. Behavioral Health is over there offering assistance. So again I think if you look all around the country if we can answer the why I think we can all get there. So it really is what are we doing to address the problem as it is here? And that is trying to get all these resources out there to assist people that are finding - taking a drug that can cause death.  Can you just tell me though is there something in the nature of this particular drug itself that is leading to these terrible health effects? Or is there - is it tainted with something? Is there some you know is there some contamination involved here? From what you know so far I understand it is early days.  Yeah. From what we know even coming out of this summer is that it is synthetic drugs that are mixed with a unknown substance. So you know we are used to buying - going to the store we are buying something that has met all the requirements. These drugs are not required to meet any requirements. And in turn people do not know what they are taking. So that is why the Department of Forensics is involved because they are going through and trying to do the makeup of these types of drugs that may help us in the future.  Before we let you go what are you most concerned about right now?  Concerned about the health and welfare of our citizens. And that is why we are bringing all these resources together. And the mayor has asked that we look very closely at trying to keep our citizens safe. And we need help from our residents. If you see someone see them in trouble please call 911 so that we are able to provide the care that they need.  That is Washington D.C. Fire and EMS Chief Gregory Dean. Chief thank you so much for talking with us.  You are welcome. 