 Now we are going to put you in a Vegas mood. Some performers are not simply a part of Sin City's history - they are Sin City. Elvis Frank Sinatra and the Rat Pack - there is also this guy.  I wonder how many of you remember the boogie woogie craze?   Liberace - the extravagant pianist and entertainer had a large following on TV and at his Vegas events. I do not give concerts Liberace once said I put on a show. And that he did. He dressed himself not to mention his pianos his cars flamboyantly - gold lame rhinestones sequins feathers furs. His fans let us say were never disappointed.    Hey.  Even before Liberace's death in 1987 fans could check out some of his more notorious outfits and revel in his cheery gaudiness at the Liberace museum where else on Tropicana Avenue in Vegas. But the museum is now set to close next month. To talk about why and what is going to happen to all of that fabulous stuff we have reached Jack Rappaport who is president of the Liberace Foundation that runs the museum. Mr. Rappaport welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you David.  I assume this decision is going to disappoint many fans. Tell us why it came about. Mr.  It is just a fiscal responsibility on behalf of the board of directors of the foundation. We just have not gotten the traffic of admissions and revenue that we should have. Many years ago it was not unheard of for 450000 visitors to come to the museum. I mean it was the same as Hoover Dam Boulder Dam.  And where are we today? Mr.  As of date right now I think we are around 35. We are averaging less than 50 the last couple years.  Well the question we all had here when we read about the museum closing is what is going to happen to all that stuff - all the rhinestones? I mean will someone actually be able to buy a Liberace piano for their living room? Mr.  Well there are no immediate plans for any type of sale of the costumes the collection the pianos. No. Right now the board is putting together a short and long-term plan. We are trying to relocate the museum. Obviously people know - you are listening - the Las Vegas strip.  People have heard of it I think. Mr.  Yeah. Everybody's heard of it. We wanted to maintain our availability and accessibility to the locals but we wanted to avail ourselves to the tremendous tourism traffic that Las Vegas generates and why would not we?  Can I ask you before I let you go I have seen the images of the museum I mean all the rhinestones the outfits the cars the flashy dressing for the pianos what piece are you gonna miss the most? Mr.  I think the faces of the fans that come through and their expressions when they see it themselves. I do not have any one particular favorite piece. I mean the costumes are extraordinary and we have the history of them as they progressed. His collection of pianos that we have is just remarkable. The cars you know and everything was in pairs. He was you know he was Liberace. I mean he set the tone for all of the fantastic entertainers we have today. One question I would like to step back is to let you know that we are just finalizing an agreement for a portion of the collection to go on a national tour.  A traveling road show yeah. Mr.  Yeah. And the intent was always to leave enough of the collection to reopen a museum. And that is one of the considerations right now is to reopen in a new location that could be more viable. And again with the collection going on tour the two could compliment each other.  Mr. Rappaport thank you very much for joining us. Mr.  All right. Thank you for your time David.  That is Jack Rappaport. He is president of the Liberace Foundation talking to us about the closing of the Liberace museum in Las Vegas on October 17th. 