 We are going to introduce you now to a guy with an unusual job. Jon Jaros runs Horizon Rail Services.  Heading out on the east side again - got a second locomotive needs some help.  It is like emergency road service meets used car salesman meets parts dealer of the locomotive world. Basically he is the guy you call when your enormous locomotive breaks down somewhere on the tracks. From a Cleveland rail yard Ida Lieszkovszky reports.  Here we go hot start.   In the heart of Cleveland's industrial area sits a turn-of-the-century roundhouse. There are old trains strewn about here - some gutted to the core others fixed up shiny and new. These locomotives are enormous. Each can weigh a couple hundred tons. Anyone who is spent any time around toddlers like this 19-month-old knows the appeal of these monstrous machines.  Hoo hoo. Hoo hoo. Hoo hoo.  Many kids dream of growing up to work on trains. Jon Jaros was no different but he took it a step further.  He seemed to like them right from the start as a little toddler.  That is his mom Mary Armstrong.  He came to me one day and says I want to lease locomotives. And I rolled my eyes. I am sorry . It was like OK who wants to lease locomotives especially a teenager? And I said well if you want to do that then you need to do - I gave him a couple steps. We have several locomotives out on lease. And I am just very proud of him.  When he was 16 Jaros decided to build a one-eighth scale model of a steam locomotive. That is big enough to ride. Just do not put your feet down. By 17 he was selling heavy-duty industrial equipment and locomotive parts. A couple years later Horizon Rail Services was formed. Steve Korpos runs the roundhouse and leases Jaros work space.  His knowledge of locomotives and diesel engine is superb compared to other people you know? He does really know his stuff.  Jaros is largely self-taught learning mostly on the job hanging out at rail yards and by building that small steam engine. He is mastered mechanical and electrical engineering hydraulics diesel and gas engines. He now has three employees seven locomotives and hundreds of clients worldwide. Though he mostly travels the Midwest often at a moment's notice to fix broken locomotives his clients range from industrial companies to nonprofits like the Cuyahoga Valley Scenic Railroad.  I have known Jon since he was about 16 or 17 years old and did business with him back then. He was young but mature and was able to get things done.  Tom Jaite is that railroad's chief mechanical officer. He regularly hires Jaros to repair his fleet of locomotives.  Our locomotives are all from the late '50s early '60s. The parts for them are becoming very hard to find and it is real good to have a resource that knows throughout the country where to find these parts.  Jaros will work on newer locomotives but he has an affinity for those older machines.  I just enjoy them. I like them and I like working with them.  He refers to newer locomotives as junk specializing in ones built between 1952 and 1987.  They are simple machines. You can fix them. They are built in such a way and you can maintain them in a way that is very easy.  So is his job as much fun as he thought it would be as a kid?  Oh yeah. I do things that are cool every day. I mean we are outside lifting up you know 26000-pound engines and flying them around.  Jaros says there are plenty of job opportunities in rail. So the next time your kid tells you they want to work on trains when they grow up do not laugh. Instead maybe have them build one. For NPR News I am Ida Lieszkovszky in Cleveland.  