 To Louisiana now where it could be three more weeks at least before tens of thousands of people in the path of Hurricane Laura get their power back. In hard-hit Lake Charles the mayor is begging pleading for Americans not to forget about the devastation in his city especially with so many other competing national crises. NPR's Kirk Siegler reports.  In Lake Charles broken glass from office buildings is all over the streets. A man is shoveling it away in front of City Hall. Driving around there are downed power lines. Mangled traffic lights are dangling precariously in intersections. This city will take any good news it can says Mayor Nic Hunter even an announcement that 95 of the streets here are now at least navigable.  Yeah I have a million things going on right now. But one of the top priorities for me and members of public works is we are driving the streets. And when we see people we are stopping. We are talking to them. We are giving people options if they want to get out of Lake Charles.  Hunter stayed behind in his home as Hurricane Laura and its 150-mile-an-hour winds hit the most powerful storm to strike Louisiana since 1856.  Look guys we are just checking up on you all.  Thank you appreciate it.  Are you all going to be staying here?  In a neighborhood just north of Interstate 10 the mayor meets with Winston Andrews who also did not evacuate. And he is hearing that leaving now could make things worse.  They get to New Orleans they have nothing for them.  I know.  Mayor Hunter shakes his head. There are far fewer shelters too due to concerns about the coronavirus.  Do you all have a generator? What are you all doing?  I have a generator.  And you all be careful with that generator OK?  Yeah I have got it going outside.  I know. You know we had some deaths.  Five deaths from the storm in Lake Charles are because of carbon monoxide poisoning and using generators indoors.  There is going to be a lot of people without insurance in these areas. And we you know - that is where we are hoping a lot of the nonprofits and FEMA will come through.  FEMA says more than 50000 claims have been filed in the hurricane zone so far. This is just one of many huge disasters straining federal coffers right now. But Hunter is more worried about broader society getting fatigued - wildfires in the West and across the country the coronavirus pandemic and racial justice protests.  It is a big fear that America will forget what is happening right here and what we are going to be going through for the next weeks and months.  The amount of need here is overwhelming especially for renters like Gwendolyn Smith. She is hoping her landlord who lives in California will fix the roof which collapsed when a tree fell on it.  Yes water comes in when it rains. Well my brother put a tin up there but I am going to go and try to find a tarp for it to put up there to stop that rain because when it rains it just pours down like a faucet.  Tarps are still hard to come by six days after the hurricane. She and her 15-year-old grandson Qwentin did not think their car and its bad transmission could make the long drive to evacuate. Her job as a security guard is on hold and it is expensive to keep the generator running.  And it is about to run out you know what I mean? Yes.  We done spent over at least 200 over gas.  About 110 on just gas in the last few days.  They have registered with FEMA but who knows when real help is coming?  As not nobody coming to help. As not nothing.  So every night Qwentin has to climb up somewhere just to get one or two bars on his cellphone.  Best we can do is get on top of a car top of somebody's - top of the house and get service. But that is at night when it is not that hot.  It is risky with the roof caved in but that is the only way he can get news to see if there are free hotels they could evacuate to. Kirk Siegler NPR News Lake Charles La.  