 Protesters are gathering in more than two dozen cities across the country to condemn the practice of separating immigrant parents and children at the southern border. At least 600 children were taken from their parents last month. NPR's Joel Rose brings us this next report.    Shine. Let it...  A few hundred protesters chant and sing outside a Department of Justice building in Washington today.   Across every border...   Across every border I am going to let it shine.  Jessica Morales Rocketto is with the National Domestic Workers Alliance. She helped organize the protest against the Trump administration's zero tolerance policy that is led to the separation of immigrant families.  The stories are horrific. It is like babies being ripped out of their mothers' arms - literally ripped out of their mothers' arms. And I just - it is just horrifying to me that this is happening in America. And we cannot rest until it stops happening.  The protesters included Cathy Schneider who teaches at American University. She felt compelled to register her objection.  I do not recognize this country. And I cannot imagine how any American is not appalled by this.  The goal is to discourage immigrants from crossing the border illegally. The Trump administration has considered separating parents and children as a deterrent since last year. And last month Attorney General Jeff Sessions made it clear. Families that cross the border illegally will be separated.   If you do not want your child to be separated then do not bring him across the border illegally. It is not our fault that somebody does that.  The Justice Department says family separations are necessary because children cannot go to jail with their parents. So they are placed in shelters run by the Department of Health and Human Services while their parents face charges. In most cases it is a misdemeanor - illegal entry. This is a big departure from past practice. Previous administrations tried to keep parents and children together in family detention centers or released them into the U.S. to wait for their court dates. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen continues to defend the new policy. Here she is yesterday at an appearance near the border in Nogales Ariz.   We will refer 100 percent of illegal southwest border crossings to the Department of Justice for prosecution. Every day in communities across this country if you commit a crime the police will take you to jail. It should be the same on the border.  But critics say this is not really about law and order. They say separating immigrant families is cruel and immoral. Many of the people crossing the border are fleeing from violence and lawlessness in Central America and seeking asylum in the U.S.   This is not who we are as Americans. This is not what we stand for.  This is Democratic Congressman Joaquin Castro speaking at a protest last night in San Antonio.   Your presence here tonight is a signal back to Washington D.C. that just because somebody crosses a border does not make them non-human.  Protesters gathered today in New York Santa Monica Miami and Cleveland and last night on the steps of the county courthouse in El Paso Texas.   Good evening everyone. Thank you so much for being here.  Linda Rivas directs the Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center. She is seen families separated in this border town for months even before the Trump administration's zero tolerance policy became official. Even when parents have served their time for illegal entry Rivas says they are often placed in immigration detention without their children.  For weeks if not months they will go without even knowing where their kids are or without being able to talk to them. And it is just - ends up being a very helpless situation.  Immigrant rights advocates are not just protesting. They are appealing to the Organization of American States to put pressure on the Trump administration. And they have asked a federal court in California to step in and stop these family separations. They are still waiting for a ruling. Joel Rose NPR News. 