 Florence's incessant rain bands are still dousing the Carolinas. NPR's Rebecca Hersher spent the morning at a Baptist church that has escaped flooding so far but where people are still on edge.  Pastor Gregory Batchelor has been anxious about rain for a whole week. The storm is moving so slowly it is just been hard to know if the danger is past or if the worst is yet to come.  One minute we are thinking ha we are finally over it. And then 30 minutes later you know we are back. We are getting another rain band.  But this morning the rain had slackened. Pastor Batchelor got up when the local curfew lifted looked out the window and said OK let us have services. It is been a long week. People want to pray together. 30 worship got underway at Hoffmeyer Road Baptist Church in the aptly named Florence S.C.   This is my story. This is...  One message from Batchelor and his assistant Pastor George Atkins was let us help our neighbors.  Even though we did not get impacted people definitely did.  But as Batchelor took the pulpit to deliver his sermon a hard rain started falling again pounding the roof - and then alarms.   People frantically checked and silenced their phones in equal numbers. Scott  the safety guy assured the congregation everything was all right. Another hymn was sung.  .  After the service was over Yvonne Rhodes  clutched her phone in her hand.  That rain was coming down there for a few minutes. You know it is up there.  Up there being North Carolina where her sister lives. They spent the week together down here in Florence S.C. after her sister evacuated. But by Sunday they would played every board game in the house and it did not seem dangerous to drive back. All through church Yvonne worried.  I tell you what I did - and I do not normally do this. I kept my phone like right here. And I have not heard from her yet but I am going to find out.  With church over for the day but the rain still falling Yvonne Rhodes returned home. Rebecca Hersher NPR News Florence S.C. 