 It is a moment that for most of us is the stuff of dreams - an out-of-the-blue call letting you know that you have been selected for a so-called genius award - 625000 paid over five years. Now for 26 lucky people that dream just became a reality. They include artists scientists scholars selected by the MacArthur Foundation for their extraordinary originality. Among the new fellows is historian Kelly Lytle Hernandez. She was walking between meetings at UCLA where she teaches when she got the call and...  Literally melted on the spot when I found out. I definitely felt like it was not real - right? - that somehow you had been lifted into another level or atmosphere.  A professor of history her work focuses on race mass incarceration and immigration. I spoke with Lytle Hernandez about her work earlier today. She says growing up on the U.S.-Mexico border in the 1980s and '90s she watched as black youth were disappearing into the prison system and Mexican immigrants were disappearing through the deportation system.  It was growing up in that environment that wanted me - or forced me to want to understand what was happening to us and why it seemed legitimate. And I wanted to disrupt that legitimacy. How I got to history and a historical analysis of this - I think that must come from family.  The history that you have unearthed and the narrative that comes out of it - it reminds me of all the ways we are rethinking history in this moment right? There is been a lot of conversation around the 1619 Project from The New York Times in the discussion around slavery. How do you feel about this debate this idea from people who say look you cannot rewrite history so to speak?   History is a narrative of the past. It is based upon the sources that we regard as relevant or that we can find. So some of the work that I have been doing and one of the other MacArthur fellows this year Saidiya Hartman is really about tracking down new records and finding new rigorous ways to understand those records. So for example with my most recent book City Of Inmates which is about the rise of mass incarceration in Los Angeles I developed something called a rebel archive. What the rebel archive is is one the records that have been authored by the people who have fought policing and incarceration across centuries.  Right so that is activists and community members and sometimes things that come out in courts.  You got it - and even cases that make it all the way up to the United States Supreme Court. It is also records that by the grace of God have somehow evaded destruction by law enforcement authorities over the centuries. And so it is a rebel archive 'ecause it has survived to tell the tale of what happened and how it happened and why.  I want to come back to something because when I first asked that question you laughed - a very big kind of ha .  Sorry .  No I am glad you did 'ecause I think it gets at the point. Like what do you think of the debate?  No I think there is something - everything good about reframing and the dance of history and the debate of history and where our present comes from and that we should always engage in that debate rather than invest in a objective truth of the past. And what we are talking about here is a power struggle - about you know the well-known phrase are - the winners are the ones who get to write history. Well we are talking about developing new - newly empowered communities new winners. And so we are beginning to rewrite our own stories. My work and the work of many others is very much invested in telling the stories of communities that have been marginalized that have been caged up they have been locked out they have been enslaved and bringing our story and our experience to the center of the American narrative and helping us to change the American future with those histories.  That is professor Kelly Lytle Hernandez MacArthur award winner. Congratulations and thank you for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me on.  And we have more coverage of the 2019 MacArthur awards elsewhere on the program. 