 President Obama plans a prime-time television address tomorrow to outline a strategy for confronting the so-called Islamic - Islamic State militant group or  ISIS. The speech comes a year after the president considered military action against Syria for using chemical weapons. But as NPR's Juana Summers reports from the capital things seem different this time around.  Talking to members of Congress today there is an overwhelming consensus that they need to do something about ISIS. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters President Obama should seek Congressional authorization.  When Elizabeth Warren begins to sound like Dick Cheney you know that is pretty broad bipartisan support here for dealing with this group of terrorists. So you really ought to be asking for our support whether or not he may think he is authorized to do what he intends to do. I think it would be in his best interest and the country's best interest.  Democratic Senator Bill Nelson from Florida says there is a reason why Republicans and Democrats are in agreement here.  All they need to do is see the videos of the beheadings and there is no question in your mind that when these guys say they will not stop until the black flag of ISIS is flying over the White House they are a threat to America and to Americans.  Nelson is one of several members of Congress who have already drafted resolutions that would authorize military action against ISIS.  My view is that it is time for all of us to come together in a bipartisan way to go after a very lethal threat.  Nelson's resolution would authorize military action in Iraq and Syria but it would rule out using ground forces. When you get into that level of detail that is when lawmakers start to disagree. President Obama and his spokesmen have repeatedly said he does not plan to deploy combat troops as a part of this campaign. New York Congressman Peter King a Republican says that is a mistake. U.S.  Yeah I do not know why he says that. He may not want to use them. But to me we should never tell the enemy what you are not going to do.  The 2003 Iraq invasion got strong Congressional support. But within a few years it became extremely unpopular and remains so. And King says for some of his colleagues voting to authorize an expanded campaign in Iraq and possibly Syria would not be an easy vote.  Many of them have spent - both Democrats and Republicans - have spent the last several years saying we should never be in Iraq. Get all our troops out we have to build bridges in Minnesota and not Afghanistan that type of thing. And the president himself saying that he was going to get all the troops out of Iraq and Afghanistan. The war was over we have to look inward that type of thing. So it is hard to reverse policy.  Even those lawmakers who say they would like to see of a vote do not think it is likely to happen soon especially with many up for reelection in just two months. And others say they do not think a vote's necessary at all. They say Obama already has the authority that he needs to act. Congressman Adam Kinzinger is a Republican from Illinois and an Iraq and Afghanistan veteran. U.S.  Look I believe he does not need to. I think he already has the authorization. But I think if he chooses to come to Congress I think it will pass overwhelmingly and it may work to his benefit to do that.  That was not the case just one year ago when Obama gave a different prime-time speech. Then he asked for authorization to use force in Syria over chemical weapons. Congress did not go along. This time though the mood on Capitol Hill is different. Juana Summers NPR News The Capitol. 