 Secretary of State Mike Pompeo released a report today outlining a new vision for human rights in foreign policy. The report is the work of the Commission on Unalienable Rights that Pompeo pulled together last year. He spoke today in Philadelphia about its release.   And it reorients us back to the foundational unalienable rights that we are bound to protect. This grounding in our founding principle also helps us to judge when other nations are violating the rights that we care most about.  Some are concerned the document limits which human rights U.S. diplomats can promote. NPR's Jackie Northam was monitoring Pompeo's speech and joins us now. Hi Jackie.  Hi Sarah.  You have been reading the report on unalienable rights. What is the takeaway here?  Well you know this was supposed to be a fresh rethink on human rights in the 21st century and yet the first thing you see in the report is a picture of the Founding Fathers. You know in fact there are many pictures of the earliest presidents. And the whole thing - the whole document just feels steeped in the earliest days of this country. There is no sense of how human rights have moved on evolved to reflect a modern society. But Sarah you know harking back to the country's founding principles is what Secretary Pompeo was after. He said that he was alarmed by the profusion nowadays of human rights claims and that human rights advocacy had become an industry that was diluting the original meaning. So when Pompeo set up this special commission a year ago the tools he wanted the commission to use were the Constitution the Declaration of Independence and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  And human rights activists were critical of the decision to even set up this commission. What is the reaction been to the report now that it has been released?  Right. Well I mean one of the biggest concerns was that the commission - which by the way is made up of conservative members - would recommend placing religious freedoms above all else and you know thereby endangering say women's rights to abortion or equality in marriage. And I spoke with Andrea Prasow and she is the acting director of Human Rights Watch here in Washington. And she says the document does not explicitly say women do not have rights to reproductive care or LGBTQ people do not have rights you know she says it is more subtle than that.  It sets out a framework that is designed to prioritize some rights over others suggests that what many of us consider to be well-recognized human rights - and the international community does - are just allegedly political preferences.  So you know Prasow says in other words the overall sense from this report is that things like abortion are political rights rather than human rights.  OK Jackie this report has been a year in the making delivered today to an audience in Philadelphia during a pandemic of course. What happens now?  Well there is a two-week window for public comment on the document which really is not that long considering you know the importance of it. The writers do suggest that the U.S. gets its own house in order and highlighting the protests after the killing of George Floyd. But more broadly Pompeo says he wants new young diplomats to be able to take this document wherever they travel in the world to show what the U.S. stands for. However Prasow from Human Rights Watch says you know she does not feel the same way. She says that she hopes this is just a two-day news story and that the document will be forgotten after that.  NPR's Jackie Northam. Thanks so much Jackie.  Thank you Sarah.  