 American soybean farmers have been caught in the crossfire of President Trump's trade war with China but they may have gotten a reprieve yesterday when the president along with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker announced that they are working toward a number of trade agreements.   And the European Union is going to start almost immediately to buy a lot of soybeans - they are a tremendous market - buy a lot of soybeans from our farmers in the Midwest primarily.  One of those Midwestern farmers is Brad Kremer of Pittsville Wis. He is on the board of directors of the American Soybean Association. He joins me now. Welcome to the program.  Well thank you very much. Thanks for having me.  Well first I want to get your reaction to the news that the EU is going to be purchasing more soybeans. What are you feeling hearing that?  Well I think it is wonderful. I think as a soybean farmer from Wisconsin or anywhere for that matter we certainly welcome any opportunity to market our soybeans.  How big is your farm? Tell us a little bit about it.  Sure. I have a couple of hundred-cow dairy. We have about a 60-cow beef herd. And we farm roughly 2000 acres of corn soybeans alfalfa and wheat.  And who is your biggest buyer?  Well I sell mine to the local co-op but in turn all the beans are - in Wisconsin get exported. And China is absolutely our No. 1 customer - 1 out of every 3 rows of soybeans goes to China.  So 1 out of every 3 rows of soybeans goes to China. What did that mean when trade tensions were escalating this spring?  Well it is certainly you know we were certainly with a watchful eye. And you know with the tariffs that have just hit we have lost 2 a bushel in the last 30 days. So our farm we generally produce about 30000 bushel of beans a year somewhere in that neighborhood. So that is a legitimate hit to our bottom line of about 60000 on our personal farm. And that is a significant blow to a mid-sized farm. And you know these are real numbers that are affecting family farms.  So what does that mean when you hear of the 12 billion in aid to farmers that the Trump administration is promising? Is that something that can make up for what you have lost in sales to China?  You know I do not think it is going to make it up. I certainly appreciate the president's efforts. We certainly understand and support the president calling China out on their WTO violations. I think that is well-documented how they have treated us. The timing of it is not great for agriculture. It is kind of a depressed market now and this just added a little fuel to that. We would still like to see in my personal opinion and I think most farmers I have talked to at least here in Wisconsin we want trade not aid.  Sales are not just about the total number of soybeans purchased right? It is also about the relationships that these farmers have built with their buyers. How did these tariffs affect those relationships?  I think it is yet to be seen. We are certainly concerned about our relationship with our trade partners China the Pacific Rim. Farmers have developed these relationships farmer dollars checkoff dollars guys getting on planes literally going to China talking to end-users. We need to continue to cultivate those relationships moving forward and make sure that we have not lost them. It is very critical that we maintain those networks and those relationships that the generation before me made. And hopefully the generation after me can continue to cultivate that. That is paramount. We need trade to be successful long term.  Brad Kremer is a soybean farmer from Wisconsin. Thank you for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Yeah. Thank you. 