 We are going to focus now on the story of one man fleeing the Syrian Civil War Khaled. He is 31-years-old and one of the few Syrians who have made it to the U.S. since the start of the civil war there. Though even here he remains in limbo - unsure of how long he can stay or whether he will be deported. For now he lives here in southern California. When we spoke at NPR West this week he told me about his life in Syria before the war.  I am like simple let us say guy. It is not like something special I am just like any Syrian guy from Damascus. I was work with my father we have like our family business.  That family business was an Internet cafe. Khaled helped run it. He was also going to school studying computers. Then in 2011 the Arab Spring came to Damascus.   .  Thousands poured into the street to demonstrate against Syria's President Bashar al-Assad.   .  Did you join in on the protests? How did you feel about it?  Well maybe I am with them emotionally. I want freedom for my country. I want to be open like Europe like United States like any country. That is my belief - to be free. But at same time I do not want to join - I do not want to hurt my family. I was like let us say support them from inside but not doing anything because I am scared.  As the uprising grew Khaled says he was also scared of getting drafted into Assad's army and forced to fight the rebels.  I do not accept to join any military. I do not like to - I do not accept to kill someone. That I believe so I find the best thing to leave our country.  And tell us about the family you had to leave behind. How did you tell them about it?  Well I broke them heart. Of course they do not want to me to leave but at the same time they know at least I will be safe because they do not want to see me dead.  He says he could not get a visa to enter Europe or the U.S. but Mexico was an option. Khaled had a friend there. He says the plan was supposed to be short term.  But everything changed.  He watched from Mexico as Syria degenerated into a full-scale civil war - no one was safe there. Khaled decided he could not go home instead he went north straight to a checkpoint on the U.S. border.  I just walked on the border in Tijuana San Diego. I was looking about any officer to go to him to ask him help. So just I give him my passport and I tell him I need asylum. He looked confused I remember his face. I remember he ask another one - he tell him - hey we have guys from Syria and maybe he tell him like let him in. I went in and they put me inside detention.  In detention.  Yeah 10 months.  Khaled spent 10 months in an immigration detention center in Louisiana. While there he was brought before a judge three times to plead his case for asylum. It was also there that Khaled got a call from his brother. Back in Syria their mother had been killed in a bombing.  He tried to like hide this from me. He do not want tell me because I am inside detention. He do not want like let us say make it worse. I am in detention and - but I feel it in my heart I swear. I tell him tell me I feel something happened. And he tell me just be patient your mom passed away. Until now I am refusing what happened to her. I have her number until now.  Still in your phone?  Yeah. It is hard. It is hard. What happened to Syria is not fair.  Eventually immigration authorities denied Khaled's case for asylum. In December of 2014 he was released from detention on the condition he routinely checks with an immigration officer. He has a year to appeal his case. In the meantime he is managed to get a work permit and a couple of part-time jobs in California. And he is met the love of his life here. She is Vietnamese-American and like Khaled she had to leave her home country because of a war. In April they got married.  We do everything together. She is like my friend she is my boss let us say. She is my lover I love. She is my wife she is - in everything here I find her like she is next to me. I look at myself in mirror when I see her. She understand me right away - she understand my situation.  Khaled what do you think is next for you?  Well honestly I do not know because nothing is safe. Nothing I mean guarantee. I do not have no guarantee. I hope to continue my life normally like anybody else but what you can do?  Khaled is a Syrian immigrant seeking asylum in the U.S. His next hearing is scheduled for January 2016.  was ordered removed by an immigration judge with the Department of Justices Executive Office for Immigration Review  in August 2014.  In December 2014 he was released from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  custody on an order of supervision which requires him to report regularly to ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations officers in Orange County while his removal order is in effect. Mr.  currently has no pending appeals. Editors note on Oct.  Because of safety concerns Khaleds last name has been removed from this page. 