 Police in Bloomington Ind. are searching for two people who were in a car that drove through a protest for racial justice last night. Two protesters were injured in the incident.   Get out of the way. Get out of the way.  .  Protesters were demanding justice for a Black resident who they say was the victim of a racially motivated attack. The man's lawyer says the FBI is now investigating the incident as a hate crime. From member station WFIU Mitch Legan reports.  Last night hundreds of people gathered in downtown Bloomington to protest an assault on Vauhxx Booker that occurred on July 4. 30 the driver of a red Toyota Camry appeared to get impatient with the crowd and hit the gas. Caleb Poer was there.  You know we were expecting potentially people that might be bad actors to show up. I was just walking back to find my people. And I just heard tires like screech.  The protest was to draw attention to an apparent assault on local activist Vauhxx Booker as he headed with friends to a nearby lake to watch the moon.  Rather than to celebrate the holiday in the traditional way some friends and I opted that we would have a gathering and watch the lunar eclipse. We were expecting to just have a fun low-key night.  Booker says as he and his friends made their way to the lake a group of white men claimed they were on private property and began harassing them. Booker says before he knew it they were on top of him. Cellphone video shows at least four white men yelling racial epithets and pinning him against a tree as his friends plead with them to stop.   Let him go. Let him go please.  They started yelling for their friends to get a noose.  Someone called 911 and dispatch sent Department of Natural Resources officers since they had jurisdiction over the area. Officers interviewed both groups watched the cellphone video and decided not to make arrests saying they would follow up with the county prosecutor's office. Now some lawmakers have called on Gov. Eric Holcomb to suspend those DNR officers pending further investigation. Booker spoke at last night's rally saying it is time to start holding people accountable.   In that moment when five men were on top of me and all I wanted to yell was I could not breathe and I saw George Floyd's face in front of me and all the ancestors that died having thinking that they could not breathe.  Bloomington police are still looking for the driver and the vehicle involved in last night's hit-and-run. And the county prosecutor's office has not given a timeline on whether it will bring charges against those assaulting Booker on July 4. For NPR News I am Mitch Legan in Bloomington Ind. 