 North Camden New Jersey is one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in one of the nation's most dangerous cities. Drug dealers rule many of its street corners but there is a new scene in North Camden - baseball. Steve Ercolani has the story.  Here we go. Who is next? Ah. Let it go.  Kids take practice cuts on the infield dirt and adjust their hats...  Hit the ball.  ...a small but enthusiastic crowd shouts words of encouragement.  Go to second base. Go to second.  The cheering parents and playful bench-side scuffles momentarily disguise the troubles in North Camden.  Every day our kids walk past drug sets and open-air drug use.  North Camden Little League President Bryan Morton would know. He used to sell drugs on these same streets. As he shows me the field we step over the baggies vials and hypodermic needles that litter the sandlot.  What we are trying to do in the league is create these islands where kids can still be kids.  As players unpack their bags Morton smiles on at the island he is created.  So that our kids just are not visioning or seeing you know well my next opportunity is to be a drug dealer.  After a stint in prison and armed now with a master's in public policy Morton is here to revitalize youth baseball in Camden.   The kids circle up for stretches but threats from outside are never far away. And very suddenly four junkies screaming and bloodied emerge from the nearby woods not 50 feet from the sandlot.   One grips a knife.  Can you believe them?  Morton herds his kids to safety toward the other end of the field phoning the police.  If that had happened in your community everything would stop. So this is two things about these kids. One they are resilient because we are back to baseball. But two some part of them is numb. And so we are going to try use baseball to unnumb that.  As the kids collect themselves Morton is on and off the phone planning a cleanup for the recently christened Dominick Andujar Park. The park is named for one of his T-ball players who was slain last year defending his sister from an intruder high on PCP. His mother Debbie Burgos still supports the league.  Baseball was - kept them occupied and it kept them you know focused on the good things that you can do in Camden.  Wearing a shirt emblazoned with Dominick's photograph she watches the field guardedly as her surviving daughters play softball. Coach Maria Reyes takes a short break from instruction.  Some parents do not want to come to Pyne Poynt. There is either the junkies and they are shooting up or there are marijuana smokers smoking their blunts all right? Now Pyne Poynt was so beautiful. I can remember when I was little the city used to bring bands and people used to come. They used to have fun and enjoy themselves.  While Reyes is coach to many she is also mom for three of her grandchildren. Their real mother struggles with addiction. Their father is jail. Her eldest grandchild Joey plays ball in the 16- to 18-year-old league.  A couple people that is on my team they used to hustle you know but like they like baseball so they just came to play baseball and they stopped doing what they doing. And now half of them got a job.  Hit the ball.  The sandlot at Pyne Poynt faces the Philadelphia skyline a painful reminder of what Camden used to be a center of industry with a thriving social scene. But after recently securing 3.5 million for the rehabilitation of Pyne Poynt Morton is hoping Camden can reclaim some its former glory. He thinks baseball might have something to do with it.  When you come out and you hear these kids laughing and you hear the sound of baseball replacing the sound of gunshots you will know what we mean.  The kids stuff their gloves in their bags as practice winds down. Most walk down the Sixth Street corridor known as Heroin Highway. Morton looks on as Heny and Victor make their way toward the corridor their cleats clacking against the hot asphalt. To deter any possible repercussions we have withheld their last names.  I think the positive thing about here is it makes people want to progress. We do not want to see this no more. I know I do not. I want to get out of here Miami or probably Florida. I am trying to go to Los Angeles.  And while Bryan Morton hopes Heny and Victor do escape he plans to stick around Camden doing everything he can to make sure the next generation will not have to. For NPR News I am Steve Ercolani.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 