 When you hear the words Indian Country you may imagine vast unspoiled landscapes but many reservations like the Navajo and Hopi are blighted with piles of trash. Most tribes lack basic services including running water electricity and trash pickup so people just dump garbage anywhere. Laurel Morales of member station KJZZ reports from Flagstaff on a man working to clean some of it up.  There is a popular scenic spot on the Navajo Nation called Castle Rock. As you approach a large hand-painted sign reads please no dumping. But just beyond the sign alongside the dirt road you will see a soggy gray couch and a scattered half-burned a pile of trash. Combined the Navajo and Hopi reservations make up an area the size of Ireland. They produce an estimated 300 million pounds of trash a year but there is no place to legally dump it. In 1979 the federal government tightened landfill regulations to do things like protect groundwater and prevent fires. The Navajo Nation was unable to comply with the new policy so...  That was my job was to make sure that we close these landfills 10 landfills on the Navajo Nation.  James Benally runs the Solid Waste Management Program for the Navajo Nation. Now the Navajo and Hopi pay to have their trash picked up and brought to transfer stations where it is then hauled several miles away to landfills in border towns. But the trash trucks will not drive on the reservation's many dirt roads so people just dump it in ditches. Benally and his crew have cleaned up more than 150 of these illegal dump sites. He is counted at least 300 that remain. And it costs money.  For now the picture kind of looks bleak as far as cleaning up the rest of the illegal dump sites.  But trying to make a dent in that problem is one Hopi man named Tyler Tawahongva.  Traditionally we have been recyclers. We used everything you know from our hunting whatever we gathered - everything was used. So that was a form of recycling.  Tawahongva says if more people recycled there would be less trash to dump. A year and half ago Tawahongva quit his job as a substance abuse counselor when he realized he could earn money recycling. He makes his rounds each day to a hotel a grocery store and a hospital to pick up as much recycling as he can stuff in the back of his minivan. Sometimes the bins start to overflow before he can get to them.  When they start overflowing I get calls. They will say well we will just throw it in the trash - the worst five words of a recycler. .  Once he is accumulated enough Tawahongva rents a large truck from Flagstaff and hauls the recyclables down to Phoenix a total of 350 miles. There he gets 70 for each ton of cardboard. The price recently dropped so with the cost of gas eating away at his profits lately he is barely breaking even. Still he says it is worth it.  I do not think I could sleep at night if I knew it was all going in the trash.  Tawahongva dreams of someday operating a regional recycling outfit on the reservation that generates revenue provides jobs and addresses the larger infrastructure problem of trash and trash removal in Indian Country. For NPR News I am Laurel Morales in Flagstaff. 