 The Black Lives Matter movement is evolving. It first gained national attention for demonstrations against police brutality a few years ago. Now activists are expanding their focus to other local issues. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang reports. HANSI LO WANG  Black Lives Matter is here to disrupt. So when about two dozen protesters gather outside a restaurant in downtown Manhattan where diners sit at bistro tables on a sidewalk sipping wine this is not a mistake.  We are here tonight...  We are here tonight...  ...Because while you are dining...  ...Because while you are dining...  ...Black trans people are dying.  ...Black trans people are dying.  Mike Bento is an organizer with this group NYC Shut It Down which considers itself part of the Black Lives Matter movement.  We go to locations where people generally a lot of times do not have to think about or do not want to think about white supremacy and patriarchy and how that is affecting black people.  They started holding weekly demonstrations around New York two years ago to honor mainly people who have died at the hands of police. But he says it is not all about protesting in the streets. Sometimes they go underground into the subway. They pay for people who would otherwise try to get on a train without paying which could earn them a misdemeanor.  This is all connected. This is all part of how we get a system of mass incarceration. And so we start with basic things that we can do to keep our brothers and sisters out of that system.  Other basic forms of activism include standing outside the courthouse to support people charged with low-level offenses and helping to serve dinner to homeless people as part of a focus on the local level that you can find amongst other Black Lives Matter activists including April Goggans.  I am a core organizer with Black Lives Matter DC and the creator of Keep DC 4 Me.  That is a group trying to find ways to address violence within black communities in Washington D.C. without involving police. Goggans says she is been following the recent police shooting of Charleena Lyles a pregnant black mother in Seattle and the not-guilty verdicts for police officers in Minnesota and Wisconsin. And they have all reinforced her conclusion that she wants to get rid of the current system of policing.  I do not even know that I would put my effort into charging and imprisoning individual police officers because this is not going to happen very much. And that kind of justice is not a deterrent for other police officers.  Instead Goggans is holding meetings with other activist groups to figure out how they can make communities facing high crime rates more self-sufficient.  Shout it out you all.  Che Taylor.  Tamir Rice.  Philando Castile.  In Los Angeles a co-founder of the Black Lives Matter network Patrisse Khan-Cullors leads a candlelight vigil in memory of police shooting victims. It is been almost four years since Khan-Cullors helped birth the hashtag BlackLivesMatter and progress she admits has been slow.  The local is where the work is you know? If we are looking at just the national it is pretty devastating. But if you zoom in to cities to towns to rural areas people are fighting back and people are winning.  Khan-Cullors points to Jackson Miss. where voters recently elected a progressive new mayor in the Deep South. Still she says she is always been concerned about how the Black Lives Matter movement can sustain itself when victories seem hard to come by. She says she is worried that the Trump administration's policies are making it even more overwhelming for activists.  If you cannot fight the state and you cannot fight for the things that you need then you take it out on each other.   We scream. We sing. We yell looking for answers.  That is why gatherings like this candlelight vigil in Los Angeles Khan-Cullors says are important for keeping activists energized. Starting campaigns to change laws and policy Khan-Cullors says is the obvious work but staying together as a movement she says - that is the hard stuff. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 