 Here in California a riot tore apart a prison over the weekend. More than 175 people were injured and it is just the latest in the series of problems facing California's prison system. For more I am joined now by NPR's police and prison correspondent Laura Sullivan. And Laura this riot took place in the state prison in Chino which is about 40 miles east of Los Angeles. Tell us what happened.  Well officials say inmates started the riot in one of the prison's dorm-style housing units and it soon engulfed hundreds of inmates and led to the burning down of one of the older wooden dorms. But you know this was not some kind of protest or sort of an inmate organized event. This was something that started as a fight between inmates which goes to show how difficult living in these dorm settings can be. There was a time when California never used these kind of dorms. Inmates all had cells but the population has exploded and that has not been true now for about 10 years. And this - in this case as one fight spread through out all eight dorms and - you know a couple - officials believes inmates were actually barricading themselves from other inmates in some of the dorms. And it all broke down by race. Officials believe the unrest began between the black inmates and Latino inmates but in the end all of the races were injured in the riot and consumed by it.  Right and they are under a court order to desegregate the California prisons. They are also as you say notoriously overcrowded. Was that a factor in the riot?  Definitely. I mean anytime you pack a 120 inmates into eight dorms put their bunks within shoulder-width of each other post one officer at the front - I mean there is going to be problems. In some of the dorms I have been spent time in I mean you can feel the tension the moment that you walk in. Nobody speaks to anyone outside their own race. There is this hierarchy of inmates there is a code of behavior where you have to show respect and even something that seems just ridiculous like an inmate who leaves a sock on the floor or the water running it can turn into a race fight. Chino itself was built to house 3000 men and now holds 6000. It is one of the state's reception centers which means all the inmates from Southern California jails like Los Angeles are funneling into Chino where they are then classified and sent out to other prisons. But this process in California has been taking months at these reception centers even sometimes a year. So thousands of inmates of all kinds of security classifications are waiting out this time together packed into these dorms.  And now one of those dorms has burned down the rest not in such great shape. And so what will happen to this prison and those inmates?  Six of the eight dorms are now out of service which means the state is scrambling to find bed space for 1200 inmates. That is not an easy task in a state that is already at double-capacity statewide. They are looking at one juvenile facility trying to figure out if they can turn an empty building there into a proper prison. But the bigger crisis is that Chino can no longer accept new inmates from Southern California jails. And we are talking about hundreds of inmates each day that are now backed up into county jails. And officials say they are trying to divert some of these to other reception facilities but the burden is definitely falling on the jails right now. And it is just one more thing in a long list of problems for the state of California right now.  Right a federal judge last week ordering 40000 inmates to - or the prison to shed 40000 inmates right over two years?  Exactly to reduce the population.  Right. Thank you. That was our police and prison correspondent Laura Sullivan. 