 A slow drenching rain is headed to the Louisiana coast. Forecasters predict that by the time Tropical Storm Barry passes through more than 20 inches of rain may have fallen. And this makes people in New Orleans especially anxious because the Mississippi River is already unusually high from all the runoff farther north. These fears bring back memories of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Rachel Jordan lived through that disaster and now she is preparing for the possibility of another one. She and her siblings spoke with NPR repeatedly after Katrina and Rachel Jordan joins us again now from her home in New Orleans East. Welcome back to the program.  Hi Ari. How are you?  I am all right. So you and your family are New Orleans musicians. Remind us what you all went through now more than a decade ago when Katrina hit.  Well I mean I think everybody who lived through Katrina remembers it. I mean we all basically lost our houses except for two brothers. One was close to the lake which is amazing that his house stood. And my other brother who lives across the lake in Algiers Point - his house was safe. But the rest of us - we all lost our houses in Katrina. During that time I actually had an accident where my arm was broken - so not good for a violinist...  Right.  ...You know?  So how worried are you about this storm?  I am pretty worried. You know you see all the - I am looking at the news as I am speaking to you just watching you know the levels. I mean the Mississippi is really high. And everybody is concerned about the rain and the amount of rain that happened two days ago. I mean basically the city was flooded. We did not flood back here in New Orleans East which we never did. But Katrina was our Waterloo for New Orleans East. And so it was the first time that we actually flooded. But two days ago the city - so many holes in the system because Uptown the French Quarters Gentilly - I mean so many different areas in town were really flooded.  This forecast to be more of a rain event than a wind event so what kind of precautions are you taking - sandbags or moving things up onto the high shelves of the second floor of the house? Like what are you doing?  Oh yeah well I do not have a two-story house but I have taken every picture off the wall and I have - I cannot afford to lose any more music. Or the few pictures that I do have I have made sure I have all of those things with me plus my computers 'ecause that was the devastating thing - losing all the pictures of my lifetime.  Yeah.  That hurt more than anything. I mean I can part with all of the things because we have parted with things before. But my pictures - no and my computer - no. I cannot do that again.  Are you ready for the possibility of days without power? I mean do you have water and other supplies that you might need to get through?  Oh yeah yeah I have water. And I just went to Home Depot to get a fan that can operate on battery as a precaution for my parents. And my sister Steph  who has a two-story house - we have the keys. She left. And if things should get bad we are going to either go to her house and ride the storm out on the second floor 'ecause the option that my brother had pounding through the roof was just a traumatic experience for him.  You mean escaping floodwaters by punching through the roof from underneath.  Yeah yeah exactly. He was on the roof for I think six days.  Oh my goodness.  And he actually had to - Marlon  had to save - some people's house caught on fire and they could not swim. And they were you know like my house 'ecause we live right up the street from each other. But they did not have a two-story house.  I am sure anybody who experienced Katrina has some measure of PTSD. Does watching another storm like this approach trigger feelings in you that you have not felt in a long time?  Well yeah because all your things that you have finally collected - I mean at least this time I can say goodbye if it is it. You know what I am saying? The last time it was like you hurry off. And I actually was playing a concert in New York. And watching this storm from television was like oh my God it is really actually happening. The storm that - you know the hundred-year storm whatever it was called finally came. But now we are at the point where we have so much global warming. This a regular rain event is like a hurricane Katrina and it is only - it might not even be a Category 1 storm but the rain - the amount of rain that we are experiencing is off the chain. So the Mississippi is high. And so if we get a lot of rain and the levees cannot hold we are in the same situation as Katrina. So it is not a nice thing and it is not something that you would want to wish on anybody. I think a lot of people across the country have been experiencing all kinds of unusual weather and they know exactly what we are going through. And every time I see a rain event anywhere in the world I am like my heart goes out to those people because you do not know until you know.  Yeah.  And when you are in this moment you know you say to yourself wow it is really that bad.  Well Rachel Jordan thank you for talking with us. Stay safe and I hope we can check in with you next week after the storm has passed.  Thank you so much too.  That is violinist Rachel Jordan. She is the talented strings teacher at Jefferson Parish and she plays with the Loyola string quartet in New Orleans. 