 As we reported yesterday Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton is resigning to take a lucrative private-sector consulting job. During his seven years here he remade the department changing it from what critics called a paramilitary operation to one focused on community policing. Crime decreased dramatically it is at its lowest level in 50 years. Chief Bratton will return to New York where he was once police commissioner. And he joins me now. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Pleasure to be with you.  Now you have said that you are more interested in fixing institutions than in maintaining them. And is that why you decided to leave? Mr.  That was one of the considerations that I have always enjoyed the turnaround. The maintenance is less enjoyable to me I will leave that to others. It has happened in New York. New York has long after I have been - I left there as commissioner the city gets safer every year with the foundation we established. Same thing will happen here in L.A.  How have you changed the internal culture at the LAPD? Because it was a lot different seven years ago internally. Mr.  It was not easy.  Mr.  It was an ingrained culture. Part of it was through fortunately very large turnover a lot of the veterans of the '70s and '80s that their retirement time came during my time. A significant amount of the leadership 85 percent of the leadership of the department - I have approximately 100 captains and above - have been appointed promoted and assigned by me. An organization responds to its leadership. If its leadership is out of touch not focused properly the organization will be out of touch and not focused properly. And that in fact I think was the problem with the LAPD for a large part of its history - that the leadership was seen as not working particularly well particularly with the city's minority communities was stand alone was standoffish not only to those communities but to the rest of the law enforcement profession.  Crime has fallen dramatically in Los Angeles but the city is far from perfect. There is a huge gang problem for instance. If you had stayed your entire term what would have been your priorities? Mr.  Well the gang problem in L.A. the overall gang crime in the time I have been here is down 33 percent. Gang homicides are down over 50 percent. It still remains our most prolific form of violence. It also remains our kind of stand-alone distinction in American cities. New York City which will be my new home again in which I spent a lot of time in and out of has never had a crime problem similar to Los Angeles. New York just does not have drive-by shootings.  New York also has a lot more police officers per capita than Los Angeles. Mr.  Would not I love to have the small army I had there but I would have to have 18000 to have that similar number that I had in New York - I have got 10000.  So is that going to hamper any kind of efforts going forward in reducing the gang problem for instance? Mr.  It has always been an impediment. Fortunately it is an extraordinarily professional police department and one that I am so happy - I hope the legacy that I am remembered for most here is the improved race relations. Even as we have made the city safer even as we have remained a very aggressive assertive engaged police department we have done it in a way in which we have lessened racial tensions and ethnic tensions rather than increase them.  You are moving back to New York City. Do you have any political ambitions? Would you like to make  New York? Mr.  Not at all. I have to laugh that there was a editorial in the Post in addition to the news story advocating like come back and run for U.S. senator. I will get back into the public sector at some point in my life. I am still a relatively young man. But the next challenge purposely shows in the Altegrity company that offered the position to me.  policing but on a much larger scale than just a city or just a nation. I get to do it around the world now.  You are moving back to New York City. That is Rudy Giuliani's town too. Any plans to have a drink with him at Elaine's? Mr.  I do not think Rudy's ever been to Elaine's.  Mr.  I am not sure Elaine would let him in be quite frank with you. And Elaine's a tough broad. She runs her own joint. Even in my company I do not know if the mayor could get into Elaine's. It is that type of town.  Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton. He is resigning his post as of October. Thank you very much for joining us. Mr.  Pleasure being with you all the best. 