 In Texas Governor Greg Abbott has deployed the entire Texas National Guard to help with rescue and relief efforts. That is some 12000 soldiers. Colonel Steven Metze is public affairs officer for the Texas military department and joins us now from Austin. Thanks for coming on the show.  Thank you for having me Kelly.  Has the entire Texas National Guard ever been deployed before?  That is a great question. To my knowledge we have not put 12000 people in a single mission before. But I will have to check and verify that. But as far as I know we - it is certainly not in recent history.  Where are all those 12000 people right now?  So we have got - 4300 of them are forward in the affected area. The rest are on their way. And every day we have got more manpower and more equipment moving toward the coast to assist those in effect - in the affected area and efforts across the state.  So what are the big priorities then for those who are deployed? I mean where is the most need at this moment?  So we are focused right now - you know the current conditions make it so that you know - our No. 1 mission is focus on search and rescue. There are still people in imminent danger. As that starts to wane down as we start to get fewer of those types of calls then we are going to shift to you know critical life support missions. So we will set up what we call points of distribution where if other organizations either local state or federal provide you know food water or any other types of supplies we will set up distribution points to get those to the people who need them. But you know - and then you know there might be other contingency plans that we do after that as well. We are in it for the long haul. We are looking at a lot of different contingencies. Search and rescue is still our No. 1 priority followed up by critical life support. And then we may have you know more missions beyond that as this thing unfolds.  How many people are still in imminent danger?  I do not have the numbers of how many are still in imminent danger. I can tell you that you know the calls have not slowed down on our end. You know we are rescuing people around the clock 247 day and night. There have been thousands of rescues by ground hundreds more by air and you know doing other things that we are just calling evacuations and assistance incidents. So none of that has slowed down yet. And we are still getting calls across board to help.  Describe some of those rescues - like some that have happened today and in recent hours.  So you know calling down to some of the people like especially in the helicopter rescues they are pulling people off rooftops. They are pulling people up who have broken legs. I talked to a guy who said they were pulling up someone who was diabetic and had run out of medicine. And they had - you know they were unconscious. So we are definitely seeing you know situations where people are truly in dire need. And we are pulling them out of those situations as quickly as we can.  And we are hearing that the rain is going to continue around Houston. How does that complicate things for your troops especially aircraft?  Well so it is actually the biggest - well anytime there is anything you know in the air that can affect air operations. But the biggest place we are seeing it right now - I was just talking to commander down in the streets today - is they will go down a street and literally an hour later that street is filled with water. And they cannot go back that same direction. So because the situation is so fluid if you will pardon the pun and changing so much it is literally hard for them to do you know to do planning and to coordinate effectively because the streets and the water situation keeps changing.  Wow. So yeah you can imagine wanting to go street-by-street and saying this street's clear this street's clear and knowing that that is finished. But it sounds like that is not the case at all. How do you deal with the logistics?  Yeah you can literally turn around. Yeah you can literally turn around and the street you were just on is now 6 feet deep. So...  Wow.  And that is a real challenge for the wheeled vehicles on the ground. I mean they are high-profile vehicles. They are tall trucks. But there is - you know there is still a limit that - you know of what they can go through safely.  Have you ever seen anything like this?  You know we have looked - you know we have done a lot of floods over the years. We have done hurricanes. We are getting tropical storms. Obviously this is historic levels though. We are - you know we have trained for this sort of thing. We have prepared. But you know something this big is still going to take an awful lot of work and adjustment for everybody's part.  Are there any pictures that you just kind of cannot get out of your head right now things that you know you will remember for a long time?  Yeah yeah. They are definitely - I mean some of them good - I mean you know when you see the pictures of you know like children being pulled out of the water and they are wrapped in you know a garbage bag to keep them dry but they are smiling because someone's pulling them out of water you know those are the kind of things that they will stick with you for a very long time.  Colonel Steven Metze with the Texas National Guard thanks a lot - appreciate it.  You bet.  