 We would like to turn now to the issue of sexual harassment in the workplace - what is being called the Me Too movement. At first we were mainly hearing about entertainment figures who seemed to be taking advantage of the peculiar dynamics of that industry like private meetings in hotel rooms or make-or-break decisions over careers. But as we have since learned similar concerns are being raised in other workplaces - even places where you might think the individuals would be well aware of legal or professional consequences. One of those workplaces - the United States judicial system. Earlier this year the chief judge of the federal Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals Alex Kozinski retired after The Washington Post detailed allegations that he subjected law clerks and other women to inappropriate comments and behavior. Last week the Senate took up the issue in a hearing to determine the extent of the problem. One witness to testify was Jaime Santos an associate at the law firm Goodwin Procter and a former law clerk herself. She was kind enough to join us here in our studios in Washington D.C. to tell us more. Ms. Santos thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me.  How did you come to find yourself testifying before the Congress about this issue?  It is kind of wild. This all started just because a group of current law clerks asked me to help them write a letter to the Chief Justice asking for the judiciary to take some action to address harassment. This was right after Judge Kozinski was reported in The Washington Post. And after we started we wrote a letter. We got about 700 other law clerks to sign the letter and make some recommendations and then we began working with these working groups that were trying to address the problem in the judiciary. And you know five months later I was testifying before the Senate.  So you know of course I am going to ask you did you experience this kind of behavior? And are you aware of - in your peer group for example - these kinds of allegations?  I am very lucky. I did not experience any inappropriate behavior. I worked for two wonderful judges who treated me respectfully and valued my contributions in chambers every day. But I do know several - I have several close friends who experienced this type of behavior.  And give us a sense of what we are talking about here.  There is a range. There are some people who their judges or their co-clerks made comments about their bodies while in chambers. There were others who were groped or kissed. There were women who were asked sexual questions during job interviews. And what they all had in common is that they were afraid to come forward and report it or they tried to report it and they were discouraged from doing so.  Well in Judge Kozinski's case for example it has been reported that it was a quote-unquote open secret.  Yes.  And I have read that some law professors or former clerks have actually discouraged women from taking clerkships with certain judges. So is that true?  I do not know that from firsthand experience. But I have heard as well that some law professors and law schools have said you know this judge is particularly difficult to work for - which can be coded language for something more culpable.  So for people who are not familiar with your field can you talk about what effect that this could have on a young woman's career? Because you can see that some people might say well that is great. You know that was an attempt to shield these women from a difficult situation and to sort of protect them. But there is another side to that. Can you talk about that?  Absolutely. So law clerkships are incredibly important for women entering the legal profession. It is not just a notch on your resume. It also gives you a lifelong mentor. It opens doors for your entire career. For some of the most important jobs like U.S. Attorney clerking for the Supreme Court arguing before the Supreme Court - so if women do not have those same opportunities it could affect them for the rest of their career.  The other thing that I noted in your testimony that you pointed out - that judges are not just supervisors to law students and law clerks. They are - you used the word demi-gods. Seems a little strong but tell me about that.  The point I am trying to make is that when you come out of law school and you start working for a judge this is a judge who might have written opinions that inspired you to become a lawyer. And this is somebody who is deciding the rights for the most vulnerable people in the country and for the most powerful. And so it is very intimidating to go into a chambers and work for someone who is used to kind of being the king of his own chambers.  So this is not a matter of well if you do not like this person go somewhere else. You are saying that there is a dimension of power influence and visibility in the profession that needs to be understood in thinking about why people might tolerate that kind of conduct.  And a sense of reverence that is difficult to kind of get over - and I also say that law schools have historically told students you cannot decline a clerkship if it is offered to you. And often students might not know ahead of time what the clerkship is actually going to be like. And so when you start off your career by being told you cannot decline this opportunity that kind of sets the stage for how things might proceed later.  That is Jaime Santos. She is an associate at the law firm Goodwin Procter. She testified at a hearing last week to talk about sexual harassment in the federal judiciary. Jaime thanks so much for talking to us.  Thanks so much for having me. 