 Naida Lavon is 67 a former school bus driver and more recently a part-time employee at a rental car company. In March Lavon also became homeless. She is been living in her minivan in Portland Ore. As part of their Hunker Down Diaries series Radio Diaries brings us her story.  Good morning. This is Naida. It'45 and I am sitting in my minivan. I have everything but the driver and passenger window and the front windshield blacked out with insulating material that gives me a lot of privacy. I am pulling out my plastic drawers finding my clean clothes. I can open my van door and let the sunlight in. So the third week of March I think it was the governor of Oregon started talking about lockdown. You know there were warnings on the news about the social distancing but my mind just was not there. My mind was on where to park for the night and feel safe. My first night sleeping in my car I drove around and I did find a road in the industrial area. And this is one of the places I spend a lot of my time. It is a two-lane street completely lined on both sides with people living in their cars and their RVs and trailers. We really have not interacted or talked or anything but we kind of nod our acknowledgement of each other. There is one man that I feel really sorry for because sometimes he just starts yelling and screaming as if there is someone in the car with him but I can see that there is no one in the car. I just hate to see someone struggling like that.   I usually just leave early in the morning.   OK I am going to do a U-turn in the street.    I look at you all see the love...  I used to work for Avis Rent-A-Car in Portland. But because of the coronavirus they put everyone on furlough. I am lucky enough I have Social Security and a small pension because I drove a school bus. You know sometimes I feel like I do not look like a homeless person. I have a nicer car and I always make sure I am clean and nicely dressed. Because of the pandemic almost all of the public restrooms are closed. So I go to a grocery store and use their restroom try to wash up. It'44 p.m. This is the hard part. The mask makes my glasses fog over.  Sorry.  No that is OK.  Thank you. Thank you.  Yep. I do not let myself panic about the possibility of getting the virus but I take the necessary precautions. I do not know how people are expected to stay clean who live on the streets.  2.57. When you are ready.  Thank you.  You are welcome.    Ninety-nine dreams I have had...  I am driving to Tacoma to meet up with my daughter. She wanted me to stay with her but she does not have a spare room. And it would mean I would be living in like the kitchen nook. And I am not comfortable with that. It is hard for me to feel like a burden.  We are sitting in the Starbucks parking lot.  I am sitting next to my daughter Laura.  So my concerns are just for your safety. I do not want to see you taken advantage of getting broken into in your car. And I would just like to have you stay in our house.  I guess one of the things I worry about is that I cause problems between you and John .  I can understand that. But I guess the hard part was seeing how your car was set up and the bed in your car. It just really - that is when it hit me. Like what kind of daughter am I if I am letting you live in your car?  It'54 p.m. I have returned to my overnight spot. I just realized I forgot to take my vitamins earlier. It was hard the first few days just living in my van worrying you know what is going to happen? What am I going to do? But I am just one of those people that is always on the move constantly moving to a new place - not necessarily willingly but that is the way my life has gone. OK there is my last vitamin. Good night.  Naida Lavon in Portland Ore. Her audio diary was produced by Nellie Gilles of Radio Diaries. You can hear all the Hunker Down Diaries on the Radio Diaries podcast.  