 It is been a week since the record flooding in Baton Rouge started and the recovery is underway. Thirteen people have died in the floods and 40000 homes have been damaged. For some families this disaster is the second time around. Eleven years ago Trinice Rose lost her home in New Orleans to the floods that followed Hurricane Katrina. And now floods have devastated her home yet again. Earlier today she spoke to us from outside her house in Baton Rouge and she started by describing the floods.  The water still had not come up our lawn. So I was like well I am going to cook some stuff in case the lights go out and we do not have food available. So I go outside and look again. My husband dozed off so I woke him up. I said John  the neighbors are leaving and the neighbors across the street from us were leaving because they were still in the house. When they got into the water the water was at their waist and I was like oh my God. I said John we got to go. And he said we are not going to be able to drive the vehicles because the water's too deep so we packed one bag. The older kids held the babies on their back. I have a 6 and a 7 year old. We walked through the water thinking the water's not going to come up to the house because we never flood. But lo and behold when my husband came Monday to check the house and the water was still at his side we had a little over 5 feet of water in the house.  I understand that you have been cleaning the house today. Have you been able to save very much? Do you have...  No.  No?  I saved maybe 20 percent of my kids' clothes maybe 5 percent of my husband and I. All the furniture is gone. I have a grandbaby that is coming in September. We have baby beds. All this stuff here - that is gone. I was able to save very few .  I am sorry.  Yes. Actually the stuff I was able to save during Katrina because we knew Katrina was coming so we packed up pictures and stuff. Those days I was able to save. This time I lost. But yeah even though we went through Katrina and we lost everything in Katrina we were still able to gain a lot of memories in this house - 11 years. We had two kids born while we were living in this house. This house housed six families afterwards because when we initially vacated from Katrina it was six families that rented one house. And then we moved to this house which approximately 15 people stayed with us until they got back up on their feet.  So you really were part of a community of people who had survived this tragedy 11 years ago and that is part of what this house means to you.  Yes. It was like a safe haven after losing everything. And then now it is destroyed again. You know my life is destroyed again. Just tearing out the walls hurts me.  You know how are other people in your community coping with this?  Everybody in this community - we are working together. I mean we pulling out the house you know sheet rock. Furniture is lined up. It looks like a disaster zone riding through here but we are helping each other.  Did you have flood insurance?  No flood insurance so it is definitely going to be a slow long ride.  But you do intend to rebuild?  Oh yeah. I mean I am not going anywhere. I love this community. I love being here. I am not going to relocate. We are going to rebuild. It is going to take stepping stones to do this. What we are going to do is we are going to do it as a family. You know my nephew's helping. My son is helping. My 6 and 7 year old were out here helping. They are not here today. A wonderful wonderful wonderful co-worker of mine has them with them today so they can get away and be kids because they have not been able to be kids for the last couple of days. But no I am not relocating.  Well Trinice I cannot thank you enough for talking to us especially at a time that is this painful and this stressful. And I really hope that you get the help and relief that you need.  I hope I do too.  That was Trinice Rose. She is a Hurricane Katrina survivor who is starting the process of rebuilding her home and life for a second time after the flooding in Baton Rouge. 