 Earlier this year we brought you the story of a young Irishman who got swept up in the Trump administration's deportation dragnet. After spending his entire adolescence in the U.S. he was arrested and sent to Dublin to start a new life. Our reporter John Burnett recently checked in with the deportee to see how he is doing. He sent us this postcard from Galway.  When we last heard from Dylan O'Riordan he was sitting in a jailhouse in Boston waiting to be deported to the country of his birth. His parents brought him from County Galway to the U.S. when he was 12. He lived here quietly for eight years going to school working for a roofer getting married. Then last year he had a scrape with the law and got picked up by Immigration and Customs Enforcement who have been targeting anyone in the country illegally under Trump's tough new rules. They put him on a one-way Aer Lingus flight to Ireland. And that is where we pick up the story.  Whoo-hoo .  I am sitting at a table at Freeneys' Bar in the heart of Galway. A banjo trio is busking nearby and a Gaelic football game is on the TV. The last time I saw Dylan he was a sad pale detainee with a shaved head wearing a yellow jail jumpsuit. All of a sudden up walks a 20-year-old fellow wearing an English football jersey with a full head of hair a ruddy complexion and a toothy smile. Dylan you look so much better. DYLAN O' Oh thank you.  Yeah. O' Thank you. I feel it. Like I am just a lot more happier than I was you know?  Yeah. O' It just feels a lot better being back out.  Dylan's case is unusual. Nine out of 10 deportations are to Mexico and Central America to places with poor job prospects and predatory criminal gangs. The U.S. government ordered Dylan removed to a peaceful prosperous nation. He is moved in with relatives in one of the most popular cities in Europe. O' I would not move back. Even if I was given citizenship tomorrow I would not move back.  Why? O' It is just you never see any real trouble like you would around some parts of like Boston. Like there is a lot of violence gang violence everything. But around here everybody gets along with everybody. You never see any trouble around Galway.  Dylan dreaded the day of his deportation January 26 but it was not as bad as he expected. The two ICE agents who handcuffed him and drove him to Logan Airport gave him a cigarette and bought him Dunkin Donuts. He says they were sympathetic when they learned he was not responsible for his unlawful status in the country. His parents brought him here as a child. One officer even seemed embarrassed by the task at hand. O' He says this is the part of the job I hate is when I see someone who really does not deserve it and who has really no major crimes or anything like that. He said this is the part of the job that I really hate.  As Dylan watched the news from across the Atlantic he saw the illegal immigration crackdown that nabbed him grow even more extreme. The Trump Administration began its zero tolerance policy that led to the separation of some 2500 children from their parents at the southwest border. O' When I was - when I first seen it I thought OK this has to be like a fake news site. Then I seen it on like CNN everything. I was like oh it is real. Like the kids in the cages down in - where is it? - Texas is it? It is ridiculous what is going on down there.  In Galway Dylan skateboards. He goes to the pub for a pint. He watches football. And he is about to start a new job as a mason. He terribly misses his wife Brenna and his infant daughter Delilah. He FaceTimes them in Boston every night. He is excited that they plan to move to Ireland later this year. Dylan O'Riordan knows all things considered he has it so much better than the vast majority of immigrants being sent home from the U.S. these days. John Burnett NPR News Galway Ireland.  