 And now to the impact of the FAA shutdown on private sector workers. As we mentioned hundreds of airport expansion and renovation projects are on hold. And that means tens of thousands of workers are idled. NPR's Richard Gonzales reports on one suspended project in Oakland California.  Electrician Richard Zemlok is no stranger to lay-offs. A taut barrel-chested man in his 50's Zemlock spent 22 years at a local Toyota assembly plant before it was shut down last year. He says he has not seen much work since then. So he was relieved when he got a job helping build a new air traffic control tower at Oakland's International Airport. Among other things it meant Zemlock could keep his union medical coverage.  Our work our hours on the job relate to our medical payments. Our medical - my medical is about 1400 a month and if I am not working then that has to be paid by somebody or else I do not have medical coverage for me and my family.  But after only a month on the job he got the word that the project was temporarily shutting down. Zemlock is one of 60 engineers and contractors who were laid off here in Oakland as a result of the congressional dispute over funding the FAA.   I could not believe it. You know I just got out here after 10 months of going through this stuff. And here's a one year project and it is like sorry no job go on home.   Zemlock laughs but there is no smile on his weathered face. He is standing at the shuttered gate of the job site. It is just a stone's throw from the skeleton of a 236-foot state of the art air traffic control tower.  I just want a job. I want to go to work. I want to be productive. I do not want to sit home. I want to pay my bills. I want to pay my taxes. I want to do what is right for America. And I am trying to do the right thing and it seems like everywhere you turn something gets shut down for some political reason.  Oakland's frozen airport project is but one of five in Northern California. Many many more across the nation add up to more than 10 billion of lost work. For Oakland Mayor Jean Quan this work stoppage delays a key component of her plan to encourage tourism especially from China.  If we cannot modernize and expand our port and make it more efficient for more flights to come into Oakland that will hurt our goal of increasing tourism long run. It will hurt immediate jobs. It hurts long term jobs. And it is not necessary. There is no reason why Congress cannot move this forward and why they should not have moved it forward months ago.  In a teleconference Wednesday Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said its clear that working Americans are bearing the brunt of the congressional stalemate.  This is not the way to treat people who have worked very hard - people particularly in the construction trades which has one of the highest unemployments of any sector of our economy. Almost double the unemployment rate is in the construction sector.  Twenty-four year old Ashley Davidson knows that firsthand. She is a first year electrician's apprentice who thought it would be a skill that would guarantee her work and a career. Now Davidson wonders why Congress cannot do its job.  People who are not middle class who do not really know what it is to work a good hard day who have no concepts of what its like to be without health care no concept of what it is to work hourly to work paycheck-to-paycheck.  You think they do not get it?  I do. I think they do not get it and I think they do not care.  As it stands Davidson and her fellow workers will not be back on the job at least until September when Congress returns from its recess. Richard Gonzales NPR News Oakland. 