 In Detroit you can snap up a home for just a few thousand dollars. But just because a property is cheap does not make it a good investment. NPR's Jason Margolis reports on a University of Michigan professor who is teaching Detroit residents how to become shrewd real estate investors.  Peter Allen has been teaching a real estate investing course to students in Ann Arbor for more than three decades. This summer he is doing it 45 miles east Saturdays in Midtown Detroit.  I crammed this into four weeks for you all and I was just a little sleepless last night.  That is because he is throwing a lot of new terms and principles at his class pretty quickly. His 18 students are mostly middle-aged African-American community leaders. Allen requires them to target a home in Detroit then work through the numbers. Lanita Carter stands in front of the classroom showing repair projections for a 900-square-foot house.  It needs quite a bit of repairs. It needs new floors. It needs - the plumbing needs to be fixed electricity.  Her estimate - 21000 in repairs. She actually bought it last fall for 3900. Allen is helping her evaluate if it would be worth taking out a mortgage for repair costs and eventually renting it out.  So you have got a mortgage payment of 360. You have got a tax bill of maybe 50 a month.  He adds up a few more numbers.  So you have got a rent of 850 and you have got payments that are no more than 600. So you got a 200 dividend left in your checking account every month.  Allen estimates that he is taught 3500 students over 34 years in Ann Arbor. He is now in Detroit because he says he wants locals to revitalize their own neighborhoods.  This is the best way - individual grass-roots entrepreneurial house-by-house skin-in-the-game approach to neighbor revitalization than any government program or city-directed program could achieve.  Allen is volunteering his time.  I tell the students the only compensation for me is that when they are finished fixing up a house they invite me over for dinner.  Allen's students might be more cautious than the average homebuyer. After all they are taking a class first. Consider Dana Hart a woman in her early 40s. We walked around Detroit is North End where she rents.  My father raised me and he said Dana you will never own a home. It can always be taken from you by the bank. It can be taken from you by the city. It is not yours.  She is considering going against her dad's advice because she sees property values in Detroit coming back.  If you do not own property you have a likelihood of being pushed out and I do not want to be pushed out of this neighborhood.  She has her eye on a place with boarded-up windows graffiti and overgrown weeds. She does not think eyesore.  I think brick. I think look at the steps and the landings that you can put flowers on. I look at the balcony.  And now she looks at property taxes and interest rates and the first three rules of real estate which everyone knows have to do with location.  I know how to do you know walkability scores and such.  There are some things that are hard to predict in Detroit though. I went Lanita Carter's new home the woman who spoke in class. It is a charming bungalow from the outside.  It was used as a doghouse so that is why you do not want to go in right now.  A dog house meaning there were literally dogs?  There were literally seven pit bulls behind inside of this home.  You can still detect the faint odor of urine wafting out from inside. The dogs were protecting three squatters who were living there illegally. It took a long time for Carter to get them out. Back in the classroom Peter Allen sees this as a teachable moment.  As you look back on that process could you have improved upon it? Do you have any advice for the audience?  I would have done it faster because I bought the house in October and they just got evicted last month.  The squatters did a lot of damage in that time. She eventually paid a bailiff 2000 to evict them. Allen asks if it might have been better to offer them a thousand dollars to get out. That might seem like a form of extortion but ultimately Allen says it is really just about being a wise investor. Jason Margolis NPR News Detroit. 