 NPR has learned a highly anticipated report from the Department of Defense is not confirming the existence of extraterrestrial sightings but the report is generating lots of interest in UFOs which is good news for the town of Roswell N.M. which has come to rely on alien tourism. NPR's Kirk Siegler passed through Roswell today and sent us this postcard.  Welcome inside the International UFO Museum and Research Center where a life-sized flying saucer is venting steam and man-sized aliens are staring down at little Alexander Poff and his mom Tasha.   I am so glad that was worth standing here for 30 minutes for.  Really awesome.  Museum visitation is up by more than 20 compared to 2019. Local geologist and professor Frank Kimbler has a theory for why.  If you go back in time and if you brought up the idea of UFOs or aliens people did not want to talk about it. They thought you were loony. But these days it has changed.  There is a display here featuring some of the unknown artifacts Kimbler found at the site near Roswell where a flying saucer allegedly crashed in 1947.  Some of the material might be of extraterrestrial origin. We do not know that for sure. It still needs more testing. But it is pretty exciting.  Kimbler is also excited that the U.S. government has recently been getting more comfortable acknowledging he says that they do not know what some of the stuff spotted up in the sky is.  I knew it all along because I work in the field as a UFOlogist. But the idea that the government is being a little more straightforward with the public I do not think they are going to come back and say - I would be real surprised if they said oh you know we have extraterrestrials.  Now they apparently did not But once the unclassified portion of the report is fully public this month UFOlogists do expect the government to commit to doing more research at least. For UFO enthusiasts like Ethan Anderson though the report is a foregone conclusion.  I think the government's a bunch of bull crap. And if you really have technology that is so great you should not hide it from people.  Anderson first got interested in aliens after going to Roswell's UFO Festival a three-day little green men extravaganza held here every summer. He is convinced there is a government cover-up especially as so many people are capturing so many more unusual sightings now with their phones.  I would say it is moreso like they do not even know what they are dealing with so they do not want other people to go looking for trouble.  Roswell an old oil boom town has capitalized on imaginative ideas like these over the years. And an even bigger tourist boom is expected this summer with the report's release and pandemic restrictions lifting. Shops hawking alien trinkets line the streets outside the museum. Even the McDonald's here is in the shape of a spaceship. Tourists like Vita Gartung of Kansas had not heard of the UFO report but her mind is made up.  I have a alien tattoo. Yeah. I believe that we came from the sky. And you know we are here to gather information. And we are going to be going back up someday.  She figures the U.S. government knows extraterrestrials are in our universe. Maybe they are even watching us with curiosity.  If they wanted to take us out they could. But I think we are doing a good job ourselves so they probably will just let us be.  Kirk Siegler NPR News Roswell New Mexico Earth. 