 Finally this hour if you get a parking ticket in Cambridge Massachusetts  Inhale exhale strike a pose - a yoga pose that is. On the envelope of your parking violation are drawings of different yoga positions. This is all part of a new approach to parking enforcement. All this is brought to you by the Cambridge Arts Council. And we are joined by Lillian Hsu from the Cambridge Arts Council. Lillian thank you for being here. Ms.  Happy to be here thank you.  I guess the first question everyone wants to know as they have read about this is - why? Ms.  Well it is a work of art. I guess that is an appropriate question when everyone encounters a work of art. It is why usually people are asking in terms of what is the function. And as a lot of art does it hopefully changes our perception and I think that this is a piece that has there is four different components to it that all together invite us to change our perceptive of this fairly complicated and rich world of the Traffic and Parking Department and all of its staff and its different roles and the public. No one likes to get a ticket. No one likes to get the car towed. No one likes the fact that you have to you know that there is only 15 minutes parking when you really want to sit there for two hours. I mean you know these are sort of things regulations that all of us kind of bump up against in daily life that people have a notion of this relationship between the people who get the ticket and the person giving the ticket as one that has not very good feeling about it you know.  So let me make sure I understand this. If I get a parking ticket now in Cambridge and see this artwork what do you want me to do differently than perhaps I used to do? Ms.  Well you used to probably just take the ticket and either you know go to the window and pay it or mail it in in the envelope.  Not happily no matter what I did. Ms.  Right. And now when you see it you see the envelope and maybe you notice theres something quite different and it is a juxtaposition of things that are not normally put together. You would read it you would look at it. It would make you wonder and maybe it just shifts that kind of habitual kind of response that you might get coming to your car and seeing that there is a ticket on your window.  Take a breath before I crack my car window with my fist in other words. Ms.  Right.  Well I did want to ask about  one of the reactions I caught was in a local paper in Boston. It was from a cop in a neighboring city who found this all kind of funny and said no we are not planning to soften our approach to law enforcement. Ms.  Yeah I think  yeah.  Are you seeing some of those reactions? Ms.  Oh that is just one of the ranges of reactions. Some people are going to be irate. Some people are going to be really confused. You know there is the whole gamut and we are very used to these kinds of ranges of responses to public artwork that really kind of asks these questions.  Next time I get a boot on my car I guess I will I promise I will try to relax. Lillian I do not do much yoga but I guess the thing I should say here is namaste. Ms.  Thank you very much.  Thank you Lillian. That is Lillian Hsu. She is the director of public art at the Cambridge Arts Council. 