 They say in fashion that everything old can be new again. And of course in the movies there is no such thing as an original idea anymore. Well apparently this lack of imagination now applies to a new old hobby that is making a comeback - taxidermy. Laura Secorun Palet writes about it for the online magazine Ozy. And she joins us now.Welcome.  Oh thanks for having me.  Taxidermy? Who pray tell is hanging this up on the hobby wall?  Well you would be surprised. It is not only a bunch of hipsters trying to find what is next and what is even more shocking but a lot of people from accountants to school teachers to curious teenagers because I think everybody has a morbid fascination. A lot of people get into taxidermy as a way to feel closer to nature. There is also people who are interested in Victoriana which is a whole fascination with the 19th century in the UK. And of course there is the others the hipsters and how ironic it is to have a dissected rabbit in your living room wearing glasses and a pipe.  Wearing glasses and a pipe.  Yeah I think they are moving on from this you know hunter style of traditional taxidermy into what is more anthropomorphic style and also into what is called rogue taxidermy which is putting different parts of animals together to create these fantastic creatures.  All right so where are they getting these animals?  So most of them - it is either road kill...  They go out and pick up road kill?  Yes they do. And taxidermists just flag it out with their friends. And people bring dead animals to their doorstep every day. But they also use animal feed. There is for example the rats and hamsters. And there is also you know the occasional pet that the owner wants to keep around forever.  The pet who has previously expired.  Yes.  OK. All right without getting too gory here there are basically DIY stuffing kits. How does that work?  In the kit comes everything that you need to dissect a mouse - very detailed instructions. You know what to pull from where and what muscle and what not - what to do with the skin and all those things.  So it is like...  And...  ...High school biology class.  It is very much like it actually.  What kind of time and expense is required to get good at this?  Well it is not cheap and it is definitely time consuming. The kit for example it is 50 bucks. The courses however are usually around 200 - it depends. There are courses in London and New York and Sydney. They are popping up everywhere.  Laura any pushback from the animal rights community?  Absolutely. So PETA for example has issued a statement saying that they do not condone and they do not like taxidermy. You know a lot of these people say that indeed they use road kill and they use animal feed. But there is always the risk that animals will be killed just for enjoyment. And there is also the moral issue of whether or not it is denigrating for the animal to be you know portrayed as a person or you know put on a mantelpiece.  Did you get a chance to get your hands dirty?  No. But I am seriously considering it.  So you will be looking for a class in your area?  Yeah. I live in London I just might.  All right. Laura Secorun Palet is a writer for the online magazine Ozy. Laura thanks for your time.  Thanks for having me Tess. 