 After 18 months of investigation the long-awaited report about how the FBI handled the Hillary Clinton probe is now complete. The top Justice Department watchdog has faulted former FBI Director James Comey and FBI employees who sent text messages filled with political commentary. But the inspector general says he found no evidence of political bias in the decision not to charge Clinton with wrongdoing. NPR national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson has been reading the report and she is here now to talk about it. Hi Carrie.  Hi Ari.  You have got that big 500-page report sitting on a table in front of you. What stands out in those many pages?  Well first former FBI Director Jim Comey made serious errors in judgment by talking too much about the case in 2016. That is the top-line conclusion by the inspector general. The IG says Comey was insubordinate because he did not tell his bosses at the Justice Department what he was doing and why. And those mistakes helped cast a cloud over the probe and inevitably the credibility of the FBI. This report also takes aim at the former attorney general Loretta Lynch for not cutting short her tarmac meeting with Bill Clinton during the investigation into his wife's emails. And Ari it discloses some new information on text messages people in the FBI were exchanging filled with political remarks. Lisa Page a lawyer at the bureau texted Peter Strzok a top agent there about Trump winning the White House. Strzok replied in a text no we are going to stop it.  Of course President Trump has been attacking the FBI for going soft on Hillary Clinton. What did the report say about the investigation itself?  The inspector general did not review every single action the prosecutors and agents took but the stuff he did review suggests no evidence of political motivation. There were some complains about letting Hillary Clinton's aides sit in on her interview with the FBI in July 2016. And the IG said the investigators were way too slow in looking at emails the FBI found on the laptop of the husband of another Clinton aide later that year. But as for the decision whether to prosecute Hillary Clinton the IG says that was in line with precedent. It is important to note the president has been beating up the FBI about this case but every single action the FBI took here hurt Hillary Clinton and helped Donald Trump. During this same period the FBI was way more quiet about the ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the election and whether Trump played any - Trump advisers played any role there.  These are some really tough words for the people who used to run these agencies. How have they responded?  The former FBI Director Jim Comey says he respects the findings but disagrees with some of them and the FBI agent Peter Strzok says he actually was pushing for more aggressive steps in the Clinton email probe so the idea he was biased is bizarre. Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch says she holds her head high her prosecutors never acted with bias she says. And over at the FBI the new director there Chris Wray says he is disappointed and some changes need to be made.  The importance of trying to make sure that we avoid even the appearance of bias in all of our work that objectivity and the appearance of objectivity matters.  Wray says the FBI is going to do new training on that starting at the top.  This is a long-awaited and massive report that is still not the last word. So what happens next?  Well just you wait Ari. The IG is testifying on Capitol Hill next week twice on Monday in the Senate and Tuesday in the House. And this FBI internal review of employees who sent these political text messages could continue for a while. There is one more mystery one more open question in this report. We know watchdogs were looking into whether anyone in the New York office of the FBI leaked negative information about Hillary Clinton to Rudy Giuliani Donald Trump's friend and now his personal lawyer. There is no mention of that in this report. So we can say that investigations into that issue and other leaks or improper contacts between reporters FBI agents and other people at the Justice Department are continuing. There may be more news to come on the leaks.  And questions about the investigation into Trump world contacts with the FBI - those were not investigated in this 500-page report. There is a lot in there but not that.  Yeah. The inspector general's also investigating separately whether there was any impropriety with respect to the FBI and DOJ in their handling of Trump aide - Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. That investigation just got underway - no news on that yet.  NPR national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson thanks for this.  My pleasure. 