 More than 7 million Americans are behind on their rent payments right now and a federal moratorium on evictions is set to expire this weekend. That is likely to mean many more people put out of their homes just as the delta variant is spiking across the country. We are joined now by NPR's Chris Arnold who is been covering all of this. Hi Chris.  Hey Ailsa.  So remind us why this federal eviction moratorium is ending now.  Right. Well this was put in place by the CDC to prevent the spread of ndlords had sued and said look these are our properties - we should have the right to evict people if we want to. And recently the Supreme Court weighed in and said that the CDC does not have the authority to keep extending beyond this month. So at this point Congress would need to vote to extend it. President Biden was calling for that but then a last-minute attempt to do that in the House today failed.  Right. And I know that you have been talking to a lot of people during this pandemic people who are facing eviction but who have been protected up until now by this moratorium. What are you hearing from them?  Well many are really scared. I was in Swartz Creek Mich. this week and I talked to a woman named Mary Hunt. She works for minimum wage. She drives like this little medical taxi minivan. And she fell behind on rent because she got sick with COVID herself. And she told her landlord this but...  They turned it over to their attorneys and I got paperwork from the court saying that they wanted to evict me for nonpayment.  And Mary Hunt actually lives in a mobile home park and if you fall behind on the rent for the land under your home you can lose your home very quickly that way. She has five cats and a dog and a house just full of stuff and with the CDC moratorium ending she was really frightened.  How do I choose which cats to keep? It is not going to happen. I am not going to leave any of them behind. If I lose this house then they go in the car with me. And people can think I am a crackpot but I am not giving up my family. And that is what they are to me they are my family.  That sounds incredibly stressful. What does her landlord say?  Well her landlord is a company called Havenpark and it owns a lot of mobile home parks across the country. And after we contacted them they looked at Mary Hunt's situation and they saw that she was about to be approved for government rental assistance money so now they are saying they will not evict her. And we pressed them on that though and said OK well what about other people in Mary's situation? And they now say that they will not evict anybody who can show that they have formally applied for rental assistance and are still waiting to hear back. And this is really important because so many people around the country are in exactly the same situation with their landlords - whether they are in apartments or houses or wherever they are behind on rent and they are stuck waiting for federal money that they have applied for.  Yeah tell us more about that because with this moratorium ending that money is going to be crucial for a lot of people. So why are not people getting it?  Yeah it is crucial. Congress approved nearly 50 billion for this. It is a lot of money. But that flowed to states and counties and they set up more than 400 different programs to distribute it. The process in most places has been really slow. Peter Hepburn is a researcher with the Eviction Lab at Princeton University.  This is like a particularly frustrating juncture because we have all of this funding that is available to help keep people in their homes and we are not getting that money where it needs to be.  He says of the nearly 50 billion only 3 billion of that at last count has been given out. Some states and counties are doing better others have put obstacles in place that make landlords want to reject the offer. Or they are just all tangled up and it is kind of a mess. So it is really important that these state and local programs remove those barriers and get the money flowing out the door to more people before it is too late.  That is NPR's Chris Arnold. Thank you Chris.  Thanks Ailsa.  