 Now to Boston where hundreds of employees of online retailer Wayfair walked out of the company's headquarters. They are protesting the company's sale of furnishings to a federal contractor working in immigrant detention facilities at the U.S. border. From member station WBUR Simon Rios reports.  Workers protested outside of the company's headquarters in Boston's Copley Square today.    Hey hey ho ho ICE contracts have got to go.  They are denouncing executives' refusal to back out of a sale with a government contractor furnishing a federal detention center for migrants near the U.S. border with Mexico. Workers say they urged the company to stop the sale but when they were unsuccessful they decided to organize this walkout. Madeline Howard is a seven-year employee of Wayfair and one of the organizers.  We really need to make it clear to them that there are consequences for doing the things that they have done and that they cannot meet us with half measures. And also we want to make it a place where we are proud to work. Everyone deserves a home they love. That is sort of the company motto. And we think this action selling these - or like profiting off of selling these beds to these border camps just flies in the face of that.  The firm in question is BCFS. It identifies itself as a global system of health and human services nonprofits. BCFS issued a terse statement in response to the walkout saying quote We believe youth should sleep in beds with mattresses. Advocates have described unsafe and unsanitary conditions at the detention centers. But Wayfair says it is standard practice to fulfill orders for all customers they believe are acting within the laws of the countries where Wayfair operates. Rob Burke was at the protest today but not in support of the protesters.  They are upset about the company - their company - delivering products - selling product to a nonprofit that is putting this situation in beds - OK? - the beds or whatever the material is to keep these kids because they are getting jammed up by the Congress. They are not being allowed to allocate any money. So there is a political problem here.  In response to the controversy Wayfair said it will donate 100000 to the Red Cross. Instead some employees want any profit donated to an immigrant aid group in Texas. And they want Wayfair not to do business with companies involved with detaining children. For NPR News I am Simon Rios in Boston. 