 There is a new exhibit A today in the national conversation about race police and the use of force. It is a video that comes from the Dallas suburb of McKinney. It shows an officer wrestling a black teenage girl in a bathing suit to the ground. He then pulls his weapon and aims at nearby teenage boys. NPR's Martin Kaste has this report.   Move move.  Like most of these cellphone videos this one starts right in the thick of things. A couple of officers are running through a crowd of teenagers. The cops were called about a fight near a pool in a subdivision. But at this moment they seem focused on getting the kids to leave.   You are leaving now. You are leaving now.  That is the voice of a McKinney police officer identified by numerous media outlets as Corporal Eric Casebolt. He is clearly not happy with the kids' slowness in obeying his commands. And then things escalate.   .  The officer starts to wrestle a teenaged African-American girl to the ground. She is in a bikini. She resists and then two young men rush in apparently coming to her aid. At that moment the officer pulls his gun. It is very brief. Once the males back off he re-holsters it and then he grapples with her again ultimately kneeling on her back.   Call my mama oh God.  The incident has caused outrage. For many it confirms long-held beliefs about racism in the community and the sense that black kids are not welcome in certain places. But this is also about the police and how much force they used. David Lee is an African-American author and former resident of McKinney speaking today at a press conference outside police headquarters.   It is appalling that this man would draw a weapon - a weapon - in the presence of not just my children but your children - children.  The officer's been suspended while the police department investigates. In modern policing drawing a gun is considered a use of force. Many departments even require officers to file a report every time they unholster a gun on duty.  You do not pull that gun unless you believe that there is a possibility that you are going to have to use it.  Jim Bueermann is a retired police chief who is now president of a research organization called the Police Foundation.  And there is all kinds of reasons for that - everything from it might go off accidentally to you have got it in your hand now what are you going to do with it? If you are not going to use it it becomes a liability.  Still Bueermann says he does not want to judge the officer's actions based solely on the video. He calls this video hard to watch but he says it may not tell the whole story.  The officer had to make some split-second decisions. The officer appeared to be outnumbered. He does not know these kids. He does not know if they are good kids or they are going to jump him.  And in fact on the video the officer seems to be trying to explain himself to all the smartphone cameras that are pointed in his direction.   I asked you all to sit. You became a part of the mob. You could have been the guys that were doing right and you were not so now you are sitting here in trouble.  He seems to be echoing a frustration that you hear from a lot of police lately. In chaotic scenes like this people seem less willing to comply with police orders. Some cops believe that noncompliance has become worse since Ferguson. That is purely anecdotal but Jim Bueermann thinks things are changing.  We are at a different place. When I was 14 and a cop told you to do something you did it. That is not necessarily the case anymore. We are at a different place. Our society is in a different place. And when you inject race into the equation it gets even more complicated.  The question then becomes how much force are Americans willing to see police use to assert their authority when people - or kids in swimsuits - do not obey? Martin Kaste NPR News. 