 For the next few minutes we' Common Core. Now to many educators and policymakers it is an exciting idea that will ensure America's students have the tools to succeed after graduation. But a growing number of conservatives including commentator Glenn Beck see the Common Core as...  This insidious menace to our children and to our families.  For more on what the Common Core is and why conservatives are fighting to stop it here's NPR's Cory Turner.  First the what. For years states used their own state-specific standards to lay out what students kindergarten through 12th grade should be learning everything from punctuation to algebra. But those standards varied a lot. So the Common Core replaces them with one set of national standards for both math and English Language Arts. Forty-six states and the District of Columbia all signed on. But with states now beginning to implement the Core standards have become a rallying cry for some conservatives. So now why do not they like it in three arguments.   Number One...  Washington should stay out of the classroom.  From the conservative Heritage Foundation here's Lindsey Burke.  This is an effort largely driven by national organizations and the federal government. And for many the fear is that that will come at the expense of state and local control of education.  Burke is quick to point out the federal government is actually prohibited by law from telling states what or how to teach. Michael Cohen is president of the non-profit Achieve which helped create the Common Core standards. And he says the Core did not come from Washington.  The idea of creating the standards and the work of creating them was led by governors of both parties. And there was not a federal dollar involved in their development.  The Common Core standards were created back in 2009 by state leaders. But federal dollars do come into the story. President Obama used them through No Child Left Behind and his own program Race to the Top to entice states to adopt the Core. And some conservatives say that crosses a line. Argument Number Two...  Do not tell us how to teach our kids.  These national standards tell states what kids should know by what age but not how to teach them - that is how backers see it. But to opponents though there is little difference between standards and curriculum. Again Lindsey Burke.  You actually see textbooks now who you know bright and splashy on the cover say Common Core Aligned Textbooks.  The new standards even come with a list of recommended reading that includes Macbeth and The Grapes of Wrath. The fear is a teacher who has in the past assigned books not on that list will in the future stick to the recommended titles. And every kid in the country will end up reading the same books and the same ideas. Last but not least argument number three...  This is going to cost money.  Everyone agrees implementation of the Core will cost money. There are tests and new textbooks. Plus teachers will need to be re-trained. But Achieve's Michael Cohen says the Common Core is money well spent if it means we are teaching kids to read and think critically.  We have not been doing that. OK we can continue to not do that we will not spend a dime on upgrading the instructional materials and we will continue to have students who need to take remedial courses when they get to college and for whom employers say they are not well-prepared for the jobs that I have got.  Michigan State Representative Tom McMillin a Republican thinks that price tag could help him stop the Common Core.  They may decide what they want to do. But if they do not have the money to implement it then they are not going to be able to do it.  In Michigan as in most states adoption of the Core was up to the State Board of Education. But funding that has to go through McMillin and the state legislature. So he added an amendment to the budget that said...  Not a dime of the money that is given to Michigan Department of Education can be spent on implementing Common Core unless there is an affirmative vote of the legislature to do so.  And conservative lawmakers in other states are using similar tactics. So while districts across the country move ahead with implementation  Just how common will the Common Core be? Cory Turner NPR News.   This is NPR News. 