 Growing up Jared Marcelle watched as older men catcalled women in his Brooklyn neighborhood. He saw and heard it so much he thought it was the norm. His assessment was right and it remains so. A study last year by Cornell University shows that 85 percent of women in the U.S. experience street harassment before the age of 17. Well Jared set out to understand why that is and admits that when he was a teenager he was one of those guys.  All my life I heard girls are cats and boys are dogs...  Hey gorgeous. J.  ...Except that most cats do not like dogs.  How you doing beautiful? J.  And most women do not like catcalls.  Hey beautiful how you doing? J.  But that did not stop me and my friends. Yo Ma psst . We would shout that out to the girls passing by. Hollering at women on the street was what guys were supposed to do or so I thought. What is the youngest age you have experienced this that you could remember?  I think the youngest - maybe I was 14. J.  That is my younger sister Aleah. Some local construction workers said something inappropriate to her. A.  I remember what I was wearing that day. I was wearing a sweater and it was zipped up all the way. It had snowflakes on it. J.  She came home flustered and the look on her face sent me into a rage. I rushed outside ready to put hands on these fools. I made her come along with me to show her that I was top dog and she was completely safe. Then I made the group of men apologize but when I turned around to see if she would accepted it she was gone. That is when I realized I was a hypocrite. A.  It is kind of ruined all men for me because obviously not all men are bad but because any interaction I have had with a man on the street who I do not know has been a negative one I tend to avoid every man that I see now on the street because of that. J.  When I was introduced to catcalling it was like a game just trying to be funny or look cool. We saw older guys doing it then started in ourselves around 13 14. It was as easy as saying hi to your neighbor. If she looked developed there was a comment for her. If a girl frowned across the street it amused us. We were not necessarily looking for a response.  Hello. J.  Hi Mr. Kimmel. I reached out to Michael Kimmel a sociologist at Stony Brook University and an expert on gender studies to get his take on catcalling.  It really has very little to do with the woman. It has to do with your relationship with the other guys. It is about you know doing it in front of other guys. You know what I mean? J.  Absolutely absolutely and that was definitely it for me. You know I - it never worked for me at all.  Right. J.  It was just about me seeking validation from my peers which is odd when you think about it...  Right. J.  ...Because would not you want to you know impress the woman you know?  Right but the answer's no and partly it is because we have always thought that the street is not a woman's place. It is a man's place. So it is not about making women feel good or wanted or desired. It is about making them feel you know - feeling uncomfortable being in our space. J.  Do you think that this behavior is learned and if so where?  Well we do not - we probably do not learn it from our moms. J.  Definitely not.  You learn it by standing around on a street corner with other guys and one of them makes a comment and everyone goes oh you are such a player. And you say to yourself you know at age 6 or whatever I want to be a player too. J.  His next comment caught me off guard.  Although we think of street harassment as heterosexual it is really what I call homosocial which is it is done and performed for other guys. J.  Wow I have never thought of it that way. But that is not the case for everybody. Sometimes guys actually want a girl's attention so they have to change the dynamic and approach her by themselves. That is a different kind of catcaller.  Hey beautiful. Damn gorgeous I love your hair. J.  And they can be brazen about it.  You have got to actually approach as many females as you want until you find out which one is the one for you. J.  I was talking to my friend Shawn outside my house. He is a handyman. Shawn can fix anything. He is also known for having a slick tongue and sometimes it even works for him.  I still do it. I call to a girl and tell her hi how you doing beautiful? I do not mean no disrespect by it. J.  Have you ever stopped and thought about how women feel about it? Because apparently not every woman likes it.  And that is the thing. It is not that some of them do not like it. They all actually really do like it. J.  All right bro. But you know not all women want to be spoken to. Sometimes they just want to walk down the block and have you know a moment to themselves. They do not always want to talk.  You know it is respect. Sometimes the guy he is just giving you a compliment. That is all it is. Like for example - hey beautiful. See? I was just calling to her just to call to her. No... J.  ...Just to keep your sword sharp.  That is it. If she says no I am OK with that. I can move on because guess what? There is three more girls behind her lined up.  See? That mentality is what is annoying to us girls. J.  That is Haajar. We have known her since she was a kid. She was passing by and the conversation caught her ear. This is perfect because she grew up in our neighborhood and she has opinions as well. Shawn tried to explain his approach to her.  You are walking down the street right? A guy say hi to you what do you say?  I probably just do not answer them.  All right now you answer right? A guy say hey beautiful how you doing you turned around oh fine. All right let me see where else this could go. Can I walk with you for a second?  I usually say no thank you.  All right now you say no thank you. The guy he is going to look at it like let me give it one more try. You understand?  But why? Why do you need to give it one more try if I already said no thank you? Like you could not take the hello good day and my name is such and such and keep it going?  Yeah but you got to understand a female like confident dudes period. J.  So what is your response to what he just said Haajar?  I mean I feel like we as females or me personally feel like I cannot even be nice and say hello back to you as a courteous person because then you want to take it farther. Like I am sure my body language shows that I am not interested. J.  OK so what are some things you do when you are walking down the street?  If it is a group of guys I do not feel like being annoyed so I cross the street. I might look at my phone if I stay on that side of the street. I might have headphones in my ears with nothing playing nothing on. I am not listening to anything. Just when they speak to me I can have a reason to not answer them. J.  Hearing how this impacts people like Haajar and my sister allowed me to see it from a woman's perspective. As a man I have never had to think about what women go through. I made myself think about it. I have taught myself certain things. Basically I wrote on the chalkboard inside my mind a thousand times women are not objects placed here for my pleasure. It was like studying for a test. And that is the hardest part. I had to write the test myself because as a guy this does not really affect me but as a human being it does. For NPR News this is Jared Marcelle.   Jared's story was produced by Radio Rookies from WNYC. 