 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. For a few days Florida is at the center of the race for the Republican presidential nomination. Last night a debate in Orlando tomorrow the Florida straw poll. And today the Republican candidates were showcased at the Conservative Political Action Conference or CPAC. NPR's Greg Allen has the story from Orlando.  Recent polls show Texas Governor Rick Perry is the front-runner in the race for the Republican nomination nationally and here in Florida. At last night's debate he took his lumps from a few different opponents trying to whittle away at that lead including former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Romney seemed to score points with the audience when he blasted a law Perry signed in Texas giving in-state tuition rates to children of illegal immigrants. In his speech today before a few thousand conservative Republicans Romney picked up the theme once again.  My friend Governor Perry said that if you do not agree with his position on giving that in-state tuition to illegals that you do not have a heart. I think if you are opposed to illegal immigration it does not mean that you do not have a heart. It means that you have a heart and a brain.   It all has given Diane Warren second thoughts on the man who was her favorite candidate. Today Warren who is from Apopka Florida was still wearing a Perry sticker but with reservations.  Well you know it was strange. He really had my attention and last night I thought he would be a little bit more powerful. But when they got to talking about immigration I need to check more on that.  At the debate Perry seemed flat at times unprepared for the attacks he took from Romney and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum. But in his prepared speech today at CPAC he came out with guns blazing saying the health care plan Romney adopted as Massachusetts governor hurt his state. In an apparent reference to Romney Perry said values and vision matter more than style.  It is not who is the slickest candidate or the smoothest debater that we need to elect.   We need to elect the candidate with the best record and the best vision for this country.  President Obama Perry said talks a good game but has not delivered.  Matter of fact remember President Clinton? Man he could sell ice cubes to Eskimos...   ...and the next day be against ice cubes.  Tomorrow many of those who attended the debate and CPAC will cast votes in a presidential straw poll. One of the voices who resonates with conservatives is Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann. She won the Iowa straw poll but since then her poll numbers have dwindled as Perry has picked up steam. Today she worked to win back some of that support. Too many times in the past she said Republicans have passed over the conservative candidate for someone considered more electable.  If there is ever been a year that we do not settle and sit next to the wall and go to the back of the bus  No. This is our year. This is our time. And we are going to have our nominee.  Bachmann told Republicans that with President Obama's low approval ratings a staunch constitutional conservative as she describes herself can get elected. But two Republicans from Port St. Lucie Bill Knudsen and John Tubello said they were not so sure.  I like Michele Bachmann. I do not know if she could get elected. I really like her. She is a smart woman.  Make a great vice president.  But they have demonized her.  The Florida Republican Party is calling this three-day event at Orlando's convention center Presidency 5. Romney says he is not taking part in the straw poll. His name however will still be on the ballot. As to how meaningful the straw poll will be party leaders point to history. In earlier versions - Presidency 1 2 and 3 - the candidate who won the straw poll - Ronald Reagan George H.W. Bush and Bob Dole - went on to win their party's nomination. But as Bill Donegan a Perry supporter from Orlando says that was then. Three years ago at this stage in the nominating process Rudy Giuliani and Mike Huckabee were the Republicans leading in Florida.  McCain was a distant third. Who got nominated? McCain. Now you have got Facebook Twitter it is a whole new dynamics. So the straw polls I will tell you this. I would rather win it than lose it.  Florida Republicans hope tomorrow's straw poll will boost the state's role in selecting the party nominee. And they are not done yet. They are working on scheduling a date for an early primary that they hope will make Florida the fifth state to vote right after Iowa New Hampshire Nevada and South Carolina. Greg Allen NPR news Orlando. 