 As NPR's Tamara Keith reports that means thousands of military families struggling to sell their homes and keep their heads above water.  Do you want American or cheddar?  I want...  Cheddar please.  I want American.  It is lunchtime and Sarah Bullard and her four kids are gathered around the island in the kitchen of their Bristol Rhode Island home. Her husband a Navy officer is out of town.   This kitchen is what sold her on the house on a snowy December day.  We walked through and it was a cluttered mess. And we sort of went - looked at each other and walked through into the kitchen and then my husband looked at me and sort of went uh-oh. And I looked at him and I was like this is it.   It is a beautiful kitchen.  Now Sarah Bullard wishes she had never seen that kitchen. Buying the house turned out to be a huge mistake. Five years ago it seemed like the right time to buy after renting for a decade.  They bought a home. It did not matter that they were moving every few years. Home prices were only going up.  It was seen as an investment. And we had many friends who - in this town in particular - who bought and sold within two years and did so very successfully.  Katie Savant is with the National Military Family Association an advocacy group.  Especially during this time of year when we are in the peak moving season military families call us in a panic talking about how they are not able to sell their homes they have orders to move and their house is under water and they just do not know what they are going to do.  There are not solid numbers on exactly how many people have been affected. But for a time the Department of Defense had a program to help military families having to move in a down housing market. Some 10000 homeowners applied. So far it is cost about a billion dollars. The program is not likely to be renewed which means for those moving now there are not a lot of good choices.  I mean it is to the point that we are about to drown.  That is Mindy Nichols. She and her husband are desperately trying to sell the townhouse they bought back in 2005 before he enlisted in the Army.  We were a young family. We did not want to live in a two-bedroom apartment so we ended up buying a fairly humble home.  The house is in Pennsylvania. She and her husband and their three daughters live in Fort Campbell Kentucky. They are actually about to move again. For a couple of years now they have been paying the mortgage on that empty house. They have just decided to let it go into default but they are still hoping to sell.  I do not see us buying a home again anytime soon. You know we would just love to just live on post and be tenants...   ...and not have the responsibility of property ownership anymore.  For the Nichols family it is been a no-win situation. And it is the same for other military homeowners facing a move with an underwater mortgage - let the house go into foreclosure or sell it for a loss. Rent it out often at a loss or live apart.  Jackie do you want juice in your new cup?  He already had his juice.   That is what the Bullard family has chosen to do. A year ago Sarah Bullard's husband got orders to work in the Pentagon. That is why the family eats a lot of meals around the island in that nice kitchen without him.  We always said that no matter what we would keep the family together.  But the house meant they could not which Bullard is still trying to explain to her kids.  Mamma.  Yes.  If we sold this house it is going to cost a lot of money right?  If we sold the house it would cost us a lot of money yeah.  That is why we are here and daddy is in Washington.  Actually he rents a room in a house in Maryland and commutes to the Pentagon. And when he can he flies home on the weekends to see Sarah and their four kids in Rhode Island.  And my three-year-old will tell me let us just go to the airport and get daddy. He thinks daddy is just at the airport because that is where we go get him from.  Tamara Keith NPR News. 