 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. The Great Salt Lake in Utah is as its name suggests very salty. It also emits a putrid smell and swarms with brine shrimp and flies. Still this weekend several dozen people are expected to race in a swimming marathon out on the Great Salt Lake. And some people swim there regularly. NPR's Howard Berkes tells us why.  This is a lake so great it covers 1700 square miles. It is five times saltier than the ocean with storms that bring surf-able waves. It has brine shrimp that swim right into swimsuits and brine flies that fly right into mouths. The Great Salt Lake is the perfect place for a good long swim.  If you can swim here you can swim pretty much anywhere. You have all the facets of difficult open water wide variety of temperatures wide variety of wind direction currents. And it is fun.  Surgical technician Stacey Schluckebier stands in a circle of six swimmers in the parking lot of the Great Salt Lake Marina about 16 miles west of Salt Lake City. They are all in swimming suits and they like the open water of reservoirs lakes and even oceans. Once a week at least in the fall winter and spring they will dip into this lake and swim from 400 yards to six miles.  It is so huge and boat traffic is light. On a normal day you are lucky to even see one boat so it is a very safe place to swim.  Safe from jet skis and motor boats says schoolteacher Goody Tyler. The salt is tough on them and it is also tough on swimmers. Even the taste stands out says software developer Gordon Gridley who swam the English Channel last summer.  The Great Salt Lake was like swallowing a battery whereas swimming in the ocean was like a glass of lemonade.  And in some ways the ocean is easier on the swimmers than the lake.  If you swallow the water that could be potentially hazardous. You could end up throwing your guts up. And I guess the other main thing is getting chaffed because it is so salty. It is almost like sandpaper rubbing against you. And it does not take long before you start to get blistered up and in some case it is just really really painful. It burns. So that is why we put the grease on.  The grease is a combination of Vaseline and lanolin and it glistens on the skin of the swimmers as we talk. They learn to breathe through their nostrils while swimming to avoid inhaling lake water. That also helps with brine flies.  They will fly right in your mouth and sometimes right down into your lungs and then you are coughing up not water but brine flies.  They get so bad in late summer swimmers take a break from the lake. Still the nuisances add up to bragging rights to gnarliness for Salt Lake swimmers.  You are hardcore. When you are out here you are hardcore. You are not just a pool swimmer or - you are out here no wetsuit you are swimming in the salt you know. You are the real deal. I think we are going by the boat ramp.  And there is nothing hardcore about talking to me in a parking lot. So the swimmers walk down a concrete boat ramp and into the water dragging inflated bright orange bags so they are easily spotted by sailboats and each other. The other big attraction for doing this is the setting a vast and stunning inland sea framed by snowcapped mountain ranges and its own mountainous islands.  Swim was good. It felt great.  Back at the marina Goody Tyler rinses off the salt and issues a challenge a way to sense some of what the swimmers experience without actually slipping on a Speedo and joining them.  Go down to the water and just get a handful put it in your mouth and then spit it out. Just try it.  Oh man that is salty. Oh.  You will never forget it.  I will not. No I will not. I will not. I have not. It took a gallon of sweet tea to get rid of that skanky taste which will not deter the marathon swimmers this Saturday. They will wade in at a brown and jagged island in the distance. It is eight miles from there to here. That is more than three and a half hours in the brine enough to begin the curing process. Last year after the race the swimmers stuck out their tongues. The most wrinkled reddened and pickled flesh won a special prize a jar of pickles. Howard Berkes NPR News at the Great Salt Lake. 