 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And as NPR's Larry Abramson tells us the National Park Service has begun a stone-by-stone inspection of the outside.  Early this morning a brave guy in a hard hat peeked out of a window at the tip of the monument and climbed out. At the risk of stating the obvious it is not something you see every day.  Oh he is clear up there - at the very top of that thing.  Oh gosh.  We could not believe that.  Wait 'til I tell the people at home.   Two workers spent much of today affixing ropes to the top of the monument. Those ropes will secure colleagues who will descend the sides of the stone edifice and carefully inspect the facade. Here's Bill Line spokesman for the Park Service.  They are going to inspect every single stone. This is probably a four- to five-day process assuming that weather cooperates with us. Certainly if there is any lightning or thunderstorms in the area we will stop this.  Spokesman Bill Line says that discovery led the Park Service to start this lengthy inspection. And this is only the beginning.  Then the Park Service would have to move into the stage of repairing what they have documented. After the repairs are completed the Park Service then has to bring the engineering firm back to recertify that the repairs are done to satisfaction before we ever open to the public.  The Park Service turned to the engineering firm of Wiss Janney and Elstner of Northbrook Illinois for the job. It is tough to write while you are hanging off the side of a sheer wall so project manager Dan Lemieux says the climbers will work with spotters down below.  The folks on the ground will have the survey that was done in 2000 - '99 and 2000 - as a reference. And they will be working with those data sheets and then listening and recording what our rappelers find on the monument.  Some said they felt queasy just thinking about being up so high. Schalyn Sohn and her two children watched her husband Erik Sohn work tethered to the stone. She says she is not nervous.  Just be careful and take your time. We will be waiting at the bottom.  With the monument inaccessible to most of us it suddenly became more interesting than ever. Locals who scarcely give this thing a second thought came out with their cameras. Julie Stuehser drove the 40 miles from Stafford Virginia to get a shot of the man at end of the needle.  That is a crazy crazy picture. It is like an ant on the top of a popsicle stick that is been whittled off to a point.   The people clustered at the base spoke affectionately of this monument and seemed touched by the way it is still being cared for 126 years after it was dedicated. For a moment government spending did not seem like such a nasty word - although local resident Maria Roc said when her young daughter heard about the project she thought it was related to the budget crisis.  And she did not realize it was related to safety and the earthquake. And she thought it was the government's idea to raise money and charge tourists to rappel out of the monument.  Maybe not such a bad idea. Larry Abramson NPR News Washington. 