 It is been more than a week since the Supreme Court struck down the federal Defense of Marriage Act and there are still a lot of questions about what it means for same-sex couples as the Obama administration and some states revise their rules and regulations. There is one question though  How many legal same-sex marriages are there in the U.S.? As NPR's Hansi Lo Wang reports the answer is actually very complicated. HANSI LO WANG  So complicated that even experts like Bob Witeck are stumped. For two decades he is been advising big companies like Walmart Disney and Verizon Wireless on how to market to gay customers.  How many legal same-sex marriages are there currently in the United States?  Got me.   Witeck is president of Witeck Communications in Washington D.C. a marketing firm specializing in gay and lesbian consumers. So it is pretty important for you to know numbers about the LGBT community?  It is essential. When we speak to corporations the business case is made up of numbers.  The exact number of legal same-sex marriages though has been elusive for Witeck but not for a lack of trying. His desk is covered with market research reports and printed tables of data. And Witeck has worked with the government agency that is charged with tracking numbers about American lives - the Census Bureau. Their latest estimate for same-sex marriages is about 168000 couples. But here' Not all of those couples are legally married. You see the Census Bureau ultimately relies on self-reporting which of course does not always match with a couple's legal status. So if you cannot rely on the Census Bureau for accurate numbers cannot you just count the number of marriage certificates that have been issued to same-sex couples in the states?  California marriage license applications are gender neutral.  Anita Gore is with the Department of Public Health in California where gay couples can legally walk down the aisle again now that courts have lifted the ban that began in 2008.  We do not ask for the gender of participants nor whether the marriage license is for an opposite-sex couple or a same-sex couple.  So you do not know the number of same-sex marriages that have been authorized?  No.  Hi Ms. France. Can you hear me?  Yes.  So let us try another state.  My name is Jill France. I am the chief of the Bureau of Health Statistics with the Iowa Department of Public Health.  And it is her job to collect data on vital statistics. Do you know how many same-sex marriages have been licensed in Iowa?  I know what is been reported.  Well what is reported though depends on whether or not people choose to share their gender.  So if it is not reported to us then we have no record that it is a same-sex marriage.  Or if it is a marriage between a man and woman.  In some states you really just do not have the information.  That is Gary Gates. He is a demographer with the Williams Institute at UCLA and he is come up with his own number.  I estimate that there are about 114000 same-sex couples who are legally married in the United States.  Yes he estimates using data from the Census and other surveys but it is the most widely cited estimate out there more so than the Census Bureau's bigger number. Bob Witeck in Washington D.C. believes Gates' number is an undercount. He says the hodgepodge of state laws and the uncertainty before the Supreme Court rulings meant some gay couples wanted to stay off the radar. One thing he certain of though is the trend line for legal same-sex marriages and it is going up. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 