 Yesterday we heard from an inmate in Alabama named David Crenshaw. He is been in prison for 26 years. He told us in all those years inmates never felt as unsafe as they do now.  We never just felt like our life being in danger the way it is today. Basically everybody incarcerated feels in danger.  It is not just feeling in danger. Between 2015 and 2017 there were nearly two dozen homicides in Alabama's prisons. That is according to the U.S. Justice Department. It issued a report this year that found understaffed prisons rife with drugs weapons and violence. Facing the threat of a federal lawsuit the Alabama Department of Corrections released a plan it says will turn things around.  Our goal here is for this to be an Alabama solution to this problem.  That is Commissioner Jeff Dunn. He is head of Alabama's prison system. Dunn's strategic plan calls for building more prisons to reduce overcrowding providing leadership training to senior prison staff hiring more officers and paying them more. The plan also includes a proposal to introduce rehabilitative programs for inmates. That is something David Crenshaw the inmate says used to exist. He thinks one reason why the prisons have grown so violent is that programs like work crews recreational sports and mental health classes have been cut. We played some of his interview for Jeff Dunn.  Today it is no meaningful outlet in here. It is just like these guys being thrown up in here. They have basically nothing to do just sitting awhile with idle time on their hands. And of course you know the person fitting in and whether the person's fitting in - and it always come out with a violent outcome seems like.  Commissioner Dunn can you talk about this idea of what is happened to rehabilitative programming?  Well I think unfortunately it is directly linked back to our ability to staff our facilities because any of the rehabilitative programs that we provide require staff. And we simply have not been able in the last many years to staff these facilities to the levels that we need. I think the other piece of that is that we have not had the capacity with respect on the infrastructure side to have the classrooms that we need the technology that we need things like this to give inmates productive things to do with their time. Our infrastructure simply does not provide for that right now.  I want to turn to another section of your report - culture. And the inmate we spoke with said he viewed officers - corrections officers as operating as though they are just another gang in prison. And this tracks with some of the findings in the DOJ report. It found that the Department of Corrections employees were a main source of drugs in prisons. How are you going to address this?  Certainly we recognize that we have on the negative side issues. That is why we initiated several years ago a corruption task force that has as its primary mission to find and investigate. And we are indicated to prosecute staff that are not abiding by our values and sometimes actually breaking the law. We initiated an inspector general process by which we inspect our facilities. And one of the things that that process looks at is the culture inside the facility.  But can I just ask - you know back in 2015 there were some 10 prison wardens who were reassigned people who had been under scrutiny for violent conditions. They were just sent to other prisons. This was just before you took over. Was that a mistake by the state and what are you going to do differently this time around?  Well I cannot speak to those decisions. I am familiar with...  But these - means these wardens were still working in the system right? I mean even if you did not make the decision to reassign they are still working.  Right and I do not - I am not disagreeing with you that they are still working but I am suggesting that we are instituting new standards for our wardens. And if you look several of those wardens are no longer with us. This is a problem that - overall with the department that is been in the making for over 30 years. And we are what we believe to be taking some very actionable steps towards addressing the problem. And as we get resources applied then it will increase the speed and intensity with which we can address those problems. And we are attacking them on all fronts.  Commissioner Dunn you are a former Air Force colonel. You know a thing or two about working within an institution. Is the culture of the Alabama prison system too far gone to fix?  No. I do not believe that. I think that we have a leadership team right now that is been assembled that is experienced.  But you came into office after a commissioner had to resign because of a federal investigation. And here you are again right? Only now it is under your tenure.  Well I - just to your point of this - whether it is too far gone - no. I would not be as committed and continue to serve in this capacity if I felt like it was too far gone. I think we have an actionable road map that we can use. We have got support from the legislature. We certainly have support from the executive branch. So all of these partners have come to the table to say this is something that if we work hard and roll up our sleeves we can actually make a positive difference and reform and transform this department.  Commissioner Jeff Dunn thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you Audie. It was a pleasure to be with you.  Jeff Dunn commissioner of the Alabama Department of Corrections. He was talking about the department's new plan to curb violence in the state's prisons. 