 As you have already heard this weekend families are beginning to bury their loved ones in Orlando people gunned down at the Pulse nightclub last week. There are many different ways to grieve death - sadness guilt rage. NPR's Aarti Shahani ran into something she did not expect something transcendent in the person of one father who lost his daughter.  Daniel Alvear and his daughter Amanda were tight buddy-buddy.  She used to call me and say daddy you cook today?  They lived together with her mom too. For a while they even worked in the same restaurant. He was her boss. And when he started working less he would make her favorite meals at home.  White rice and black beans with rare palomilla steak.  We are in Davenport a suburb just outside Orlando in the family's house. The walls are mostly bare except for a few collages they put together.  Her picture - her favorite was this one right here.  Of Amanda and her middle brother who died a few years back of cancer. Amanda recently took a second job at a hospital to try out the health care field. She was not sure she could handle it two jobs plus school.  She sit down with me and she said daddy we have to talk about the schedule.  It was going to take 35 days of non-stop work and she needed to know her dad had her back. Loyalty was important to her. Amanda Alvear age 25 and her close friend Mercedes Flores age 26 both died at Pulse together. It did not have to happen that way. But Mr. Alvear explains it makes sense.  It did not surprise me when they tell me that she make it out and she went back to her friend.  In the face of death Amanda could not leave her friend behind. And her father is proud of that decision. As he mourns her the first Father's Day they are not together he is clearly channeling that way she would take care of other people. At a vigil for the young women people would come up to him and hug him and burst into tears. He reassured them - everything's going to be OK. He tried to comfort President Obama too. When Obama came to meet with victims' families Alvear noticed the president's hand was ice-cold. And he looked shaken maybe because he is also a father. So Alvear pulled him in.  And I whispered in his ear who is winning tonight?  He was referring to the NBA finals Golden State Warriors versus Cleveland Cavaliers. He knows Obama likes basketball.  So he smiled like you just did and he told me Golden State.  Amanda is not here today - her body that is - but she is giving her dad a present for Father's Day. Weeks ago she bought him a hat - Tampa Bay Buccaneers his favorite team. Her mom found it in a closet shortly after she died. Sitting together it is a little hard to believe the Alvear spirit. I ask him - I do not understand how you cannot just seem but actually be so positive right now.  Love. Love mami. Love.  That love extends remarkably far. It might feel too soon to share this fact but Alvear forgives Omar Mateen the gunman who killed his daughter and others in the deadliest mass shooting in recent U.S. history.  They talk about love hate this and that. But the bottom line is you have got to learn how to forgive. We fight we love each other. You have got to learn how to forgive.  And you forgive him already?  Oh yes most definitely.  But it is not forgive and forget. Alvear wants to know how many bullets hit his daughter. Did she die instantly? From past experience he knows answers help somehow.  If you start losing hope - we have been there. Sorry.  He also wants to meet the father of Mateen. Alvear says he would invite the man into his home and observe him look for clues about his son in his face.  When you look at a man you know right away if he is lying or if he really feels what he is saying you know? So I will open my door and look in his eyes and see - does he sorrow or shame or embarrassment?  We in the media have reported 49 people killed at Pulse. Alvear corrects us - actually it is 50 he says. He counts the gunman too. Aarti Shahani NPR News Orlando. 