 Lots of neighbors are helping to clean out the Wells Memorial Library in the hamlet of Upper Jay New York in the Adirondacks. Floodwaters poured into the 1906 Queen Anne-style cottage and destroyed thousands of books. The library's board president Marie-Anne Azar Ward says when she got to the library on Monday and pushed open the door mud was everywhere.  It really looked like chocolate fondant. It was just this thick shiny layer of mud on everything - on the floor on books that had been pushed off of shelves. all over the hard drives of our computers. We have original Stickley furniture that was just pushed over and coated with mud. And we could see the water line where it had gone up to under the window sills and then had receded. And it was messy.  Well how much of the collection of books there in the library did you lose?  We would estimate close to half the majority of which are the children's books because they were kept in lower circumstances where children could get to them.  That makes sense on the bottom shelves.  Mm-hmm. And we also had a beautiful train that was made to hold children's books - train car bins that were made by a gentleman from the region named Arto Monaco who had had an amusement park in the region years ago. And the train is safe. But all the books that were inside the train were all ruined.  So basically your entire kids' collection is gone?  Yes. And our archives have been very thoroughly compromised. We are in a very small hamlet and the majority of our old papers are soaked right through.  Can those archived papers be saved?  We are drying them out and we understand that there are services available. Though we do have insurance the majority of that is going to have to go toward replacing the regular collection the computers our heating system which has been filled with silt. So I guess we are going to have to really sit down and make some hard decisions.  So you are covered? You do have insurance?  We have some insurance. We have about 15000 worth of insurance. However we also just got an estimate for clean up to remove mildew and that tops 7000.  So that is about half of it right there.  Mm-hmm.  What are you doing with all of the books that were soaked?  We have a pile in front of the library. It is really disturbing to see books piled up in this haphazard fashion. But we have just been trying to get them out of the building because once a book is wet it just start to really give off an odor and we did not want to affect the books that were not damaged on the higher shelves. And all of those we have boxed and put into storage. But everything that was damaged is out on the front lawn waiting for a dumpster to be delivered later on.  You know I know a library can really be the heart of a small town. What are people saying to you as they come by and see what happened there?  They cry.  Really?  We have had a lot of tears. We are extremely small. Our operating budget is only 30000. We have one employee. We are only open 20 hours a week. So volunteers are really important to this operation. And so people spend a lot of time here. And so it is sort of a second home for them. So a lot of people greeted us with tears and then just rolled up their sleeves and put on their mud boots and got to work.  Well Marie-Anne thanks for talking to us and best of luck.  Thank you Melissa.  That is Marie-Anne Azar Ward. She is the board president of the Wells Memorial Library in Upper Jay New York. 