 NPR's Brian Naylor reports.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack appeared crestfallen yesterday as he apologized for the bungled firing of Shirley Sherrod in part because it raised issues he would been doing his best to settle during his year-and-a-half tenure at the department.  I was very sensitive and remain sensitive to the civil rights issues involving this department. When you are dealing with tens of thousands of claims - tens of thousands of claims - it is something that needs to be resolved that has not been resolved and must be resolved.  John Boyd is president of the National Black Farmers Association.  This is what we call the last plantation. It is the last federal arm in this country to integrate. The United States Department of Agriculture they filed lawsuits in federal court to prevent black workers from coming to work once they integrated. That is the history of the United States Department of Agriculture.  I spoke to Boyd on the lawn of the Capitol where he came today up from his farm in Mecklenburg County Virginia to lobby Congress. Boyd was one of those discriminated against. In 1994 he was denied loans by a USDA agent in Richmond Virginia by the name of James Garnett.  So that is - that can be very frustrating for you know a black person who is been out here 20 26 years fighting discrimination.  John Boyd.  I am frustrated. I am frustrated today that I am still begging for votes in the Senate for something that should have been done years ago and I am frustrated to see that this country the country that we live in we still have not overcome race relations in this country.  In Oklahoma City Oklahoma Willard Tillman spoke to me on his cell phone from the farmers' market where he is brought some of his produce to sell.  Watermelons cantaloupes squash greens cabbage tomatoes okra.  Tillman is also waiting for the second settlement to get funded. He says though that the money will come too late for some black farmers.  A lot of the people that are deserving of this have died man - have died. They will never receive any of the benefits or receive the justice that they needed to have during their lifetime.  Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 