 The NFL is defending the latest controversial call by replacement refs as howls of injustice and incompetence reverberate across the country. Today even President Obama and vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan criticized the refs for the call that ended yesterday's game between the Green Bay Packers and the Seattle Seahawks.   The game's final play is a  loft to the end zone which is blocked ball by Tate who is getting - simultaneous. Who has it? Who would they give it to? Touchdown.  And with that call Seattle won. The derided call raises questions about how long the game can withstand a lockout of regular referees by NFL owners. For more NPR's Mike Pesca joins me. And Mike let us review that last play. It was a Hail Mary pass. Seattle needed a touchdown to win. What happened?  Yeah it seems exciting the way Mike Tirico of ESPN said it was actually calamitous. And this was actually the only game in Monday Night Football history that ended on a touchdown during regulation. That normally would not be enough to get us to talk about it today. But what happened was the defensive player a guy by the name of M.D. Jennings caught the ball. That means it is an interception. He had it cradled within his chest. The offensive player Golden Tate had his hands in there. But to everyone's eye it would seem that it was an interception and therefore no touchdown.  Everyone's eye but the referees on the field apparently.  Yeah there was one important guy who did not agree and he was the referee who raised his hands about his head and then there was a review that went nowhere. And today the NFL issued a statement that everyone expected it to issue which was we are not going to be overruling the call on the field. It did make a note though that I will quote from it Tate can be seen shoving Green Bay cornerback Sam Shields to the ground. This should have been a penalty for offensive pass interference which would have ended the game. So it is an odd construction but it really says we screwed up. And not even on the exact play that everyone's howling about.  And this has drawn so much outrage I mean does this mean is this the final straw? The question is will this spur the owners to settle this lockout with the NFL referees?  Right. So there are two things that are going on that seem very much intertwined. I am not sure that they are. The refereeing is horrible. You know it seems like a subjective statement but just look at all these games. The games are going longer. They are calling more and more penalties. Player after player are tweeting. The ESPN crew issuing sort of cri de coeur you will see Trent Dilfer and Steve Young these two NFL quarterbacks who won Super Bowls saying the game is being sullied. But none of that might matter. The only thing that really matters is what the owners think. And if the owners want to present themselves as staunch negotiators they might not be swayed by the public outcry at all.  I like this tweet from the Packers guard T.J. Lange  Fine me and use the money to pay the regular refs. Big question how much will the situation hurt the game in the long term if at all?  Yeah you know this is one thing that the NFL always says that the ratings are not going to go down. I wonder how much they want to ride on that supposition. Because sure it is three games of the season. Every team is still more or less in it and they had close games. What about when the games get a little boring? What about when your team is all but eliminated? What if the loose jangly not-tight nature of the way these referees are refereeing the game really has an impact on the viewers? It could hurt ratings and when you talk about the dollars that they are apart. It is really a pension dispute. It is really miniscule. It is about 30 million dollars over seven years. The NFL makes 9.5 billion dollars a year.  And you figure Mike we are looking at replacement refs for awhile?  Well yeah. I mean even if they settle the NFL the regular refs could step right in there but they did not have any preseason. They would get up to speed. But I think everyone who knows the game looks at not just this situation but all these horrible pass interference calls and calls that really affected the outcomes of many games not knowing where to spot the ball not knowing simple rules. And they all say give us the guys who have been doing this their whole lives. We will get back to the NFL as we know and love it.  And briefly Mike some people have called this the worst call ever. What do you think?  That is totally not true. It was just in the biggest moment while everyone was watching. And Golden Tate disagrees. Exactly.  OK. NPR's Mike Pesca thanks so much.  You are welcome. 