 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Michele Norris. This Saturday California will begin shifting responsibility for tens of thousands of prisoners to county officials. The unprecedented change is under way because the U.S. Supreme Court ordered the state to reduce its dangerously overcrowded prisons. Counties have had just months to plan for the influx of prisoners and parolees into their communities. NPR's Carrie Kahn reports that the largest county in the state Los Angeles is expecting to have to deal with 15000 new criminals.  Of all the prisoners and parolees leaving the state's system the bulk are headed to Los Angeles County. And with just days before the big shift begins L.A. County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky is not happy.  This has all the markings of a bait and switch.  The state is sending L.A. 120 million to take care of its prisoners for the next nine months. Yaroslavsky who is been on the county board for 17 years says he is seen the state play this game before.  They promise us everything now. They shift this huge responsibility from the state to the counties now. And then a year or two or three from now they will forget about that commitment and you know it will be then was then and now is now. And we will be left holding the bag.  In the first year that could add as many as 8000 cases to local officers' workloads. Despite the startling statistics L.A.'s chief of probation has been telling residents everything is under control. Last week he showed up at a South Los Angeles youth center to field questions from parolees and community members.  Tonight we want this to be a really honest and open dialogue an opportunity for everybody here to speak and get their questions out and get your comments and your...  Chief Donald Blevins stood up and assured the crowd that the department is ready for the influx of parolees.  As you heard I have been doing this for about 35 years. I have never seen a period of time where there is so much change going on with regard to the criminal justice system. And I think - and I will be honest with you I think it is welcome change. I think it is time to do some things differently.  On top of all that turmoil the county sheriff's office is under fire. The FBI is looking into allegations of abuse of inmates in the county lockup by sheriff's deputies. And yesterday three civilian volunteers at the main men's jail including two chaplains filed sworn affidavits that they witnessed deputies beating subdued inmates.  Civilian witnesses have never come forward before to corroborate what inmates have been telling us.  Peter Eliasberg is the legal director for the ACLU which has been complaining for years about alleged abuse by sheriff's deputies. Eliasberg says concern is even greater now that thousands more prisoners will be supervised by sheriff's deputies.  Well they cannot handle the group that they have so I do not see how they can possibly be deemed capable or competent of handling more.  The ACLU is calling on Sheriff Lee Baca to resign. For his part Baca says he is not going anywhere. He says there is plenty of oversight of his department. He is never been hesitant to discipline deputies and his jails are open for inspection anytime.  My word is probably the most trusted word of an elected official in this county. I am not worried about my word. You know why? Because we have nothing to hide.  Baca says he is already cleared as many as 4000 beds in the county for the new group of prisoners and he plans to use more home detention and electronic monitoring systems.  The criminal justice system here has been on gridlock for the last 30 years. We are used to too much to do with too little. So are we somewhat overwhelmed? No. Will we have some difficulties? Yes. But what is new?  What is new are the estimated 15000 additional prisoners and parolees coming to test L.A.'s already strained criminal justice system. Carrie Kahn NPR News. 