 The fire department in Middletown Ohio is overwhelmed by emergency calls for people who have overdosed on opioids. A councilman there is worried that the city's budget cannot keep up. He is suggesting a three strikes rule - overdose two times and paramedics will respond. The third time they may not. Esther Honig of member station WOSU has the story.  A fire truck rolls into Station 83 after responding to a call. Firefighter Bryan Oliver says this time it was a fire but usually it is a drug overdose. On average his station gets four to five overdose calls a day.  We actually had one this morning. We rolled up and he is laying crunched up in a ball and the typical agonal breathing pale skin.  According to the fire department the city of about 50000 has already seen nearly 600 overdoses this year. That is more than they saw in all of 2016. And that has a price. Each dose of Naloxone an overdose reversal drug costs about 30. And depending on the potency of the opioid one patient may require several doses. The department estimates they will spend up to 90000 on Naloxone this year. That is 50 percent more than their entire budget for all the drugs aboard their ambulances. When a local councilman heard that he says he came up with an alternative.  If we do not do anything the city's going to run out of money.  Dan Picard says each overdose run costs more than 1000. He counts the wear on the ambulance the cost of the drugs and the medics. His idea - impose a three-strike policy. The first two times a person overdoses they would have to pay back every cent by performing community service. Now if that same person overdoses a third time but they have not completed their community service an ambulance will not arrive to help them. Picard says the plan has been called inhumane. But what happens when the city cannot afford any emergency services at all?  So not only will overdose patients be dying accident patients will be dying. Heart attack patients will be dying.  Picard does not even know if this idea is legal. From addiction treatment to a needle exchange this year the opioid epidemic could cost Middletown over 2 million 10 percent of the city's annual tax revenue. The chief of fire says the money will have to come from somewhere else. As EMS they are legally and morally obligated to respond to an emergency. Firefighter Bryan Oliver says he can see why people in Middletown might support Picard's idea.  You know you can drive down the road and sometimes there is somebody laying on the sidewalk. You know they are just - they are tired of what it is doing to the community and the country.  Out on Central Avenue the city's main drag John Blankenship is sipping an afternoon coffee. Like many people in the city he is lost family to opioid addiction. His young son and daughter both died. Blankenship says the city may face financial ruin but as a taxpayer and a father letting people die is not an option.  God should be the only one to decide when somebody dies not a councilman.  City attorneys are researching Picard's three-strike plan. If they determine that it is legal it will come up for a vote by city council as soon as next week. For NPR News I am Esther Honig in Middletown Ohio.  