 Okay it is not the World Cup. But even so this week's world championship of lacrosse in Manchester England promises to be the biggest ever with teams representing 30 countries or maybe 29 countries. The daunting challenge of managing a tournament with that unwieldy prime number of teams comes about as a result of a passport dispute. And the team that may or may not take part is the national team of the Iroquois Confederacy straddling upstate New York and Canada. The Iroquois invented the game. More to the point they also invented their own passport. S.L. Price or Scott price has covered this story for Sports Illustrated and joins us now. And Scott Price tell us about the Iroquois passports and what the problem with them is.  Well the Iroquois have been traveling on these passports since 1977. And more to the point with the nationals they have been competing and traveling on these passports since 1990. But last week they were told the British consulate was looking to issue their visas but they wanted assurance from the U.S. government that those passports would be honored and that the Iroquois would be allowed back into the United States. Led by Homeland Security and officials from the State Department as well they were told they could not guarantee that they would issue clearance for those passports. And now as a result the Iroquois have missed their original flight which was yesterday and are in New York City awaiting a resolution of this issue. This Thursday they are scheduled to open the tournament against host England. And at this point they are completely in a stalemate and do not know if they are going to make it to England.  But you say that the Iroquois lacrosse team has been able to travel with this passport of the Iroquois nation for years and they have been able to come back to the U.S.  Yeah it is a strange issue because the Iroquois consider themselves to be a sovereign nation. The U.S. has offered for example in this instance that they can travel on U.S. passports and they will expedite the issuance of U.S. passports in one day. But the Iroquois stance on that is very simple. They are representing a nation and they are not going to travel on the passport of a competitor. As was said to me you know would you expect Canada to go to England under U.S. passports and compete against the U.S.? So the U.S. does not recognize officially the Iroquois as a sovereign nation but there is been an almost do not-ask-do not-tell sort of situation with the passports. There has not been a hard line taken on them. But now that the British are asking for a written assurance of their return I think the U.S. is taking a hard line on it.  They raise the example of the Canadians to you but you know this championship is being held in Manchester and there is a team from Wales that is going and although they do not have to cross international borders if they did it would be with a U.K. passport.  Absolutely. It is a strange issue but the Iroquois are extremely adamant about this. They want the right to be able to travel on these passports and for the moment they are not budging.   A world lacrosse championship without the Iroquois national team is like soccer's World Cup without blank.  To hear the English say it would be without England because the English say they invented soccer. Look they are not just a decorative team. The Iroquois have finished fourth in the last three world championships. They have great players in Cody Jamieson Sid Smith Jeremy Thompson and Gewas Schindler. They are a formidable force at the top level of the game and world championships without the Iroquois not only would lack something spiritual in the sense that these are the game's inventors but the very quality of the tournament would be greatly affected if they are not there.  Some of the players on the Iroquois national team have been very very good U.S. lacrosse players in college yes?  Absolutely. A year and a half ago Sid Smith a defender for Syracuse and a Cayuga on the Iroquois Nationals team made the play of the finals stripped the Cornell player of the ball and passed it up field got it up to Cody Jamieson a teammate on the Nationals who scored the game-winning goal in the final of the NCAA tournament. This is a top-level team and to not have the Iroquois at the world championships is something that would delegitimize I feel the world championships greatly.  Scott Price thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  Scott or S.L. Price is a senior writer for Sports Illustrated. 