 Jaclene Paolucci tweets a lot about U.S. politics women's rights and occasionally about her own life. One of those tweets about her own life went viral last week - about 80000 retweets so far. And she joins us now to explain what got everybody so animated. Welcome Jaclene.  Hi Ari. Thank you so much for having me.  Well first let me just say congratulations on your pregnancy. I understand you are due in just a few months.  Yes thank you. December 2 - a baby boy.  All right. And your pregnancy is central to this story. This was a tweet where you described an exchange with a stranger at Starbucks. Just tell us in your own words what happened.  So when I was in Starbucks I ordered my regular latte which is doctor-approved. And a stranger who was right ahead of me looked at me with judgment in her eyes and told me that it would be better if I drink decaf. And it was - like I could tell it was not just coming from a place of like caring. It really - I really felt like I was being judged as if I was not the best for my body and for my baby.  And your response to the stranger was...  I am not pregnant.  .  She immediately got so flustered. Oh my goodness. I am so sorry. She apologized you know profusely. You know when I left there holding my latte I kind of like had a little like you know smirk to myself. I was like ha-ha that was funny. So I shared it out to you know my 900 followers thought some other people would enjoy it. And then what ensued was way more than I bargained for. I think within maybe a half hour it was liked by like 50000 people.  Why? Why do you think it struck such a chord?  Well it really started this entire conversation about why when it comes to pregnancy society feels like it is OK to just insert their opinions and advice. And often the advice feels a lot like criticism and judgment.  Yeah.  Even to perfect strangers. And you know it is things that we would not normally think is socially acceptable to ask or tell people. It obviously hit a big nerve and interestingly enough with women all over the world. One of the coolest things to see was it being shared in different languages. You know I saw people commenting on it in Italian and Portuguese and Dutch. And it was just so wild to know it was hitting all of these different countries and that all of these women around the world...  Where women all felt the same way yeah.  Yes felt the exact same way. And they all kind of came together and started to share their own stories. Something that I just thought of as funny opened up like a Pandora's box.  So many women shared their stories in response to your initial tweet. Will you just tell us one that specifically stands out in your mind?  Oh my favorite was from - her name is Tara Chettiar  M.D....  MD - relevant.  ... Shared - I had someone say that to me while I was in the hospital working wearing a white coat that said OBGYN.  .  I mean is that not so perfect?  And it is not only men saying things like this to pregnant women.  No. Actually interestingly enough so there were many people that actually assumed that it was a man. But from my perspective most of this advice and criticism and whatnot comes from other women. I think maybe men do not like to butt in on things like that but women maybe feel like it is a communal experience almost like - and then your communal body is no longer your body. It is like society's body.  One of my colleagues who is a mother said if she thinks it is bad during pregnancy wait till she is out in public with a baby.  Yes. Oh that was a response that was over and over again. One of my friends just said just wait till your kid is crying in the supermarket.  Jaclene Paolucci thank you for sharing your story with us.  Thank you so much for having me Ari. I have enjoyed it. 