 We want to head now to Puerto Rico. The island still does not have power after Hurricane Maria made landfall earlier this week. There are fears of structural damage to a major dam and a lack of food and water. To hear more about what is going on we called New York Times writer Luis Ferre-Sadurni. He is in San Juan now. Luis thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for talking about this. It is an important issue.  So can you just give us a sense of the conditions there on the island?  Well the island is 100 percent without power mostly without telecommunications and mostly without water. Thousands of homes have been destroyed. Whole neighborhoods have been flooded. And entire portions of the island still have not been heard of. The governor has had a lot of trouble contacting mayors in different towns. And without communication we you know the government does not know the extent of the damages yet. But slowly images have trickled in of aerial shots. And the island is getting a picture of what the damage has been and it is turning out to be a very grim picture.  You know people - to just be sure that people do understand that Puerto Ricans are American citizens is there any federal presence there? Is FEMA there? Is there any federal presence visible there?  Yes definitely. FEMA has been playing a very important and big role in terms of organizing rescue missions and organizing all the logistics to try to you know start getting access to different parts of the island which we have not heard of. You know the government still has not been able to assess the magnitude of the damages. And right now there is kind of some breaking news in this town in the northwestern portion of the island which suffered some significant damage because of Irma and it is on the verge of collapsing. And if it collapses it could flood two municipalities where 70000 people live.  So tell us what is happening with the Guajataca Dam? I mean are people being evacuated from that area?  The dam suffered what the governor has called a rupture. And he has organized the police department in the island and the National Guard to evacuate everyone in those towns. However what he said today was that he was there and that he did not feel a sense of urgency on the ground about evacuating. And a lot of that is because there is no two-way communications. A lot of people do not even know that they have to evacuate. But then there is a question of where do you put 70000 people in an island that is already sheltering 15000 people?  Talk a little bit more about the conditions that people are facing in their homes. I mean what about people who are not in shelters what are their conditions?  People whose houses weathered the storm are basically - the majority of them are basically without electricity and without water. Now it is been three days so three days of coping without electricity and water is doable. But the question is here how long are people going to be able to go out you know go living on their lives without electricity or water? The government has not provided any estimates about how long it will take to repair the electric grid here. And a lot of the repairs are going to depend on what the damage was. The critical central transmission lines of the system are down. We could be looking at four to six months of reconstruction of the power grid.  That was Luis Ferre-Sadurni. He is a writer for The New York Times. We reached him in San Juan Puerto Rico. Luis thank you so much for speaking with us.  Of course. Thanks for having me. 