 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Fire season is off to an early start in the West. Northeast of Los Angeles thousands of firefighters are making progress towards controlling a big fire. The Powerhouse Fire as it is being called has burned more than 30000 acres and destroyed a number of homes. Throughout the region a hot and dry spring has fire crews on alert. They are helping homeowners prepare for potential fires. And NPR's Nat Rott went out with one crew.   Engine 3160 is not the newest wildland fire engine out here in Beaumont California nor is it the quietest.   Climbing in it is still got that recent fire smell. Though today it will not be going to any fires.  Today we are going to do an inspection. A defensible space inspection.  Will Bryant is a captain with ate's firefighting corps. And that term he just used - defensible space - it is one that you are going to hear a lot. It is firefighter-speak for an area around a home or property that is cleared or thinned of wood piles brush - pretty much anything that can catch fire.  Defensible space helps us do our jobs by ensuring that their homes are more protected in the event a wildfire comes through.  Which is why in California - where nearly one million people live in areas that are threatened by wildfire - defensible space is required by law. In areas the state is responsible for like the house-dotted hills and chute canyons that we are driving through now homeowners need to clear or thin 100 feet from their home.  So it looks like the homeowner is out front. I am going to make contact and talk to him about his clearances so far.  Steve Romburg is that homeowner. And he is waiting with Julie Hutchinson another CAL FIRE worker. She does the introductions.  This is Will Bryant. He is the captain down at the station.  Glad to meet you Will.  Nice to meet you.  This is God's Country. Welcome to it.   Romburg gestures out across a golden-grass field to the distant peaks of the San Jacinto Mountains.  Where would you like to start Will?  All right well if you do not mind we will just take a quick walk around your house. And I can take a look at stuff kind of point out what might need to be worked at.  The point of these inspections is not so much to be strict disciplinarians. It is to teach homeowners the basics of fire behavior and how to protect their home during one.  With any type of fire once it hits that short stubby grass it slows down real easily. And it is a lot easier to take care of protect your structure if needed.  Now this may not sound like rocket science because it is not. For people like Romburg it is old news.  Well I have lived here for a while and I have just kind of sorted it out.  But for every Romburg there is someone who just moved to a place like this where timber and brush are a hundred yards away from the doorstep. Again Julie Hutchinson.  It is a challenge educating people who maybe lived in the city. They drive up here and go It is gorgeous. But they are not thinking like someone who lives up in this area who has seen fire. You have to really educate them on hey beware these things happen.  There is proof a short drive down the hill.  You see this whole area has been burned. It was just under 3000 acres and it started on May 1st.  Just a couple miles away from Romburg's house the land looks like moonscape.  And this house up here on the right was the closest to the fire front.  Oh man. Yeah you can tell. The brick base of the house is charred black. The roof - or what is left of it - is collapsed. This homeowner had done some clearances Hutchinson says but clearly it was not enough.  So you can see just how much fire front came at that house. It was not just you know a 20-foot strip of fire. That was several hundred feet of fire. Very tall flame lengths 'ecause that was a lot of tall grass. But look at how many homes were right adjacent to this and down off the other bluff there that did not get damaged at all.  Those houses are still standing surrounded by green lawns and brown lots - clear defensible space. The rest is nuked. And this type of damage this early in the year it is strange.  Yeah we do not normally see that until we hit those really hot dry summer months and into fall is when we will see that type of destruction. And we are seeing it in May. And this was May 1st. So very significant.  Conditions could always change she says. But with forests dry and ready to burn like it is October and fire engines that already smell like smoke firefighters are going to keep preparing like the conditions will not. Nathan Rott NPR News. 