 He says that even before the policy change last-meal requests rarely resembled the meal that was ultimately delivered.  But like this man said he wanted a Meat Lover's pizza. No that did not come in unless there happened to be a compassionate officer or a chaplain or warden paid for it out of their own pockets. The state was out absolutely nothing.  The Texas prison system Mr. Price has turned down your offer to make these last meals pay for them yourself. They say it is not a cost issue that they are moving away from the practice. And the Texas state senator who is been leading this effort John Whitmire says that the inmates who were being executed did not give any of this consideration to their victims. Their victims were not given a last meal. What do you make of that argument?  He said well when I go in that witness chamber and I have to wipe off the handprints the smeared lipstick and makeup the tears mixed with all that on that glass where that man's family watched him being executed he said that is what bothers me. What if that was your son on that gurney and you are on the other side of that glass watching him be put to death like an animal how would you feel then? Would you have gone out and got him a Meat Lover's pizza if you could? Of course you would have. So as a civilized society and a Christian nation which I still claim - and a Christian state as the state of Texas - then why not? Let us show that softer more compassionate side.  When you are cooking for inmates on death row for their last meal what could you tell about them from their request?  Maybe when he would see and taste those butter beans and smell that smell it would take him back to that time when he was sitting around that dinner table with his siblings and mom bringing them to him. And the happier times - and trying to recall right before he leaves this planet maybe something fond. And to leave here with good memories knowing where he is fixing to meet his maker here within the next hour and 45 minutes when he is eating that meal.  Brian Price thank you very much.  Thank you so much Melissa. I appreciate it.  Brian Price cooked about 200 last meals for inmates on Texas's death row. He is the author of the book Meals to Die For. 