 Here's a story about crime and peacocks. Someone has been killing the peacocks of Palos Verdes California. The boisterous and colorful birds have been a part of the upscale community for more than a century. But in recent years they have become a source of contention among neighbors. And now as Gloria Hillard reports the conflict has taken a dark turn.  There is nothing that suggests crime-ridden in this equestrian neighborhood of Rolling Hills Estates in Southern California. White ranch-style fences border deep-set lawns. And at the foot of each driveway is an etched plaque with the name of the family that lives there.  We just turned on to Buckskin Lane. This will dead-end up here at some horse trails. Actually the streets where most of them have been found - either here or on Dapplegray.  L.A. County Sheriff Detective James Dondis and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Lieutenant Cesar Perea are investigating a string of peacock killings - 50 all told 20 in the last six months alone by pellet guns shotguns arrows and poison.  The violent manner in which some of the birds are being killed is a big concern.  So do you have suspects?  We do.   The birds seem to know the houses that are peafowl friendly like Eunice Berman's. Two stroll in her backyard. One is perched on the roof. Another is lounging in her tree.  Like right now is probably the loudest season that we have of them because it is mating season. And they are calling around to each other. And they are probably telling each other that you are here but...   Berman says car alarms gardeners vacuum cleaners and earthquakes can set the birds off. She loves the peacocks but admits not everyone feels the same way.  They are slow crossing the street. They tend to be a little bit messy. And they eat vegetable gardens and certain plants.  The mysterious killing of the peafowl has cast appall on Buckskin Lane.  But I cannot even imagine one of my neighbors doing something like that - cannot even imagine it.  That is 48 right there.  Yeah. It is right here.   The investigators are following up with a homeowner who recently contacted them after finding a severely injured bird in her backyard.  Hello.   How you doing today?  Good.  Did he live? Did my bird live?  Yes he did.  Debbie Taymour steps down from her truck relieved that the peacock that had befriended her horse survived the attack.  They are just part of the neighborhood and you either - I feel like if you do not like them do not buy a house here. It is that simple you know. I mean they are beautiful animals.  Longtime residents acknowledged the neighborhood is changing. Homes with backyard barns and tall trees where peafowl roost are making way for pools and tennis courts. Lieutenant Perea says they knock on a lot of doors and are tracking down every lead.  What we are investigating is a felony crime. Intentional cruelty on any animal can be prosecuted as a felony.  Detective Dondis says he is confident they will find the person or persons responsible for the killings.  Somebody's going to brag about it. Somebody's going to do something.  In the meantime there are still signs of spring here. A car stops for a slow moving peahen with her chick. In a driveway a peacock turns in a half-circle iridescent blue and green tail feathers shimmering in the afternoon sun. For NPR News I am Gloria Hillard.  It is always good to hear from you so let us know what you think about the program. You can send us a message through our website NPR.org. To do that look for the word contact. Look very carefully at the very very bottom of the page.  We could end up reading your letter on the air or you could hit us up on Twitter. We are npratc. I am Audie Cornish at npraudie.   Our colleague Melissa Block is at nprmelissablock. And I am Robert Siegel at rsiegel47. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 