 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. We are going to check in now on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. It is a dull clunky name for the new Obama administration policy that has generated plenty of excitement and protest. The program is for young people who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children. It allows them to avoid deportation and get a work permit for two years. Hundreds of thousands of people are eligible. So far 82000 have applied. But nationwide so far just 29 people have been approved. NPR's Ted Robbins recently talked with one of them along with a few other potential applicants.  Carlos Martinez applied for the Deferred Action program the first day. Now he is one of the 29 people who have been approved for it. Sitting in his parent's home in Tucson he is especially excited about the two-year work permit.  There is so much out there opportunities. Opportunities that like I have been waiting 15 years pretty much you know.  Martinez was brought to Tucson from Mexico by his parents at nine. As a high school junior 15 years ago he realized he was in the country illegally. He graduated from high school and earned a Bachelors and a Masters degree in software engineering from the University of Arizona. That was seven years ago. Now at 30 he says he can finally use his skills to apply for a job at one of his dream companies.  I mean Microsoft or Google or Cisco. I mean you name it you know top software companies. I can definitely contribute. I have so many ideas.  So I am just  boarding history.  Up the road in Phoenix Dulce Vazquez is one of the young people volunteering at the Arizona Dream Act Coalition office. They are organizing a voter registration drive. Vazquez says she is applying for deferred action as soon as she can gather the paperwork.  Just today I got my medical records that I am going to use to kind of show a timeline. 'ecause there is a timeline of me being here present and active in the community as well.  Applicants have to prove they have been in the U.S. illegally but continually for the last five years. They have to be between 15 and 31 years old and in the military in school or have graduated. Dulce Vazquez says she is submitting even more evidence just to be sure high school attendance and honor roll awards a state award for future business leaders.  That is my way of proving I am not a danger to society of any kind. Even though they are going to go back and check anyways but I am just being a little paranoid I guess.   Standing near her Francisco Luna says it is not so easy for him. For starters he is having trouble coming up with the 465 government fee for the program.  What is stopping me currently right now it is the money and I do believe I have a few gaps.  By gaps he means records proving he is been in the U.S. continually for five years. Luna is 22. He says he is been in the Phoenix area since he was 10. He graduated high school but he is been going to college only off and on since. So he says he may try some other ways to fill in the gaps.  I have seen some people say like you know Facebook posts. If you have a Facebook post and it has a photo in it.  For the record Facebook posts may have dates attached but a government spokesman says they are not very good evidence. Officials are looking for lease agreements medical records school transcripts. Some school districts in fact like Los Angeles Unified have reported being swamped with transcript requests. That could explain some of the delay in submissions. So could fear. Francisco Luna is afraid the policy could change depending on who is elected president.  If President Obama does not get elected and Romney comes in whether either he changes the policy takes it off or changes the criteria to it.  Could happen.  a way to focus immigration enforcement on higher priorities like criminals. Republicans say it is an administration overreach a backdoor amnesty. Carlos Martinez the young man who just got his deferral and work permit he says worrying about what may happen down the road is silly.  We already live in fear so it is not like you are going to get more fear out of that. You know I mean I do not see it that way. You know what I mean? We already live in fear. Every day we live in fear everywhere we go.  Martinez argues that any protection even temporary is better than none at all. Ted Robbins NPR News Tucson. 