 We have been hearing a lot of talk about red flag laws in response to the recent mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton. And far more often states are using the laws to prevent cases of individual gun violence including suicide. Also known as extreme risk laws they allow courts to order the seizure of firearms from those believed to pose an imminent danger to themselves or others. NPR's Melissa Block looks now at one such case in Vermont.   All rise.  Late morning Courtroom No. 1 in Windsor County Superior Court Judge Timothy Tomasi presiding.   Mr. Laskevich good morning.  Good morning Your Honor.  Sean Laskevich age 28 wearing a blue button-down shirt black jeans and work boots stands before the judge. And he agrees not to contest the extreme risk protection order that is been filed against him.   Are you doing it of your own free will?  Yes Your Honor.  His is one of about 30 extreme risk orders that Vermont has issued in the 16 months the law has been in effect. This means Laskevich cannot own buy or receive a firearm for six months or longer if the order is renewed.   Very good - we will write that up and issue that now. Thank you.  Let us spool back two weeks before that court date.  UNIDENTIFIED 911  Springfield Police Department.  Yes. There is a guy screaming and hollering.  911 calls started flooding in.   He is just screaming at the top of his lungs.  And I am pretty sure I just heard a gunshot.  And I just heard him let off like 10 rounds.  Oh I just heard another shot. UNIDENTIFIED 911  Yeah. Well we have got multiple officers down there. We have an incident taking place.  That across the way is where the incident took place.  Sean Laskevich's girlfriend Amanda Barbour points into the woods behind their house in Springfield Vt. That is where Laskevich headed that night down a steep slope across a stream and up the opposite bank armed with his .45-caliber Glock pistol and started firing off shots.  Sean had a legitimate breakdown to say the least.  More than a dozen officers responded to the scene - among them Springfield Police Chief Mark Fountain.  As quickly as I arrived I was told by one of the officers that a number of times he had discharged his firearm. They believed one of the bullets had ricocheted and they heard it whizzing over their head.  According to a police affidavit Laskevich was shouting that he was distraught over his recent DUI arrest after he crashed his truck as well as relationship trouble with Amanda. He repeatedly raised his pistol to his head yelling I am done. This is how I am going out. Amanda heard that too and another threat.  He wanted to be taken out. He announced to the officers I want you to take me out.  In other words suicide by cop. At one point they all heard a single shot back in the woods then silence.  Oh I did scream. Oh did I scream for a minute 'ecause yeah that made our hearts stop.  It was a relief she says when Sean started yelling again. The standoff and negotiation went on for nearly two hours. In the end he gave himself up was disarmed and taken to the hospital for mental health screening. He faces misdemeanor criminal charges so he chose not to challenge the extreme risk order to avoid complicating that case. Laskevich declined to speak with me on the advice of his criminal defense lawyer. Despite all that happened that night Sean's girlfriend Amanda Barbour says taking his gun away is not right. She is confident he poses absolutely no threat.  Obviously what Sean did was not OK in any way and he has answered to the consequences. I do not feel that man should have to relinquish his Second Amendment for a minute because of this.  Talk to prosecutors and law enforcement officers in Vermont and they will tell you the red flag law has proved most useful in cases like this one where someone poses a risk of suicide. Vermont has a higher rate of suicide and suicide by gun than the national rates. In cases like these Police Chief Fountain says red flag laws are an important tool.  It does not always have to involve a person committing a crime. It can just simply be a person let us say who is experiencing a mental health crisis involving a weapon where they are just threatening harm to themselves.  Suicide prevention was not the catalyst for Vermont's red flag law though. That law came as a direct response to the threat of a mass shooting at a local high school. Likewise the recent mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton have jumpstarted red flag bills in Congress. But David Cahill the state's attorney for Windsor County is dubious.  I do not for a minute believe that red flag laws will in any meaningful way interrupt the epidemic of mass shootings in this country.  To do that Cahill says would require a different much harder conversation.  The tough part is that I cannot think of a way to solve this problem without amending the Constitution. I am not suggesting that I have language to rewrite the Second Amendment because I do not. But it is worth having the conversation about our modern weapons this 18th century document and what we can do to honor our history but also preserve life for ourselves and future generations.  Cahill himself a gun owner adds we are not having that discussion but we should. Melissa Block NPR News Windsor County Vt.  