 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Ari Shapiro.  And I am Audie Cornish. Hollywood celebrities the UN a federal judge - everyone has an opinion about Detroit and its water situation. The city's been shutting off the water to thousands of customers who are not paying their bills. Activists say that is a violation of a basic human need but as Quinn Klinefelter of member station WDET reports city officials call it an economic reality.  In the decades that Detroit spent hurtling towards bankruptcy the city's water and sewage department accrued a massive debt in part because officials say there was only a token attempt to collect past-due bills. By this year about half of all water customers were behind on payments owing a combined 90 million. So officials here launched an aggressive campaign targeting back payments using the time-honored utility tactic of shutting off water service until payment arrangements were made. Along the city's busy Woodward Avenue longtime Detroiters like Clifford Durham say water customers should have known what was coming.  It is a shame that it is happening but they had options and budget plans like 10 - 15 years ago. Tell them your situation. Do not wait till your bill is three or 400 and get a shut off notice. The protesting that is going to go on for the water I think is ridiculous.  What do we want?  Water.  And when do we want it?  Now.  The sheer number of people shut off - 17000 - has led to frequent demonstrations and some international attention. The United Nations declared it a human rights violation. Activists a federal judge - even movie stars like actor Mark Ruffalo who portrays the alter-ego of the Hulk in the Avengers films - joined in what is truly become a cause celeb.  There is no reason that this city and this state with all of its wealth cannot come up with some sort of a program to keep this water from being turned off. I mean it is insane.  City officials say they are setting up payment plans and add that more than half of those who got their water shut off subsequently paid their bills and had service quickly restored. But others have tried to block the shutoffs pouring concrete over water mains tagged by the city with blue paint a kind of scarlet letter indicating the pipes there should be closed. Tutorials spread on Facebook describing how to get water flowing again. Even at public places like this bus stop Detroiter Nita O'Neal says it is relatively easy to find someone with a kind of long metal key that only city workers are supposed to have which can twist open a closed water valve. O' People are going to turn that water back on. Somebody has a water key. Trust me. You give them 5 you are going to get your water back on. People have to have shelter food and water.  It is in fact a crime. It is stealing water. But O'Neal says for families with little or no income the stakes are too high to worry about that. O' You got babies that is probably not taking baths. That is opening up the door for protective services to come in - say that you are an unfit parent. This is a game that they are playing and it is a serious dangerous game.  City officials counter that it is in part because people game the system that water rates are going up. Paying customers have to cover the cost for those not paying their bills. But water and sewerage Deputy Director Darryl Latimer says the department wants to cooperate with customers even those who argue water should be a right not a privilege.  I think water is a right. However if all of our customers took that stand - that it is a human right and we are not going to pay then no one would have water.  It remains very much an evolving situation. The department recently began targeting past-due commercial as well as residential customers then declared a two-week moratorium on all shutoffs. Detroit is emergency manager put Mayor Mike Duggan in charge of the formerly autonomous water system but the department itself remains a bargaining chip in Detroit is ongoing bankruptcy proceedings. The city wants out of the water business and the debt it carries and is pushing to either regionalize or privatize the system. For NPR News I am Quinn Klinefelter in Detroit. 