 What the movie Sideways did for wine tourism in Santa Barbara County the musical Hamilton is doing for all things connected to that founding father. Here's NPR's Melissa Block with a graveside postcard from New York.  Maybe like me you have someone in your household playing the Hamilton soundtrack non-stop.    Man the man is non-stop.   Gentleman of the jury -   Gentlemen of the jury I am curious. Bear with me.  Meet the Klinosky  kids of Phoenix.   This is the first murder trial of our brand-new nation the liberty behind deliberation.  Fourteen-year-old Kira and her 13-year-old brother Michael are Hamilton fanatics.   I have been in Paris meeting lots of different ladies I guess basically missed the late...   ...Late '80s. Traveled the wide wide world and came back to this.  Their parents have scored tickets to the musical. And as prelude they have all made a pilgrimage to Alexander Hamilton's grave. He is buried in the cemetery of Trinity Church in lower Manhattan across from a factory shoe outlet. An elegant white marble pyramid marks his tomb inscribed on the base these words - a statesman whose talents and virtues will be admired...  ...Long after this marble shall have moldered into dust.  That is Trinity archivist Anne Petrimoulx.  He died July 12 1804 aged 47.  Killed in that notorious duel with Aaron Burr. Petrimoulx says thanks to the musical she is been seeing a lot more visitors streaming by Hamilton's grave and she is been hearing a lot less wrong information.  Before when I would give tours people would say oh he was president right? No. But I think people know now - secretary of the treasury.  Visitors have left offerings on Hamilton's grave - lilies and iris pebbles and coins. And on his wife Eliza's grave too. It is marked by a simple marble slab in front of his monument.  She tends to get more gifts than he does. She has a very beautiful array of flowers on her grave. I do not know if the musical makes people identify more with Eliza than with Alex.  You call him Alex?  Yeah we are close. We are tight .  Among those gazing at Hamilton's grave I find Lillian Hasko.   Just like my country I am young scrappy and hungry. I am not giving away my shot.  She is seen the musical twice bought the soundtrack had to come.  I wanted to see him and pay homage to him because he is a forgotten founding father. And then never got to be president and died so young.  So he is not forgotten anymore.  No but I was looking for the sister. Eliza's over there. Alexandra I think is not here. I cannot find her.  Angelica.  Angelica yeah.  Angelica Eliza - I should know the words and I do.    Angelica.   Eliza.   And Peggy.   The Schuyler sisters.   Angelica.   Peggy.   Eliza.  Ah the mystery of Angelica's grave. Where is Angelica? That is the hot question at Trinity. In case you are wondering she is buried on the other side of the church in a vault bearing the name Livingston. At the end of my visit I meet Stacy Kmentt in from Chicago a self-described history nerd and Hamilton obsessive.  This is my pilgrhamage  - P-I-L-G-R-H-A-M-A-G-E.  H-A-M as in Hamilton. I watch as Stacy slips off her canvas shoes and places them gently on Eliza's grave for a quick photo. Not just any shoes - she is written a message on them in neat cursive.  I wrote it in sharpie and then I took like acrylic glitter paint and like painted over it.  On one shoe she is written who lives who dies? On the other who tells your story? It is from the final song of the musical the big emotional finish.    Who lives who dies? Who tells your story?  Melissa Block NPR News.    Will they tell your story? 