 A Mexican journalist who had sought asylum in the U.S. is now free. Immigration authorities released him last week after he and his son spent nearly eight months in detention. His discharge took his legal team by surprise and it spared immigration officials from having to justify their actions. A federal judge had questioned whether they violated the reporter's First Amendment rights. Monica Ortiz Uribe reports.  At a black-tie gala in Washington D.C. last October The National Press Club recognized the perils confronted by the Mexican press. Mexico remains one of the deadliest countries for journalists. Fifteen have been killed since the beginning of 2017.   Good evening everyone.  Accepting an award on behalf of his fellow reporters was Emilio Gutierrez Soto who fled from threats by the Mexican military a decade ago. In his acceptance speech Gutierrez accused the U.S. of being hypocritical.  .  While America promotes human rights abroad it denies them at home he said referring to immigrants and asylum-seekers. Nine weeks later federal officers in El Paso handcuffed Gutierrez and his 25-year-old son during a routine immigration check-in and put them in a car headed for the border.  I think he was targeted - was targeted for being a journalist for being Mexican for being outspoken.  Eduardo Beckett is Gutierrez's attorney. He managed to stop the deportation. Instead Gutierrez and his son were detained. This came months after a judge rejected their asylum request and their appeal was still in limbo. But emails later unearthed by his defense team show immigration officers flagged Gutierrez well before that. Beckett says his name appeared on a target list typically reserved for fugitives.  And so the question is why? Why him? Well he is not a fugitive. He is not a criminal. He is not a gangster. He is not a drug dealer. He does not even have warrants.  The National Press Club began an online petition denouncing Gutierrez's arrest. In sworn testimony the club's executive director Bill McCarren said an official with Immigration and Customs Enforcement or ICE asked that he quote tone it down with regards to Gutierrez's case. In a statement ICE denies ever making such a request. Again attorney Eduardo Beckett.  So all these red flags could only logically conclude that they have it in for Emilio and that under the Trump administration they felt empowered that they can violate the law violate the Constitution and get away with it.  A federal judge in El Paso ordered ICE to turn over additional documents related to Gutierrez's arrest. Instead ICE released Gutierrez the day before it was supposed to comply with the judge's order. By doing so the agency was no longer under the obligation to release the documents. ICE has not responded to questions related to this case. Molly Molloy is an American friend of Gutierrez who compiled an archive of his work.  After he flees the government in Mexico that is persecuting him he comes here and is essentially persecuted yet again by our own government.  Yay.   Friends joyfully embraced Gutierrez the night he was released. Before a semicircle of news cameras Gutierrez again impugned the U.S. immigration system.  .  I share in the pain of immigrants who simply arrive in this country fleeing for their lives he said. His pursuit for asylum continues. The first hearing in Gutierrez's appeal is scheduled later this month before the same judge who rejected his plea last year. For NPR News I am Monica Ortiz Uribe in El Paso. 