 In St. Louis today 18-year-old Michael Brown was laid to rest. He was killed more than two weeks ago shot by a police officer in the suburb of Ferguson Missouri. After days of protests today's funeral featured fierce calls for justice and also pleas for calm. NPR's Martin Kaste has the story.  It was 80 degrees before 8 oclock this morning but still hundreds of people lined up early to get into Michael Brown's funeral service. A T-shirt vendor worked the line.  Memorial T-shirt.  Sylvia Washington bought one of the shirts. It showed a young man with his hands up and that is what she liked about it.  The fact that his hands was up - he was surrendering.  Michael Brown's face was everywhere on T-shirts and silkscreened on the black ties worn by his male relatives. The friends and family filed into the church stone-faced while members of the Nation of Islam linked arms and held back the crush of press and well-wishers people like Rebecca Smith - she has no personal connection to Brown. She just came because of what his death represents.  This is 2014 and we are still telling our kids - our young black men - do not ride four-deep in the car 'ecause the police going to stop you.  Inside the friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church the 2000-plus mourners included Martin Luther King III members of Congress and emissaries from the Obama administration. The speakers family and clergy alike referred to Brown as a kind of martyr whose spilled blood was a sacrifice for the greater good. Eric Davis even hinted that the death was preordained.   Michael also stated to the family that one day the world would know his name.   The Reverend Al Sharpton gave the eulogy. He talked about how when he first heard about Brown's death he did not even know where Ferguson Missouri was. Now everybody knows and Sharpton called on the community to make use of that.   Michael Brown does not want to be remembered for a riot. He wants to be remembered as the one that made America deal with how we are going to police in the United States.   As he often does Sharpton told people to channel their outrage over Brown's death into constructive political action.   Nobody going to help us if we do not help ourselves. Sitting around feeling sorry for ourselves will not solve the problem - sitting around having ghetto pity parties rather than organizing and strategizing.  Sharpton said African-Americans are not anti-police but they are tired of what he referred to as the bad apples on the force. The clear implication is that Darren Wilson the officer who shot Brown is one such bad apple. Protesters around Ferguson have been demanding Wilson's immediate arrest. And that demand rankles police who say Wilson deserves an investigation and due process. As Sharpton wrapped up some of the crowd watching in an overflow viewing space started chanting the familiar slogan from the streets of Ferguson.   Hands up...  ...do not shoot.  They were young black men and they quickly attracted the wrath of this African-American woman.   You have got to respect that family. They said no protest.  One of the men Don DeVargas shrugged it off. He thinks there has not been enough noise yet - not enough to attract say President Obama to this funeral.  Where is he? So we going to have to do it ourselves.  What happens if they do not charge this officer with - you know if they do not prosecute?  I do not know. I do not know. If they do not charge though we out here in these streets right here right now.  Martin Kaste. NPR News St. Louis. 