 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block. Firefighters are reporting some progress today in battling the massive wildfire outside Los Angeles. Higher humidity has helped pushed the flames away from populated areas and back into the wilderness of the San Gabriel Mountains but the fire continues to spread. Molly Peterson of member station KPCC joins us from the Fire Command Center that is around the southwest edge of the fire. And Molly what is the latest on how much is burnt and how dangerous this fire continues to be?  Well the last number they gave this morning was 121272 acres - close to 122000 acres - and they are saying the fire is about five percent contained mostly along the north and southern ends. They described the condition that has changed overnight in particular Incident Commander Mike Dietrich who spoke this morning described conditions changing overnight. Let me - let us hear what he has to say. Mr.  Yesterday I characterized the fire as angry. Today I am going to characterize it as cranky because it is kind of taking on a life of its own and it is just going to be very difficult to deal with and I am not sure why.  There are a lot of factors in - as to what the conditions are here. The wind speeds are higher today. The temperature is lower. So cautiously optimistic is the tone they are sounding.  And we mentioned weather as you mentioned is helping out. Humidity is a factor here that is helping the firefighters.  It is. I spoke to - earlier I spoke to Forest Service Fire Behavior Analyst Shelly Crook who - we heard from her in the top of the hour on your show. And Shelly Crook said that this is a precedent setting because there are a number - again these factors we are talking about in particular data points and weather and meteorology are varying widely and they have not seen this kind of behavior before. Once they learn how to adapt to fighting it they believe that they will be able to train other firefighters to learn how to handle conditions like this.  Molly what are you hearing about how much the fire is costing California? We have heard a lot about the state being in financial distress. How is the state affording to continue to fight this fire and others?  Well staggeringly after two months in the 2009-2010 fiscal year we are looking at California having spent a little over 106 million of 182 million for the entire year. So with 10 months left we have got less than 76 million in the kitty. We have got a 500 million reserve. Governor Schwarzenegger argued for that big reserve saying the cost of firefighting is unpredictable. But it is interesting because California as he - as Governor Schwarzenegger also says frequently this is a year-round occurrence at this point. And it is interesting that this numbers is what it is.  Molly what can you tell us about the mood around the Fire Command Center where you have been spending your time?  You know there were a lot of fatigue problems early on when the temperatures were 107 degrees. We had a firefighter injury. His kidneys failed renal failure. And there were concerns about that not out of management concerns but just because everyone's so exhausted. Today people are sort of settling into a routine. They know they are going to be here they are thinking till mid September.  Okay. Reporter Molly Peterson of member station KPCC thank you very much.  You are welcome. 