 In Texas Hurricane Harvey created an army of volunteers. They scrambled to help in any way they can. From Houston NPR's Melissa Block reports.  If you were in trouble in a big storm you would be lucky to have Rocky Breaux on your side.  We were with the Cajun Navy. We jumped in boats and air boats.  Breaux is from Houma La. Right after Harvey hit he drove to Texas with his boat to rescue people from the floodwaters. Now that ad hoc Cajun Navy has gone airborne.  We are locked and loaded. And we are going to do whatever it takes to help out Texas. They have always helped out Louisiana so we are just returning the favor.  Breaux has just flown into Houston in his four-seater Piper Arrow with a planeload of requested supplies for the littlest Harvey evacuees - toys and games books and strollers.  Clear? Clear prop.  This Cajun airlift pilot points his plane home. He figures he will be flying back to Texas soon.  I am going to get the boxes. Like the boxes...  The next morning volunteers unload that fresh batch of toys at the NRG Center which has turned into a huge shelter for Harvey evacuees. And within minutes a little boy gleefully brandishes his new Buzz Lightyear.  This is Buzz Jet Pack.  Did you get Buzz Lightyear?  Yes you did. You have got Buzz Lightyear in your hands.  The big disaster response teams are here - FEMA the Red Cross - but alongside them are a legion of individual volunteers who have found themselves on the front lines of disaster response like Dr. Jennifer McQuade.  This is completely outside of anything that I have ever done.  She is a melanoma oncologist at MD Anderson Cancer Center. The first day as Harvey swamped Houston she made her way to a shelter to donate blankets and socks. It was chaos. People were being brought in in the back of dump trucks soaking wet and wounded. But there was no medical team in place.  And there was a first aid - one table that was set up that had some Ibuprofen some Tylenol a little bit of Neosporin and some Band-Aids. And...  That is it?  That is it.  So McQuade made an urgent plea for help to the Physician Moms Group on Facebook some 70000 women strong. Right away a doctor from Louisiana wrote back.  And she said are you running the medical shelter? And I said no  I am a medical oncologist. I am absolutely not running a medical shelter.  Well you are now the Louisiana doctor said. She knew from her own experience during last year's Baton Rouge floods that you cannot wait for the Red Cross or FEMA.  Those take time. Any time you are dealing with large organizations they are amazing but it takes time.  So McQuade took charge. And using the power of social media she enlisted doctors pharmacists nurses to come volunteer and bring supplies everything from insulin to EKG machines. They responded in droves. Finally she says a good use for Facebook.  You know it is something that I would seen as a frivolous distraction that I kept on trying to quit but could not quite make myself quit. I am really glad that it showed its true value with this.  OK Stan how many chicken quarters you got panned up?  A volunteer food collective is in frenzied swing in Houston. Chefs are preparing huge pans of roast chicken and sliced pork shoulder with gravy to be sent to first responders and evacuees not just in Houston but all over southeast Texas.  OK can you hit me on three total right now?  They have cooked up tens of thousands of hot meals. To coordinate a volunteer logistics team created a website. It lets them match restaurants that have food to donate with those who need it. Claudia Solis an eighth-generation Texan works on that end of things. She is exhausted but grateful.  There is a kindness in Houston that is really - people are just kind. They are your neighbors. You have to help. You should not think about anything other than that. And it is beautiful but it is also that it required this tragedy for us to see it.  Now as hurricane Irma approaches Florida the Houstonians are talking with the restaurant community there sharing what they have learned from Harvey. Organize as much as you can ahead of time. Line up kitchens and transport and volunteers. Social media will be your best friend. Above all do not wait. Melissa Block NPR News Houston. 