 For students in Moore Oklahoma it is not just new backpacks and pencils this year. For many it is entirely new schools and homes. A tornado ripped through the community nearly three months ago. It destroyed two schools killed seven students and 18 other people in the city. And tomorrow students return to class. Rachel Hubbard of member station KOSU checks in with Moore to see how the community is doing.  The lobby of Emmaus Baptist Church is controlled chaos. Boxes of books computers gym equipment pile up to be distributed as it becomes the temporary Briarwood Elementary School.   Oh that is the better part...  Teachers volunteers students are everywhere. And in the middle of it all is Chris Combs. She is been the school's secretary for 20 years and she knows the answers to all the questions.  What time does the start now? Where is this going to be at now? You know what time is lunch? Are they going to do lunch?  At least she used to know all the answers. Cheering on teachers encouraging students Chris Combs is one of the school's biggest boosters. But when the tornado ripped through the Briarwood neighborhood it literally turned her life upside down. Her neighborhood was demolished. But there was no time to focus on her losses so she started working and she has not stopped.  I cannot sit still that I have to be going all the time. I have not watched probably more than maybe 10 hours of TV the entire summer. I cannot focus on it.  When you live and work in an obliterated neighborhood there is really no escape. Combs used to watch the trees blowing in the breeze from her bedroom window but those trees are gone. So she keeps the blinds closed to shut out the constant reminders of destruction. It is bizarre and its ugly but it is still home.  Everyday like I just drove through there at lunch you know I stopped at my mailbox and I thought - I just get depressed how you look at it and it is depressing and I think I do want to live here anymore. But my kids grew up in my house.  When you drive through it does seem overwhelming. As the city moves into long-term recovery the armies of volunteers have given way to heavy machinery removing the final piles of debris.   Now the only thing that is left is the Oklahoma red dirt and a few trees that look like chewed up toothpicks. For a moment it seems hopeless but then you talk to Moore city manager Steve Eddy. He is been through this recovery process twice.  It might look like a vast wasteland. But to us it looks like opportunity ready to go.  And in many cases that opportunity has started. Around 10 percent of the 1000 homes and businesses destroyed have begun to rebuild or have the permits to do so. WR Moore already has the walls up on a house in the Plaza Towers neighborhood.  Before the average home in here was worth about 90000. Now the average home will be worth probably 150 160.  The area will also have two new elementary schools this time with storm shelters. Some volunteers from around the country are still here. And every day there are moments of joy like the first house being rebuilt for a 75-year-old widow.  To see that house coming up out of everything around it still looking rather rough looking it just reminded me of a little flower coming up out of the - an area of destruction.  City officials expect half the homeowners to rebuild. But these neighborhoods were filled with working class people many of whom were not the well insured. Some cannot afford to rebuild even though they want to stay. In those cases the city is working with FEMA and charities to try to help them return to Moore. For NPR News I am Rachel Hubbard in Oklahoma City. 