 Well now the latest on the Benghazi case - the man accused in the attack on the U.S. diplomatic post in Libya which killed four Americans appeared in federal court. At the end of a brief hearing a judge ordered Ahmed Abu Khattala to remain in federal custody. And prosecutors outlined some new details about the violent events that night in September 2012 and of Khattala's alleged role in them. NPR justice correspondent Carrie Johnson was in the courtroom and she is here with us now to talk about the case. Hi.  Hi Robert.  What more can you tell us about what happened in court today?  So when a - Abu Khattala appeared in court on Saturday right after he got flown into D.C. from a Navy ship he looked really dazed and confused Robert. Today a different story - he was alert listening intently to the proceedings through some headsets and an interpreter. He sometimes looked out - out at all of us in the audience and he wore a green jumpsuit with the word prisoner on the back. He still has a really long gray beard. Robert the purpose of this hearing today was for prosecutors to show enough evidence to prove that he is dangerous and a flight-risk. So he needs to be detained in advance of the trial. That is just what the judge did.  That is the case for keeping him in federal custody before the trial. What evidence have prosecutors laid out actually tying him to the attack in Benghazi?  We just caught a glimpse of that. What we see so far is that prosecutors say they have video clips of the diplomatic compound under attack in September 2012 some eyewitness accounts tying Khattala to the attack and prosecutors also made some broad statements about his possible motivations - talking about him as a senior commander in a brigade that joined with Ansar al-Sharia which has been designated a foreign terrorist organization by the U.S. government - that Khattala had a disgust with the U.S. presence in Libya and that he allegedly supervised the removal of documents from that compound in Benghazi after it caught fire.  Now Khattala was captured by U.S. Special Forces and the FBI in Libya last month. Is there any more on what he is actually told investigators?  The government says he is made voluntary statements to federal agents even Robert after he was read his Miranda Rights. And law enforcement sources tell me he shared information about other people and their role that night but he denies any role himself in those attacks that killed the U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens and three other men.  What are his lawyers saying about this and is it possible to get a sense of the outlines of his defense?  In a bit of a surprise today Robert his public defender Michelle Peterson came out of the gate swinging. She criticized prosecutors for making sweeping statements about him and she said there is an utter lack of evidence tying Khattala to the violence that night. She says the government's theory seems to be he knew people who were involved in storming the diplomatic compound rather than him being involved himself. And she pointed out that Abu Khattala in the couple of years since this attack has told people he did not have a direct role. That is his story and he is sticking to it for now.  What happens next in this case?  Well Khattala has asked for a Halal diet and a Quran while he is incarcerated. It appears the court system is going to give him those things. He is due back again in court next week. And more evidence may be coming out in the days ahead. But we should not expect I hear from the government that an FBI affidavit which forms the basis of the primary allegations against him to come out anytime soon. That is going to stay under seal for a while. And worth noting - the Justice Department says it is going to add more charges against him including charges that could carry the death penalty in the weeks to come.  OK thank you Carrie.  You are welcome.  That is NPR Justice Department correspondent Carrie Johnson. 