 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish. Now the problem of homeless veterans. One place to find them is San Diego County in California. Maybe it is because of the large number of military bases nearby maybe it is the mild weather. But for a generation shelters in San Diego have been helping vets most from the Vietnam War. Now younger faces are landing on the street. NPR's Quil Lawrence visited a gathering of homeless veterans.  Every summer for 25 years the organization Veterans Village of San Diego has held an event called Stand Down. It is a tent city on the grounds of San Diego High School where for three days homeless vets can sleep on dry cots and eat warm meals. Behind the tents there is a huge American flag.  I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands one nation under God...  Even with the noise from San Diego's airport the tent city offers a calm safe sanctuary from the streets. A thousand people showed up this year most of them Vietnam vets but also some younger faces.  I had my apartment up until 2011.  Joshua a 28-year-old Navy vet asked not to give his last name because of the stigma of being homeless.  And then could not keep up with the rent. I mean I was not making enough to keep up with the rent so I did a little couch surfing and then I ended up on the streets for a while.  There are lots of reasons why people who have had a successful career in the military can end up on the street. Too little savings not enough civilian job skills no civilian license for the skills they do have no family to fall back on. In Joshua's case military life offered structure and support.  You know for the past eight years all I knew was military.  What were the things about the civilian world that just were hard to do after military?  It was a total life change and I was like I do not understand like I you know served I have all these you know skills and - but nobody is willing to hire me.  Joshua hit the bottle and wound up sleeping rough. Now he is getting help living full time at the residential program run by Veterans Village. He is hoping to go to school in the fall. The VA estimates about 67000 veterans are homeless. A 100 million program was just announced to deal with the problem. Most vets coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan do just fine. At this summer's Stand Down weekend there were more young vets volunteering to help than showing up to get help. Mike Judd did two tours in Iraq. He works at Veterans Village. He says he saw this problem coming.  They spend months years in combat in military bases in barracks what have you and then they are given like a week to become a civilian.  The idea of Stand Down is to offer veterans a way in one weekend to clear out all the obstacles to a fresh start.  Alpha alpha bravo and bravo bravo.  The PA system calls everyone up in turns to get free eyeglasses medical checks meals showers new clothes. There is an open air court in session with a judge and pro bono lawyers to clear up outstanding fines and warrants. For the young guys that is mostly drunk driving.  I had a DUI and I took care of that.  That is a former Marine named Paul. He also would not give his last name.  And then I got another one another DUI and I had a loaded firearm in the vehicle so the police did not appreciate that very much. So that is why I am here right now.  A judge told him to enroll in the Veterans Village residential program or go to prison so Paul is at the Stand Down Weekend to apply for a bunk in the full-time program. Paul blames his drinking on post-traumatic stress from two combat tours in Iraq but he admits he misses the thing that traumatized him.  You cannot get quite that rush or feeling on the edge that you do from combat. It sounds kind of twisted in a way but I enjoyed it very much save the fact that I lost some friends and a lot of my friends got you know maimed. But you know if I could I would go back right now so...  But Iraq is over. When he gets through rehab at Veterans Village he is going to have to live in the civilian world which he still cannot relate to.  You have a military at war and a nation at the mall. I mean what is on peoples' priorities especially in my age bracket? You know all they care about is Facebook you know the Kardashians you know pop culture their iPhone.  At the end of the Stand Down weekend Paul did land a space at Veterans Village San Diego. After about a year there he may still not relate to the crowds at the mall but he may figure out a way to deal with them. Quil Lawrence NPR News.  And you can see photos of veterans at the San Diego Stand Down event at npr.org. 