 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Americans have apparently been cutting the cable. Subscriptions to paid TV services dropped in the second quarter of this year. It is the first time that is ever happened. But industry watchers have been predicting this day might come - there is an awful lot of video now available for free on the Web. And NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports that is not the only reason for the decline.  Ever feel like you are paying for channels you do not use? I pay for dozens of cable channels I never watch. I also subscribe to Netflix but often do not actually watch as many movies as I pay for. Jim Willcox of Consumer Reports says I am like a lot of people right now. Mr.  Everywhere you turn there is subscription for this. So if you want satellite radio you pay that subscription. You know you are paying your broadband. You know people are starting to get subscriptioned-out.  Andre Reynolds is subscriptioned-out. He lives in Detroit. Reynolds pays monthly for satellite TV Internet and cell phone service. He is done the math and says it is too much. He is thinking about ending his satellite subscription. Mr.  It is coming to a point where I need to make a decision because my contract is up and I do not want to renew.  And he is found several websites where he can watch TV for free. So he thinks he is almost ready to cut the cord. Mr.  The only thing that really is holding me up from making that decision is to do it easily. I am so used to just putting on the television and just taking the remote control and turning to the channels that I look at that I want to find something that easy.  Reynolds says he and his wife are big fans of shows on HGTV and once he found out that he could stream them from Hulu Plus he got even closer to making the move. For 9.99 subscribers to Hulu Plus can stream full episodes of TV shows current and back seasons. Mr.  I can live with 10.  Ten dollars is a lot less than the 72 he is been paying for satellite TV. And the analysts at the research firm SNL Kagan think the economy is responsible for this first time drop in TV subscriptions. Analyst Mariam Rondeli says it is likely that people cannot afford pricey home entertainment right now. Ms.  Unemployment rate is stubbornly high so we think that more and more people are looking at those multitudinal packages as more like luxury items.  Rondeli says people losing their homes also played a role. Ms.  There are a lot of foreclosures. It is - you know that we do not have a very good grab on to where these people are going. But very likely some of them are moving back with their family members.  Another factor says Rondeli was that last year when TV stations converted to digital cable and satellite companies used the opportunity to offer big promotional discounts. So they saw a spike in the number of potential customers but they did not stick around. Ms.  And they signed them on with very aggressive introductory packages. And I think what they are finding now as some of them had admitted that some of these households are converting back to over-the-air.  In other words once they had to pay full price they were gone. This first time drop in subscription TV was small and Rondeli does not believe the losses will continue. But there will probably be more people like Andre Reynolds who is trying to get the TV shows he wants for free or at least for a lot less than what he is paying now for satellite. Mr.  I think I can live without a remote control and pass it up for a mouse. Elizabeth Blair NPR news. 