 This week the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that LGBT veterans discharged from the military under its do not ask do not tell policy may now have access to VA benefits like home loans health care and money for college. This will apply to veterans who were given other-than-honorable discharges due to their sexual orientation gender identity or HIV status. The announcement though comes 10 years after the repeal of do not ask do not tell allowed gay service members to be open about their sexualities. We wanted to take a moment to mark this anniversary so we spoke with three veterans about serving under that policy and its lingering effects on them.   My name is Tammy Smith. I am a recently retired army major general. Before do not ask do not tell the policy was so strict. The military did not want you to exist. And so when do not ask do not tell came into place for me what it felt like was at least the acknowledgment that I existed. I think of it as I had two sets of friends. So I had the people that I worked with and then I had a whole separate set of friends that were kind of my off-the-grid friends. And those were the members of the LGBT community. And it was not uncommon - if you passed by someone you knew off the grid you would walk past them and pretend like you did not even know them because you never wanted to risk having to explain to somebody. It is like well how do you know Jones ? And I will always hold that feeling of what it felt like to walk past my friend and pretend like I did not know them.   My name is Lindsay Church and I was a second-class petty officer and linguist in the Navy for four years. Serving under do not ask do not tell is to know that if you slipped up your life would be ruined. When I served I could not keep a romantic partner. I was hospitalized for three surgeries while I was in service. I spent 55 days in the hospital lived in the medical barracks for five months. I could not involve my partners in nearly losing my life in a hospital. I could only involve my mom and people that nobody would assume were my partners. I literally broke up with somebody because she sent me two dozen roses while I was in the hospital and I was too scared that I would get caught. So her not understanding how much fear I lived in felt like a denial of what I was going through. And so I just ended it because it was easier than navigating the uncertainty of whether or not I was going to get caught. Nobody was ever penalized for asking. A lot of people were penalized for telling or not telling and getting caught. And this younger generation will not feel what it felt like to live under do not ask do not tell but it does not mean that they are not going to serve in a homophobic or transphobic military.  My name is LaTonya White. I go by Tee White. I was in the military for 15 years. I was active duty Army. I felt like hiding my queerness was the price I had to pay to do the job I wanted to do to get the results that I wanted to get out of life. And so it was like if I cannot be gay I will not be gay. And that is just how I lived my entire military career. Like I was a soldier and then I was Black and then I was a woman. And then you know and that is how it went for me because the soldier was the one that paid my bills. And everything else will come second third or not at all. The truth of the matter is being Black and being a woman in the military is hard enough. And with do not ask do not tell before it was repealed - good. Now it is not something else that I have to fight. It is just that simple. I had enough uphill battle. There is no need to add more to the load.   The VA making the announcement about giving benefits to other-than-honorably discharged veterans - I mean I feel like it is one of those oh we got you now. Oh thanks. Have you seen enough deaths? Have you seen enough hospitalizations? Is that what it is? - because a lot of people who got dishonorably discharged or less-than-honorably discharged because of being LGBTQ are the same people who need the VA's help and assistance especially when it comes to mental health. So do I think the VA made a good decision? I do. I think there is still a lot of way ahead.  Most of these folks are not ready to talk about this. They have already decided that the system is not for them and that they have endured enough in their military service that they do not want to go back and face the shame and face the judgment. And so VA and DOD have a lot of work to do to reach those folks. Otherwise they are not going to take advantage of this. Like they are just done.  When I had the opportunity to meet veterans who had been discharged under do not ask do not tell or the policy that existed previously I made sure that I always said I want you to know that me as a senior officer know that your service was as honorable as any other service member and what you did for your country was as important as any other service member. So I think this announcement is indeed healing.  That was Army Major General Tammy Smith former Navy Officer Lindsay Church and former Army Sergeant LaTonya Tee White on their experiences serving under do not ask do not tell.  