 We are going to start the program today looking at what has been another remarkable week in politics a week in which President Trump's former campaign chair was convicted in a financial fraud trial and President Trump's longtime lawyer admitted under oath to steering money to two different women at what he said was Mr. Trump's direction in a manner which amounts to a felony violation of campaign finance law. Yesterday a top executive of the Trump Organization made a deal with federal prosecutors in exchange for immunity. And all this has President Trump on a Twitter tear and he is aiming a lot of his anger at Attorney General Jeff Sessions. The president has criticized Mr. Sessions repeatedly in recent months sometimes in terms that border upon personal insult all this because of Mr. Sessions' decision to follow Justice Department guidelines and recuse himself from the investigations into Russia's efforts to influence U.S. elections. Earlier this week the attorney general responded in a rare statement saying quote while I am Attorney General the actions of the Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations unquote. Now in recent months we have often turned to former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to help us understand what events like this might mean so we are turning to him again for that. He was appointed by President George W. Bush. He is now dean of the law school at Belmont University. He is also a former judge. Your Honor Dean Gonzales welcome. Thanks for joining us once again.  Hey. It is good to be with you once again.  So first of all I just wanted to ask you what strikes you about this whole exchange between the president and the attorney general which I know you have called extraordinary? What is extraordinary about it?  Well what is extraordinary - and there are so many ways to describe it - remarkable unprecedented - is the fact that you have the head of the executive branch the president of the United States being openly critical of one of his Cabinet appointees. It makes one wonder - it certainly makes me wonder well you know if you believe the attorney general is not stepping up and doing the job right then why not make a change? My sense is that this constant criticism of Jeff Sessions I think I fear makes the president look somewhat weak and that really if you are so unsatisfied with this performance of his cabinet secretary then why do not you make a change? There are obviously good reasons why he should not make a change in my judgment which leads me to the conclusion then perhaps it would be best if the president did not make such open critical comments about the attorney general for several reasons two of them being that - well I can think of three. First of all I think Jeff Sessions probably more than any other cabinet secretary has done more to promote the president's policies and priorities in the law enforcement area. Secondly Jeff Sessions loves this job and is going to stay in this job and has no intention of quitting. And I think he is worried about the future of the department and wants to protect the department. And I think the constant criticism of the attorney general undermines his authority and I think it hurts the morale of the Department of Justice. I cannot help but feel that the rank and file are feeling this criticism and I think it can be demoralizing. And I think it calls into question the integrity of the entire institution.  I want to turn now to the attorney general's response. It was highly unusual for him to respond in the way that he did to the president. First of all I have to ask you can you remember any circumstance in which an attorney general issued a statement directly responding to his boss essentially - the president - a criticism of his work? Can you remember anything like that?  No. There may have been private conversations private criticism by a president and a private response - a strong response by an attorney general but obviously this is - this dialogue is very public. And you know Jeff Sessions to his credit - and I really admire the fact that he has done exactly the right thing in response to these tweets and public attacks. He is kept his head down. He is remained silent and he is focused on the work of the department. I think what finally got him to make a response is the accusation that the department is out of control. I mean that is a serious allegation.  I was going to ask you about that because you also said that you think these kinds of attacks have an effect on the people who work at the Department of Justice. What kind of - I am just interested in your take on this as a person who obviously led the department. You think that these attacks even though they seem to be directed at the attorney general personally and directly you think they have an effect on the rank and file. What effect do you think they have? And broadly the question is what effect do you think that it has on the public and the administration of justice more broadly? Do you think it does have an effect?  I think it does have an effect. With respect to the rank and file I think we all want to believe we are working for a cause and we are working for someone that we believe in. And if in fact the president of the United States believes that the attorney general is somehow not up to the job you know I think that is demoralizing. As to your second point I think that the constant criticism undermines the perception the American people may have in the Department of Justice. As I have said several times already you know when a U.S. attorney stands up in court and says present Your Honor for the United States of America and everything that that attorney utters in court - there cannot be any question whatsoever about the competence and the integrity of that lawyer. And if in fact people believe that the Department of Justice has been politicized even though the criticism is leveled solely at the leadership - but you know it just filters down - I think it does undermine the public's confidence in the entire department. And I think that is a very regrettable situation.  That is Alberto Gonzales. He served as the attorney general of the United States during the George W. Bush administration. He is also a former White House counsel. He is now dean of the Belmont University school of law. Judge Gonzales thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me once again. 