 Heading east now to the Jersey Shore where a fire that swept through two beach towns is now contained. Less than a year after Hurricane Sandy boardwalks in Seaside Park and Seaside Heights are once again decimated and roughly 30 businesses are gone. Tracey Samuelson of member station WHYY tells us there is already talk of rebuilding.  Some local residents gathered near the boardwalk today needing to see the damage for themselves. They could not quite believe that this area could be hit by fire after being devastated by water only 10 months ago.  It is devastating. How much can people take especially the people who have businesses? It is so hard.  Arlene Anderson rode her bike to Seaside Park from her home just a couple of miles away.  The thing that I am the most sad about is the carousel. Those horses were very old and it had a lot of memories for children. We always rented down here from the time my children were two and they are forty years old now.  The boardwalk was open this summer but business was slower than in years past. Lisa Hewson visits her father here for a few months every summer. She says the area is still very much in recovery mode.  The fact that there was no amusement ride or very few amusement rides really kept a lot of families away. With the beach people there was not as many as normally you would have had down here.  At a press conference earlier today Governor Chris Christie said the first step is to continue dowsing hotspots to ensure the fire is completely extinguished. He said that might last days. Already some 20 to 30 investigators are working to determine the fire's cause. Tomorrow members of Christie's administration will help business owners start the insurance process.  There is going to be focus as there rightly will be for what was lost. But on the other hand we have an obligation now to get aggressive and rebuild.  And while Christie acknowledges the emotional toll this is taking...  I will not permit all the work that we have done over the last 10 months to be diminished or destroyed by what happened last night. We are going to get back on our feet. We are going to do what we need to do.  Thomas Forte manages the Sea Garden Motel just one block from the boardwalk. This morning amidst the noise of helicopters and the water runoff from firemen's hoses he was out with a dustpan and broom clearing trash from street drains.  It is not my job but it is my job as a local to help out. You know I know a lot of us if we could do anything that is what we want to do. We are not there in the point in time but just like through the storm you know we are all here together survive together live together rebuild together.  Seaside Heights was supposed to hold a festival this weekend to commemorate its 100th anniversary. Most of the events are still on. In Seaside Park I am Tracey Samuelson for NPR News. 