 You could call them accidental activists the 12 couples and two widowers who filed lawsuits against bans on same-sex marriage. Accidental because they did not intend to be - they did not intend to be at the center of a nationwide legal battle but each had their reasons.  One couple sued to have their marriage recognized under Tennessee law so that they could both be parents to their daughter Emelia.  This is Valeria Tanco and I am here with my wife Sophy Jesty and I still get goose bumps and I was riding in my car to drop Emelia off at day care and crying and laughing and more crying and just amazed.  It is incredible. It is like - this is Sophy - I just I feel like there is been an enormous weight lifted off of me. I feel free. I feel - I feel free.  Jesty says she is celebrating the idea that their 1-year-old daughter will grow up in a different world than they did.  The most incredible thing is that in the memories that she will make she will not remember the time when we were not considered an equal family.  In Michigan April DeBoer and Jayne Rowse have held off getting married hopeful that the Supreme Court would make it the law of the land. They spoke to us from the National Marriage Challenge headquarters in Ann Arbor.   Sorry. . Everybody is just excited. I believe that somebody just walked by the door who just got their marriage license so I believe that they are performing marriages out in the courts just outside the building that we are in.  They plan on marrying but it will not be any time soon. The real trouble now will be in the wedding planning. That is because they joke they could be expecting several hundred thousand guests.  All of the families we spoke with today said the ruling was important because of family. Paul Campion and Randy Johnson were married in New York but their marriage was not recognized in Kentucky where they live.  They have four children but legally only one of them could be listed on the birth certificate. Here's Campion.  You know it felt like a big burden had come off our shoulders. We have been together almost 24 years. Our oldest two kids that we have had since birth are 20 years old. And while this process began just a couple years ago it was nice to finally come to this conclusion and it was just very overwhelmingly - overwhelming emotionally for all of us.  And Randy Johnson added this...  We know how significant this is to our family and to many many many families similar to ours. And this is really such a huge opportunity for all of those other families to focus their efforts on strengthening their family rather than protecting them from discriminatory laws.  The accidental activists we reached today their lawsuits resulted in today's ruling by the Supreme Court.  We heard from Randy Johnson Paul Campion April DeBoer Jayne Rowse Sophy Jesty and Val Tanco. 