 Reactions to President Trump's tweets saying people in Baltimore are quote living in hell and criticizing Congressman Elijah Cummings often cleave along party lines. On the debate stage last night Democratic presidential candidates condemned the remarks. From a swing district outside Philadelphia the debate around proper presidential speech is a little more nuanced. From member station WHYY  At Jag's Barber Shop in Morrisville 18-year-old college student Kola Bamgbose is getting a touch-up on his fade. He is studying economics at Seton Hall University and is a registered Republican but he disagrees with Trump's remarks about Baltimore.  I was not so much offended myself but I was just like you cannot really alienate parts of the - like that is still a city in America. And when you are saying that you are not just really saying it about Baltimore. You are saying it about every poor person in America.  When he votes for the first time in 2020 he says he is not sure who he will pick. Hairdresser Diane Gutierrez and her family run the shop. She is also a Republican and stops cutting Bamgbose's hair to weigh in on the president's rhetorical style.  I think his intentions are decent. And I do not think that he should have to filter everything he says.  Morrisville is in Bucks County home to one of the few purple congressional districts in Pennsylvania. In this suburban area Democrats have a voter registration edge over Republicans. But the large number of third-party and unaffiliated voters keeps it in play. And it means people here get to practice talking to people who share different views. Over the course of a day asking voters here about Trump's tweets opinions ranged widely. Audrey Potter says he reminds her of the corrupt Roman emperor Caligula.  I mean I am 64. I know what presidents look like and sound like. And he is not it.  Others say the media persecutes him.  This is a sword that definitely cuts both ways.  Robin Kolodny is chair of the political science department at Temple University in Philadelphia. She says divisive language tends to cause people to double down on what they already think. There are some voters willing to change their minds but Kolodny says it is a relatively small number.  Most of the discussion is about is Trump going to turn off some of those suburban educated white voters? That is the one that I think we often focus on as thinking that it is larger than it actually is.  Some voters who say they are willing to split their tickets are hanging out at Ned's Cigar Store in nearby Newtown.   Owner Matt Arlen says he tries to focus on local politics because he finds he can have more of an impact than at the national level.  It is not like I am going to call him up and go hey Donny. Look. You know you really screwed this up buddy. He is still going to say what he wants.  Arlen declined to name what party he is affiliated with saying he did not want to be labeled in these polarizing times. But he praised both moderate Republicans and Democrats.  You have to be able to cover both sides. You are not only elected to represent those that voted for you. You are elected to represent everybody in this area.  He says he does not like it when politicians get into office and forget that is their job. For NPR News I am Laura Benshoff in Bucks County Pa. 