 Back now to our top story Hurricane Irene which is clobbering the mid-Atlantic Coast with bands of rain reaching all the way from North Carolina to Maine. It is not all that powerful as hurricanes go but it is big. And it is moving through vulnerable heavily populated areas. NPR science correspondent Joe Palca has been tracking the storm for us. And he is here with me in the studio.  Joe where is Irene now?  Well it is about - it is on the border between North Carolina and Virginia probably about 30 miles south-southeast of Norfolk. And it is also about 300 miles south-southwest of New York City. Its maximum winds are - sustained winds anyway - are now 80 miles per hour which is a little bit less than they were earlier but still rather powerful. And it is heading north at about 13 miles an hour.  What is it that makes this such a dangerous storm? Is it the wind the rain the size?  Well take your pick. It is moving over - as you said it is moving over a heavily populated area and really that makes the difference. You know one of these storms comes ashore in a desolate area we would not be talking about it. But here it is a big deal. Then as you said it is huge. I mean the hurricane-force winds extend out 80 miles. So that makes a 160-mile swath of destruction going through. But there are also these - what they call tropical-force winds which are still substantial - in the 30s and 40s miles-per-hour. And they are extending out for almost 600 miles now.  Six hundred miles.  Yeah. It is just - it is a very very large storm. And what happens is you get those winds blowing into an area like - here in Washington D.C. for example. Lot of trees trees get knocked over. Not only do they fall on houses which is bad but they fall on power lines and disconnect power. There is millions - almost a million customers now that I have seen in Virginia that seem to be without power. So it is bad. And the rain by the way - we do not want to forget the rain - they have been talking about having up to 20 inches of rain in some places. So flash-flood warnings all over the place. It is really going to be hazardous.  Well what happens when a storm this big hits a city with a lot of tall buildings like New York City?  Well that is kind of interesting. We have been talking about the wind speed - you know 80 miles an hour. That is measured at the ground. And as you go up in height the wind can go up dramatically. So a lot of times what you see in cities that are hit by hurricanes is the top floors are the ones where the windows are blown out. And then what happens is you get the delightful effect of flying glass coming down onto the city below. So it is not good to be out when this thing is really blowing.  So where do we go from here?  Well up the coast you know it will pick up speed as it passes New York. And they have extended the warnings - or at least some of the tropical storm warnings - up into Canada. So this is going to be going up into Canada and still could - causing quite a bit of damage and consternation I should think over the next 24 to 48 hours.  That is NPR science correspondent Joe Palca. Joe thanks so much.  You are welcome. 