 Paper straws might be a hard sell for boba tea shops but the sudden demand for them is only increasing as plastic straw bans multiply. Manufacturers of paper straws like Aardvark Straws in Fort Wayne Ind. say their business is blowing up these days. David Rhodes is the global director for Aardvark Straws and he is here to talk about it. Hey David.  Hi there Ailsa.  So you guys sell only paper straws absolutely no plastic ones.  No we only do paper straws. And our heritage actually goes back to 1888. And then of course paper straws were around up until the early '60s. And then plastic came along. And then paper straws left the planet for about three decades. Ten years ago we brought them back better not like the old paper straws that used to get soggy and fall apart back in the '60s and '70s. And so we have just seen this phenomenal increase over the last 10 years to - whereby literally our business was doubling every year which is phenomenal by itself. The situation we face today is everybody wants them now immediately. And that is caused our lead times to increase out beyond what most people are comfortable with.  Yeah so what has that been like?  We are adding capacity just as fast as anybody can. And what people do not remember is back in the '60s and the '70s when it was all paper it took the plastics industry almost a decade to get rid of paper. Now it will not take us or anybody else a decade but it is going to take a little bit of time.  Do you actually see a reality into the future where everyone is using only paper straws? Is that feasible?  You know there is a couple of exceptions. But for the most part you know the quality safe Aardvark straw that we make is a one-to-one substitute for the plastic straw. And it is clearly - you know it is better for the environment. And there is no reason why that should not happen you know a few years down the road.  Well business owners say that paper straws are a lot more expensive than plastic straws so it hurts their bottom line. They might order fewer straws. I mean do you see that as a problem - the cost of these paper straws?  So there is no getting around that a paper straw is going to cost about a penny more than a plastic straw. It is not 5 cent it is not 10 cent more like you see in a lot of publications. It is about a penny more when you compare apples to apples. One thing that we promote heavily and have since day one is straws on demand or straws on request. So by reducing the amount of straws that are served and cutting that consumption in half the net now for an operator can be zero to where they are serving half the amount of straws they were in the past. Yes they cost a penny more. But at the end of the day it is really not costing the operator any more.  Well you know one thing that we just heard in the piece before this boba tea shops - they say that paper straws just do not work for their product. What would you say to those boba tea shops?  I would say they probably have not tried an Aardvark straw. We are the only made in America. We are the original straws. Unfortunately when we brought back the modern-day paper straw 10 years ago about seven years ago there were copycats coming you know from the Asian market. And those straws do get soggy. They fall apart. And they do not work very well.  So there are these copycat companies in China. Is that why you have a closed factory policy? Are you afraid of Chinese companies trying to steal your trade secrets?  You know it is. It is unfortunate that we do have to have a closed policy. But the materials that we use and the way that we make an Aardvark straw is very much proprietary. And if that got out to the general public then obviously we would not have our competitive advantage.  I have a confession to make that the bias I have against paper straws is when I am at a table and I do not see a toothpick handy I will use the straw in my drink to pick my teeth with. I cannot do that with a paper straw. Are you going to promise me that your straws will be tough enough so I can pick my teeth with them?  .  That is essential.  You know some things you just cannot do. So you know a paper straw will perform for what it is used for and that is to pull liquid out of a drink and into your mouth safely.   David Rhodes is global director for Aardvark Straws. It is a maker of paper straws in Fort Wayne Ind. Thank you very much for joining us.  Well thank you for what you guys do. Have a great day.  All right we have a late development to report now. Since recording our conversation with David Rhodes earlier today we have learned that some of those boba tea shops in San Francisco are in fact using Aardvark Straws. 