 More than 200000 people have now died from the coronavirus in the United States. That number comes from researchers at Johns Hopkins University who have been tracking the pandemic. And it means COVID-19 is one of the leading causes of death in the U.S. NPR's Jason Beaubien joins us to help put this in perspective for us. And Jason obviously we are all living to some degree with effects of the pandemic - virtual school teleworking being told to wear masks. But as we hit 200000 deaths what can you tell us about who has been dying from this disease say demographically?  Yeah. If you look at who has been most likely to be killed by this virus in the United States it is older Black men. And you know to be clear COVID has killed people of all ages. There is been babies that have died people in their 20s all ethnicities. The deaths are spread out across all 50 states. But there are some very clear patterns when you look at who are these 200000 people who died from this disease this year? Ninety-two percent of all the deaths in the U.S. have been people over the age of 55. African Americans are dying at a rate far higher than anyone else. Black people make up just 13 of the U.S. population yet they account for 21 of all the coronavirus deaths so far. Latinos are also dying at a rate that is slightly higher than their representation in the population but the most dramatic is among Black people. This is all the data that is coming from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And their breakdown again of deaths - we are not talking about cases but deaths - by sex 54 of the deaths are among men.  A lot of disparities - what about compared to other countries Jason? Has the coronavirus been more deadly here in the U.S.?  You know in terms of raw numbers of COVID deaths the U.S. is far higher than anyone. The closest is Brazil. They have had just over 130000 deaths. But by comparison like the U.K. has had 40000. Italy's had 35000. The U.S. is a large country - third largest after China and India. And in terms of the fatality rates when you start looking at deaths per one million population the U.S. still ranks up there globally in the top 10. So compared to other countries we have not done very well. Some low- and middle-income countries including like Rwanda and Vietnam - they have managed to keep their COVID death numbers incredibly low.  We have had flare-ups of COVID-19 in different parts of the country at different times. Where are the current trouble spots in a sense? And then where is the pandemic expected to be worse in the U.S. in coming months?  Yeah so if you go back to like late February this really started to take hold in New York. And even now when you look at the statistics the deaths - 23 of all deaths so far from COVID are just in New York and New Jersey. By March and April the virus was spreading all over. But again it was primarily spreading into urban areas. NPR's data wizards - they have been tracking this stuff and you can look it up on our website. But beginning in March almost 100 of the cases were in large urban areas. Now large urban areas only make up 50 of where those cases are occurring and the rest are in smaller cities and rural areas. And this growth outside of cities - it is expected to continue. It is a complicating factor. You know testing has been hard enough in places like Baltimore and Houston and Atlanta. And as this pandemic heats up in places with even less access to testing and health care it is going to pose significant challenges. You know some experts are saying that the U.S. could easily hit 300000 deaths by the end of the year maybe even 400000 if we get a lot more cases in places where people are struggling to get access to care and where people are not socially distancing or wearing masks.  Two hundred thousand deaths is a milestone number but put it in perspective for us. How does that 200000 from COVID compare to other disease in the U.S.?  You know this makes did not even exist a year ago now the third leading cause of death in this country. Only heart disease and cancer are claiming more lives.  So startling to hear that - that is NPR's Jason Beaubien. Thank you.  You are welcome. 