 The recent murders of law enforcement officers have been deeply unsettling for the communities where they happened and beyond and for the national movement for police reform. NPR's Martin Kaste reports on the damage done by those attacks and what reformers are doing to salvage the progress they say they have been making.  On Sunday in the hours after the attack on the officers in Baton Rouge police reformers were quick to condemn the killings. And there were touching efforts to bridge the divide between the black community and police such as this cookout in Wichita. It had been planned as a protest but was repurposed as a community barbecue with the local police.  You see African-Americans hugging Hispanics. You just see Hispanics hugging Caucasians citizens hugging police citizens hugging sheriffs. This is amazing.  That is one of the organizers an activist named A.J. Bohannan.  I think that that - what happened in Baton Rouge made this event that much more important so that we can get on the same page and say that those things that are in Baton Rouge do not trickle over into Wichita Kan.  But nationally the tone has not always been so conciliatory. Many police are angry and some think the attacks were triggered by what they see as the anti-police rhetoric of Black Lives Matter that angry words have led to violent deeds.  You got one guy with a bullhorn who is screaming kill the cops. What are those other six end up doing?  Most cops cannot say things like this publicly but Keith Wenzel can because he is now retired from the Dallas Police Department though he is still a reserve officer. He says police have been demoralized and he singles out Hillary Clinton for recently talking about quote systemic racism in law enforcement.  Every cop right now looks in a mirror and says Clinton's talking about me. Clinton does not even know me or my friends or my colleagues - and yet systemic. She has said we are all that way. She did not say one or two. She said we are all that way.  Reformers are deeply worried that rank and file police will now feel more justified in rejecting the basic political premise of the last couple of years that law enforcement has a racism problem. This worries police leaders too at least those who have bought into the reform process. Terry Cunningham is a president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police.  What I have tried to tell you know officers that are just bitter and angry about what is happened you know I say to them look if we cannot move closer so that we can continue to have these conversations it is going to mean that more police officers are going to die out there.  But right now it is not easy to get police around the table figuratively and literally. So President Obama has made that his mission. On Monday he had police leaders over to the White House for several hours. And in the Oval Office afterwards he made a point of saying supportive things.   I strongly believe that there is no contradiction between us protecting our officers honoring our officers making sure that they have all the tools they need to do their job safely and building trust between police officers in departments in the communities that they serve.  That is what we have been looking for you know for the last you know seven years - that - you know that kind of support and acknowledgement.  That is Chief Cunningham again of the IACP. He is also pleased with the open letter that the president just sent to law enforcement. And one line in particular resonates with many police where the president writes quote we can no longer ask you to solve issues we refuse to address as a society unquote. Just as Black Lives Matter wants police to acknowledge the reality of racism police want them to acknowledge that the system is about a lot more than just the cops. Charles Ramsey is the former chief of police in Philadelphia and the co-chair of the police reform task force that Obama set up after Ferguson.  It is like all the ills of society - we wind up somehow being looked at as the people that need to solve them. It should not just all fall on the shoulders of police.  Ramsey says the president gets this and is orienting his task force to take a broader look at the justice system as a whole.  You know this does not happen overnight. No one has a light switch that they can turn on and suddenly everything is different.  Ramsey thinks there has been some real progress over the past couple of years. More departments are adopting the recommendations of the task force and training their officers in de-escalation techniques and how to control implicit bias.    Power to the people.   Power to the people.   Power to the people.  But that progress has not been fast enough for many in the reform movement such as this group protesting last week outside the Minnesota governor's mansion. Jacob Ladda says he is willing to concede that the police have a tough job but he wants police to concede certain realities too.  We hear a lot of police saying - or their wives saying that you know every day I work I risk my life. Well every time a black person steps out of their residence they can lose their life because that is what is happening.  The question after Baton Rouge and Dallas is whether police officers are still willing to listen to this. Martin Kaste NPR News. 