 Don Muller has a collection of jukeboxes in his house that is so big he does not even know how many he has. He is owned a company called Jukeboxes Unlimited since 1971. He is watched the business undergo a lot of changes and somehow he is managed to weather them. We sent Carla Javier to his houseoffice just north of Los Angeles to check it out.  Thirty-seven.  Don Muller has an add-on to his house that is tightly packed with jukeboxes under plastic covers. We start counting there then we walk to the porch.  Forty-three.  You have never counted them?  I have never done this - walk around and count them 'ecause it changes every day. Forty-four 45 46. So there is 46 here.  There are 15 more in his living room and in the foyer...  Yeah what did this come out to be? What did we have here?  Sixty-two.  We had 62? Plus - what was this?  Forty. That is 40 in the store add 500 square feet of jukeboxes in storage...  So I have been telling people we have over 100. Now I know it is even way more than that.  He will gut most of these jukeboxes fix them up salvage some parts and resell them to customers as close as Southern California and as far away as Australia. Some he rents and some he will keep for himself like his favorite the 1948 Seeburg M100A.  This machine is 100 percent original every single aspect of it - the original cartridge the original needle and original old 78 rpm records. And this is Frankie Lymon and Goody Goody.   Back when he started in 1971 there were a lot of guys like him in the jukebox business. And in the crowded Los Angeles scene he set himself apart by selling to the stars. He has these books and albums he keeps at home filled with copies of checks and notes from famous folks like Steve Martin Mick Fleetwood.  I could pull up to the Playboy Mansion gates the camera would come down shine on my license plate and the gate would open.  I did ask Playboy and a spokesperson confirmed Don Muller used to come in and repair a jukebox owned by Hugh Hefner. Don Muller is 72 now. And over the years many of his competitors around the country have gone away. It is gotten less glamorous but he keeps busy through his online store.  And I get so many emails. I get them from all over the world and it is the same thing. It is like can you tell me what gear goes with this gear? And you know for me to just get back to them and say what jukebox are you even talking about I do not have time.  I go with him on a trip to visit someone trying to sell a jukebox.  Let us get the AC running here.  Her name is Aline DeGroote and she lives in Anaheim.  All right so let us put in this lady' She promised to give him some records if he can take this jukebox off her hands. Now I have seen his garage. He must have hundreds of thousands of records in there. So while we are in the car I ask him why does he need more records.  I do not collect records. I amass records. Like I do not even know what we are getting today. I am sure I already have 20 copies of everything that she is got but it is an addiction.  We get to DeGroote's house and there is the jukebox - a Rowe AMI JEL200A. It is from the early '60s and she is had some trouble selling it.  I remember when I first tried to sell the jukebox people are like well yeah what does it play CDs?  Her dad died five years ago. He kept the jukebox in the pool room and she grew up listening to it. But now it is broken and she is selling it to Muller for 75 bucks cash.  I want it to go to someone's who is going to appreciate it for what it is. It is a jukebox that plays old music.  She is also throwing in about 2000 records. Don Muller's pretty excited about that.  This is like Christmas.  He sorts through them putting them in banana boxes he brought himself. Banana boxes are not an inside record collector thing. They are a Don Muller thing. He gets them from the grocery store.  Well 45s - a packed banana box is 400 records - 400 45s in a banana box. Some good stuff.  And even after 44 years in the business he still gets excited when he sees an old favorite.  .  What song were you guys just humming?  I do not even know the name of it.  The Fleetwoods and Come Softly.  That is it Come Softly.  .   Muller could make decent money if he sold his collection of over 400000 records. But he says he does not plan to unless someone comes along offering a lot of money because those records they are not for his business. They are for his collection and eventually he will give them to his son. For NPR News I am Carla Javier.    Come softly darling. Come to me. Stay. You are my obsession forever. 