 When Harvey slammed into the Texas coastline as a Category 4 hurricane that was only the beginning. Now as a tropical storm it has been flooding the Texas coast and driving people from their homes in Houston and beyond. Harvey is slowly moving eastward extending its reach into Louisiana. NPR's Debbie Elliott joins us now from Beaumont Texas which is to the east of Houston. Hi Debbie.  Hi Ari.  We have been hearing a lot from Houston. What are conditions like where you are in Beaumont?  Well we have had a lot of flash flood and tornado warnings throughout today bands of heavy rain that come and go. The winds have really picked up to close to tropical force - tropical storm force. The place is like a ghost town. Most of the businesses are closed. There are some roads that are underwater some neighborhoods. I saw a few businesses. In an industrial part of town floodwaters had toppled and rolled some small tanks and barrels. There was an RV sales lot that was swamped.  Since people saw what happened in Houston did they have what felt like some kind of a warning? Are they responding differently? Did they the get out earlier?  You know most people are still staying in their homes and waiting to see what happens. They have taken some precautions putting up sandbags and the like. But for people who are in the heavier flooded areas once they saw even a little bit of water they were getting out. They are fleeing. I ran into this family today. They were unloading supplies. They had their dog. They had pillows and blankets. And they were at the post office. And Laura Blueford works there and she had opened the doors and brought in her family. She is from nearby Cheek Texas which is a rural area and says they realized they really had to get out quick today.  Well we woke up and my mom house is underwater - every room. And the whole - I have got some pictures - the whole - everything is just full. I mean the whole community in Cheek is - we just tried to get out. It is flooded. And we are afraid it is going to get worse so we just wanted to get out.  Everybody's afraid it is going to get worse. Her elderly mother Anaballe Fontenot said the street had turned into a river. I went to check it out. I tried to get into to Cheek to see if anybody was left there. I could not get through. Water was rushing over the road.  We have heard about the strain on resources in urban areas. In more rural areas like you are describing what is being done to help people who are displaced from their homes?  You know it is neighbor helping neighbor pretty much. There are some shelters set up but thus far they are not full. There is capacity. But statewide that is the issue. Where is the capacity? You know FEMA says some 30000 people are going to need shelter. Now that is the size of a small city. And because the search and rescue is still very active and underway that number could grow. There is a plan to move some people to Dallas. In Houston the convention center is near capacity. You know Texas Governor Greg Abbott said today that the state is just starting to come to grips with this. They are trying to save lives now. But sooner or later they are going to have to address you know how to help their fellow Texans with the necessities - food power water. The problem is getting the stuff to Houston getting the stuff through the flooded roads.  And the rain is still coming down. What is the forecast for what is going to happen next?  You know the storm is sitting off the coast. It is this drifting around eventually expected to move into Louisiana which has already been feeling rain. Here's Governor John Bel Edwards.   The worst is yet to come for us in Louisiana. As you all know we have had more than our fair share of afternoon thunderstorms throughout the summer. And so the rain had already saturated the ground before this event ever started.  So Ari here we are again - potential for serious flooding. They are really worried about storm surge that would push the rivers and bayous in instead of letting all this rainwater drown - drain out into the Gulf - so another problem.  That is NPR's Debbie Elliott speaking with us from Beaumont Texas. Thank you Debbie.  You are welcome. 