 Joining us from the White House is deputy national security adviser Denis McDonough. Welcome to the program.  Thanks a lot. It is good to be with you.  And first Moammar Gadhafi does the U.S. have a position on what should happen to him now?  Well no. The real deciders here in this regard are the people of Libya. What happens with him is really up to the people of Libya. Of course the president has made clear over the course of the last frankly several months but most explicitly in the last couple days what we expect him to do so as to allow his country to move on from this very tumultuous chapter into a new chapter where the Libyan people get to decide for themselves for the first time in 42 years.  But whether he is tried in Libya tried in The Hague or shot on sight no preference in Washington?  Correct. These are choices for the people of Libya to make. Obviously the president has outlined our views as to how best for this transition to come about. And obviously the TNC leadership themselves have also made those points about avoiding retribution and so forth. But these are decisions for the people of Libya.  President Obama has been faulted by his critics for what they said was a lack of clear leadership on Libya. The phrase from a New Yorker article leading from behind has been used against him as a derisive slogan. You have been inside the National Security Council. I want to know how do you describe the U.S. role in Libya and how much credit should the administration get for the overthrow of Moammar Gadhafi?  But what I would ask the critics is is that they are unhappy with the outcome or is it that they are unhappy with the cost? Because it could have been done more costly and it could have been done with more exposure to American resources.  What is the difference between events in Libya and events in Syria that makes the former a place where allied military force could play a decisive role and the latter a place where sanctions are proposed the ruler is urged to step down there is encouragement for the dissidents but no threat of military action at all?  Well in the first instance you have seen - what we saw early in March was a request for assistance from the opposition in Libya. Then you saw the unanimity of the neighbors led by the Arab League by the Gulf coalition from the Arabian Gulf and then from our European friends and NATO and otherwise joining into this effort. So there are two very unique aspects to Libya that are not present today in Syria.  But just to be clear here as the administration sees it the situations in Libya and Syria where we have not threatened intervention are more fundamentally different than they are similar is what you are saying.  That is correct.  And that explains why there is not a proposed NATO role. Do you think most people in the region would agree with that that they are fundamentally different or that they are all part of something called the Arab Spring and it is the same issue and there is military repression there?  The makeup of each country is different. The way they are exercising them and the opportunities they are creating for themselves are different. And we have to be able to see those differences and not follow some kind of set standard cookie cutter approach. And frankly that is exactly what the president's done and we believe it is served our interests well.  Well Denis McDonough thank you very much...  Thank you.  ...for talking with us today. That is Denis McDonough who is the deputy national security advisor spoke to us from the White House.   .. 00.00 