 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Russia and the U.S. are at odds over the fate of Edward Snowden the man who leaked secret U.S. documents about government surveillance programs. Snowden is said to be in Moscow. And the Obama administration wants Russia to send him home to face justice. But Russian authorities say they have nothing to do with Snowden that he is a free man in the international transit zone of a Moscow airport. NPR's Michele Kelemen has this story about a case that is once again souring U.S.-Russian relations.  Secretary of State John Kerry says he is not looking for a fight with Moscow over the Snowden case.  We do not need to raise the level of confrontation over something as frankly basic and normal as this.  The U.S. and Russia do not have an extradition treaty but Kerry told reporters during a stop in Saudi Arabia that the U.S. is making a simple request for Moscow to send Snowden back to the U.S. where he is facing felony charges.  And we would hope that as a nation as a sovereign nation Russia would not see its interests in siding with a person and who is accused of breaking the law in another nation and who is a fugitive from justice according to international standards of law.  The trouble is Russia does not see the Snowden case that way. Russian President Vladimir Putin called Snowden a human rights activist and compared him to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange who helped Snowden leave Hong Kong over the weekend and helped him apply for refugee status in Ecuador. Should these people sit in jail Putin asked rhetorically at a news conference in Finland?    I personally do not want anything to do with this question he says because it' a lot of shrieking but not much fur. Putin says Russia was taken by surprise when Snowden arrived at the airport in Moscow and he dismissed as rubbish allegations that Russian officials were involved.    He is a transit passenger so he is still in the transit hall Putin says insisting that Russian security services have not worked with Snowden. Putin says the former U.S. intelligence contractor can go wherever he would like and the sooner the better for him and for Russia. State Department officials are not giving up yet though saying they are still in talks with Russia over Snowden's case hoping to persuade the Russians to cooperate. Michele Kelemen NPR News Washington. 