 Among the harrowing images and stories from Hurricane Harvey there have also been moments of compassion and generosity. Those moments involve people and also animals. When Aaron Jayjack is not at his day job he is a storm chaser. He drove two hours from his home in Austin to the Texas coast to see Hurricane Harvey and a low gas tank turned that quest into a rescue mission.  Looking for a gas station I found a gas station. And I was slowing down to roll into the gas station and I saw a dog was following me. I get out of the Jeep to get gas and the dog that was following me actually jumped into my driver's side seat. You know I did not -  I did not have the heart to boot him out. He was cold and shivering and wet and had his tail between his legs and he definitely just wanted out of the bad conditions. So I loaded up the dog with me and headed back to Austin. And so meanwhile I would actually - I had tweeted out a video of me and a dog looking for help from the Twitterverse.   Hey guys. I am on my way back to Austin from Victoria Texas and I picked up a little passenger here. So I really need help trying to find this guy's owner. I will call him Harvey. But I need help trying to find his owner - so if you can share tweet whatever you got to do to help. And within a couple hours I actually had found the owner. Multiple people had contacted me recognizing the dog and they knew the owner. I got a hold of the owner and ended up driving two hours back south into the hurricane met up with the owner and handed off - Cash was his name. I nicknamed him Harvey but his real name was Cash - and handed off Cash to his owner.   Hey man.  How is it going?  Not much. How are you?  Good you?  This is your guy.  Yes Sir.  Looks like he recognizes you .  Yes Sir.  I am back in Austin but I have a boat. I saw someone post about a animal shelter with about 70 animals that were stranded. And I - you know I know there is plenty of people that are helping humans out. 'ecause of the - we are in the cell phone age they are able to get word out that they need help. But you know the pets cannot do that right? So I want to focus on the animals that are stranded in Houston and see if I cannot get my boat to that animal shelter and start picking them up.   That is Aaron Jayjack of Austin Texas. If you are in the path of Hurricane Harvey and you have a story to tell tell it to us. The show is on Facebook and Twitter npratc.  