 We are well into June and summer is just around the corner. For some that means lawn mowing beaches pools and sunscreen. A study published recently in JAMA the Journal of the American Medical Association found active ingredients in sunscreen were absorbed into the bloodstream. The significance of that is still unclear. So to offer some guidance we are joined by Trisha Calvo of Consumer Reports. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  This study was conducted by some FDA researchers. Can you tell us more about what they found?  They found that some of the chemical active ingredients in sunscreen - oxybenzone avobenzone - was absorbed through the skin. But they did not make a determination about whether or not that meant health effects - health side effects from that absorption.  You were behind Consumer Reports' extensive ranking of sunscreens. So in light of this news how should we think about our choice of sunscreen? What should we look for?  Well the first thing to remember is that you need to use sunscreen. The risks of sun exposure to your skin - skin cancer sunburn - are very well-established so you still need to use sunscreen when you are going to be outside and on exposed skin. The FDA has said that they consider that titanium dioxide and zinc oxide as active ingredients are safe and are not absorbed through the skin. However in Consumer Reports' tests of sunscreens we found that they do not perform as well. So one thing that you might want to consider is using a sunscreen that does not have oxybenzone. Of all the chemical active ingredients that is the one that seems to be most worrisome although it is far from determined whether or not it is actually a problem. It is also the ingredient that can possibly harm the coral reefs.  That was my next question. We have been hearing about this idea that sunscreen can be damaging to the environment. And it feels a little bit like we cannot win...  Right.  ...In terms of choices. I mean am I wrong about that?  You know that research is still in the early stages as well. And I do not want to undermine it or underplay it but you have to think about things sort of globally. And one thing that you can do is - if you are concerned about sunscreen use is you can just be extra careful about covering up.  So I know for my own kid the swimsuit I got for him has long sleeves. And I am always putting like a big hat on him. So you are telling me that is not overkill.  That is not overkill. That is actually a great idea. You know there are a lot of sun-protective clothing on the market now so that will help protect the environment 'ecause you are using less sunscreen. And it will also help protect you against any potential problems with sunscreen ingredients.  In the end how big a deal is this study published by JAMA?  I think it is great that the FDA has called for more information but I am concerned that people will take that information and not really understand what is behind it and then stop using sunscreen or think that sunscreen is definitely harmful. It is important to remember that none of that has been established yet. And even the FDA has said you should not stop using sunscreen with these active ingredients.  In the meantime when you are going to the beach what are you going to be using?  I use sunscreen all the time but I am also really careful to cover up. So if you came across me on the beach you would see me in a long-sleeved shirt under an umbrella with a towel over my feet so I did not get sunburn. But I use sunscreen regularly.  So I do not have to bring back the parasol just yet. That is what I was thinking of .  No but you know what? That is not a bad idea.  Trisha Calvo deputy health and food editor at Consumer Reports. Thanks for hashing it out with us.  Thank you Audie. 