 As the city of Detroit struggles through recession the historic collapse of the automobile industry and a loss of population its suburbs also are hurting. Home foreclosures business failures and an economic slowdown have hit these more prosperous communities as well. Historically Detroit and its suburbs have been divided along lines of race and class. But as Anthony Brooks reports these days equal opportunity hard times are prompting renewed talk of regional cooperation.  Driving north out of Detroit the abandoned buildings and vacant lots give way to shiny office towers busy shopping malls and wealthy suburbs like Birmingham. This is an upscale town of 20000 people in the heart of Oakland County among the wealthiest counties in the country. But even here amid the trendy boutiques and art galleries businesses are struggling.   Here in the Whistle Stop Diner there are barstools and red leatherette booths. Owner Matt Rafferty has cut back the hours of his staff taken over some of the cooking and cleaning himself. And recently he tried something else to increase business and help his neighbors. Mr.  For one week I let my customers come in have a meal and then pay me whatever they could afford. So people would come in and tell me stories about being laid off or their houses got foreclosed on. You know I was getting hugged and there was tears. And there was you know - it really made me feel good to kind of give back and help people out.  Despite the challenges Birmingham feels a world away from Detroit. Yet many here say they feel a strong link to the troubled city. Rafferty wears a Detroit Tigers baseball cap and says Birmingham needs a healthy Detroit. Mr.  It is absolutely necessary. I mean Detroit is not very far away. And whenever Detroit has something great going on it filters all the way through the suburbs. Everyone is involved with Detroit. I mean people ask you where you are from you say Detroit.  Steve Trachsel who runs the local barbershop in Birmingham called The Barber Pole agrees. Mr.  If Detroit does well suburbs do well. I mean when the Super Bowl came in we had a lot of influx of people coming here spending money staying in our hotels you know getting haircuts here it is good for everybody you know? And the suburbs of Chicago do great because Chicago is a happening place.  Even so in 2002 voters in metro Detroit rejected a referendum on regional funding of the arts which would have helped make the city a more happening place. And a plan to develop public transportation to link Detroit to its suburbs has been discussed for years with no results though it is back on the table again. The desire to support Detroit is sports teams museums and restaurants has not translated into region-wide cooperation with and investment in Detroit according to Margaret Dewar a professor of urban planning at the University of Michigan.  What I want to see is a regional vote on say tax-based sharing something like what the Twin Cities have that shows there is cooperation between city and suburb. So I think even if people say they care I think it is time to show it in more concrete ways.  For their part suburban leaders have struggled for years to do business with a city government known for corruption and inefficiency. Some politicians like L. Brooks Patterson the executive of Oakland County are unapologetic about ignoring Detroit. Here he is on Detroit radio station WJR.  Mr. L.  My first priority always will be to take care of my constituents. I have them you know?  I believe - I understand that if... Mr.  ...sharing responsibility. If there is a program that is put forth that is good for the City of Detroit and good for Oakland County I am there. I am a player. If there is a program put forward that is good for Detroit but injurious to the interests of Oakland County I am going to oppose it.  This past spring Patterson signed on to a so-called Economic Growth Alliance with three other suburban counties that excluded Detroit. Because according to Patterson we have more in common with our neighbors to the north and to the east. But Lou Glazer president of Michigan Future Inc. says the suburbs ignore Detroit at their own peril. Mr.  The reality is is that if you look at the most prosperous places in the country they are all anchored by a vibrant central city. You will not have a broad middle class. You will not have a strong knowledge economy. Without Detroit working the lesson across the country is the region does not work. And if the region does not work the state does not work.  Back in Birmingham Chamber of Commerce President Carrie Zarotney acknowledges the challenges. Ms.  But I think now more than ever is an opportunity and a necessity to reinvest in the city. If we want to be a powerful area like a Chicago we need to reinvest in our city. We cannot just let it die on its own.  Zarotney says the current recession should remind people in places like Birmingham and Detroit of the need to work together. From NPR News I am Anthony Brooks. 