 The coronavirus pandemic has been especially difficult for older Americans.  Like Ted Reissing who lives in the Somerby Senior Living facility in Peachtree City Ga. He is 84 years old an avid birdwatcher.  This summer Reissing had two vacations planned and was on his way to a milestone worth tweeting about.  I am 56 birds short of seeing 6000. And I am trying to get to 6000 before I kicked the bucket.  But those trips are canceled now. And making matters worse Reissing does not have much to do in lockdown.  One thing managed to insert a little jolt of excitement into his routine though.    Radio Recliner.  Reissing took part in a resident DJ series called Radio Recliner.    Tweet tweedlee dee dee.  Good day. This is your radio recliner DJ Birdman Ted.  It is an Internet radio program giving seniors in residential facilities all over the country a platform to share some of their favorite music. Many of DJ Birdman's song choices were fitting.    Blackbird singing in the dead of night.    Love makes your heart feel strange inside. It flutters like soft wings in flight.    But she is an eagle...  Mitch Bennett is with Luckie the marketing company behind Radio Recliner. He says he wanted to help bring seniors a much-needed sense of community.  They are very isolated in their rooms. They are not seeing each other. And they cannot see their families have not seen them for months.  Reissing knows that feeling well. He moved here with his wife four years ago. But then she was diagnosed with Alzheimer's.  She is in another building. I have not seen her for three months. And she is about 200 feet away from where I live.  No surprise then who DJ Birdman's hour-long broadcast was dedicated to.   This show is dedicated to my wife Kay. Anybody that lives here will tell you if there is anything good about me it is directly due to her being in my life for 57 years.  DJ Birdman and Kay we hope you two lovebirds are reunited soon.    Tweedlee dee dee it gives me a thrill to wake up in the morning to the mockingbird's trill. Tra-la-la tweedlee dee dee there is peace and goodwill. 