 From dusk till dawn every night since March 1929 a red beacon has flashed high above the city of Pittsburgh atop the historic Grant Building. It is not just any meaningless flash  Pittsburgh P-I-T-E-T-S-B-K-R-R-H. At least that is what was flashing on the 4th of July when Tom Stepleton a graduate student at Carnegie Mellon's Robotics Institute decoded it and he joins me now. How did you figure out this Morse code message was not spelling Pittsburgh or not spelling it right anyway? Mr.  Well it all happened on July 4th when I was on top of a building which has a great view of downtown and shortly after watching the fireworks a friend of mine noticed the beacon. It is something we had seen before. And I looked at it too and I saw the letter K. And as best as I can tell it spelled something out like Pitetsbkrrh.   Now is this all but for an odd dot here and one missing dash there if you shifted them in the right places it will all add up or is this a number of errors? Mr.  It is about three errors. The E in Pitet is an extra dot inserted between the two Ts of Pittsburgh. The K is a dot turned into a dash. And the extra R is the other way around a dash turned into a dot.  What would account for getting the spelling of Pittsburgh that wrong? Mr.  Well if a system is still using 1930s-era technology the actual generation of the dots and dashes is probably electromechanical. And so the electrical contacts which are closing the circuit that blinks the light they can get tarnished or they can get moved out of place and this kind of thing can cause the lights to blink incorrectly. So that would be my best guess.  Okay here's with the arch of your story gets really dramatic because you made a video of the Morse code flashing Pitetsbkrrh whatever it is   the top of the Grant Building and put it on YouTube. Attention is drawn to this problem and then we asked you to go out last night again and do it and you have a new video on YouTube. What does it spell out? Mr.  It is not saying Pitetsbkrrh anymore. It is gotten worse. It is instead spelling something which seems kind of like Tpebtsaurgh.   Which could add to obvious confusion with other cities in western Pennsylvania Mr.  I suppose.  if someone's going by these things. Mr.  It is pretty far off at this point.  Well Mr. Stepleton thank you very much for talking with us about your discovery of Morse code above the Grant Building in Pittsburgh. Mr.  Thank you very much. It is been a pleasure.  And you can find links to Tom Stepleton's videos of the Grant Building's wayward beacon at npr.org. We by the way called up McKnight Property Management that is the current owner of both building and beacon and they tell us that a part has been sent in for repair. No word though when Pittsburgh will again be well Pittsburgh. 