 And Chip Mitchell of member station WBEZ in Chicago reports that other counties may soon follow suit.  In Illinois Cook County Jail this year turned over 721 inmates named on ICE detainers people like Carlos Torres's father. Torres says his father is a Mexican native with an expired green card and...  He is had a burglary on his record once so that would make him more likely to get deported.  Torres's father went to jail last month after police found narcotics in a car he was riding in. ICE found out he was in jail and put a detainer on him but a new Cook County ordinance prevents the jail from complying with those detainers so Torres says his father has a better chance of walking free after his court appearance tomorrow.  It is like a godsend.  The ordinance passed last week and the jail has already released 15 inmates wanted by immigration authorities. The measure is especially popular in heavily Latino districts like Democrat Jesus Garcia's on Chicago's southwest side.  You have many localities and state legislators trying to do immigration policy. We are not best equipped to do this.  Cook County may have some cover from a federal court ruling in Indiana. The ruling calls compliance with the detainers voluntary. Still county board Republican Timothy Schneider is uncomfortable with ignoring the federal government's requests.  Under this ordinance gang bangers and people involved in drug dealing sex trafficking and criminal sexual assault they will be released out in our communities.  ICE spokesman Greg Palmore says preventing his agency from deporting inmates just does not make sense.  Jurisdictions who ignore detainers bear the risk of allowing an individual back into the public domain before they were thoroughly vetted.  Juniper Downs is lead deputy counsel for Santa Clara County in California.  For a long time we felt like we were in this alone and Cook County's bold policy may affect the direction of the policy we develop.  For NPR News I am Chip Mitchell in Chicago. 