 And now to an increasingly popular method of traveling around New York City. This summer the city completed its plan to create 200 miles of bike lanes. New York has been labeled bike-friendly by the League of American Bicyclists and the number of people biking to work has doubled there in the last six years. NPR's Jo Ella Straley wanted to know what is driving an estimated 23000 New Yorkers a day to hop on the bike.   I do not live in New York and I never have. I knew I would need a guide to this world of urban commuters so I turned to a man who is well known in the New York cycling community the blogger BikeSnobNYC. BikeSnob insisted I not divulge his real name. He feels being anonymous gives him more freedom as a blogger. BIKE SNOB NYC  I think that you should be able to wear Spandex and use obscenities in the workplace and I think that if everybody rode their bikes to work productivity would be up across the board.  I wanted to find some of these people on their way to work. So BikeSnob took me to the Williamsburg Bridge a major artery for commuters. Among the cyclists trickling off the bridge and into Manhattan traffic was Cathy Latham who was making the trip for the first time. Ms.  You are so high up and you can see the whole city. It is so worthwhile. Like you are missing all of that on the train. You are just going underground.  Only a few days before she would borrowed her mom's bike and gone for a spin in Central Park. It reminded her that cycling is essentially fun. So today she decided against the subway. Ms.  This way you get to see like all the buildings in your neighborhood everything that is going on - really get a sense of the city.  The Bike Snob put the ride into context.  For the first time you rode from Brooklyn over the bridge through some of the busiest traffic in Manhattan over Delancey Street to work for the first time and how was it? Did you like it? Ms.  Yeah I loved it. It was great. I gave my roommate my unlimited metro card today. I am like here have fun with it.  So here's a way to get to work that is fun that gets you some exercise it is free you do not have to buy a carbon offset to feel better about yourself. Why would not people do this?  There is a lot of things to be afraid of or that you think you should be afraid of. There is getting your bike stolen. There is the motor vehicle traffic. There is people judging you people judging your equipment people making fun of you like me.  The city cannot help you very much with the problem of trying to look cool but the city does think about your safety. Janette Sadik-Khan is New York's Department of Transportation commissioner. She says the new bike lanes are working.  If you rode on the protected bike path along 9th Avenue in Manhattan since we have implemented it we have had a 50 percent decrease in the number of accidents on that corridor alone. And so you know as we are engineering our streets differently building in new mobility into an old network we are also seeing a really big down payment on improved safety.  Then there is the matter of theft. The city has done something about that too. It is just passed a law that makes it easier for employees to get bike access in their places of work. Commissioner Sadik-Khan says she hopes this will entice more bike commuters.  The number one reason that people do not bike to work is that they are worried that they cannot park their bike and have it there at the end of the day when they need it. So we are removing that artificial cap we think on cycling and we think that that is going to be a great way to have more and more people bike to work.  So your bike is less likely to be stolen and you are less likely to get whacked by a car but there' personal hygiene. If you use your own energy to transport yourself there is the problem of sweat. Few offices provide showers and locker rooms for the self-propelled commuter. Back on the street in Lower Manhattan Dan Velochan and Casey Fisher have found a way to get around the problem of getting too hot on the way into Lehman Brothers from Brooklyn. Mr.  We actually ride a single bike. I took an old mountain bike and put an electric kit on it and added a banana seat with a backrest for her to sit on. Well I ride and she kind of relaxes and... Ms.  I just sit. I put my feet up on the back. It is pretty nice actually. Mr.  If it starts to get hot or it is a very hot day I will use the motor.  The ingenuity of this approach appealed to our Bike Snob.  You have got to love the spirit. You have got to love that this guy he is mechanical he is handy he put that thing together. He does not want to get to Lehman Brothers sweaty. So he uses the electrical assistance genius.  Yet the sweat issue does not dry up so easily. A solution says the Bike Snob is the need for an enormous cultural shift.  I would like to see a greater acceptance in our culture if I may get incredibly grandiose right now of general dirtiness and slovenliness because the entire notion that we have to build a transportation infrastructure around allowing people to show up to work clean in suits why? Who cares?  He can dream but until the day a little or a lot of perspiration is accepted at the office New Yorkers might want to come to work with a change of clothes. Jo Ella Straley NPR News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 