 One of the first things we heard about the shooter's motivations is a 911 call placed by the shooter in which he pledged allegiance to ISIS. But the story is not as simple as that. FBI director James Comey explained today that investigators are trying to find out more.   We are going through the killer's life as I said especially his electronics to understand as much as we can about his path and whether there was anyone else involved.  NPR's counterterrorism correspondent Dina Temple-Raston is with us now. And Dina we just heard from the FBI director there. What else did he have to say about where this investigation stands?  Well he said there were strong indications that Omar Mateen the man police have identified as the shooter had in fact been radicalized. But his motives and exactly how he radicalized is still one of the focuses of the investigation. I mean the case is shaping up to look a lot like the San Bernardino attack that happened last December. You remember in that case it involved a husband-and-wife team of shooters who attacked an employee Christmas party. Fourteen people were killed and 22 were seriously injured. But in that case there was never any direct link to ISIS found. Even after months of investigation officials have not been able to find a direct link to ISIS aside from a Facebook post the wife put up just before the attack. Ever since then there is been this question about what pledging allegiance to ISIS really means. Is this an opportunistic pledge that gets you press coverage or an ideological pledge? We are not sure yet in either of these cases but what does seem clear is that this was not a shooting that was directed by the group from Syria and Mateen looks like a freelancer.  Police had actually talked to him during Sunday's mass shooting. What can you tell us about that?  Well director Comey - we originally thought there was one phone call to a 911 dispatcher.  Right.  But director Comey told us today that there were actually three different calls. First the killer called 911 and hung up. Then he called back and spoke briefly with the dispatcher. And we understand from our reporting that it was during that second call that he identified himself by name - Omar Mateen - and then he hung up again. And Comey said the dispatcher called him back for a third time and spoke to him briefly. And that is when he said he was pledging allegiance to the leader of ISIS. But the director revealed that he said more than that.   But he also appeared to claim solidarity with the perpetrators of the Boston Marathon bombing and solidarity with a Florida man who died as a suicide bomber in Syria for Al-Nusra Front a group in conflict with the so-called Islamic State.  Now of course they are all part of radical Islam but it creates some questions about Mateen's commitment to ISIS and how stable he might have been mentally. I mean one working theory is that all the saturation coverage of ISIS in the media is what inspired Mateen to bring it up on the phone call.  Are investigators developing any leads that might give them some insight into his state of mind?  I think it is important to see this on two tracks. This was clearly terrorism - violence in pursuit of a political message. But this was a hate crime too. Mateen's father said his son had a problem with the gay community. Apparently they were out together in Miami a couple of months ago and he saw two men kissing and got really angry. Another clue - Mateen's ex-wife has talked about a very violent and stormy marriage. She said he used to beat her. She claimed he was unstable and bipolar. She and some of his coworkers have claimed that he was racist and homophobic. So investigators are trying to piece together all these motives and gather details of his life to try to get to the bottom of this. I mean right now there is no direct link to ISIS but that does not mean officials will not find one or the group did not inspire him. That is something that could become clear as the investigation goes on.  That is NPR's Dina Temple-Raston. Thank you very much.  You are welcome. 