 Cities usually have an array of services to combat homelessness. These include shelters soup kitchens job assistance programs. But there' running. Greg Collard of member station WFAE in Charlotte North Carolina reports on how running has changed the lives for some of the city's homeless people.  You might wonder how do you get the homeless interested in running? Well here' free shoes. That grabbed the attention of Matthew Hoffman.  The sign said you know come four times and you know get a pair of running shoes you know? And it is a really selfish mentality when I think about it now but you know it was a very naturally selfish mentality.  Many homeless runners say that is what attracted them to Charlotte's program called Running Works. It is organized by Meredith Dolhare.  At first it is all about the gear and then they stay because it is about the camaraderie and the family and the team. And you know and then they realize there is more to it. So that is pretty cool.  Stay together guys. Do the geese thing.  Come on John.   The program has about 30 participants. They run three times a week and compete in weekend road races mostly five and 10Ks. Matthew Hoffman is an exception.  My 50K was horrible.  That is 31 miles.  45 five hours 45. And I wanted to do it in about five hours.  We run a few miles through downtown Charlotte as Matthew gives the short version of his story. He is 34 and stays at a shelter. Matthew dropped out of the University of North Carolina. A series of part-time jobs followed. Six years ago he lost a job. A roommate kicked him out. He is been in and out of homelessness ever since. For a while a friend let him stay in his stepmother's condo but she did not know about it.  When she found out I of course had to leave.  Being homeless took its toll. He became bitter. Matthew's hometown was booming but his life was not. And then a year ago Matthew saw that sign for free shoes. In February Matthew finished that 50K.  Which is apparently an incredible feat for somebody that is not homeless much less somebody who is battling homelessness while they are training.  Something clicked. He started applying for jobs. He found one at a Subway restaurant. Minimum wage but that did not matter.  Dealing with the public and getting to serve others and help to make their lives more enjoyable and also to create a product that they enjoy is really something that does give me great satisfaction.  And then Matthew ran off. He had to get to work. A similar program called Back On My Feet started in Philadelphia six years ago. It is expanded to 10 cities including Chicago Washington D.C. and Boston. Charlotte's Running Works program is a year old. Again director Meredith Dolhare.  Originally people thought I was a little crazy but I always say you know what do you get from running?  Discipline confidence self-respect she says. The runners get gently used to high-end shoes. They also have access to shirts shorts and sweatpants. They also earn bus passes. But to get those bus passes runners take a mandatory life skills session. They address topics like anger management and goal setting. Today it is relationships.  So raise our awareness when we are doing that because that is actually a disconnect.  Many people here have made impulsive decisions. They need coping skills like 42-year-old Tom Carter.  I will just quit my job you know? I mean I like working if it is a good situation but you know you got to deal with a lot of stuff. You know when you worry you have got to deal with personalities. It can be stressful.  It would be great if everyone can get a job and be independent. But if they do not Dolhare says these sessions impart lessons they can use every day one step at a time. For NPR News I am Greg Collard in Charlotte. 