 There is an unexpected twist in the battle over a planned oil pipeline in North Dakota. A federal judge today ruled that construction could go forward despite protests by the nearby Standing Rock Sioux tribe. But then the Obama administration said it would step in. Sisk of Prairie Public Broadcasting is at the state capitol in Bismarck. There have been protests there against the pipeline. Amy can you hear me?  I can.  So tell me what is going on with the protests. Has it turned into a celebration?  Yes it has. So there is hundreds of people gathered on the capitol lawn outside. They are singing dancing and chanting. People are elated and a little bit done. Standing Rock Tribal Chairman Dave Archambault called today's to stop construction on the pipeline a win for all Indians. He is talking about the Dakota Access pipeline. It is 1200-mile pipeline that would run from North Dakota to Illinois. It could potentially carry more than 500000 barrels of oil per day and that is about half of North Dakota's daily oil production. It is slated to pass just north of Archambault's Standing Rock Reservation under the Missouri River so the tribe is concerned about a break in the pipeline that would contaminate the reservation's water source. And they are also concerned that the pipeline route crossed a sacred site. So there is thousands of people mostly Native Americans who have come to North Dakota from across the country in recent weeks to protest with the Standing Rock tribe. Some of them are here outside on the lawn and they are excited about this decision by the federal government.  So tell us more about the Justice Department decision. What precisely did it say?  Yeah so in a joint statement the Justice Department and the Army Corps of Engineers said they are voluntarily halting all construction on the pipeline near the Missouri River which is what the protesters were asking for. That decision was surprising because it came just minutes after a federal judge said he would not stop construction on the pipeline. So the Standing Rock tribe had filed for an injunction to halt construction. Well they argued a legal case against the pipeline but the judge said he did not see any clear evidence that laws were broken. So it was a bit of a whiplash on their disappointment with the judge's decision followed by the federal government stepping in. And then of course there is celebration.  Expand on that more. What reason did the Justice Department give here?  Yeah so the land where they are halting construction is federal. It is owned by the Army Corps of Engineers so they are stopping construction just on federal land. The Justice Department and the Corps said that the tribe's lawsuit raises important questions about the prospects approving pipelines - not just for the Dakota Access pipeline but all pipelines and specifically whether there is adequate consultation with tribes about infrastructure projects. So the Justice Department said it will be convening government-to-government meetings this fall with tribes to discuss those issues. So this is a decision that could have implications beyond this particular fight.  But does the decision impact people other than the tribes? I mean what - how - how broad does this reach?  So beyond the potential impact on future infrastructure projects this looks like it might also end up playing a role in the presidential election. The protests over this pipeline have gone viral on social media. There is solidarity protests planned around the country. And people are now calling for President Obama and Hillary Clinton to take a stance against the pipeline. President Obama was even asked about it during his recent trip to Laos. And today's decision might reduce some of that burr but I do not really expect it to go away.  That is Amy Sisk a reporter with Inside Energy a public media collaboration focused on America's energy issues. Thank you for sharing your reporting.  Thank you. 