 A number of major wildfires are burning in California fueled by high winds and very dry conditions. The top priority for firefighters is the King fire burning east of Sacramento. It is blackened more than 110 square miles and is currently threatening more than 2000 homes. Today authorities charged a 37-year-old man named Wayne Allen Huntsman with deliberately setting the fire.  Yesterday morning a superior court judge here in El Dorado County issued a 10 million arrest warrant for this subject. He was taken into custody late yesterday and he - we filed a criminal complaint charging him in the El Dorado County Superior Court early this morning.  That is El Dorado County DA Vern Pierson. As NPR's Kirk Siegler reports nearly 3000 people have been forced to evacuate the area.  The King fire is burning in a matchbox forest of Ponderosa pine trees and tinder-dry shrubs and grasses from the high altitudes of the Tahoe Divide down to the gentle slopes of the Western Sierra Foothills. Now hundreds of vacation cabins homes small farms and horse ranches lie directly in its path. People have been packing up their campers and trailers and headed for this barn at the Placerville County Fairgrounds. Horses goats and sheep are in pens. Ducks and chickens mill about. At a nearby Red Cross shelter Violet Jakab has three of her German Shepherds on a leash.  That is Joachim and this is Magnolia.  Joachim he is actually a trained certified disaster therapy dog. Who knew she would be the one who needs him?  Coincidentally yes. .  Jakab was away for two days visiting a friend when the King fire took off. Now she is not sure when she will get home or if her home is even standing.  It is very shocking you know. Come up - it looks like they have thrown the atomic bomb in the area.  Slurry bombers circling the fire look like tiny gnats compared to the giant mushroom-like cloud above the flames. This blaze is burning so intensely due to the droughts and prolonged hot summer here that mostly crews are just trying to steer the flames away from homes and small towns.  Definitely our firefighter safety is paramount. You know we have already had a couple close calls over the last few days on this incident. And that is always on our mind as far as how we are able to attack the fire.  Keith Gurrola is an Operations Manager with the Federal Incident Management Team now in charge of the King fire. He says he is not surprised it made a 15-mile run overnight given the gusty winds and dry dense stands of trees.  The drought is very much a primary factor.  Fire managers are doing all they can to avoid an incident like the one that occurred earlier this week in the town of Weed California a couple hours north of here by the Oregon border - over a hundred homes destroyed in a matter of hours. Now that scenario is very much on the minds of folks who live in the tiny hamlet of Georgetown where the King fire has been heading towards. This is an old mining and logging town. People here figure that drought is a major factor behind the fire's massive spread. But you will also get an earful from loggers like Jeff Shurtz who say the forests here have not been managed effectively.  When you log a place it cleans it out. But you have not seen that in years. So if you have got 15 20 years of none of that what do you see? You see nothing but undergrowth and brush.  Shurtz and some of his neighbors are drinking Coronas and swapping evacuation stories under the shade of trees in a small park while they wait for word on the fire. Mike Monroe says people here are used to living with wildfires and have done a lot to clear brush and trees from around their homes.  If you have got defensible space and you got water - a generator to keep your pumps going and stuffs - you can defend it.  If the evacuation orders come for him Monroe plans to stay behind and protect his house. That is what he did the last time a big fire came through here in 1994 he says. And his house was one of the only ones left standing. Kirk Siegler NPR News Placerville California. 