 An accused Nazi guard has been deported to Germany. This comes after many years of work by the U.S. government to investigate him and then to find a country to take him. NPR's Camila Domonoske reports.  When Jakiw Palij came to the U.S. in 1949 he said he spent the years of World War II working on farms and at a factory. For decades he lived a quiet life in New York. Then in 1990 a group of American historians traveled to Prague to look at a trove of documents. They were working for the Office of Special Investigations or OSI trying to track down Nazis hiding in the United States. They found typewritten lists of names of Nazi guards. Peter Black was one of those historians.  And on all three sets of the rosters Jakiw Palij's name appears.  The OSI spent more than a decade building a case against Palij. Palij admitted that he would been trained at the Trawniki camp in Poland his home country. The camp provided manpower for a Nazi program to kill the 2 million Jews in occupied Poland and steal their property. But the documents did not say what he did after his training and Palij would not answer questions. So Black and his fellow historians used documents and testimony to prove that Trawniki men were assigned to guard a neighboring forced labor camp as part of their training.  And had received orders to shoot anyone who was trying to escape.  Eli Rosenbaum used to be the director of OSI. Now he works in human rights at the Department of Justice. He says Trawniki guards like Palij kept Jewish prisoners in captivity.  And in the end on November 3 1943 in an all-day shooting spree men women and children - up to 6000 of them were murdered.  A judge ordered Palij deported in 2004 but the United States could not find a country to take him in. Rosenbaum says that has been a common problem after the Department of Justice finds Nazi perpetrators.  In nine of those cases European governments refused to readmit. And they died here.  Palij kept living in Queens in a two-story brick house but his life was not so quiet anymore. Year after year protesters came to his house.    Your neighbor is a Nazi. Your neighbor is a Nazi.  That is from video The Jerusalem Post published last year. In 2003 Palij spoke to The New York Times about his case. He scoffed at the idea of deportation. What country is going to take an 80-year-old man in poor health he asked. Now Palij is 95. He landed in Dusseldorf this morning. Camila Domonoske NPR News.  