 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. When dusk fell in New York City tonight the setting sun lined up perfectly with the street grid of Manhattan. This phenomenon happens only four times a year two nights in May and two in July. It is been dubbed Manhattanhenge and it draws photographers from across the metropolitan area and beyond. NPR's Joel Rose went to 42nd Street in the heart of Manhattan to capture the spirit of the moment.  On a clear night Manhattanhenge turns the streets of midtown into canyons of light and shadow. Skyscrapers frame the setting sun as it sinks behind the hills of New Jersey.  And it just looks so mystical.  Merrill Skyler has seen Manhattanhenge before though last night was the first time she tried to photograph the effect herself.  The way the light comes out and just kind of makes the buildings look almost like cliffs and I think it just makes the city just look like why we live here. And it is just so beautiful. It just gives it that gorgeous glow.   snapping that perfect image without getting run over. Skyler was planning to meet a group of other photographers on a bridge across 42nd Street which makes for an ideal view of Manhattanhenge but the best spots on the bridge were already taken by photographers who have been camping out since early afternoon. That forced late arrivals like Lufti Ellis of South Africa and Jody Christian of South Carolina to get creative.  I am just going to lift her on my shoulders and she is going to take pictures for both of us.  Yeah. We are practicing right now.  Ellis had read a blog post about Manhattanhenge earlier in the day and he knew he had to see it for himself.  I have not been in New York before and it is something you have to come and see it in person. Looking at a picture just will not be the same.  And it is like you know when you see a picture of a painting on the Internet versus when you see it in real life in a museum you know it is a totally different experience.  I am going to be risking my life trying to get this Manhattanhenge.  Other photographers including Arnulfo Pasyon-Queen decided to take their chances right in the middle of traffic on 42nd Street.  It is worth it because it happens only like a couple times a year. It looked like somebody planned it to be this way when they planned the city of Manhattan.   If they did plan it this way nobody told the cabbies.   As the sun hovered above the horizon photographers flooded into the intersection of 42nd Street and 2nd Avenue blocking the street until a few police officers persuaded them to move.  People you have to move.  Guys you are blocking traffic.  I am sorry. I like the view too. I am not taking my camera out right now.  Then the sun disappeared and a moment later the crowd did the same. Larry Sachs stood on the sidewalk looking into the screen on the back of his digital camera.  It is a great shot. The cops came. That kind of screwed everything up. The ones before they came up were pretty good.  Sachs says he would be back again to try for the perfect shot. If he did not get it tonight he will have to wait until May. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 