 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. It was five years ago Sunday that Hurricane Katrina made landfall a disaster that sent thousands upon thousands of people fleeing New Orleans. Houston 350 miles west was one refuge. The Astrodome became a massive shelter and scores of families opened their homes to friends and strangers alike. Many New Orleanians have stayed in Houston while staying firmly attached to the city they left. NPR's Wade Goodwyn reports.  For snare drummer and band leader Lumar Christopher LeBlanc III life was sweet before the storm. Mr.  Man it was a paradise for me especially. Five years ago prior to Katrina?  Mr.  Oh I was playing music taking care of my two kids and my wife going through the daily routine of a New Orleanian - you know eating good food enjoying good music seeing good people.   There are few things in the world that can spread smiles boogieness and pure unadulterated joy like a seven-piece New Orleans brass band.   Five years ago Hurricane Katrina drowned the Soul Rebels' instruments - if not the band which fled to Houston with their families. Mr.  So the most important instrument is the tuba. That thing brand new is close to 6500. So I could not find enough money to just buy one.  The story of the Soul Rebels casts an interesting light on the plight of Katrina evacuees. Before the storm Lumar LeBlanc and his band lived regular middle-class lives. He had a day job teaching middle school. And at night they played New Orleans and toured some around the country. But after Katrina the nation's arts world came running. And those people not only had money - they bought the band new instruments - they had influence and connections. Mr.  After Katrina we even skyrocketed more the popularity of Soul Rebels...  Mr.  ...due to New Orleans exposure. The Grammy organization different movie stars - you know Brad Pitt and all these people kind of found us.  The Soul Rebels became much more well-known than they would ever been and began touring across the country. In fact LeBlanc does not have to teach anymore. And his children liked the schools in Houston better. They said they did not want to go back. His wife got her same job in Houston with the same big hospital corporation she would worked for in New Orleans. Their insurance company paid off the mortgage in the Ninth Ward but there was no money to raise the ruined house off the ground and rebuild it like FEMA demanded. That would have been another 150 grand. But FEMA would help him buy a new house in Houston. Mr.  Do not tell me why but that is what they offered. So I obliged with that and that is how I bought my home here in Houston.  And so like tens of thousands of other former New Orleanians Lumar LeBlanc and his family will stay in Houston. And LeBlanc has started a new band here called The Hustlers.    I got a big-legged woman love me all night long. Do not tell nobody. I got a big-legged woman love me all night long. Do not tell nobody. And that big-legged woman love me 'til the day is long. Do not tell nobody.  LeBlanc says it is slow going in Houston. Zydeco's what is popular here not second-line soul but The Hustlers are trying to change that a little.    Do not tell nobody.  But of course not everyone has had the happy experience the LeBlanc family has enjoyed.   Three years ago Lorenthia Richardson was living in a three-bedroom apartment with three other women - all relatives - and their 14 children. Twelve of them had come all crammed together in her Pontiac Grand Am. At the time Richardson was single no children of her own a nursing student. When we met her in 2007 she would just discovered her cousin and her four young children in a Houston homeless shelter. In the living room her cousin Donna Rodriguez fell into Richardson's arms and wept out two years of misery. Ms.  I cannot even express how I feel because I do not think nobody is going to ever just understand how I feel. We go to a house where they have people who do not have no kids or whatever. They are not used to this noise. So every noise my kids make - going to be a problem to people. And it is very stressful not just to me but it is stressful to them too because he is like he is just being 3 you know? Yeah sorry. I am sorry.  In the ensuing three years it is been a long hard journey for Lorenthia Richardson and her family. Eventually the housing money in Houston ran out and they moved to Kansas City to be with other family. But three months ago Richardson decided to move back to Texas. A Houston organizer who would watched her struggle and who admired her spunk found money to help Richardson move into an apartment near a nursing school. She was a 25-year-old with a bright future when she left New Orleans that day her sporty Grand Am crammed full of misery. But that is over with. Richardson says she is come back to Houston to make a life for herself. Ms.  I do not want to just lay down and say well you know what? This did not work and I am just going to give up. I do not want to give up. I just want to find a job hop back in school and just start fresh.  You know they are dying for nurses. Ms.  I know and I am dying to be one.   What was lost in New Orleans and what is been found in Houston? Ms.  There is no home left.  Right. Ms. F.  And I mean we have been back a couple of times since then and it is not the same. It is really not.  Twenty-year-old Felicia Lipp was born and raised in New Orleans. She and her brother and her mother and father lived in Vista Park just down the street from the London Avenue Canal which broke. The neighborhood went under. Felicia remembers what it was like before. Ms. F.  We would sit in the middle of the street and all of the neighborhood moms would talk you know? And we would play kickball out in the street. And you know it is not the same here. Everybody kind of keeps to themselves.  Here is Katy Texas a well-known Houston suburb. The Lipp family decided quickly there was no going back. Five weeks after Katrina with the help of relatives who lived in Katy they bought the house they live in now. Stephen Lipp was a successful programming engineer in New Orleans. He is an even more successful programming engineer in Houston. But life is different. Mr.  Oh today is Mardi Grass. And everybody looks at you like - and that means what? And you look at them no that means everything. And they look at you no it does not mean anything. And that is always been a strange feeling for me. Ms.  You know things could not go back to normal like you felt like something was wrong and you are just kind of stuck in a place where you cannot get out of there. And you just have to know the truth that you know this is where you have to be. You do not have any other choice.  But it is not all just loss. Felicia says when she got to Katy public schools she was a high school sophomore she had to work much harder. And that is paid off. Felicia's a rising sophomore at Texas Women's College getting her degree in music. For her mother Nancy Lipp Houston is not New Orleans. She left behind her teaching position at the University of New Orleans but she says what is she is found in Texas has meaning too. Ms.  I just told everybody I know you know I lost all my cookbooks. If you have some cookbooks you are not really using give them to me. And I have a whole shelf full of them. And it is sweet it is sweet. You know?  Is this home? Ms. N.  I do not know.  Ms. N.  Yeah. Mr.  Yes. Ms. N.  Yeah. Mr.  Yes it is home it is home. But I am being purely pragmatic.  For the evacuees in Houston life goes on. It will never be the same. The best they can do now is try to bring a little New Orleans to Texas. Wade Goodwyn NPR News. 