 The latest employment data for the month of June comes out tomorrow and analysts are not expecting impressive numbers but take heart we found some employment numbers that are not just impressive they boggle the mind. Chester Arthur Reed worked for the Postal Service for 37 years. He accrued 3856 hours of sick leave but never missed a shift. He retired yesterday. And I almost forgot something the most important number of all he is 95 years old. And Chester Reed joins us now. Congratulation on one heck of a career. Chester what is your secret? Mr.  Garlic and onion sandwiches. You say well what is an onion sandwich? You take two slices of bread you put a lot of mayonnaise on both slices of bread cut a great big slice of onion and put it in between. And you eat it and they are very healthful.  I am wondering what you did for all those years that you worked at the Postal Service. Do I understand this correctly did you drive a forklift? Mr.  From time to time I did various things like I was a mark operator. You say well what is a mark? Well that is a machine that cancels the mail when it comes in letters and so forth. And I went into the area of forklifts and other types of equipment to move around and what have you and operated that.  Why did you decide to retire now? You would had enough? Mr.  I will be honest with you. I try to follow the Bible as much as I can. And the Bible says in there - it says there is a time to work there is a time to play there is a time to dance time to cry and all that stuff. And I figured well it is time for me to retire.   What are you going to do with all your free time now? Mr.  You know I always have something to do here around the house and what have you. And I will get a chance to play a little golf with my son. And then we will take a couple trips. One trip we plan to go a little later on possibly this month is a trip to Moscow Russia to Helsinki Finland to Sweden Norway Denmark Ireland and then back to the states. And we will do some travel. We may take another trip to Rio de Janeiro where we did a lot of hang gliding down there with the pros that do the hang gliding - a wonderful experience to hang glide over the city of Rio de Janeiro. And you look down there over the top of those big hotels and what have you and it is fantastic. You fly down and then you land down on the beach.  Mr. Reed talk about a life well lived. It has been a pleasure to talk to you. All the best to you in your retirement. Mr.  Okay well thank you for calling me and thank you so much and God bless you. Bye bye.  That is Chester Reed. He was the nation's oldest U.S. postal worker. He retired yesterday at the age of 95. 