 Wildfires in the West have already burned more than half a million acres this year as the region bakes in historic heat waves and drought. And now there is a new warning from federal fire managers. They say the country's firefighting resources are nearing full deployment. That is a declaration rarely made this early in the summer. NPR's Kirk Siegler has been talking to fire managers at the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise Idaho. He joins us now. Hey Kirk.  Hello Ailsa.  So I understand that this agency has raised the country's preparedness to a Level 4. Can you just explain what does that mean? And I feel like Level 4 is not that unusual right?  That is right. Level 4 basically just means they are at a heightened state of preparedness. What is unusual is that we usually do not get here until later in the summer but here we are in June. There is only one more rung to go Level 5. And that means that there're just no more crews no more air tankers choppers - that you might hear in the background just now where I am - or bulldozers hand crews to even send out. So if a new big wildfire ignites which we expect they have to make tough choices move equipment from one fire off of it and put it on to another. And it is really hot here. Just here in the Northwest we are forecast to see some of the hottest temperatures ever recorded again starting early next week. Jessica Gardetto here at the Fire Center put it in perspective. Let us listen to her.  This is a little rare for us to go to preparedness Level 4 this early in the year. So it also means preparing firefighters for what could be a long and intense fire year.  And Ailsa you will recall here in the West they are coming off of a record fire year last year in states like California and Colorado. The country was operating at a Level 5 for six weeks. Now that did not happen until later in the summer. But this year managers here are worried we could hit Level 5 at the current rate much much sooner.  Wait so let me just make sure I get this right. They expect the country to literally run out of fire crews and engines and money to fight fires this summer?  Well yeah. I mean this is a perennial dilemma and it is always the worry. There is never enough money to deal with these worsening disasters. The federal government is having a hard time filling entry-level firefighter positions because of the pay. Even President Biden this week called that pay 13 an hour ridiculously low he said. So if or when the West really starts burning and it has not yet this could be a very big issue.  Yeah. The thing is we already know that climate change is making summers hotter and drier and...  Right.  ...Western forests are already overgrown. So these seem like pretty predictable disasters. Is anything being done to actually get ahead of these disasters year to year?  Yeah. So it looks like - this week in fact down in Utah where they are reporting the driest conditions since the late 1800s Senator Mitt Romney came out and said he is trying to get money into that infrastructure bill to modernize U.S. firefighting policy due to climate change. He made this announcement Ailsa in a suburb of Salt Lake City which just sort of typifies one of the biggest problems we also have in the West right now where you have got huge amounts of homes and communities abutting wild lands that are now burning with hotter more intense and deadly fires. Here's the senator.   It is getting drier in the American west. The fires are becoming bigger. The loss of life is more significant. And continuing to do the things the way we have done them in the past does not make a lot of sense.  So what does Romney want to do about that?  Well he and Arizona Senator Mark Kelly a Democrat are modeling their plan to create a wildfire commission to spend a year studying and modernizing U.S. firefighting policy sort of what Australia is doing. They want to put more emphasis on the front end what we can do to mitigate fires you know instead of just pouring money every year into trying to fight these fires once they ignite that we are just not going to control.  Yeah.  President Biden will meet with Western governors in Denver next week. And I am seeing a lot of momentum behind some reforms that we have not seen in years.  That is NPR's Kirk Siegler joining us from Boise Idaho. Thank you Kirk.  You are welcome. 