 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. There is no shortage of expensive real estate in Manhattan - condos and co-ops that cost millions. But the city also has a long history of affordable housing not only housing projects but a different kind of co-op created by unions for their workers. Today many of these buildings have become privatized with prices soaring to open market rates. But a few of them are fighting to remain what they have always been as NPR's Margot Adler reports.  After World War II there was an urgent need for housing and unions teamed up with state and local officials to build new cooperatives. So says Josh Freeman a professor of history at the City University of New York and the author of  Life and Labor Since World War II. While the vision of the good life after the war often meant moving to the suburbs he said...  In New York and a few other cities you had these alternative experiments and they were enormously popular. All these projects had huge waiting lists.  For example take the Mutual Redevelopment Houses known as Penn South. Sponsored by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union the building complex was completed in 1962. It had 2800 units. It was an easy walk to the Garment District and like many of these co-ops...  They had lots of communal facilities. They had libraries and meeting halls co-op buying schemes. So it was not just an economic program but it was a real vision of a different kind of urbanism that would take the form of co-op housing.  So flash forward to now. While many of these co-ops have become private going for market rates Penn South is holding on.  You are going to tip over the top of the crest of the wave with your fingertips.  I meet Debra Hockman during a Tai Chi class in the complex. She spent 17 years on the waiting list. In her old apartment she says she knew two neighbors.  In six months of moving here to Penn South I knew every single person on my floor.  At the senior center - and more than half the residents are over 50 - I peek into a drama class.  Yet does beauty like a dial hand...  Next door is a gardening class where people are repotting plants. Harriet Finklestein has brought in two little plants.  We call this session our quilting time but with plants.  When she moved here more than 15 years go a neighbor told her...  Oh you are going to love it here it is like a kibbutz.   Not exactly a kibbutz but there is a sense of community that is unique.  The waiting list is so long now it is closed. Why? The average price of a one bedroom apartment is less than 40000. Over the years the co-op worked out deals with the city to remain affordable. In the last year there is been a fight over whether to make a new deal with the city to help finance some 80 million of needed repairs. A big majority voted for the plan moving up any possibility of privatization to the year 2030. Only 13 percent opposed the new deal among them Andrew Alpern an architectural historian.  That is a small town and it is a town with a multi-million dollar budget.  Alpern says his apartment would now sell for about 75000 which he describes as a discount of 90 percent over the open market price. When I ask him what do you see as an affordable price?  Probably double that 150000.  Alpern's main worry is tax breaks will end and even with loans and grants rising costs in New York City may mean a future where the complex will not have enough money for maintenance and repairs. Most residents do not agree with him. Karen Smith a retired State Supreme Court justice is one of those who led Penn South's fight to remain a limited equity affordable co-op. She points out a nearby building that was privatized. Now it is 4000 a month for a two bedroom.  That is not affordable.  Smith says some people who opposed the deal wanted to leave the city and take as much money as they could get.   I want to go private because I have not a penny in my pocket this is all I can leave my grandchildren.  Karen Smith tells a story of meeting the former president of another Manhattan co-op one that went private. What is life like there she asked.  He said we are no longer a community. They only care about having a doorman. They do not care about each other. We have a community that we care about each other. And that is part of what we have built here and that is what this is about.  But this is not an economic time that is friendly to such cooperative efforts. Historian Josh Freeman says this co-op was built in 1962.  President Kennedy came and Eleanor Roosevelt came. This was an amazing triumph of labor liberalism. And it is a world that really does not have that kind of power anymore or that kind of ambition.  But Freeman says more power to those folks that are still trying to keep those principles alive. Margot Adler NPR News New York. 