 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Madeleine Brand. Here in California the governor and legislative leaders finally have a tentative budget deal. If lawmakers approve the plan will use massive spending cuts to erase the state's 26 billion deficit. Californians are weary of these budget stalemates year after year. And as NPR's Ina Jaffe reports there is a push to fundamentally change the way the state does business.  Marcella De Veaux is doing what many college professors do this time of year. She is got her laptop open on the dining room table working on the syllabus for her fall classes in journalism and public relations at California State University at Northridge.  Here's one.  She finds an Email from a student one of many like this. It begins Professor I am freaking out. Prof.  I tried to register yesterday and all the classes that I had planned to take are full.  With less money going to higher education there are stricter limits on classes now. And without De Veaux's class the student will not graduate. So the letter continues Prof.  What do I do? My dad is paying for my tuition and is going to be so angry if I do not graduate in a year and a half. I have cost him enough money already. Like I said I am freaking out.  De Veaux has gotten fed up with the way California allocates its money. Prof.  Most decisions are made on these propositions. Propositions that are written in a way that is very difficult to understand. And I think residents of California including myself have voted yes. But in retrospect I do not know that we actually could figure out how we were going to pay for all of this.  So what does she think needs to be done? Prof.  Wipe the slate clean move everybody out who is had a chance. And let us start all over again.  Increasingly Californians are thinking about making fundamental wholesale changes in state government. And last week a couple hundred of them gathered in an auditorium in Santa Monica to talk about it. Mr.  Congratulations for being here on Friday night. That indicates your passion and interest in what is happening here in the state or maybe it says something else about you but    Jim Wunderman is with an organization called Repair California. They are campaigning for a constitutional convention to totally redesign state government. Mr.  At first a lot of people scoffed at the idea but no - you know five budget delays later  26 billion deficit later that nobody has a rational answer for  people are not laughing anymore.  Writer John Gabree stayed through the entire three-hour meeting. Mr.  I just got an 'IOU' for a tax refund so that kind of hit home in a way that you know it has not previously.  Something drastic needs to be done he says. The question is what? Mr.  And will it happen? I mean I can see us not dealing with this and just having it get worse and worse.  And he is not sure that a constitutional convention is the way to go. First voters would have to authorize it by passing a couple of ballot measures next year. Then the convention would meet the year after that. Then the voters could adopt the changes  or not  the year after that. Bob Hertzberg head of another government reform group called California Forward thinks the state does not have the luxury of time. Mr.  We are running directly smack into the wall.  So why wait says Hertzberg for the package of reform measures on the ballot next year addressing things like California's super strict term limits and the requirement that the budget be passed by a two-thirds vote and maybe something to put restrictions on the initiative process. Mr.  So I just think time is of the essence with respect to California. And this gets us to the table quicker.  Voters have generally rejected government reform measures in the past. But after many failed attempts an initiative that stripped lawmakers of the power to draw their own districts did pass last November. That might be a fluke. But some fed-up Californians are hoping it is a trend. Ina Jaffe NPR News. 