 We are joined now by the mayor of Houston. Sylvester Turner is on the line with us. Thank you for making the time and welcome to the program.  Well thank you.  What is the most pressing need that your city faces right now?  Well you know we have set up several shelters in the area. And what - you know what we are needing are cots and supplies. At this point there are probably about 12000-plus 13000 in shelters opening up an additional one for tomorrow. And these - and the shelters are not just for people in the Houston - in the Houston community. But we have become like a regional sort of center for people who are coming from counties outside of the city of Houston that are still evacuating. And they are in a moment of need and we are not going to turn anyone away whether they are a Houstonian or not a Houstonian. So we are needing cots. And you know we are working directly with Red Cross and FEMA. But you know it is just taken you know some time to get them here the number that we need. We need towels. We need socks and things for the kids. Many of these are kids and we need toys and coloring books things of that nature.  And people may be in these shelters for weeks. Are you prepared to house people for as long as they may be out of their homes?  Well we are going to work as quickly as we can to transition them from the shelters and place them in temporary or some sort of permanent housing. The first thing was to get them out of the weather. The second was to stabilize them. The third will be to work to transition them from the shelters and back to - into their normal routine as much as possible.  As the floodwaters continue to rise do you think the need for search and rescue operations is going to increase? Or do you think that the worst of that has passed?  Well we are still continuing with the search and rescue. Now depending on water that is being released from our dams that will flow down into the city some of the homes may be subject to additional flooding. We do not know. We will have to wait and see the impact of releasing the water from a couple of the dams that will flow into the bayous and downstream.  Are you getting the help that you need from the state and federal government?  They have stepped in and we are very appreciative of that. I think the problem is just the magnitude of the situation. So for example when we set up some of the shelters we did not anticipate for example that the number would quickly jump to 10000. And then the number has gone beyond that.  What is the highest number that you are anticipating now? You said you did not anticipate 10000. Now the number's above 10000. What is the ceiling that you are looking at?  Well the problem is that when you have people who are outside the city of Houston. For example the storm has shifted over into the Galveston area coming along the east and coming in the northeastern sector. And so like last night for example I got a - received call that we had 3000 people who were coming in from outside of Houston and they needed shelters. And what I said to them - you know bring them to the George R. Brown. We will take them. We will not turn anybody away.  Mayor Turner I know that this has been a traumatic experience for many people. And people are saying that Houston is going to have to get used to a new normal. Do you have any sense of what that new normal will look like?  Well I cannot speak to that. All I can tell you is that I am a native Houstonian. I am a proud native Houstonian. We have always dealt with challenges and we have always risen to the occasion. This is simply another challenge that the city has faced. This is another challenge. But this is Houston. People are already going over and above to meet the needs that exist not only in our city but in the surrounding areas as well. I believe strongly believe that once we get past this moment the city of Houston's greatest days are pretty much in front of us and not behind us.  Sylvester Turner Houston's mayor. Thank you very much for your time.  Thank you for having me. Appreciate you. 