 Britain's Supreme Court dealt a blow this week to filmmaker George Lucas' merchandising empire. It ruled that he cannot seek damages there against the man who produced the first stormtrooper costumes for the Star Wars films. As Vicki Barker reports from London British designer Andrew Ainsworth has been selling Star Wars fans exact replicas of the costumes.   In his workshop on the village green in Twickenham South London Andrew Ainsworth fires up two machines attached to a big white box.  Molds them there. Heat a sheet of plastic up pull the mold up into it and suck the air out. The atmospheric pressure pushes the molten plastic around the mold.  In seconds a sheet of white plastic inside morphs into one of the stormtrooper helmets from the early Star Wars films. For years the costumes have been a profitable sideline for the industrial designer who also makes kayaks and other sporting goods - a pleasant reminder of those months in the 1970s when he produced the first prototypes on spec for a then little-known cash-strapped American filmmaker named George Lucas. And then about seven years ago Lucas' production company got wind of his work and telephoned. Ainsworth says he saw a business opportunity.  And I said you know we made this stuff for you and 30 years ago and you made a good film very successful. Why do not we make the stuff again and you market it. You are the - you know you are Lucas you have got the network. Well they did not reply. They just sent me a writ.  Lucasfilm won a 20 million judgment for copyright infringement in a U.S. court. But in Britain the rights for an industrially produced item can expire in as little as three years. So Lucas argued the costumes were sculptures and therefore covered by artistic copyright which lasts far longer. Lucas lost. Copyright lawyer Robin Fry explains why.  I think the distinction here is that the judges were looking at this legislation which goes back in some cases 200 or 300 years and just could not bring themselves to say that the helmets worn by the stormtroopers in the first series of the Star Wars films were actually sculptures. And they needed to say that in order to bring it within the ambit of copyright protection.  The judges did rule that U.S. law applies to any costumes Ainsworth exports into the U.S. effectively banning him from selling them there. In a written statement  Lucasfilm remains committed to aggressively protecting its intellectual property rights relating to Star Wars in the U.K. and around the globe through any and all means available to it.   Ironically Ainsworth funded his legal battle by making and selling even more stormtrooper uniforms.  And so we have been making the empire's troops to fight the empire. That is what you call The Empire Strikes Back really is not it?   But if Ainsworth ever sets foot on U.S. soil that 20 million judgment would still apply. For NPR News I am Vicki Barker in London.   This is NPR News. 