 The State Department says it is working around the clock on a computer problem that is having a widespread impact on travel into the U.S. The glitch has practically shut down the visa application process. The 50000 visa applications received daily - only a handful of emergency visas are getting issued. NPR's Yuki Noguchi reports.  It is well into cherry season in Washington state and soon it will be peach and then apple season. Dan Fazio is executive director of the Washington Farm Labor Association. He says that between June 1 and November he expects 12000 to 15000 guest workers to come help pick fruit. But right now it is not clear when the buses of workers will cross the Mexican border.  We canceled our crossings of about 250 each on the 15 and the 22. We are going to send a large group of 544 on the 29 and we are chartering the buses right now for that group to move.  But it is not clear the State Department's visa system will be up and running by then. And Fazio worries fruit will simply die on the vine. He says one blueberry farmer in particular is desperate.  If he does not get those 250 guest workers he is going to lose his blueberry crop.  The State Department first disclosed the hardware problem last week. It says the system is not allowing processing of security-related biometric data including fingerprints. And that is holding up tourists workers and family members looking to get into the country. Agency spokesman John Kirby says it has 100 computer experts working hard to try to fix the system.  They have not got it fixed yet. We do expect hopefully sometime this week it will get resolved.  In the meantime the effects from the glitch are being felt around the world. Take Peter Dropick a vice president of events for the Ultimate Fighting Championship.  We had 12 of our athletes who were not able to get their visas to securely enter the country.  So for a championship in South Florida this Saturday Dropick had to find substitutes among U.S. citizens or other athletes already in the country. And in West Virginia John Giroir is still waiting to see if most of the foreign students due in for the prestigious National Youth Science Camp will make it a week after the month-long program started.  Flights were already booked. Plans were already made forms filled out. But on travel day only two students out of the 17 were able to fly and join us. The others were held back.  Moona Shakil is an immigration attorney in Virginia. She says several of her clients are trying to reunite with family and have been in limbo.  The longer it goes on the more backlogs are going to get created. I think the consulates as well will have a difficult time trying to catch up.  And that means that after-effects will linger even after the problem is fixed. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 