 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  NPR's Ted Robbins is at the courthouse in Phoenix. He joins us now. Ted these are two separate challenges being heard today. The main attraction was the case brought by the Justice Department. Those arguments wrapped up just a little bit ago. Can you tell us what the judge heard?  There were other parts of preemption which were a little more - she really asked a lot of questions. For instance the mandatory nature - it requires police to ask folks for their registration papers - and that seems to be a little more contentious.  The other challenge the judge heard today was from the American Civil Liberties Union other civil rights groups. Similar arguments made in that case?  And as she pointed out the only entity that can remove a person from the United States is an immigration judge not a police officer not even ICE the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement. So she seems - she really really did not think that that was - and in fact the state's attorney representing Arizona admitted that a couple of clauses in this law were as he put it not artfully written.  There is a lot of support for this law throughout the state of Arizona but there are also a number of other lawsuits seeking to block SB 1070. Where do these other lawsuits stand and when are we likely to get a ruling?  Those are the only ones she is heard so far. So in order to - obviously she has to issue an injunction before next Thursday. She said she would take it under advisement. And we have already heard from both sides that regardless of how she rules the losing side is going to take it to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  We only have a few seconds left. Just quickly what was the scene like at the courthouse today?  Well protesters built throughout the day outside the courtroom despite the heat in Phoenix in the summer - to the point where they blocked an intersection right after the Department of Justice hearing. And the police surrounded them. They dispersed. And there were fewer but some supporters of SB 1070. So it was a large crowd several hundred people I would say.  Ted Robbins thank you very much.  Glad to be with you.  That is NPR's Ted Robbins at the federal courthouse in Phoenix. 