 California is a solidly Democratic state but the campaign coffers of many Democratic officials are hovering near empty. The reason as NPR's Ina Jaffe reports they were allegedly ripped off by a campaign treasurer who handled hundreds of accounts.  Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez who represents part of Orange County south of L.A. used to have about 400000 in her campaign account.  So pretty much we went down to close to zero and now we are revamping.  Sanchez's campaign treasurer for the past 17 years was Kinde Durkee. She is always seemed to be doing a good job says Sanchez and the position of campaign treasurer is a technical one. There are different rules for city state and federal campaigns. You need a specialist.  To get all this reporting done and to account for all contributions and that you have all the names of everybody and the contact information you need an accounting firm to do that. Otherwise you can pay high fines and you can get into a lot of problems.  Sanchez is not named as a victim in the federal complaint. Right now that unfortunate role belongs to State Assembly Member Jose Solorio who is out more than 700000. Prosecutors also say that Durkee moved money in and out of her clients' accounts to cover for the money she allegedly looted. Bill Carrick the longtime campaign manager for U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein says that is one of the reasons it is so hard to figure out exactly how much money is missing from the senator's 5.2 million war chest.  The idea that candidate A had his money taken out and then in order to cover that candidate B's money was transferred into candidate A's account. Now you take that across 400 accounts and you see what a horribly complicated mess this will be to unravel.  According to the FBI Durkee used the money that she allegedly took from her clients to make payroll for her accounting firm to pay her mortgage to buy cosmetics and to pay for her mother's assisted-living facility among many other things. And she acknowledged to the FBI that she would been misappropriating money for years. Congresswoman Susan Davis sent a letter to her supporters calling Durkee the Bernie Madoff of campaign finance treasurers. And it is going to be hard for candidates to replace the money says Eric Bowman chairman of the Los Angeles County Democratic Party.  If you are running for an office that has contribution limits it does not matter that your contribution got stolen. Once you have made the contribution that is been recorded it means having to find new and different sources of revenue.  California regulators have ordered Kinde Durkee's firm to stop providing accounting services after discovering that the firm is not licensed and that none of the accountants are certified. Durkee is currently free on 200000 bond. A spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Sacramento said more charges against Durkee are likely. Ina Jaffe NPR News. 