 America's wildland firefighting resources are maxed out. Five million acres of land have already burned this year mostly in the West. And there are 85 major wildfires currently burning out of control. So federal fire officials are calling in the U.S. military and looking for international help now. For more on all of this we are joined now by NPR's Kirk Siegler who is in Boise Idaho. Hey Kirk.  Hello Ailsa.  So I understand that you are at this point basically in the center of the federal and state wildland firefighting response?  You could say that yes. I am actually standing outside the National Interagency Fire Center here in Boise looking at a couple of air tankers out on the tarmac here. And they have been basically preparing for the worst here for weeks now. They have been at a preparedness level five. That means that all resources are deployed to wildfires. And so if or when I think at this point they get another big one they are going to have to start pulling crews off of other fires. You know it is hard to decide how to do that Ailsa when you are 100 maxed out like you said...  Yeah.  ...With 25000 firefighters out on the ground already in California Oregon and elsewhere.  Well what are fire managers they are telling you? Because at this point there is no sign of rain or snow in the forecast anytime soon. So what is the contingency plan?  Well they are mobilizing the military which is not unheard of. It is something they do not do every year though only in bad years like this. And things are really bad. The National Guard in several states is also sending crews to the west here. They have got an order out for a half battalion which could bring in 10 more hand crews from the U.S. military. And they are also looking to bring in more hotshot crews and crews from Mexico and Canada at this point too.  Wow. How much do you think all of that additional assistance is going to help the situation here?  I mean it is not going to hurt. But honestly you are not going to put these mega fires out. You have got forests dried out from climate change. They are stressed. They have been overgrown due to a legacy of the fact that we have been suppressing fires. And there are just more people living in them. Here at the fire center Dan Smith put it to me pretty bluntly. These are urban wildfires. And they are burning into whole towns and cities and people are dying.  I mean the priority has to be search and rescue and evacuations of people to get them out of harm's way. And that is a very tough situation to be in.  You know Ailsa it is extraordinary - the priority right now is search and rescue not even of wildfire suppression or trying to protect homes.  Well is not all of this kind of a worst-case scenario right now? Because we have this really bad fire season and now we are in the middle of a pandemic. How much of the pandemic is hampering efforts right now?  Well yeah. This is exactly what everyone in the wildland fire community hoped was not going to happen - having you know 25000 firefighters deployed now in the middle of a pandemic. Officials here at the center told me that the Canadians in particular were hesitant to initially send help due to the fact that the coronavirus is still so out of control down here. But federal and state governments have put a lot of safety protocols in place. The Canadians I am told are sending crews. And we are going to be continuing to lean on other countries in particular in the Southern Hemisphere where it is winter because there is really no sign that this fire season is going to slow down anytime soon.  That is NPR's Kirk Siegler talking to us from the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise Idaho. Thank you Kirk.  You are welcome Ailsa. 