 Joining us now for more is former EPA chief Christine Todd Whitman. She served in the role under President George W. Bush. Welcome.  Ailsa glad to be with you.  So what did you make of this resignation announcement? Were you surprised or had you seen this coming for months?  Oh this is way overdue I mean both for the agency and for the administration. He is been an embarrassment. Never known an administrator or anyone in a position of a cabinet officer to have these many investigations ethical issues. He is been ethically tone-deaf for a long time so I am not surprised. I am just surprised it took this long.  During his time at the EPA you know he is been as you say at the center of many controversies. But when you look back on the policies during his tenure were there - was there any particular policy that concerned you the most?  Well it is the overall attitude and I am afraid that is not going to change because that is really determined by the president. I mean as a cabinet member you serve at his pleasure. You do what he wants done. And I am not sure that I think the assistant administrator is going to be any more kind to the environment. I have been worried - first of all the ethical issues and that whole cloud and that the secrecy that surrounded Scott Pruitt with the way he handled things had a very bad atmosphere in the agency - but the denigration of science the unwillingness to consider any science that did not adhere to policy that they wanted the willingness to wholeheartedly accept whatever industry said. Industry should be heard but they cannot be the only voice at the table. And that I am afraid - I hope it will change with the acting administrator Wheeler but I - you know there are no guarantees.  Andrew Wheeler is a former coal lobbyist so it is not much in terms of...  Right.  ...Taking a different tack from industry having a say I suppose.  No I am afraid not. And that is not good for any of us. It is not good for our health. It is not good for the future.  You have said that the EPA is an agency where politics should never come into play. Why is that?  Well I mean you say it should never. It always does to a degree. But...  I was going to ask you if it is possible for politics to not come into play at some point.  Well it is hard to say never but it should not be the dominant force because what you are about is basing decisions on scientific analysis of what is safe for human consumption what is going to keep us healthy what is going to protect our environment so that we can live the quality of life we want. And that is based on science. Now of course you can argue with the scientists. And everybody does as we have seen a lot of that recently. So you have to go with the preponderance. And you will say OK that is - then politics get into it - how far you are willing to go. Everybody complained about the Obama administration over-utilizing the tools of executive actions. They would argue that it is 'ecause they could not get anything through Congress. But then you are getting politics. So politics will be there at least in the overall approach to environment but the basic decisions as to how much lead a child can ingest before it has brain damage is pretty basic. And that is scientific. That is not political.  But given some of the vociferous criticisms of the EPA's direction during the Obama administration is there any particular direction under Scott Pruitt that you saw the EPA take that you did agree with that you would applaud?  Well I certainly agree that regulation should be revisited. But there was not much in actual policy that I saw that I could support wholeheartedly. The idea of looking - rethinking regulation yes that is not to me a problem if it is done right.  Christine Todd Whitman is the former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Thank you very much for joining us.  My pleasure. 