 OK America. We see your sourdough starters and your Duolingo sessions and your new cross stitch hobby and we raise you A Doorway to Imagination. That is what David North built with all his social distancing-created free time. We will get to what A Doorway to Imagination is in a second. But for now just know it is amazing. His niece Kimberly Adams a correspondent for the public radio show Marketplace and friend of mine tweeted about it. In a week of heavy news on heavy news. People fell hard for the doorway and for Uncle David himself. He quickly racked up tens of thousands of followers. And I caught up with him on FaceTime video this morning so he could give me a tour as his roosters crowed in the background. I started by asking how his creation came to be.  The last couple of years have been extremely stressful for us due to some health issues that my husband has. He is doing good now. But dealing with the stress I spend a lot of time outside and I have yard projects. I found some old wood behind one of our sheds. And for some reason I thought of - let me build myself a door. And it does not really open but it looks like a door.  It looks almost like you know something you would see in a secret garden or a little...   Yeah yeah.  ...A little hut in the forest.  Yes yes.  And then it is just surrounded by all this kind of brambly wood and vines it almost looks like around it.  Looks kind of surreal. The doorway being dark kind of draws you in. I did not know it was going to end up being declared a piece of art. It is not an escape I believe it is a catharsis.  Yeah what is the difference between escape and catharsis for you?   Catharsis is accepting the realities of the problems that happen in our lives and doing something constructive with it processing it. I feel creativity is a way to process it in constructive productive positive ways.  So you are David and your husband is David.  Yes.  And I should note that you both have these big white fluffy beards.   Yeah yeah.  And your niece Kimberly shared the two of you always wear matching outfits.  Yeah for 30 years.  I can see you so I know that you are an interracial couple as well.  Yes. Uh-huh.  And we are of course dealing at a moment of sort of a reckoning with racial justice issues in this country. I am curious what the conversations are that you are having right now as a couple.  Ah that is a good question. We are very frustrated with you know injustices that are happening. We have discussions about the challenges of what does white privilege mean. And it is not an argument it is things that we can discuss because we love one another and love has a way of dispelling fear. The work of love is more than just with the people that we know but even the people that we do not know that we all deserve love. We all deserve respect. I wrote a song called I Believe In The Humanity Of Humanity this positivity that we want to put out there.  Doing you want to sing me a line from it?  Oh absolutely.  We can work together when we see a common need. I believe - I believe in the humanity of humanity. My voice is cracking but that is the chorus - I believe in the humanity of humanity.  Well thank you so much. It is been such a joy to talk with you.  All right. Please take care.  David North is the man behind the Doorway to Imagination and he is brightened a whole lot of people's days in the past couple of weeks. You can see pictures of it at npr.org.  