 The most dangerous state for walkers is Florida. According to a study released by advocacy organizations four Florida cities lead the nation in pedestrian deaths per capital Orlando tops list. Study authors blame the city's layout the design of its roads and the culture of its drivers. NPR's Greg Allen spent time with planners and traffic experts who are working to make Orlando's streets safer.  In Orlando Semoran Boulevard is a not particularly attractive road lined with gas stations strip malls and bus stops. But city planner Mighk Wilson says this little bit of suburban sprawl could be a poster child for what is wrong with Orlando's streets.  This corridor here has had the highest concentration of crashes and fatalities in our area.  It is the most dangerous street in the city that is ranked by Smart Growth America as number one in the nation for pedestrian accidents. Over the last seven years on this stretch of road there have been 28 crashes involving pedestrians and six deaths. Wilson is with Metro Plan Orlando a regional planning agency. He points out features that make the roads so dangerous - it is six lanes wide with no median and it is a traffic artery with cars traveling 40 miles per hour or higher.  You can see here there is strip commercial and convenience stores etc.  There is a pedestrian crossing right in the middle of the street here.  Right. And we have got bus routes and bus stops.  As we watched people get off buses and head to a shopping center across six lanes of speeding traffic. Visibility has been a problem here and many accidents have occured at night. To improve safety better lightning was recently installed and there are plans to put in a medium strip. Orlando's road system was largely built the '60s '70s and '80s after Disney and other theme parks turned the city into a family entertainment destination. It was a time for when for road planners pedestrians were an afterthought. Billy Hattaway with Florida's Department of Transportation says it is a problem seen in cities throughout the southeast.  And because of the nature of land development patterns we ended up with a lot of higher-speed larger roads because people are driving longer distances to get back and forth to work. And so the pressure to increase the size of roads is what contributed to the problem.  Hattaway is something of a bike and pedestrian safety zealot. He returned to Florida's Transportation Department from the private sector after a report three years ago first singled out the state as the nation's most dangerous for pedestrians. Since then Florida has developed a plan for improving pedestrian and bike safety. Some of it involves improving crosswalks and encouraging people to use them. Hattaway also says where possible it adds roundabouts and other traffic calming measures to reduce automobile speeds.  When you have higher speeds you have much higher fatality rates. At 20 miles an hour 1 in 10 pedestrians will likely be killed when you go up to only 30 you have a 50-50 when you go to 40 about 85 percent of the pedestrians die who get hit at those speeds.  In Florida traffic planner say there is another problem besides how streets are designed. Drivers here often do not yield to pedestrians in crosswalks. Hattaway says part of it is ignorance of the law part of it is driver culture.  People want to go to where they want to go and they think the pedestrian does not have a priority when in fact they do.  Changing driver culture may be more difficult than redesigning highways. In Orlando a coalition of groups that includes traffic planners government health care groups and the public schools has begun trying. Law enforcement has started conducting regular sting operations putting plain clothes officers in crosswalks and issuing tickets and warnings to violators. That is for the short-term.  The long-term change here is through the schools.  Amanda Day is managing the enforcement and education campaign. She compares the effort to get drivers to yield to pedestrians to earlier campaigns around smoking seatbelt use and recycling. Beginning in the fall Orlando schools will add pedestrian safety to the elementary school curriculum. The idea Day says is to use children to reach the parents.  When your child is in the back seat and mom is pulling through a crosswalk and there is a pedestrian there and your 6-year-old says slow down mom - that starts that behavior change as well.  It is too early yet to see concrete results but officials are optimistic their campaign is working. Day says on streets her group monitors where speeds are 30 miles per hour or less yield rates are up with half of the drivers stopping when pedestrians are in the crosswalk. That is no help of course to the other half left dodging oncoming cars but in the nation's most dangerous city for pedestrians it is a start. Greg Allen NPR News.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 