 Let us turn our attention now to Cleveland. That is where the Republican National Convention starts tomorrow. I was in the city last week speaking with residents and politicians in the area about the convention about the election and their city. You might remember that yesterday we heard from four proud Cleveland residents who also happen to be proud Republicans. And one word we heard during that conversation was excited as they were all looking forward to the convention. But another word we think we may be hearing this week is anxiety. So we are going to go now to NPR senior editor and correspondent Ron Elving who is there in Cleveland. He is been preparing to cover the convention this coming - in the coming days. We are talking to him for our regular feature Words You will Hear. That is what we try to understand what is happening in the news by parsing some of those words. And we call - we think anxiety is the word because recent police shootings and terror attacks worldwide have raised concerns about this week's Republican National Convention. And that is to say nothing of the divisions that remain within the party owing to the presumptive nominee Donald Trump who is a polarizing figure. So Ron Elving's with us now once again. Ron thanks so much for joining us.  Good to be with you Michel.  So start with the events that we have been talking about today if you would. President Obama spoke a short time ago. What did you make of his statement on this latest shooting?  The president of course was very sober. He sounded weary because there have been so many of these trying trying tragedies in recent days if you go back to Orlando and then of course the police shooting in Dallas and of course the deaths of Alton Sterling and others who have been killed either in police custody or by police officers. It has been a steady drumbeat. The president also sounded wary because anything that he says seems to be so fraught in this environment. And finally he sounded worried about what might be ahead.  Have we heard from other political figures today particularly the presumptive nominees for the two major political parties Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton?  Yes. Donald Trump has been active on Twitter as usual after major events. Just a few minutes ago he sent a tweet in which he said  President Obama just had a news conference but he does not have a clue. Our country is divided. It is a crime scene and it will only get worse. An earlier tweet was  our country is totally divided and our enemies are watching. We are not looking good. We are not looking smart. We are not looking tough. On the other hand Hillary Clinton also put out a statement just about 5 oclock this afternoon saying  today's devastating assault on police officers in Baton Rouge is an assault on all of us. There is no justification for violence for hate for attacks on men and women who put their lives on the line every day in service of our families and communities.  Now you have been in Cleveland for several days now getting ready for the convention. What sense do you have about how people feel about the readiness of the city? Do they feel secure? What are people telling you?  People want to be proud of their city. They want to be glad to be welcoming back a national political convention. There has not been one here in 70 80 years. And at the same time there is a heightened tension about what might happen. And after what happened in some other cities in recent days not the least of them Nice France people are wondering could there be a terrorist attack? Could there be violence coming from some of the protests and counter-protests that are expected here in the coming days? Could there be some sort of an attempt to go after any one of the enormously well-known celebrities of politics and entertainment who are going to be on the floor in the next several days?  So there is a sense of kind of anticipation but there is also kind of a little underlying unease. Now I have to ask you though Ron you have covered a number of these conventions. And in recent years particularly in the post-911 era there is just been a lot of emphasis on security in public places. How do the measures there compare to the conventions that you have covered in the past recognizing that we are probably only seeing the tip of the iceberg? There is plenty of things that are going on sort of behind the scenes that we are not aware of. But from what you see how does it compare to other conventions you have covered?  The visible police presence is enormous. And it is by the way remarkable in the way that they are treating people. They are enormously respectful and cooperative trying very hard to make this a good experience for everyone as well as a safe one. But police have been brought here from as far away as Texas and certainly from all over Ohio and the rest of the Midwest. There is an enormous police presence. And they are expecting they are going to need them because there are going to be an enormous number of protesters and counter-protesters. So with all of that people are still trying to maintain some of that spirit of anticipation and excitement that you talked about earlier.  Before we let you go we have just about - just under two minutes left. But I wanted to ask you about the political anxiety if you are sensing that there. I noted that - just today that a former Florida governor who was also a candidate - an unsuccessful candidate - for president this year Jeb Bush published an op ed in The Washington Post suggesting - well pretty much stating that he is not going to vote for the presumptive nominee suggesting that he may vote for the Libertarian candidate or write a candidate in. Is there still anxiety among the Republican leadership about their nominee? What do you sense there?  There is a long list of Republican luminaries who are not coming to this convention. Certainly the Bush family and the former presidents in the Bush family are not coming. And Mitt Romney and others who have been nominees of the Republican Party in the past are not coming. And many senators and governors are choosing to keep their distance. But the people who are coming by and large have made their peace with the Trump nomination. And while there is still a group that is still trying to organize some kind of resistance to the Rules Committee package and maybe try to bust open the convention on the first night no one really expects that to happen. No one really thinks that that is much of a threat. And so we expect it to be a Donald Trump show all through the four nights. We are going to hear from a lot of members of his family and from a lot of his friends and a lot of people who are going to tell us things we may not have heard before to make us perhaps like Donald Trump better. It is going to be a very personalized kind of tribute to the nominee. But it will also be an attempt at unifying and healing some of those wounds that you referred to within the Republican Party at least for those who are here.  That is NPR's Ron Elving in Cleveland. Ron thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you Michel. 