 43 this afternoon in Annapolis Md. an intern at the Capital Gazette newspaper started tweeting. Active shooter he wrote then gave the address and added please help us. We are tracking what happened from there as a gunman did indeed open fire in the Annapolis newsroom. Here's Maryland's governor Larry Hogan speaking a short while ago.   It is a tragic situation. We cannot - we have had several fatalities and several people that are in the hospital.  What we know at this hour is that five people are confirmed dead. Several others are gravely injured. The gunman is in custody. Well Michael Busch is the speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates. His district includes Annapolis. And he joins me on the line now from his office there. Hi Mr. Busch.  Mary how are you today?  I am well. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I go by Mary Louise. And we are glad to have you on the program. Sorry it is under these circumstances. I wonder if I could start by asking what you are hearing from authorities. Can you add any more detail to what we know?  I cannot add any more detail really to what you already know. I do know from being in that building numerous times that if a gunman came in through the front door it is very open. And you know if they are firing a gun most of the people that would be in the newsroom would be very easily accessible being shot and there is nowhere to run to really. So I mean it is a terrifying situation I am sure if you were in there. And I have many friends that work at that newspaper and I am very I guess anxious in some ways and - but you know I hope they are safe and - but five people have died. It is a very small news staff. It is a great newspaper covers all local news and very friendly very good very community-oriented.  It is - I want to follow up on that. It is a very small staff. Can you just paint us a little bit of a picture of what this newsroom looks like where it is situated in Annapolis?  Yeah. It is in a - basically a public building.  OK.  And you go in. And if you go through the front doors there is two or three offices right in front of you. And then to your right is a bunch of cubicles where many of the reporters do their daily work. And if someone comes in there with a gun they are really in jeopardy. I mean there is no place for them to go really. And there is no hallways. There is nothing of that nature that they can really scramble to. And if a gunman comes through that front door they are very very very vulnerable and in jeopardy. And you know I know the vast majority of the writers there. I am involved in athletics. I know the sports staff. I know the local community staff the people that do community articles. I know the political writers the editorial writers and the Gazette editor. Thank God he is fine. I texted him Rick Hutzell who is fine. He was out of the office with a man named Chase Cook.  Right.  The ones that were back in the office were all at jeopardy. So I just hope that everyone is all right. We know that five people are dead. But you know it is just a real real tragedy for our community.  Mr. Speaker thank you for your time and our condolences on what I know is a really tough day there in Annapolis.  It is a very tough day and thank you very much.  That is Michael Busch speaker of the House of the Maryland House of Delegates. 