 There is no brighter spotlight in American fashion than the September issue of Vogue. Landing its cover has historically been uncommon for non-white celebrities or models. Now singer Beyonce has not only landed her second. She is leveraged her star power to nudge Vogue into doing something it had never done in its 125 years - have a black photographer do the cover shoot. Twenty-three-year-old Tyler Mitchell earned that spot. He is here to talk more about it. Welcome to the program.  Hi. Thank you. Glad to be here.  So we had heard these reports that Beyonce wanted an African-American photographer. And then we have heard that Anna Wintour the editor-in-chief was the person who selected you. What can you tell us about how this came about?  I think it was very much a collaborative effort. I think - to give a little origin story I have worked with Vogue a couple times before. So I think my name was familiar with Conde Nast. And I think my name was also maybe familiar with Beyonce's team because I would worked with Solange. But from what I understand it was Vogue who first called me and proposed me to her. And she quickly approved and said yes and was excited to work with me.  So you have done some print pages. You said you have done Teen Vogue. But it is a different deal to do the cover - right? - especially to do September. And you are only 23. I mean for people who are not photographers how big a deal is this?  It is huge. Photographers live their whole life to shoot this cover slot in this month. But I think I kind of approached it with a kind of practicality of trying to shoot her like how I would shoot my friends. So it was beautiful and nerve-wracking and exciting all at once.  . Yeah.  You know ?  Yeah I can imagine. You are - you sound like semi-calm and semi-giddy like you still cannot...  Yeah.  ...Believe it happened.  I cannot. I mean I just got the print magazine yesterday. I went and...  What?  Yeah. So I did not even think it was real until I saw it actualized like in physical form. So I am still kind of beside myself right now.  You are not only the first African-American to shoot the cover for Vogue but you are also one of the youngest. What does it mean to you to have this kind of start to have this place in the fashion history?  It is kind of - you cannot really put words to it right? I keep thinking about the moment they called me and told me about the shoot and they made me aware that I would be the first African-American to shoot the cover of Vogue. It was at once totally unreal and also felt like I had been living my whole life to receive that call. So I think there is a level of amazing kind of magic to it. And then there is also kind of this is exactly what you know we have been working towards to really - you know we should be shooting covers of Vogue month to month not just as a first.  Can I ask? In this industry did that feel like something that was unattainable or did that feel like a door that just was not open to black and brown photographers?  I never looked at it as a door that I could not open. I actually have always looked at it as a door that I was very much going to open. So...  But 125 years is a long time.  You know what I mean?  An insanely long time.  We are not talking about a banking institution. We are talking about a magazine. So you know does it - why do you think that was?  The beautiful part of 2018 is that photography is becoming so amazingly democratized. I mean I think we are talking about a history of magazines and photography. It was known as a rich man's art. So it was mostly for white men who were able to afford all of the chemicals the films the cameras that went into it in the very early stages. So it is a historical thing that goes into why there just have not comparatively been as many black fashion photographers as white fashion photographers. But the part that I cannot answer is why they have not been recognized the black - the amazing black photographers and black fashion photographers that have been shooting. That I cannot answer you.  But it is an interesting point you are making about democratization right? And I am sure Instagram...  Yeah it is a beautiful moment.  ...Is a huge part of that. Like just about anyone with some kind of camera technically even your phone could establish a career. Do you think that is true?  Absolutely. The iPhone is the thing that opened up everything. I mean the beautiful thing about now is that it is no longer somebody who can afford the best camera but it is about what your eye says.  It also means that someone like you - right? - you are unrepresented. You do not have a creative agent right?  No not now.  And yet you have already shot brands and done major publications. Do you think you need one?  At a certain point you definitely need a team. I mean I have been a one-man show for a long time. And any - you ask any of my friends they could tell you I really focus in and work very hard. So I think it is been so beautiful to really promote my work through Instagram promote my work through the Web which I think is like the new ladder I call it of like - we had a ladder of photographers who - they shot for certain magazines and then they shot for better magazines and they worked their way up a ladder. And I think now we have a new ladder of a world that is focused on young emerging voices that have something interesting to say. So when you talk about not having a creative agent I think Instagram has the ability to be your agent as a young photographer. But I think after a certain point you need a team too. It is about what is best for you.  I would say that point for you is probably now  after a Vogue cover shoot.  Definitely. Yeah.  So some people may be familiar with your work on Instagram. But when did you first start shooting pictures?  I actually started making videos first. I was montaging skate videos for friends.  This is just you and your friends at like skate parks or is this like....  Yeah. We actually had a DIY skate park ourselves. We - there was like a plot of land in Atlanta where I am from. And so we would film all day there and then I would go home and edit them and do my own coloring. And then I was kind of like the director of my own movies. So that was the start. But photography really became a serious thing for me after I took a trip to Cuba. I lived there for a little over a month. And...  And you are 23 now. So how old were you when all this is happening?  That was 2015 so I must have been 20.  OK.  I was always taking pictures even back to 14 and 13 years old. But it really became serious when I started to put together this photo book idea in my head of documenting the architecture in Havana Cuba and the skate scene in Havana Cuba which was emerging at the time.  Now you are not the first photographer to fall in love with Havana  right?  Not at all.  And Cuba.  But I think that is the beautiful part. I think I have seen so many amazing pictures in Havana. And I think even when you look at my book versus other books it is always going to be different pictures of maybe the same city. And that is kind of the amazing takeaway as I realized my point of view very much there.  So how does this come into play in terms of your style? What I notice are people in your photos - it is usually natural light usually black and brown subjects often wearing kind of bold colors. You shoot in color. How did this experience help you develop your images?  It started there as a place that - kind of imagined in my mind in Havana that I did not know existed. But I think it then extended to me trying to recreate that color palette in all my work because it kind of has to do with I guess an autobiographical sense of how I feel. There is a lot of in my work the black body searching for an idyllic space. And I think the use of vibrant color the use of natural light the way that that kind of colors and taints black and brown skin to me feels a lot of how I feel. I mean I think a lot of photography is trying to embody the complexity of who you are who you think you are as Arthur Jafa says. So I think for me that style comes from Havana but also from a ideology of black and brown bodies deserving to kind of live in an idyllic space.  We have mentioned your being 23 years old. And you have accomplished so much in this moment. Where do you see yourself going from here?  I think that is a beautiful question 'ecause I think it is only the beginning. I think it is been a huge door opener in terms of being able to collaborate with people I have been wanting to collaborate with. And I think I am focused right now on a lot of art-centric projects and a lot of film-centered projects. Yeah. I do not know if I can talk to specifically but it is been a great door opener. It is really just the beginning. So...  Well Tyler Mitchell thank you so much for sharing this moment with us.  Thank you so much. I am glad I could share that.   Photographer Tyler Mitchell - he is the first African-American to shoot a cover for Vogue. It will begin hitting newsstands this week.  