 Now some reaction to the Obama health care speech from Howard County Maryland. That is the county near Baltimore that we visited earlier this summer to ask people about this issue. And joining me from the studio of member station WYPR in Baltimore are three Howard County residents. And first we are going to hear from county health commissioner Dr. Peter Beilenson. Welcome to the program once again. Dr.  Thanks for having me.  You have been running a local wellness program for the uninsured that is very inexpensive but you have told us that it is still too costly for many people. What did you make of President Obama's statement that just the way we have to have auto insurance if we own a car we should be required to have health insurance? Dr.  Well I think that is a bit of a problem. First I should preface it by saying I am a strong Obama supporter and I thought his speech was excellent in general. But when you are talking about an individual mandate and looking at the bill that is likely to pass including the Baucus bill the subsidies are simply going to be insufficient to be able to allow working families to be able to afford to get their health coverage. We found as you remember our fees are about 600 to 900 per year. And under the subsidies that are being proposed in Washington people making 50000 to 60000 a year may be expected to pay four to six to 7000 a year to get their individual coverage. And that is simply going to be unaffordable. So I think it is going to preclude us getting to universal health coverage.  Well what will happen if there is a mandate saying you have to have it but you cannot find a policy that you can afford? Dr.  Well a couple of things. One the penalties that are being talked about at least in the Baucus bill that I have seen the tax penalties are greater than our annual fee for Healthy Howard which is a comprehensive program. So either people have to pay significant fines and still not get coverage or they will be put at tremendous fiscal disadvantage in order to be able to buy coverage.  We are going to turn now to Brian Jolles who is an insurance broker in Howard County. Mandating people to get insurance means mandating more customers for you no? Mr.  Well I guess it would mean that but you know our industry is much on board with any one in terms of reform. And we believe the bottom line is we have to get reform in place but it just needs to be carefully thought out and it needs to work well with what is already working. The president started out by saying that we need build on what is already working. And you know the bottom line is as we proceed through this I think we need to keep that in mind.  Can you imagine the insurance companies whose policies you sell to businesses  We used to be able to insure a family for 13000 a year but now we are going to be obliged to cover lots of riskier patients with pre-existing conditions no caps on what we pay out on them. So everybody's going to have to pay more - instead of 13000 make it 14000. Mr.  Well the bottom line in the way insurance works is it is about looking at large numbers and being able to structure a plan that can work on the premiums that are being paid. So the conversation that is been happening in America has sort of changed to - it is about keeping health insurance premiums down. But really it is about health insurance cost. And I think that is where you know the focus needs to be.  Well speaking of health costs we turn now to Vic Broccolino who is the CEO of Howard County General Hospital. And Vic last night  If we are able to slow the growth of health care cost by just one-tenth of one percent each year it will actually reduce the deficit by 4 trillion over the long term. Can Howard County General meet that target of reducing the rate of growth by one-tenth of one percent per year? Mr. VIC  County General Hospital Well it absolutely can. My only question is where the 4 trillion came from. How many years out was the president projecting?  You mean how long is the long term? Mr.  Yes is the long term 80 years 100 years? What is it? Four trillion dollars is a massive amount of money but admittedly the costs have been growing up at a rate that far outstrips inflation as you know and we do have to do something about that.  But even if there are new medical technologies that arrive on the market and even if more people are showing up to be treated at the hospital in response perhaps to advertising you think that the rate of increase could be slowed in the coming years? Mr.  Oh absolutely. But I think the American public is going to have to be very patient. They are an impatient lot today. They want instant gratification. They want their MRIs their CT scans their blood work all done immediately. And I think that one way we are going to be able to reduce the rate of inflation in health care is to educate the public - if they are willing to be educated - and slow down that insatiable appetite for health care.  Well now I would like to hear from all three of you who are from Howard County what your general sense is right now. Do you come away from President Obama's speech on health care more hopeful more fearful none of the above? Dr. Beilenson? Dr.  Definitely more hopeful after the town hall meetings which granted got a little bit overblown by the media because there are a lot of town hall meetings that were a lot more moderate in temperature. I am much more hopeful for something passing. I think we are going to get health insurance reform. I think we are going to get modest health coverage expansion. I thought the president strongly stressed the moral imperative that this is a basic human right. It is unconscionable in our country we have 45 to 50 million uninsured. I would have liked for him to talk a little bit more about ways to save money smarter medicine evidence-based practices. The Commission on Medicare that he used to talk about ways of reducing fraud and abuse were great. I am not sure if there is 500 billion of abuse and fraud but there is plenty of money to be saved and having better health practices and paying doctors and hospitals giving them incentives for providing good care.  Insurance broker Brian Jolles are you also more hopeful or are you more concerned? Mr.  Well I am still concerned. I think he did a good job last night in giving a little bit of an outline. I do not know if I agree with the response by the Republican Party afterwards. I would have thought that the focus should have been more on not starting from scratch but starting from where the president started out last night - building what is already working. The bottom line is that a lot of the things that I thought the president said last night were a little contradictory. He made a statement. He said this is about having honest debate not scare tactics. And then he went on and gave examples which I do not think are representative of what happens in America and certainly not in our state of Maryland. My insurance agency has about 300 group clients. We do a lot of service behind the scenes on the claims process - thousands of them you know over 25 years and we might have a couple maybe one or two scenarios that he described last night ever. And it is very unusual.  You mean to people losing their coverage once they get sick or something of that sort of being told you are capped out or Mr.  Yeah. In terms of the access to the coverage in the state of Maryland and 35 other states have similar reform action already in place. There is guaranteed-issue medical insurance so there is no preexisting conditions. Cost is not cheap. Just wished there was a little bit more understanding by the American people of what actually does exist in the insurance industry today in most of the country.  Vic Broccolino your sense of hopefulness or otherwise after the Obama speech. Mr.  Well I think the speech went a long way to clarify some of the misconceptions that have surrounded the various plans and the basic concept as well. I think there is a lot of compromise that has to be achieved before the plan really progresses. I think the health care providers have to compromise the consumers have to compromise and the insurers have to compromise. Then last - I should not say last - possibly first the Senate and the House have to compromise. The way Baucus and Pelosi are speaking now they are not on the same page and it does not seem that the twain shall meet. So we will see what happens.  Well Vic Broccolino Brian Jolles and Dr. Peter Beilenson thanks to all three of you for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you. Dr.  Thank you.  Vic Broccolino is the president and CEO of Howard County General Hospital. We also heard from Dr. Peter Beilenson who is the county's health commissioner. And from Brian Jolles who is an insurance broker in that suburban county between Washington D.C. and Baltimore Maryland. 