 In San Bruno California investigators still do not know the cause of last night's natural gas pipeline explosion. The massive fire that resulted virtually wiped out a neighborhood in the San Francisco suburb. At least four people were killed. And today firefighters continue their search for victims. NPR's Richard Gonzales reports.  At an emergency Red Cross Service Center a small army of volunteers is organizing donations of food water blankets and clothes for victims of last night's fire. Donations are pouring in faster than they can handle. Outside many of the people seem shell-shocked. Carissa O'Neal a mother of 22-year-old twin daughters says before the pipeline exploded there was a deep rumble. Ms. CARISSA O' My daughter and I were sitting on the bed talking and we thought it was an earthquake because the house looks like - it is just boom and then the house is vibrating like there was a train running underneath it.  O'Neal says she grabbed both daughters and ran out. Ms. O' There was debris falling from the sky and we looked and saw this wall of flames that was coming our way over to us. And I just said go go. And we just started running up the street no shoes no nothing you know just glad we were dressed. And just started running and running and we passed a few places go go go.  She and her daughters took refuge with friends. Later a news report confirmed their worst fears their home was incinerated. Ms. O' Everything. All of my mother's thing I inherited all my mother's things. My father's books. It is like a death all over again unbelievable. And you think well I will run out  if that ever happens to me I am going to grab this or this. You know man no you just run. You flee because you know if you do not you are dead.  Her main concern is her twin daughters. Both received minor burns from the intense heat. Authorities are still trying to locate a number of people who have yet to be accounted for. Richard Gonzales NPR News San Bruno California.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 