 Americans are looking to Washington for coronavirus relief. But after nearly two weeks of talks leaders from both parties can only seem to agree that they are nowhere close to a deal.   It was a disappointing meeting.   The president would like us to make a deal. But unfortunately we did not make any progress today.  That was Democratic leader Sen. Chuck Schumer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin after their latest meeting this afternoon. And administration officials now say they will recommend the president issue executive orders on unemployment benefits and other sticking points. Congressional reporter Claudia Grisales has been following all of this and joins us now. Hi Claudia.  Hi Ari.  Democratic leaders have been meeting with White House officials nearly every day. What is the latest from today's meeting?  Well as you just heard all sides said it was disappointing - some progress but not a lot. Both sides started out with a Democratic proposal that was more than 3 trillion. They approved this in the House a few months ago. Just recently Republicans countered with a trillion-dollar plan. And while both sides have budged on some issues they are still very far apart. Democrats said they will drop their plan by a trillion dollars if Republicans could come up a trillion dollars and they could be within range of a deal. But Secretary Mnuchin said today a 2 trillion plan is a quote nonstarter. Here's what he and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said after today's meeting.   We will continue to try to get an agreement that is in the best interest of the people and that is why we are here.  But in the meantime we are going to take executive orders to try to alleviate some of the pain that people spend - are experiencing.  So as you can hear from there this does not sound very inspiring when it comes to reaching a bipartisan plan on Capitol Hill. And with an executive order plan Trump and his team have said they have been considering this as a last resort if a deal could not be reached today. And so Trump is working on these orders now with his officials and so this is something we could hear about more in the coming days.  So what are the big sticking points?  So the list is long. We are talking about at least a trillion dollars in differences here. For example Democrats wanted to see that extra 600 weekly unemployment benefit reinstated. It expired last week. But Republicans wanted that to come down to 200. Another big fight is state and local governments. They are facing very dire financial pictures. And Democrats want to see 915 billion diverted to these - to support frontline workers. But so far Republicans have only offered about 100 billion to go towards schools. So that is a really big gap there. And Democrats are worried about a slew of other issues like food insecurity for families that are struggling safe election voting options the U.S. Postal Service. And Republicans have said they are worried about the spending.  Now senators have mostly gone home although the leaders have stayed in Washington. Does that mean there is basically no chance of a deal especially if the White House is calling these executive orders a last resort?  Yes that is something that a lot of folks are wondering about today. Meadows and Mnuchin said they will come back to the table when Democrats have new proposals to offer and Democrats clearly see this as their last shot to get in what they want on this next wave of relief. Here's House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and what she said after the meeting. Let us take a listen.   When you have an opportunity like this to do something for the American people it is an opportunity. But we cannot have it be a missed opportunity to do that by settling for something so low so beneath the - meeting the needs of the American people.  So now we will be watching to see if Trump acts on these executive orders in the coming days and if so if they will have the legal clearance to have any impact on all these current economic woes that we are seeing.  That is NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales. Thanks Claudia.  Thanks for having me. 