 American farmers are indeed paying attention to all of this. This week Mexico responded to the Trump levies on steel and aluminum with tariffs on several American products including pork. That is a big deal for the thousands of people gathered in Des Moines Iowa right now for the annual World Pork Expo. Iowa Public Radio reporter Amy Mayer is there so we tracked her down and asked her to describe what she is seeing.  Well this expo is held at the Iowa State Fairgrounds. And it is huge. As you mentioned thousands of people everything on display from different ways of feeding your pigs to - I saw a robot that can go down the alley in between stalls where sows are kept to lead a boar down the alleyway. So any kind of technology or innovation that exists in any other industry it is probably here for swine.  Wow OK so kind of a celebration of all things pork it sounds like. How much - to what extent are these tariffs getting talked about there?  When I specifically asked people it is definitely something that is on producers' minds. They are aware of what is going on. And they are keeping an eye on it for sure.  OK. Now I gather you have got someone there with you a pork producer who we can speak to. Introduce me to him. Who is this?  Well I am going to introduce you to John Weber. He is a hog farmer from Dysart Iowa which is in northeast Iowa. And he is been raising pigs pretty much his whole life.  Great. All right pass him over.  Here he is.  Hi Mr. Weber. This is Mary Louise Kelly. How are you?  Good.  So you have a farm and you have been farming pigs your whole life?  Well my son and I and employees we farm about 2600 acres in northern Tama County. We have got 6000 pigs on feed and we raise the pigs from 50 pounds to market weight on a contract basis.  So what is your reaction? How much might this affect you to have Mexico imposing this?  Well it is very concerning. Mexico is our No. 1 volume customer. Over a billion and a half dollars' worth of pork was exported there.  You are saying this is a relationship that is been working pretty well.  It is been working very well since the beginning of NAFTA. And they have been a good customer of the United States.  Could you just sell more pork domestically?  Absolutely. And that is what will happen in the short term. If this export situation gets more serious pork prices will come down substantially and we would hope that U.S. consumers will take advantage of that and buy more U.S. pork. Obviously that is one thing that could help us out. You know you look at it in the big picture. Pork producers and pork is an easy target but corn and soybeans are right behind us. You know initially for a month or two months people will survive. But if it drags on longer-term it is going to have severe economic consequences for U.S. agriculture. And I just - we just do not want to see that.  Last thing to ask you which is - if I might wade into the politics - there is some thinking that these Mexican tariffs are designed specifically to hit voters in places that have supported President Trump politically. Do you see that as the case? Might this influence your vote in some way in November?  I do not think that is going to happen at least near-term. I think pork producers are going to be patient. I think they understand the importance of updating and renegotiating these trade agreements. And I think they are willing to take a hit which we are now doing for a period of time. I think you know pork producers are true patriots because we want free trade to continue and to exist. And my comment would be that I think it is high time for this administration to show producers some positive news on trade whether it be a new bilateral free trade agreement with perhaps Japan or maybe the European Union. It is time that we get some positive news.  John Weber great to speak with you.  Glad to do it.  Amy I wonder if you would just - if you can put those remarks there from John Weber into some context for us. Are you hearing similar things from other people as you speak to people at the pork expo?  Yes and no. I think people are concerned about agricultural tariffs. So when he talks about corn and soybeans that is partly because those are also major American agricultural exports. But more specifically it is what most of those pigs are eating. So it really is all tied together on this end. At the same time though yeah I mean I think he is right that it will take some time for farmers to decide whether there is an influence on how they vote as a result of these. But in terms of how they operate day to day I think we are not seeing a lot of change yet.  Amy Mayer thanks so much.  Thank you Mary Louise.  Amy Mayer agriculture reporter at Iowa Public Radio. We were also speaking there with Jon Weber pork producer in Dysart Iowa. We reached them both at the annual World Pork Expo. It is happening today in Des Moines. 