 Chef Rashad Armstead has done just about every job in the food business. He is owned two restaurants. He even won the reality show Chopped and much much more.  I have been the dishwasher. I have been the mop guy. I have been the prep guy. I have been the cook. I have been the server. And I have also been the accountant returning emails...  Armstead is a Black man. And when we talked last week he told me the color of his skin has worked against him in his line of work.  In the food industry in the restaurant industry you see racial inequality happening so much. Like there is a better chance for a white male or an Asian male to go and get a loan for his business way before me. Being a Black male that has the same experience has the same accolades and things like that there is still that racial inequality. And I think that when I won Chopped that gave me the opportunity to talk about that because I have been working in this industry since I was 15 years old and I have seen every piece of racism that exists when I would go in and apply for a job or go do an interview or even sit there within the kitchen. I knew and I felt it and I lived through that. And for me when I became the controller of my world of being you know a restaurant owner and my own catering company I knew that I had to speak on that.  So Rashad Armstead started a company called The Black Food Collective which invests in Black-owned food businesses. And he recently launched another innovation. It is called Epic Ventures Test Kitchen. It is in Oakland Calif. and the pandemic contributed to its genesis.  When all the COVID stuff hit I am at home. And I am like - my whole entire life stopped basically because I could not do any more catering. I could not do anything. But it gave me an opportunity to stop for a moment realign my vision and kind of come up with a new approach on how our new world is going to be because it is going to completely change after all this is past.  And Epic Ventures Test Kitchen - it is not a food court. This is like a giant warehouse-like commercial kitchen where a lot of small food operations catering operations food trucks can come and make their food. Is that the idea?  That is the idea. So basically right now we are in about a 2500-square-foot kitchen. And we have one cook line. We have a really big prep area. The way we are doing it now is we will have two food businesses for like a lunch service and a dinner service operating at the same time. And so our future goal is to get a massive kitchen where we can have 20 to 30 of these businesses operating in their own space and actually producing food and giving it to customers.  You know there is an interesting aspect to Black Food Collective which is the investment aspect. You are trying to give money to organizations to aspiring restaurant owners and food truck owners. And then in turn you get a financial stake in the business. Can you tell us a little bit about that piece?  Yeah yeah. So that came from all the things that I have been through with seeking investment. I have gotten loans before and I have gotten investments before. And it was never enough. It was just here's the money kind of go with it and kind of do you have to do. And there was no moment where it was like let me partner with you to help you grow this business. And so when I was sitting back and creating this model I said I want to do something to where I can invest in these businesses and in turn help them become a legitimate business to where they can actually not have to work as hard as they have been working for years. Hold on one second. OK. I just had a food delivery pickup.  Are you there right now?  Yes I am.   I am here every day. I am here every day.  You are double - you are multitasking.  And so our goal which is - you know some people call it crazy but I call it it is what it is - is our first year we want to raise at least 10 million. And with that 10 million we will be able to purchase the space for our kitchen and we will also be able to invest in these businesses and create a team that is going to help these businesses grow because in a lot of neighborhoods you do not see any Black-owned grocery stores. You do not see too many Black-owned franchises that exist around our country. And you do not see too many Black-owned food products on the grocery store shelves. And it is time for that to change. This has the ability to literally change the way that the Black economy and the Black dollar is spent if we can do this the right way.  Because it would flood money into Black businesses that might be struggling now but just need some financial support to be stronger.  Exactly. And I mean what it would really do is it would take them from being just a small business to being where they can actually be something sustainable because a lot of Black food businesses that exist in most neighborhoods if they do not have adequate financing they are struggling in a major way and not just financially but in their personal life but also mentally and spiritually because it becomes a lot of work to have to do all of this. Like I cooked 500-and-something stuffed bell peppers. And it was just me my nephew and my niece stuffing those because I cannot afford that much staff to come in here and do that. I am not alone in that. There is so many other Black businesses that are working so hard just to keep their business afloat. And I think that if someone is intentional about the investment then you will see something so impactful happen within the Black community that would just change so much.  That is Rashad Armstead of Black Food Collective and Epic Ventures Test Kitchen in Oakland Calif. Rashad thank you and good luck. And I hope I can visit one of those places eventually.  For sure for sure I hope to see you soon. 