 Joining us is Samantha Power U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Ambassador Power the deal is said to be legally binding and backed up by the threat of sanctions or possibly military action. But if Syria does not comply would not those consequences require a second resolution? And given what the first one took does not it seem very unlike that there is any prospect say of U.N.-approved military action against Syria?  Well it did take us a long time certainly to get a product of any kind out of the council. As you know this is the first U.N. Security Council resolution that places any obligations on Syria. So it has taken an attack of this gravity and this horror to get Russia to join us in a more cooperative posture. But the resolution itself is imposing a pretty distinct form of accountability on the Syrian regime in taking its chemical weapons away and in rendering it legally binding and in requiring that those chemical weapons be taken away. At a strategic level we are going to know whether Syria's chemical weapons have been destroyed. We are going to know whether or not they have been used and we think that we will have the force of global public opinion on our side in the event we would come back to the council.  But has Syria and have individual Syrians responsible for that matter have they just gotten away with the August 21 attack that the U.S. has killed 1400 people?  Well let us not forget that President Obama's reason for pursuing military action was to degrade Assad's chemical weapons capability so he could never use these weapons again taking those chemical weapons away entirely eliminating a program that has not only been used to slaughter people with whom Assad disagrees and children and women and everything that everybody is well aware of. But they have also provided a tactical military advantage for his regime .  But that is a prospective consequence. The resolution was stripped of language that called for those who used chemical weapons to be held accountable and it would have granted jurisdiction at one point to the International Criminal Court in The Hague to try Syrians for war crimes. Why was that language removed and is that wise?  I think this - it is not a big secret the feelings that Russia and China have about the International Criminal Court. We are as a government supporting a range of measures that will ensure that when the day comes where Assad is in the dock that the evidence will be there in order to ensure meaningful criminal accountability. In the meantime we are trying to ensure that Syrian civilians are not targeted again with one of the worst weapons the world has ever seen.  Ambassador Powers since you are a journalist covering the Balkan Wars you have been as engaged as anyone in trying to contain threats of wartime atrocities threats of genocide is the use of chemical weapons so atrocious that a bloody sectarian civil war that kills 100000 displaces millions is significantly more atrocious with chemical weapons being used than proceeding without chemical weapons?  Well from the standpoint of the families who have lost loved ones and seen their neighborhoods torn to shreds I do not think it is material that difference...  It is not material you are saying for them.  Not to those individuals who have lost their lives. I think what you have seen in terms of the international community coming together is a recognition though that a weapon of this nature when in the hands for instance of non-state actors like al-Nusra or Hezbollah could pose a threat not only of those atrocities inside Syria but to the neighbors to the United States. I mean this is something that can cross borders and cause irreparable damage of the kind we saw on August 21 in Syria and well beyond.  But what do you say to Syrian rebels who say we have been left high and dry? The U.S. and France were about to strike. We were about to have some encouragement on the battlefield. Yes you have reached agreement on chemical weapons but you and the Russians are now together and we no longer can count on that air support.  Well we are providing as you know a whole host of assistance to the opposition in order to strengthen their prospects inside Syria in order to help expedite the end of the Assad regime. And I think while you are right about some of their public statements they also recognize that a weapon that they had no defenses against over the last year is now for the time being neutralized. And if this resolution is effective and is enforced as it needs to be it would be a weapon that would be eliminated.  Ambassador Samantha Power U.S. ambassador to the United Nations thanks a lot for talking with us today.  Thank you so much.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 