 The global price of metallurgical coal the kind that is used to make steel has been going up for the past couple years. That means after years of decline there are a few more jobs in the coal counties of Virginia West Virginia and Kentucky. But most experts agree coal is not going to make a big comeback as President Trump has promised. For NPR's Embedded podcast Kelly McEvers and Chris Benderev spent about a year and a half going to these counties. They met one young man who did not want to give up on coal.  We first meet Kyle Johnson in summer 2017 in a mine safety training class.  On a break from the class I ride with Kyle to lunch.  Get these safety glasses out of the way.  Kyle already dresses like a coal miner even though he is not one yet - baggy navy work pants with reflective stripes down the sides. And he tells me that he wanted to work in a mine ever since he visited one when he was younger.  And I thought - well this is what I want to do. I have been hooked ever since. But I guess I was just born at the wrong time.  It was the wrong time because when he first tried to get a mining job it was 2015 and the industry was at its lowest point in decades. But now he is got this sense that things might be improving. So he is taking this class. Do you have a lot of friends who have gotten training?  Not really. Most of them think it is a lost cause nowadays I guess. Now...  What do they say to you?  They just think I am crazy. And like they think I need to you know go to school and all that stuff.  Kyle did try going to college. I talked to Isaiah Thomas  who went to college with Kyle and has known him since they were kids. And he says Kyle was just obsessed with coal.  We would be in school and we would go to the computer lab. And I would be sitting there doing my classwork and look over and Kyle is watching Coal.   It was a show on the Discovery Channel.   It ran for like one season.   Hank overshot his mark ramming the feeder. When he hit it he threw the belt out of alignment.  Kyle he watched that show all the time. Like he would just be sitting there. I am like do you have school work to do? He is like yeah I have got a couple of things I probably should do. And then he would go right back to watching Coal. That is all he ever did.  Isaiah finished college got a business administration degree. But Kyle dropped out. He joined the Marines then the Reserves. Now he does landscaping. The way Kyle found out about this recent upturn in metallurgical coal was one day in his truck he heard something.   Are you an experienced underground or a certified inexperienced miner looking for a change?  I heard an advertisement on the radio to hire for coal miner jobs and I had not heard that in years.   Do you need 20 to 22 per hour with an excellent benefits package? Here it is. Benefits include health dental...  It is indescribable. It is just like you know something's happening and it is finally good.  Kyle applies to the company from the ad - and to a bunch of other companies - and then just gets in his Dodge Ram and starts driving around the coal counties in southwest Virginia with a stack of resumes.  I drive around Buchanan County about 10 hours a day about once or twice a week looking for jobs. And then I come to Dickenson and Wise wherever - ask people who they know and everything.  There might be a little more hiring these days but there are also a lot of experienced coal miners ready to fill open jobs. Isaiah who has a job in sales and works in an office thinks Kyle's plan is hopeless. Honestly he thinks us following Kyle is hopeless too.  He said yeah some guy from NPR wants to interview you on my job hunt. And I said well good luck to that guy 'ecause you are not going to get a job .  For Kyle it is not just about getting a job. It is about this thing that he wants to be true - that you can graduate from high school then make decent money and live a good life. And where he lives central Appalachia the way to do that has been coal.   Hello?  Hey Kyle. It is Chris.  Hey. How is it going?  And then in the fall 2017 after months of trying Kyle finally has some news.  I got a job.  Congratulations.  Yeah. So  there is that.  Kyle is happier than I have ever heard him.  I was like it is about time something happened .  Right after he got the offer Kyle called his best friend Isaiah.  The first thing he said to me - he says I did it. I got me a job and I am working. And I said - oh well I guess I was a little bit wrong on that one. And he goes no you were way wrong Isaiah.  I ask Isaiah if he is been tempted by coal too.  Oh absolutely. Everybody's had that thought - when you see guys that are making 30 an hour in an area that 15 is the norm I mean - and not go and get 30000 in student debt but instead make 30000 in half a year of coal mining.  But then what do you think next that made you not do that?  Coal mining is a turbulent turbulent occupation. And it is dangerous. And it is dirty. I have a tremendous amount of respect for anyone that coal mines but I have just always been speculative with Kyle about - you know it is not a prosperous future as far as you know job security goes. But he is going to do what he wants to do.  A few more months go by. And at one point it is spring 2018. It'30 in the afternoon and Kyle just woke up.   There is my backup alarm.   It works.  It does. That is the loudest one I got too. And it is really annoying. I really hate it.  .  That is what you got to have to wake up though.  Kyle has been working the night shift at a coal mine and you can tell. His face is pale. His eyes look tired. He says he is lost 20 pounds. The work is hard. Still Kyle is really into being a coal miner. He is finally living like he is on that Discovery Channel TV show.  I mean I love it. I do.  But Kyle probably the one person we met during our time in central Appalachia who was most excited about coal says he is not totally sure what is going to happen in the long term. Like 20 30 years from now...  I got no clue. By then definitely all your good coal will be gone. And you are going to have to go a lot farther back in the mountain and spend a lot more money just to get it out. I really hope it is still around. All I can do is see I guess.  I ask Isaiah what he thinks will happen to Kyle if coal does not last. And he says Kyle will probably be able to find something else.  What scares me - there is a whole workforce of people that if coal actually did ever just up and leave there would be an entire area of people that could not do other things. That is what makes me the saddest is you know? And it is easy for people around the country and around the world to talk about where we are from hear our accent and automatically assume they are unintelligent. They are not unintelligent people. They are extremely intelligent. But they were not afforded the opportunities of other people to understand different things. So they have known this one thing their whole life and it up and leaves. Well what else are they going to do?  Later 15 that night Kyle's driving away from his apartment. He is changed into his starched new uniform with an embroidered nametag and those reflective orange stripes down the side. Kyle pulls out his phone from the cup holder and he scrolls till he finds the right playlist.   I am trying to get myself a little bit excited to work.    Cut my teeth on...  There is a possum.  We pull up to the mine. Kyle tells me he is going to walk up to the shed that is their locker room. He will put on his headlamp his boots. And the guys will all gather around and pray. What is the prayer usually like?  We have got a boy named Eric who does it every night - just keep us all safe you know watch out for all the other shifts and let us be safe productive no one get hurt really let us make it all back home to our families.  In the morning - actually most mornings - Kyle gets out of the mine gets into his truck and calls his mom. They only talk for a few minutes just enough time for Kyle to tell her that he made it out OK - again. For Embedded I am Chris Benderev.  And I am Kelly McEvers.  