 The country's biggest e-cigarettes company Juul Labs calls San Francisco home. That has not stopped the city's board of supervisors from taking up a vote tomorrow. It is considering a bill to ban the sale of e-cigarettes. Reporter Laura Klivans of member station KQED has the story.  Fifteen-year-old Abbey Chaitin has lived in San Francisco her whole life. She does not really see the draw of using e-cigarettes which her friends just call vaping.  Because I have noticed how addicted my peers have become to like vaping.  She sits on her bed in her purple room. There is a Breakfast Club poster on the wall and you can see San Francisco's summer fog out her window. She told me the majority of her friends have tried vaping and a few are now hooked.  I will see them in class like fidgeting or - like they need it to focus to function.  Last year one in five high school seniors reported vaping in the past month. That is almost double the number who reported vaping the year before. Even eighth-graders are vaping in record numbers.  We are going to fight hard to stop that.  San Francisco's supervisor Shamann Walton co-authored the new ordinance.  We spent a few decades fighting big tobacco in the form of cigarettes. And now we have to do it again in the form of e-cigarettes.  The proposed law would ban selling e-cigarettes in the city and delivering them to San Francisco addresses. That means you could not even order them online. In California it is illegal for anyone under 21 to buy tobacco products both regular and e-cigarettes. Still Walton says vaping devices are common in the city's middle and high schools. He points out that nicotine no matter how you ingest it can harm a young person's developing brain.  And now we are just trading one nicotine addiction for another.  Juul's vaping device also called a Juul was introduced in 2015. The company now controls 70 of the vaping market. Company officials say they also want to keep e-cigarettes away from young people. They say they have made it harder for underage buyers to purchase Juul off their website and Juul shut down its accounts on Facebook and Instagram. But the company argues banning e-cigarettes will mean adults who want to quit smoking regular cigarettes will have a harder time. San Francisco resident Jay Friedman agrees. The software engineer used to smoke a pack a day for 20 years.  E-cigarettes have really gotten me down to smoking like two or three a day.  Friedman supported a ban on flavored tobacco that city voters passed last year.  I feel like it was a good step to get rid of the fruit flavors for kids but this feels like maybe a step too far.  He says if e-cigarettes are banned he would try to quit nicotine altogether but...  There would be a point and a moment of weakness where I would just end up buying a pack of smokes again. And then it is just a slippery slope from there.  City supervisors worry that for every adult that might benefit dozens of young people could become addicted. Small businesses in San Francisco are concerned the ban will hurt their bottom line.  Hey. How is it going?  Miriam Zouzounis and her family own this convenience store near downtown San Francisco Ted's Market.  When people come and want to purchase something at the store and we do not have that exact item that they want they are not going to buy the rest of the items that they might on that trip - a drink or a sandwich - if we do not have their type of tobacco product.  She says sales from e-cigarettes are at least 200 to 300 a day. And as a board member of the Arab American Grocers Association she believes laws like this mostly affect immigrant-owned businesses. If passed the ban would go into effect early next year. But 15-year-old Abbey Chaitin thinks it will not make much of a difference.  People my age can find a way around that if they really need to.  Meanwhile Juul is collecting signatures for a ballot initiative to override the ban in November. For NPR News I am Laura Klivans in San Francisco.  And this story is part of a reporting partnership with NPR News KQED and Kaiser Health News.  