 The town of Raymond New Hampshire population 10000 is looking for its identity. Raymond's Board of Selectmen has approved a contest to come up with a slogan for the town. The contest is open to anyone in the world and it is the idea of local resident Paul Brown who joins us from New Hampshire. And Paul Brown would you say your town has a bit of an identity crisis? Mr.  I would not call it a crisis but I am a native of Raymond and it is rather coming out of the woods after many years. And yes we are looking for an identity - something that sets us a bit apart so we can entice new business to come to town.  Well what would you say are some of the key defining characteristics of Raymond that might fit into a slogan? Mr.  Well  Where the Manure Hits the Wind Turbine.  Pretty loose rules for this contest. You say that cheating and plagiarism are allowed maybe even encouraged I do not know. Mr.  Yes as a matter of fact we were thinking of plagiarizing the state of Maine's slogan which is Maine life as it should be or something like that. Somehow the word got out and I got a nasty letter from some formal official in Maine and he said that they are going to send in the National Guard.  I see.   Border war. Mr.  Yeah and they have a pretty lousy slogan. But since he you know put up that threat I guess we will probably use it for a week and you know we have our own local militia we can take care of anything that the state of Maine can throw at us.  You are saying bring it on. Mr.  Sure. We have pitchforks.  Mr.  They are old pitchforks but they are pitchforks and they are sharp.  Well for the ultimate winner of your slogan contest what is the prize? Mr.  The prize will be appearance on Oprah we hope.   Does she know that yet? Mr.  She does not know that yet.  You might want to fill her in. Mr.  Well you are helping.  Okay glad to do my part. And if that does not work out is there a backup plan? Mr.  Yes there is a backup plan. The winner will receive a standing ovation from the Raymond Board of Selectmen and an autographed photo of our state Senator Jack Barnes.  Well Paul Brown of Raymond New Hampshire. Thanks very much for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you.  Paul Brown is the originator of the great wide world slogan for Raymond contest. 