 Recordings from the grand jury proceedings in the Breonna Taylor case will be made public on Friday. Last week the grand jury decided after more than two days behind closed doors not to charge the officers who raided Breonna Taylor's apartment with her death. It is highly unusual for recordings to be released but one of the grand jurors filed a motion to make them public. That person has chosen to remain anonymous at this point so we are joined now by Kevin Glogower a Louisville attorney who is representing the grand juror. Welcome.  Good afternoon. Thanks for having me.  What motivated your client to make this request?  The motivation for my client was kind of a dual conviction - a conviction of doing his appropriate service as a grand juror but also doing the right thing as a citizen in our community. Once the charges were released and certain statements were made about how things happened there was some concern that maybe the full truth was not getting out to the public so the individual wanted to explore their rights and ultimately decided to file the motion to get those rights declared by a court.  So far your client is anonymous. Do you expect them to speak out once the public has heard the recording?  Well the recordings are subject to a lot of litigation that is evolving even as of today. There have been additional motions filed. But to answer your question giving up anonymity is something that will be looked at and considered at different points during this process based on what is in the recordings and what rulings we may get on our motion as well.  In a tweet today Attorney General Daniel Cameron said he requested the delay because personal information like phone numbers and addresses of witnesses needs to be removed from more than the 20 hours of recordings. What is your read on the extension request? Are you concerned it could go beyond privacy?  To the extent it is about personal identifiers I think it is appropriate. We certainly respect the rights of every individual in our community and their right to privacy. To the extent it would affect anything that is on the recordings from an evidentiary standpoint or the proceedings themselves outside of those identifiers that would be a tremendous problem.  Yeah. Cameron said in an interview yesterday that his office did not recommend charges for the two officers who fired into Breonna Taylor's home killing her. But he also said that a grand jury is an independent body and quote if they wanted to make an assessment about different charges they could have done that. Did you feel your client had clear direction on the paths that they could take?  Well that is a question that I think will be answered at a later date. But in response to the statement of the attorney general that is - again it is a correct statement of the law that they have the ability to inquire about additional charges. However it does not tell you the rest of the law which is that the prosecutor in charge acts essentially as a legal counsel to the grand jurors and would have to help them through that process. And what we are hearing in these remarks are they are now admitting what they recommended and that they recommended no charges against the other two law enforcement officers. However what we are not hearing is what charges were and were not presented to the grand jury. And we are not hearing whether or not they inquired about any additional charges and if so how that was handled by the attorney general's office. Hopefully all that comes out in time.  Are there other grand jury members you know about who have similar concerns who may also want to come forward?  At this time we do not have any knowledge of any additional grand jurors wishing to come forward.  What are you looking for when you finally get to hear these recordings?  We are looking for truth and transparency and we are looking for accountability and responsibility to be in the places that it is supposed to be. This is the highest law enforcement office in our commonwealth and they should take responsibility for whatever's happening. They should be accountable and they should tell the whole truth to the community at large.  Yes. This grand juror who filed this motion to make them public - do you know as well in your talking with this person what other concerns they have about all of this?  Again the concern is just accountability truth transparency and public trust. If the process cannot be trusted and when there are legitimate questions out there that the public can have answers to but they are not receiving sometimes somebody has to act. And this individual felt compelled to do so based on what was put out there and their concerns that the whole narrative was not getting to the public who is already embroiled in protests and unrest in general because of this case before the ruling came out from the grand jury and even more so now.  That is Louisville attorney Kevin Glogower. Thank you so much for your time.  Thank you. Have a great night. 