 A French dialect that once dominated Missouri's lead mining region is now barely a whisper. Locals call it pawpaw French. It once echoed off the hills of Old Mines a small Ozarks community in the southeastern part of the state. As Jacob McClelland of member station KRCU reports language lovers and locals are now scrambling to preserve what is left of the dialect.  On a sunny late summer afternoon and at a church festival in Old Mines Missouri Kent Bone is walking up to anybody who knows a sliver of French.  .  .  .  Burley bearded guys toss horseshoes while a local band cranks out country tunes. The smell of roasted corn on the cob is everywhere. Beer flows freely. Bone did not grow up speaking pawpaw French. But he listened to his grandparents gossip in the local dialect that is a linguistic bridge melding a Canadian French accent with a Louisiana French vocabulary. As an adult Bone decided to learn it himself.  Now to this day I can walk into my mom's house - she is 82 - and say . And she say what do you want to eat? I say  what is in the ice box? So she can understand almost anything.  That is common. People who are now in their 70s and 80s know some pawpaw French but not enough to be fluent. People - like 78-year-old Cyrilla Boyer - who is lived here her whole life.  My father and mother spoke French very fluently but they did not want us to speak it because they had had such trouble in school.  She says in the 1920s and 1930s teachers would smack student's knuckles for speaking any French in the classroom. The language became stigmatized so parents did not think it was worth passing on. Now only a handful of people speak it and most know only a smattering of words and phrases. The French originally settled Old Mines around 1723 - back when the area was part of upper Louisiana. Floods of workers from Canada and Louisiana came to work the lead mines. The dialect faded in other nearby towns like De Soto and Bonne Terre and Sainte Genevieve a long time ago. Pawpaw French persevered in Old Mines because it is much more remote.   This is an old fiddle tune from Old Mines Missouri. Something called  or Old Man Lucky.  Historian and musician Dennis Stroughmatt is pawpaw French's ambassador to the outside world. He first visited Old Mines back in the 1990s for a class project while a student at Southeast Missouri State University. At the time there were hundreds of pawpaw speakers here. Just like that he was hooked. Stroughmatt says he hung out Old Mines every weekend to learn the dialect and the traditional Missouri Cajun fiddle tunes.  To me it is so natural. It is like eating candy when I speak pawpaw French you know? I guess that is the best way I could say. It is a sweet French to me.  Stroughmatt says pawpaw French named after a local fruit bearing tree has what he calls a big accent.   You know it is like you can hear it. These big kind of like rolling things about it you know? That you know you tip your jaw a little bit you know when you are talking the languages.  Stroughmatt harbors no illusions that pawpaw French will ever be spoken by many more people. But he hopes parts of the language will survive and the kids will learn some phrases - something anything - that will help them retain some identity of Missouri's pawpaw French here in the Ozarks. For NPR News I am Jacob McClelland. 