 Thousands of people came together today in New York at the Memorial Plaza where the twin towers of the World Trade Center once stood.    Oh say can you see...  The ceremony to mark 17 years since September 11 2001 included moments of silence and tolling bells...   ...And the recitation of names of those who died that day.   Diane Hale-McKinzy.  Richard B. Hall.  September 11 still influences our everyday experiences with the increased security checks and protocols that began after that day. And it still influences how the U.S. engages with the rest of the world. Perhaps our best understanding of the 911 attacks and the events leading up to it comes from a commission.   This commission has been charged with a crucial task. To prevent future attacks we must understand the methods of our enemies.  The 911 report came out in 2004. The commission co-chairs were Tom Kean Republican former governor of New Jersey and Lee Hamilton Democratic former congressman of Indiana. The two of them now have a new report sponsored by the U.S. Institute of Peace. It looks at how extremism has evolved in countries with fragile governments in Africa and the Middle East.  The report details how countries including China Russia and Iran are making inroads in those fragile states and why that is leaving the United States in a weaker position.  Governor Tom Kean and Congressman Lee Hamilton welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  The report gives some interesting examples of places where Russia and China have used American absence to step in and become important players in places like Africa. China is Africa's largest single country trade partner and biggest creditor you write. You tell the story of Moscow supplying weapons to Nigeria when the U.S. would not because of human rights concerns.  Yeah that is true. And we also believe that we have got - as rich as we are we are limited in our resources. If we are spending billions on military efforts to try and contain terrorism in Syria we are not spending the same money to help us economically and become influential those areas. We just cannot do both. And this - what we are proposing here which is strengthening these fragile states is an awful lot cheaper than using our troops. And we think it is not only cheaper but it is going to be more successful. So what we are recommending is a whole change in American policy where we recognize that our troops have done a wonderful job and occasion - still we are going to have to use them. But where possible we want to get into these fragile states and give the people some hope.  Does trying to reshape society raise some warning flags? If you are talking about trying to make societies more democratic more liberal more like the United States that sounds like a level of meddling in foreign affairs that would make some people very uncomfortable.  I think that overstates what we are trying to do. We are not trying to engage in nation building. What we are trying to do is to strengthen fragile states. We are not naive about this. We try to be realistic. But what we can do as Tom has emphasized is to try to help vulnerable countries societies better resist extremism. Now how do we do that? The key in a word is to improve governance to reduce corruption to reduce repression because where you have corruption governments that do not meet the needs of their people you have the breeding ground for extremism.  In your view what role has U.S. policy since 911 played in the increasing chaos and extremism that you describe? I mean do you think the U.S. involvement in Iraq Afghanistan Libya Syria Yemen - it is a very long list - has made things better or worse?  Well it depends on the time depends on the country. We have made some mistakes. No question about that. And what we are recommending here is a far different policy and one that does not do things to people but works with people. Countries need to supply infrastructure for their people. People need to get clean water. People need to have all those things that we are used to.  But the U.S. has invested in putting a lot of those things in place in for example Afghanistan and a lot of those things were blown up.  Well that is true. But that is why you got to get -  you got to do it in places that are not already engaged necessarily in war. A lot of these fragile states here are unstable because they do not have a government that works with their own people. We are talking about coming into those areas working with the people helping to establish governments that can serve people's needs. By the way al-Qaida wants to do that now. And we think you can do that better through legitimate government supported by the people.  Sounds like a very oversimplified version of what you are saying is focus on the State Department more than the Pentagon.  Well in a way but look let me give an example of what can happen. As you know the largest Muslim country in the world is Indonesia. When we polled in Muslim countries after 911 we had about a 20 percent popularity in the United States. Eighty percent of the people did not really like us. Well as you remember years ago Indonesia had that tsunami. We sent in a lot of aid. We sent in former President Bush and President Clinton as a team. United States was very visible. After we had done that we had a popularity rating of 70 percent. Seventy percent of the people liked the United States. Now that is a lot cheaper than war.  And at the same time Saudi Arabia's opening a lot of free universities in Indonesia.  They are. They are.  Look you say focus more on the state and DOD. I think what we want to say is that you have to use all the tools of American power. Now we have often turned to the gun quickly but it is not sufficient by itself. What has to be done is to try to build resilient societies. Now that is more of a task for the State Department. So I guess what we are saying is you need both of them. We have done pretty well thus far with the military side of it. We have got to up our game with regard to the diplomatic political economic side of it. But you are going to need all of these tools.  What is your assessment of how the Trump administration is approaching these problems?  Well we have talked to a number of members of the Trump administration to bring them in line with what we are doing so they know that we want to be helpful and get their ideas. And they have been encouraging. Now they are obviously going to sit back and wait till they see what our final report is before they say they are going to jump on board. But the conversations we have had so on - so far have been very constructive. And they have given us some good information some good suggestions some help. And they have encouraged us to keep on going that they like what we are doing. And by the way the same thing is true of the Congress. So we...  But...  We think this may be one of the few things that can bring people together.  But after a year and a half in office the America First policies of the Trump administration do not seem to be implementing the kinds of priorities that you are talking about in this report.  What we are all about is trying to strengthen those elements that clearly exist in this administration and the previous administration who are sympathetic who advocate who are trying to put into effect a preventative strategy. We want to strengthen that and reinforce it. We are not just dealing with one administration. We are dealing with American foreign policy over a period of decades.  Lee Hamilton and Tom Kean were co-chairs of the 911 Commission. Their new report is called  Protecting America From Extremism In Fragile States. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  