 It is the season when a new crop of college freshmen try to find their way around unfamiliar campuses searching for psych 101 or the dining hall. Going away to college requires a big adjustment for students. It is also a time of adjustment for parents as NPR's Richard Gonzales discovered.  We had been warned my wife and I that moving our first-born son Diego to college could be emotionally wrenching especially since he is leaving Oakland for the East Coast. Even so there were emotions we were not prepared for like the surprise we encountered as we drove into the parking lot at Fordham University in the Bronx. The school president Father Joseph McShane is there to greet each family individually. He extends his hand through our open car window.  Where is Oakland?  Oakland... Ms.  Oakland. Fr.  Very good. What high school?  Bishop O'Dowd. Fr.  Very good. We have one or two O'Dowds with us in the upper classes.  Father McShane is a slight charismatic man a Jesuit. He is wearing a white collar and black shirt even in New York's withering heat.  Welcome  all right? Do not lift a thing when you get to the dorm. Our kids will take care of you.  This is our second surprise a small army of upper-class men and women wearing crimson T-shirts that say welcome home are there to carry the gear of every freshman into their dorm.  Everybody. .   They do this every year and Father McShane's eyes sparkle when he says it is more than a greeting for the class of 2014.  Ah the parents. Well we do small things in the hope that the parents feel cared for like refusing to allow them to lift and carry anything at the beginning of the day. And today it is a day of both rejoicing and grieving at the same time because it is not just starting college. It is a change in a whole family dynamic.  Maybe that is why I am noticing there are more than a few parents smiling through their puffy eyes. Ms.  I am Tina Capise mother of Santina Capise.  First child leaving home? Ms.  First child of four lots of tears lot of crying could start now but I will not.   In my day going to college meant cutting the cord but today between texting and Skype the cord has gone cordless and there is no reason to be out of touch. Yet even technology cannot trump the reality that her daughter's leaving the nest says Capise. Ms.  And just try to make the best of it because I think it is going to be hard on her as well. But she is going to have to work through it and 18 I think she is ready got to let them go.  Her daughter Santina sounds just as convincing. Ms.  I am not really excited right now. I am a little  I am afraid. I am nervous. But I think it will be the best decision and the best move in the end.  Some families drop their kids off and leave right away. Just ask Rosanne Pettijean a junior history major helping freshmen get oriented. She says every family has a different way for dealing with this day. Ms.  Some parents really do not want to leave and they try to push it off as much as possible. I have seen a lot of crying. I have seen a lot of the student wants the parents to leave. So they will just start being like Mom Dad it is okay it is okay.  My son Diego fits in this category. It is just a couple of hours before we are required to leave the campus. Time to check in with him. So Diego you will be 3000 miles away. How often do you want to hear from me? Mr.  I have no idea yet.  Maybe I am thinking about this more than he is. Do you think we should set up this Skype thing so that we can see each other face to face? Mr.  Probably not.  So you do not look at this as an ending huh? Mr.  No not at all. I felt like saying goodbye to my friends at home was completely blown out of proportion. There is no reason to get upset about anything.  Brave words I try to remember come the deadline for the parents to leave the campus. But first there is a mass and a blessing from Father McShane. He says these rituals meant to reassure the parents are never enough.  But you are going to cry at the end of the day. I know that. It is going to be a long flight back to Oakland my friends a very long flight. And you' Did you do X Y Z.  We did X Y and Z but I am not sure we did A B and C.  And he is right. I do worry about my college freshman but I try to remind myself that while Diego is my son he is not mine to keep. Richard Gonzales NPR News. 