 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Public defenders are supposed to represent people who cannot afford lawyers. Public defenders have been overworked and underpaid for decades. And in several states the public defender system is in crisis and the recession is making things even worse. NPR's Ailsa Chang went to Michigan for this story.  A lot of lawyers in Detroit say if you want to see what is wrong with this country's public defender system take a look at Bob Slameka. Mr.  Good morning Your Honor. Robert Slameka for Mr. West. Judge I think we are going to attempt to resolve this if we can.  Slameka has gotten into trouble a lot during his 40 years as a public defender but the county is still appointing him to cases. Mr.  But if we do not I think the prosecution is going to ask you for a date other than what you have given us for a trial date.  Records show the state Supreme Court has reprimanded him for misconduct with more than 16 clients mostly for not keeping them informed about their cases and filing papers late. And one of his clients made national headlines in 2002.   In Detroit today a man who actually confessed to raping and killing a teenage girl has been exonerated. Once again the difference between prison and freedom was a DNA test.  Eddie Joe Lloyd spent 17 years in prison for a rape and murder he never committed. Slameka took on Lloyd's appeal. And in the two years he handled the case he never once met with his client or accepted any of his phone calls. The appeal went nowhere. Lloyd did not get out of prison until a national advocacy group took on the case. And you know why Slameka says he could not do more for Lloyd? Because the government does not pay public defenders like him enough money. Mr.  I do not get paid for his long-distance phone calls from Jackson prison. My god these run up - I do not how much money. And you do not get paid for that stuff. Nothing. I did the best I could given what I had. That is all I could do.  Critics say he is right. Slameka might sound extreme but he reflects widespread problems across the country. In New York because there are not enough defenders overworked lawyers tell me they show up for trials ready to tell the judge they have done nothing on the case. In Miami they say the only way they can squeeze in jail visits is if they work every weekend. And here in Detroit public defenders have not seen a raise in more than 30 years. Slameka has to take on 50 clients at a time to earn a living. One former public defender Frank Eaman is now suing the state to get more money for the system. Mr.  I know I have friends who work in that court who break their back trying to defend people to the utmost and doing whatever they can do. They are constantly expressing their frustration to me of how hard it is to do that.  Eaman says here' Public defenders in Detroit do not get paid for some of the most basic things like communicating with their clients. Just like Slameka said they do not get paid for their time making phone calls or for writing letters. And in most cases they only get paid for one jail visit - that is 50 bucks. So when a client's in jail one of the few times Bob Slameka ends up talking to them is just minutes before court appearances. Mr.  Kelly? How are you doing?  When they are in the bullpen like right now it is a cell next to the judge's chambers where they cart defendants over from the county jail. Mr.  We are here today in front of Judge Strong. And then he will make you the same offer again like I said downstairs one to four or go to trial you know. That decision is yours.  Slameka's got silver hair down to his shoulders. He is peering into a small window in a steel door at his client. She is been accused of assaulting a woman with a knife.  So would it be a good idea for me take it to trial or no?  He does not tell her what to do but it is very clear he has little interest in taking this case to trial. Critics like Frank Eaman say a lot of appointed defenders at this point will urge their clients to plead guilty because they are not paid enough to fully prepare for trial. A defender gets 180 bucks for a basic full-day trial. Eaman says that does not even come close to covering trial costs. Mr.  The system does not provide the lawyers with the tools they need to defend their clients. Investigators are very important expert witnesses are very important. You get such a small amount of money that you cannot really find anybody to do the work for you.  Eaman says defenders also do not go to trial that often because they do not have the time. They make so little money per case they have to take on a lot of cases just to stay afloat. Avoiding trial and pleading clients out means more cases. And that' Public defense has become a volume business. Some lawyers take on dozens even hundreds of cases at a time.  All rise. Mr.  Here we go.  First Circuit Court for the county of Wayne is now in session.  Bob Slameka will be in four different courtrooms by the end of today - that is a light day. Slameka says he never leans on his clients to plead guilty but he is not shy about trying to get a case over with. One of his clients wants to claim self-defense after shooting and killing an unarmed man. Slameka thinks they would not have a chance in front of a jury. So he pulls the prosecutor into the hallway when his client is not around. Mr.  Look between you and I we should resolve this case.  Yeah I know. I have tried to Mr.  You just cannot just shoot people on the street.  When I was reading it that is what I was thinking as well. I mean Mr.  You know and he is trying to claim self-defense. I do not think it is viable.  With multiple gunshots at close range like that. Mr.  What is it about five?  Yeah. I mean Mr.  Yeah does not fly. I understand. But he is of a different mind. But I think if we make some kind of reasonable offer we can resolve it.  Well we will do it  Is this justice or commerce? Critics like Eaman the former defender who is now suing the state say public defenders should do everything they possibly can for their clients. The whole system is based on the idea that a lawyer must remain a vigorous advocate. Mr.  Robert Slameka and other lawyers of his type there are too many of them in the court system. There are too many that take shortcuts.  But again the system encourages those shortcuts. One of the judges on the Michigan Court of Appeals says that is the root of the problem. Cynthia Stephens presided over trials in Detroit for more than 20 years. More than 90 percent of all criminal defendants in Wayne County cannot afford their own lawyers. She says the defenders appointed to those people get away with shoddy work.  I have seen some appellate briefs that have worried me. They seem like they came out of a can. I mean so much so that they are citing a principle of law that probably had to do with the last two cases but does not fit in this one.  Stephens says what worries her most are not the lawyers getting F grades. Those lawyers are so incompetent they get caught. She is more worried about the mediocre lawyers - the ones she says get Cs and Ds. And that is another problem with the public defender system. The state will slap lawyers on the wrist but will allow them to keep representing some of the most vulnerable members of society. Ms.  I would not let a public defender defend anyone in my family ever again - ever ever again.  Ruth Harlin is Eddie Joe Lloyd's sister. Remember him? Bob Slameka lost his appeal even though it turned out years later he was innocent. If someone close to Harlin needed a defense lawyer now she says she would do whatever it took to pay for a lawyer. Ms.  I would mortgage the house.  Slameka still has a full book of business today. Meanwhile Harlin's life has been turned upside down. When her brother lost his appeal he filed a complaint with the state. He told them Slameka never gave him the time of day. Harlin still has a copy of Slameka's rebuttal. Ms.  This is a handwritten note from attorney Slameka.  As she reads Slameka's words her hands shake. Ms.  This is a sick individual who raped kidnapped and strangled a young woman on her way to school. His claim of my wrongdoing is frivolous just as is his existence. Both should be terminated.  I asked Slameka did you really think your own client should be executed? Mr.  That is exactly what I wrote. That is exactly how I felt. You know something? Because of people's actions a lot of people do not deserve to live. Okay? You take people's lives  I am not saying eye for an eye okay? I am not going there. But because of the nature of your behavior sometimes maybe you do not deserve to live on this earth.  I reminded Slameka that Lloyd never actually killed anyone. He brushed that off. He said he did not have DNA evidence at the time and criminal defense is a very different job now. Well except for a few things. Crushing caseloads and skimpy pay have strained public defenders for more than 40 years. And year after year here in Detroit prosecutors get twice the funding defenders do. Ailsa Chang NPR News. 