 When the SugarHouse Casino opens in Philadelphia next week it will join a growing list of places on the East Coast where you can play blackjack and poker. This casino boom is running into an unexpected obstacle though - a shortage of qualified dealers. Reporter Joel Rose tried his luck at a college in Bethlehem Pennsylvania that is training dealers to meet the demand.  The dealer training program at Northampton Community College does not look like anything I remember from school. The classroom is more like the pit of a casino with felt-covered tables for poker roulette and blackjack. Mr.  Here we have a game of blackjack and the equipment that is used and needed to deal the game of blackjack.   how to handle the chips and how to shuffle the cards correctly.  Mr.  That is a nice gentle riffle. If I hear this then I know you are not doing it correctly. This is wrong listen.  Mr.  Too loud. That means you are bending them too much. You gently let them fall into each other.  Mr.  Very gently push in the corners. Try that. I will be around. I am going to another table.  Turns out most casual gamblers shuffle the wrong way showing the bottom card to other players. Let me see your shuffle here. Mr.  My shuffling? Oh my god.  Kevin Ashner of Bethlehem Pennsylvania is looking to change careers. Ashner spent 35 years in manufacturing until the sheet metal factory where he worked shut down nine months ago. Mr.  I am really bad at gambling. So I thought well if I cannot win the money maybe I will deal the cards.  And how is it going for you? Mr.  So far so good. There is a lot to learn actually. It is not as easy as it looks. And like anything else you got to practice practice practice.  Ashner is one of 180 students enrolled in the program. And he is a bit of an exception. Many of the students are still looking for a first career. And most already feel at home in casinos having spent many hours on the customer side of the table. Mr.  Like that split them apart.   Tyler Baltz is a bartender from Nazareth Pennsylvania. Mr.  I feel like I have always had a passion for this. I have gone to many casinos seen how it all goes down. And now I am here and hopefully I can get a job getting out of these classes and start what I want to do.  Baltz and his classmates are expecting to earn about 40000 a year plus benefits. The overall unemployment rate in Pennsylvania is a little over 9 percent. But for these students the odds look pretty good. Mr.  As long as they take these classes seriously they get the skills I think they will see employment because the jobs are there.  David Schweiger directs the hospitality program at Northampton Community College which works closely with Mount Airy Casino and Sands Bethlehem both in eastern Pennsylvania. Schweiger says casinos statewide have been scrambling to hire enough dealers since table games were legalized over the summer. Mr.  There is nine casinos now. The 10th is about ready to open. And all 10 of them have employment opportunities.   Workers at the SugarHouse Casino in Philadelphia apply the final touches before the scheduled opening on Thursday. With so many casinos on the East Coast now offering table games some industry observers predict a shortage of gamblers. But SugarHouse general manager Wendy Hamilton says she is not worried. Ms.  A good 50 or more percent of the business in Atlantic City has for 30 years come from the Delaware Valley. So I do not think that the Philadelphia region is anywhere near saturation.  Hamilton says SugarHouse has trained and hired 160 dealers - enough to staff 40 games. Though she is going to wait and see how things go before adding any more. For NPR News I am Joel Rose in Philadelphia. 