 Army Major Jason Wright joined the U.S. military in 2005. He served 15 months in Iraq during the surge and has worked as a judge advocate general. In 2011 the military appointed him to the defense team for one of the highest profile defendants in the world - Khalid Sheikh Mohammed the self-proclaimed mastermind behind the 9-11 attacks. Mohammed is facing a military commission at Guantanamo Bay. If convicted he could be executed. This past week Major Wright resigned from the army and left the defense team. The army pulled him off the Mohammed case in order to complete a required graduate course - more on that in a moment. But when I spoke to Wright this week I asked him how he could effectively represent a client like Mohammed and if it is possible gain his trust.  Well I think it is hard to gain any client's trust but if you add on the complexities when it comes to the so-called high-value detainees - now there is six high-value detainees who are currently being prosecuted for death penalty offenses. All six of these men have been tortured by the U.S. government. Now with respect to Mr. Mohammed you are looking at a level of torture that is just beyond comprehension. He was water-boarded by the CIA 183 times. He was subjected to over a week of sleep deprivation. There were threats to kill his family. And those were just the declassified facts that I am able to actually speak about. When you show up several years later and you say I am from the U.S. government and I am here to help you you add on the complicity that I wear the same uniform as the guards. So it is very challenging in any situation to develop a trusting confidence with the client but when you add on that torture paradigm it is all the more difficult.  And when it comes to the detainee abuse that you are talking about which the defense has made fairly central in the preceding you are sort of restrained in how you can talk about that in court right?  We are. We are. I read an interesting article today by Laura Pitter.  From Human Rights Watch.  Human Rights Watch - and she wrote it in Foreign Policy. And it was an interesting phrase - that the entire military commissions process has been affected by the original sin. And the original sin being the fact that the CIA tortured these men and that they have gone to extraordinary lengths to try to keep that completely hidden from public view. So the statute that Congress passed has a number of protections to ensure that no information about the U.S. total torture program will ever come out. You out onto that how the commissions have actually operated in practice and there are a number of constraints that have been applied upon the defense and the defense teams throughout this process. We have allegations that have been established that there were listening devices in our attorney-client meeting rooms. There were disguised smoke detectors that were in fact listening devices. You have the FBI as of spring this year trying to infiltrate in one of our defense teams. So not only do you have a statutory design but you actually have in practice a very large effort to try to ensure that no information about torture is ever made known in public. So it really has been an original sin that has affected the entire course of the proceedings.  And as you say there is been a whole laundry list of complaints from the defense - the defense teams for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and the codefendants. What is been the hardest part of that for you as a defense lawyer to deal with?  I think the hardest part to deal with is just knowing that the U.S. government is trying to call this a fair trial while stacking the deck so much against the defense and the accused that it can hardly be called a fair trial in any system in the world. But I think if we take a step back and think about the larger strategic implications of this - is that the U.S. is giving a license for the rest of the world to torture. They are giving a license to other countries to set up secret military courts outside of public review and outside of due process. Leave aside our constitutional principles which we should try to uphold irrespective of who the defendant may be. And the Constitution has been completely stepped on throughout this entire process. That is a separate and distinct issue of how the U.S. now has shown just abhorrent leadership when it comes to actually following essential fundamental human rights and due process guarantees.  Well what you have described sounds kind of like a show trial.  I think that is a fair description. And at the end of the day if there is a trial for the 9-11 codefendants the U.S. government has essentially stated that under no circumstances would they actually be released. So in other words if there was a not guilty verdict the U.S. government still would not release them. Contrast this with Nuremberg where Justice Jackson the chief prosecutor at the time was asked that question. He said absolutely. If these Nazi war criminals are acquitted they will be set free. We have a system where if someone's acquitted they will not be set free. That is actually the very definition of a show trial.  Jason how did you find out you were being taken off of this case?  Well I am a judge advocate and I have been in the Army now for nine years. Or at least I was in the Army for nine years. Whenever a judge advocate in the Army is promoted from captain to major they have to attend a one-year graduate course. Now this graduate course can be deferred for operational or personal reasons. And according to policy there is no limit to the number of deferrals that you can request and receive. So I came out on the list to attend the graduate course last year. And I requested a deferral for one year and that was granted. I came out on the list again this year and again I requested a deferral. And this time it was denied without explanation. So really I only had two choices. I could either accept and voluntarily leave my own self from the case and my obligations to my client or I could refuse the orders. And in this instance I decided that it would be an ethical violation for me to voluntarily abandon a capitally charged client in active litigation so I declined the orders. I refused the orders. And when you refuse the orders you have to resign from the Army.  How is your departure going to affect the Khalid Sheikh Mohammed defense?  Well I believe it is going to be very disrupting. Here you have government attorneys who tell a defendant I am your attorney. I am here to help you and I am going to be here till the end. And halfway through this process the U.S. government - the same government that tortures you the same government that is trying to kill you the same government that provides the public defender - now gets to control when defense attorneys come and go. So I think it is going to have a demonstrable effect on the outcome at the very least of the defense team for Mr. Mohammed and perhaps the other codefendants as well to know that the U.S. government is to continue to control all aspects of their lives even their own defense for their very own lives.  Former army major Jason Wright. We asked the Pentagon to comment on Wright's interview with us. A spokesman for the army told us that quote the judge advocate general denied the second deferral request because a suitable and competent military defense attorney replacement was available. Major Wright was not the leader sole council. And it ensured Major Wright remain professionally competent and competitive for promotion unquote. A spokesman for the military commissions also disputes Major Wright's characterization of the commission saying quote the prosecution has never listened to a single attorney-client communication and no entity of the U.S. government is listening to monitoring or recording attorney-client communications at the detention facility in Guantanamo Bay unquote. There are ongoing investigations into allegations that the FBI attempted to turn a member of a detainee's legal team into a confidential informant. The government also disputes Wright's claim that the proceedings amount to a show trial saying quote the ongoing detention of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is fully consistent with the law of armed conflict and that detention is reviewable by petition for habeas corpus in United States federal civilian court unquote. They also point to the convicted detainees who have served out their sentences and returned to their home countries. You can read the full statements from the military on our website npr.org. 