 Well if that was not disgusting enough after almost a year of careful research and study today an advisory board in New York City issued a comprehensive report on bed bugs.  Yuck just the words are enough to get most people scratching.   The tiny apple-seed-sized insects hide in mattresses and come out at night to bite. Bed bugs were virtually eliminated in the years after World War II. Now they are back - back like crazy. They have been spreading at alarming rates not just in New York City but across the country.  San Antonio Baltimore Phoenix Des Moines are just some of the cities that have recently reported infestations. In fact bed bugs have become so ubiquitous they even have their own show.  Mr.  Welcome everybody to our most recent episode of Bed Bug Central TV. I am your host Jeff White. And what we' What do I do if I think I have bed bugs?  Pest-control companies in some areas say they are overwhelmed with requests for service calls. The outbreaks have caught the attention of public health officials and of politicians especially in New York City - which has become it seems the capital of bed bugs.  There have been outbreaks in luxury hotels fancy retail outlets upscale apartment buildings and even theaters. So today the city announced a battle plan.    Drop dead.  That is New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn. Now as cities go New York is no stranger to pests. Various rodents inhabit the subways and the city has bred a champion population of cockroaches. But Christine Quinn notes bed bugs are different.  They are in your homes. Most of the rat and mice problems we have are not in people's homes - though some are but most are not.  New Yorkers says Quinn  Call your super. And most landlords know how to deal with those types of vermin. But bed bugs?  Since we have not had bed bugs in decades in New York City it is a new pest on the scene.  And to combat this new pest on the scene the board recommends a heavy dose of public education including a bed bug website.  Where they will get all of their bed bug questions answered.  And where they' Health officials say the bed bugs can make you itchy and possibly embarrassed but unlike rats or mosquitoes they are not known to spread blood-borne diseases. 