 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. It has been a landmark day in the debate over torture. This morning the White House announced the creation of a special team of interrogators to gather information from the most sensitive terrorism suspects. We will hear more about that team in a moment. But first Attorney General Eric Holder announced this afternoon that a prosecutor will investigate whether CIA interrogators broke anti-torture laws. The appointment of John Durham came as the Justice Department released hundreds of pages documenting some of the worst cases of detainee abuse from the Bush administration. NPR's Ari Shapiro joins us now. And Ari first tell us more about this prosecutor John Durham who has been named to investigate these interrogations.  Well he is a federal prosecutor from Connecticut and he is already working on a related investigation. Since the end of the Bush administration he has been looking into the CIA's destruction of videotapes depicting harsh interrogations. Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey assigned him that task. And now he will be looking at the interrogations themselves - or some of them anyway - particular detainees who are interrogated at particular overseas locations by CIA interrogators and contractors. Attorney General Holder called this a preliminary review. He said this will determine whether a full investigation is warranted. If a full investigation is warranted that could possibly lead to criminal charges down the road. Justice lawyers in the previous administration reviewed these same facts and reached a different conclusion. They thought there was no prosecution necessary but Attorney General Holder disagreed.  And as you mentioned Ari the naming of this prosecutor John Durham comes on the same day as the Justice Department released a lot of documents about detainee abuse during interrogations.  Right. The biggest one is this inspector general report on torture that was finished in 2004 but has been classified until now. Just today that report was released. And it is one of the things that prompted the attorney general to conclude that an investigation of torture was necessary. Parts of the report are still redacted but there are many new descriptions of abuse incidents that we did not know about. For example there is one case where a mock execution was staged in the room adjoining an interrogation room. According to this report a gun was fired and somebody who was hooded and made to look like a dead detainee was carried past the detainee who was being interrogated. In another case the detainee was threatened with a gun and a power drill. One detainee was told that interrogators would kill his children. Another one was told that his mother could be sexually abused. Those are some of the specific incidents that John Durham this prosecutor named today is going to look into.  And what have we heard today from the White House?  Well a White House spokesman said this is the attorney general's decision whether to appoint a prosecutor or not. He said President Obama wants to look forward not backward. Attorney General Holder said he shares that view about looking forward but he said given all the information available he said the investigation was the only responsible course of action for him to take. CIA Director Leon Panetta sent a letter to all agency employees this morning. Panetta called the story of abuses an old story. He said people have been disciplined for abuses and he promised to stand up for those officers who did what their country asked and who followed the legal guidance they were given. Of course this investigation is looking into those who did not follow the legal advice they were given and who went beyond even the harshest techniques that were authorized by the Justice Department.  And I gather that the Justice Department is also going to be releasing hundreds of pages - more documents related to torture. What is coming there?  Yeah. We are not done yet. So in addition to this inspector general report that came out today there are many other Freedom of Information Act lawsuits - from organizations ranging from the ACLU to Amnesty International and other human rights groups. Well the Justice Department decided to respond to all of those lawsuits in one day. And so they are releasing documents ranging from those that former Vice President Dick Cheney asked for that may show what kind of information was gleamed from harsh interrogations. And we will see what the rest of the pile contains. I am told that is hundreds and hundreds of pages.  Okay. NPR's Ari Shapiro thank you very much.  You are welcome. 