 As we just heard one of the options that Governor DeWine is considering is what is known as a red flag law. These laws temporarily prevent people who may be a harm to themselves or others from accessing firearms. For more on how the laws have played out in states that already have them we are joined by reporter Leigh Paterson of member station KUNC in northern Colorado. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So far these laws have only been passed to the state and local level. How widespread are they?  Yeah. So at our most recent count 17 states plus the District of Columbia have some sort of red flag law or extreme risk law on the books. Many of these laws are fairly new and were passed after the school shooting in Parkland Fla. last year. The state of Florida has one. Here in Colorado the governor signed an extreme risk bill into law this past legislative session after months and months of contentious debate. And there are more states that are considering them. Pennsylvania Michigan North Carolina - all have some sort of red flag law proposed in their legislature - red flag bill rather.  Explain why the debate was so contentious. I mean what is the objection that people have to these laws?  Well the biggest criticism is that red flag laws are unconstitutional. People say that they violate the Second Amendment essentially because they limit access to guns. Here in Colorado there is a state level gun group called Rocky Mountain Gun Owners and it calls the state's red flag law a gun confiscation scheme. They have been on Facebook Live recently talking about all of this. There are also concerns that malicious or untrue claims against people could be taken seriously and that red flag laws infringe on due process rights.  Oh so like I have a vendetta against an ex. I say this person should not be owning guns and suddenly their guns get confiscated even though I might just have a personal vendetta and they have not really done anything wrong.  Right right right. That is exactly it. And that is because this initial order is done in a way that is called an ex parte order. And that means that the subject the person whose guns could get taken away is not actually present at that first hearing when the judge is deciding what to do. But I would note that this is not entirely unusual. Restraining orders for example are often issued ex parte.  In states and cities that have passed these laws how effective have they been? Have - can you tell if they have actually reduced gun violence?  So we can look at Connecticut. Connecticut has had one of these laws on the books since 1999. It was actually put in place after a workplace shooting at the Connecticut Lottery. A worker killed four people and then killed himself. So since then state records show that the measure has been used in all kinds of situations from violent threats against school officials against co-workers against intimate partners but especially in cases of self-harm. So the first 10 years that the law was in place in over half of the cases the complaint had to do with suicide risk.  Oh interesting.  We could also look at Florida. Florida's red flag law in the short time it is been in place it is also been used frequently when people are saying they are going to hurt themselves. But overall because in most states this law is fairly new and data is still being gathered it is just - it is really too soon to know with any certainty whether or not they work which is not to say that red flag laws cannot be used to prevent mass shootings. They are just more often used in suicide prevention which makes sense - right? - because suicide is a much more common type of gun violence.  Yeah. We have been talking about state red flag laws. What would a federal law look like?  Senator Lindsey Graham who says he is planning to introduce bipartisan legislation he described sort of what he has in mind in a statement earlier this week. A federal red flag law would basically be a grant program that would assist states in implementing their own red flag laws. That money would go to law enforcement. Law enforcement would then hire mental health professionals to work with them to help them navigate situations where a red flag law might be used. Now Graham along with Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal who is a Democrat they have worked on similar proposals in the past. And just this past spring Graham did hold a hearing on red flag laws.   I am a big fan of the Second Amendment. I own firearms and I try to be responsible in my ownership. But at the same time every right has limits.  This is also the kind of legislation that a number of Democratic presidential candidates have said they support.  That is Leigh Paterson of member station KUNC in Colorado. Thanks a lot.  Thank you.  And this story comes to us from Guns  America a public media reporting project focused on the role of guns in American life. And please remember if you or someone you know is considering suicide help is available at the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 1-800-273-8255. 