 NPR's Brian Naylor took a ride in Washington D.C. to see how some of that money has been spent.  Fifteenth and K Street is as busy a street corner as you will find in Washington. Buses trucks cars and taxis zip by. And there are pedestrians and increasingly bikes. I rode one alongside Andy Clarke president of the League of American Bicyclists.  You good?  With a microphone in my hand we cycled up 15th Street in bike lanes sectioned off from the other traffic.  If we were in Portland or Amsterdam there would be - we would have our own set of traffic signals. And there would be a little more space here. But you know these are early days and we are not Amsterdam yet. We do not have quite that many cyclists but it is certainly noticeable the increase in the last year or two as the infrastructure has gone in.  It is kind of a departure from the notion that streets are solely for cars that is always been sort of the norm in...  Yeah.  ...most of America.  Well we see it as actually opening up the street to a lot more users. And I think one of the things that were so challenging about the issue in Congress last week was that you know at a time when cities across the country are doing this and they are choosing to invest not only federal and state money but their own money in this kind of improvement it seems just bizarre to be stopping it and discouraging it when it is got so many benefits.  Republican Senator Tom Coburn tried to strip the program from a temporary highway bill last week. His GOP colleague Rand Paul of Kentucky joined him in speaking out against bike trails.  Look I am a bicyclist and I like bike paths as much as anybody. But when bridges are falling into the river when a major metropolitan area like Louisville Kentucky has one-third of their bridge capacity closed down because the bridge is dangerous to travel on - these are emergency problems.  David Goldberg of the advocacy group Transportation For America calls this a watershed moment as communities revert to a earlier time when roads were not owned by cars.  We stripped it down to be essentially sewers for cars. And for years we just thought through-put of vehicles was the be all and end all. And there is been a significant change in recent years where cities towns large and small are taking a very different approach and they are going back and reclaiming a little bit of that landscape.  Its not just bike lanes that are funded by the transportation enhancements program. Pedestrian improvements such as sidewalks and better marked crosswalks are also funded. In part Goldberg says the money is being spent to reduce pedestrian deaths most of which occur on roads built to earlier federal guidelines without proper crosswalks for example that are unsafe for pedestrians and other users.  This is a national issue of having created safety problems in community after community where we need to go back and give people safe ways to get out there to be active to get where they need to go. And this is not a frill. This is a very critical piece of our infrastructure.  Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 