 We often hear about gentrifying neighborhoods. It is less common to hear of an entire city gentrifying all at once. That is what is happening in Inglewood Calif. a city in southwest Los Angeles County. Anna Scott of member station KCRW reports.  If you have never been to Inglewood there is a good chance you have heard of it. In the '80s and '90s it was known for high crime and gang violence. That was never the full picture. But these days the city's name is more synonymous with real estate development. Inglewood gentrification is even a storyline on the HBO comedy Insecure. Several large projects are under construction including a billion-dollar NFL stadium scheduled to open next summer.   But you cannot see that yet on Market Street a commercial strip lined with mom and pop shops selling clothes beauty supplies school uniforms - and some empty storefronts.  I am excited about businesses coming back to the city.  Monique Washington is standing outside a coffee shop.  But it is changing very rapidly. You are out-pricing a lot of people. Where do they go?  On top of all the new development. Inglewood sits about five miles in from LA's Silicon Beach home to tens of thousands of tech jobs. Real estate investors have bought up apartment buildings here in recent years and in many cases raised rents.  This time last year I was paying 1550.  A retired teacher who introduced herself as Dorcas Green-Egay  was one of dozens who spoke at an Inglewood City Council meeting in June.  And for May and June I was expected to pay 2000. No one in my building can afford that.  Stories like this led city officials to pass Inglewood's first ever rent control measure. One of the activists who pushed for the ordinance Tiffany Wallace says new investment threatens many longtime residents.  It is a city that is majority black and brown people. It is median income - it is below the median income of Los Angeles. And we do not want to see displacement happen just because there is development that is in the community.  Adding to the squeeze Inglewood is one of few largely African American communities left in the region. In the past 20 years LA County's black population has dropped from about 10 to 9.  So it is like the city is being beautified but it is not being beautified for us.  I just purchased a 2019 Suzuki Hayabusa - Ferrari of the bikes.  Patrick Hutchinson is showing off his new motorcycle outside his condo on a tree-lined Inglewood street. He is a longtime resident happy about the changes. He and his wife bought their condo out of foreclosure for 80000.  My mortgage is 800 a month which I love.  That is unusual. Two years ago the median home sale price in Inglewood was about 435000 according to the website Zillow. Now it is around 520000. Hutchinson is counting on it going even higher.  My plan is to go ahead and stay here for a couple of years and then we are going to buy a house in Nevada rent this condo out. And yes that is my retirement plan.  Inglewood can benefit from new investment and protect low-income renters argues Mayor James Butts. He points to policies like a local hiring requirement to build the new NFL stadium.  There are more people working in Inglewood today than any time in the last 40 years.  When you look around the country at other cities do you see any that are a good model of striking that balance?  There is no city in the country that has transitioned from a brand of unemployment poverty high crime to where Inglewood has transitioned in just four years. So there is no template.  Butts wants his city to be the model. For NPR News I am Anna Scott in Los Angeles. 