 The state fair. Whether you are in Maine or Michigan it is the place to see prize-winning tomatoes and zucchini that weigh more than the kids who grew them. Well this year the Oregon State Fair is introducing a new crop - marijuana. From Salem Ore. Deena Prichep reports.  State fairs have their own smell a mix of hot oil from the curly fries and that unmistakable livestock tent.   But here at Oregon State Fair one exhibit has a particularly distinctive funk.  It was this year that the state legislature designated cannabis as a farm crop. And the general public should know what it is all about.  Don Morse is the head of the Oregon Cannabis Business Council. And the tent - which has a strong piney somewhat skunky smell - features nine prize-winning marijuana plants. They are the first live pot plants that have ever been shown at a state fair.  The judges used a number of criteria - spatial noding leaf structure aroma.  To be clear the judges did not actually sample the finished product. And the health and appearance of the plants do not necessarily translate to their potency or how much of the psychoactive compounds are in the end result. But still there is some glory to be had.  We have never shown anything at a state fair. It would be like my husband's dream to be able to show some of our cattle or his pigs or stuff. It is a pretty big deal for us .  Grower Mandy Seybert's livestock is back at the farm but her cannabis plant took second place for the Indica variety. She is been fielding questions in the tent all day.  Basically just like what strains are these or I have never seen a plant up front or oh my plants look way better than this. You know that type of stuff .  Since a 2014 vote legalized recreational pot in Oregon cannabis has become big business - setting up farms opening dispensaries and taking in taxes. So while this is the first time cannabis plants have been at a state fair for Oregonians it is not shocking. It is a photo op.  It was definitely number one on our list. I mean it is a lot better than corn dogs.  Garvin Reiter like everyone else in the tent is just sort of amused.  It is not really much of a surprise honestly to see it at the state fair because it is everywhere. Plus you can just go down to the store and buy it if you want some.  Like the stores the state fair tent has people checking IDs to make sure visitors are over 21. But folks like Reiter are clearly having a bit more fun than they would at the corner shop.  You know it is up there with the prize-winning turnips so that part you really got to love.  Well not quite. These plants are at the state fair but they are not next to the turnips. The cannabis tent is not a pavilion with commercial vendors people trying to win you over on new cleaning products and exotic pets. Don Morse with the Oregon Cannabis Business Council would love to see cannabis in the agricultural tent just like any other Oregon crop.  Not only are we gaining the trust of the board of directors of the state fair but we are gaining the trust of the public. My goal today is to have someone walk through that is never seen it or heard you know how it is made or grown or anything like that and say I do not see what the big deal is.  And based on this year's state fair crowd Oregon cannabis growers are well on their way to meeting that goal. For NPR News I am Deena Prichep in Salem Ore. 