 COVID-19 cases are now rising in nearly every state but few states are seeing as steep of a climb as Idaho is seeing right now. Idaho's daily case rate is five times higher than it was just a month ago. But the state has stuck to its final stage of reopening with indoor dining still allowed and bars and nightclubs still open in many parts of the state. Here to discuss how the state is responding to the pandemic is Idaho's Republican Gov. Brad Little. Welcome.  It is nice to be on Ailsa.  So as we have just said Idaho's spike is not showing any signs of slowing down. At what point - let me ask you - might you consider scaling back your statewide reopening just as Texas for example has done?  Well statewide I have still got counties where there is zero positivity. I have got some counties where there is not one confirmed case. But the area of the hot spot is Ada County where Boise is. And they have dialed back nightclubs bars large events. And other health districts and other communities are also doing the same. So we basically laddered up to a four-stage plan and we are stuck in stage four because our numbers are not great. They are not what we would like.  But you are not in any way planning to scale back the statewide reopening. You are going to do it county by county.  No it will be - well it can be by city or - with - under state law it can be by city or health district. We have seven health districts in the state and one of the health districts has already done that. Two other health districts are having serious considerations about it right now. And they have set in protocols that if positivity numbers get to a certain percent then they will go like a lot of other states from green to orange to red. Obviously red means they have got to do something because it is all about preserving critical health care capacity.  Well let us talk about that capacity. Hospitalizations have doubled in the last two weeks and hospital leaders in your state are saying they are really concerned about not having enough staff. So are you concerned about hospital capacity now and the possibility that you may have to send patients out of state like Arizona has for example?  We do not believe that is going to be the case. Our hospital capacity in the one area where we have already dialed it back is one of the most critical areas. We do not believe there is - you know on the horizon there is any need to send people out of state. And in fact some of our numbers have started to come down - just the recent numbers the last couple days.  Well let us turn to the issue of masks. One thing that hospital officials in Idaho are saying is that a statewide mask mandate would be helpful. They have asked you to implement one. Will you?  I have said never say never and never say always. But the mask mandates have been on a regional basis so far and we are hopeful...  And why is that? Why not do a statewide mandate?  Well if you are in a county with zero positives and zero cases why would you do that? At some point in time you may need to do that. I am a little worried about mask fatigue particularly if you are in an area where there is no cases.  Well the virus does not stop at county boundaries. I mean three dozen Idaho counties are seeing community spread so it is hard to say that the virus will definitely be contained in certain counties and not in others.  Well some of the spread - some of the statistics are we got a 50 increase 'ecause we had one case and now we have two. And it depends upon those cases. Is it somebody that came from somewhere else? We have done the tracing. They are self-isolating - is totally different than any instance to where we do not know where it is coming from.  Let us turn to schools now. I mean if cases continue to rise at the rate that they are rising now in your state will you rethink your plan to reopen schools this fall?  It will be exactly the same. It will be a regional basis. If we have got areas - we just - the state board of education sent out guidance to local school districts that if we want kids back in school this fall - but if we have a significant increase if we are worried about critical health care capacity it will be you know an increase in - whether it is part online part off or you know our last result would be that everybody's online. That is not our preferred because you know the students that are fortunate enough to have parents at home have tutors whatever...  Right.  ...That is one thing. But these kids that are behind - that is - we have got a constitutional obligation to help them. We want those kids in class.  That is Republican Gov. Brad Little of Idaho. Thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you. 