 In San Diego the Navy is still working to put out a fire that started on board the USS Bonhomme Richard more than 24 hours ago. Nearly 60 sailors and civilians have been taken to the hospital for minor injuries. Matt Hoffman from member station KPBS reports the Navy does not know yet if the ship can be saved.  The Navy says the fire started below deck in an area where Marine equipment is stored. All of USS Bonhomme Richard's crews have been accounted for. Since Sunday morning thick smoke has been pouring over Naval Base San Diego. Rear Adm. Philip Sobeck says there will not be a complete damage assessment until the fire is out.  The superstructure and the upper decks continue to burn and have sustained damage. The forward mast has collapsed and the ship is listing. However dewatering is in progress and we are keeping a good balance between both .  Crews on the ground on San Diego Bay and now in the air using helicopters are hitting the ship with water.  For the last 24 hours 400 sailors have been on board that ship to make sure that we make every effort to save that ship.  San Diego County officials are telling residents to assume the air quality near the ship is unhealthy to limit their exposure and to stay indoors. Sobeck says no ordinance or aircraft are on the amphibious assault ship but there is a million gallons of fuel which is worrisome for officials.  Absolutely a concern - but again we are doing the mitigation and we are making sure that again the risk of that is low.  Right now Navy officials say there are about two decks in between the fire and the fuel something Sobeck says they are closely monitoring.  We go after and we plan for worst case all the time. We train to it and we are going to make sure we do not get there.  The Navy still does not know how the fire started. The ship was at Naval Base San Diego for maintenance. But Sobeck says the fire was not sparked by any crews doing work. Flames have spread throughout the ship and there is not a timeline for when the fire could be out. For NPR News I am Matt Hoffman in San Diego. 