 Starting today 40 million criminal charges in Pennsylvania will be eligible to be automatically sealed. Other states allow record sealing. They do it to help people with criminal records get jobs and housing but the process can be tedious and expensive. The goal in Pennsylvania is to make it relatively painless. WHYY's Aaron Moselle explains how this one-of-a-kind process will work.  Pennsylvania's new Clean Slate law applies to people with three kinds of criminal records. One is if you were arrested and charged but never convicted of a crime. The next is nonviolent misdemeanor convictions charges like shoplifting and prostitution. The third category is summary offenses like harassment and disorderly conduct. When Clean Slate took effect in December residents with these kinds of records needed to hire a lawyer to get them sealed.  You would prepare a petition file it. You would wait for a court date.  Sharon Dietrich is a lead attorney at Community Legal Services the nonprofit that helped craft the law.  A DA would have to look at it. A judge would have to look at it. If the petition was granted then a clerk would have to enter information and on and on.  Dietrich says that process changes today.  It is the first day in the history of the United States that records will be sealed by automation. And it is quite possible that that first week more cases will be sealed by automation than have ever been sealed in the entire history of the United States.  That is because automatic sealing is faster. Dietrich says that means eligible residents can get a second chance sooner whether it is applying for the better-paying job they could not get before or the apartment they could not rent.  Once this is done I just feel like a weight will be lifted off my shoulders.  Nichole is in her early 30s and lives in West Philly. We have agreed to withhold her last name to protect her privacy. Her record includes a string of arrests so old she says she cannot remember most of the details. She knows one of them was for shoplifting about 15 years ago. Nichole says she had just lost her job to downsizing and she did not have enough money for food. So she headed to a convenience store.  I walked into a Wawa because I was hungry and I started eating.  She spent a couple nights in jail. The case was later dismissed due to lack of evidence but the arrest remained on her record just like the other ones she racked up over the next two years. Her record meant she could not fulfill her dream of becoming a detective with the Philadelphia Police Department. That hurt but she says the real punch was to her self-esteem. She felt like a second-class citizen.  Even though we do not have castes and like social classes we really do . So I think that knowing that my background will be sealed and like the record closed is just like looking through a lens and it is like going to become clearer.  Nichole will be one of the first Pennsylvania residents to have their criminal records automatically sealed. Court administrators expect it to take a year to seal the state's stockpile of eligible criminal records but more will qualify each month. For NPR News I am Aaron Moselle in Philadelphia.  