 Civil liberties advocates enjoyed a win with new legislation curbing limits on the NSA's bulk phone records collection program. But the new law does not really do much to change the spy agency's Internet surveillance programs. Edward Snowden's leaks revealed NSA systems for going after email chats videos and more from the biggest tech companies including Google Facebook Microsoft and Skype. Now laws that allow for this include a presidential directive the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act. Senator Patrick Leahy is here to talk more. He is been pushing for some changes. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Now when it comes to phone data we have been told that the NSA was sweeping for metadata right? Who made what call when not the content - not listening to the content of the calls. From what you know do current NSA Internet surveillance programs show them the content of our Internet communications?  They have the ability to do that if they want but thing is at a time when Americans have more and more matters on the Internet most Americans want a sense of privacy. A lot of us do not realize how much of our privacy we are exposing by the internet. We want to update a law that was passed a generation ago. Otherwise you are going to have a case where no matter whether the NSA or anybody else does it you are not going to have the laws that are going to match our expectation of privacy with the computers the email the way we do business today.  So is your concern how much data could be potentially swept up or is it the issue of collecting and holding on to it?  Well it is both. And what I want to make sure if you are going to collect data from there it is done the same way that if law enforcement wanted to collect data from your home they have to get a search warrant go to the court get a search warrant probably cause and so forth to make that search. Well if instead of you keeping your files in your home you are keeping it in the cloud they ought to have the same requirement for a search warrant in order to obtain that. Unless we have some of this legislation then none of us can be - feel secure that anything we store electronically is safe.  For many months there was a lot of confusion about what exactly spy agencies were able to look at which agencies were involved. Can you give us - based on your knowledge what do you know about what kind of internet surveillance there is?  That is the reason I want this legislation. Nobody knows how much they are doing and that is what should be frightening to Americans.  From what we have learned from the Edward Snowden leaks these programs are supposed to be focused on foreign suspects and the criticism has been that the data of innocent Americans can be swept up in the process. So are you seeking to end them altogether or essentially put limits on it?  Well we want to put limits on it but we did this with the legislation that passed last night. And we have reforms that we saw take place. We also are going to have more better transparency. We are going to have an ability for people to know what is being looked at. I do not take as some said back a year - or a couple years ago said you know we protect all this data we take. Only a tiny handful of people can even access it then only for law enforcement matters. I said well with the exception of course of a 28-year-old contractor who was somehow able to walk off with all of it.  People have not on the Hill been talking about Internet records and Internet data collection as much. Do you see momentum now?  I think there is momentum. I think this debate especially when it came up against the cliff. In the Senate they finally realized that what a lot of people in the house - Republicans or Democrats - realized that we better face up to this because it is Americans' privacy. It is not just our security. It is our privacy and our privacy is part of our security. And if we do not take steps it is going to be hard to turn it back.  Senator Patrick Leahy Democrat from Vermont - he is a ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Thank you so much for speaking me. 