 In Aurora Colorado today friends and family gathered for the funeral of Alexander Boik. He was known as A.J. He was 18 a recent high school graduate and he was killed in a mass shooting last week at a midnight premiere of the new Batman movie. Colorado Public Radio's Ben Markus was at the funeral.   About a thousand people packed the enormous Queen of Peace Catholic Church in Aurora just over a mile away from the theater where A.J. and 11 other people were killed.    There is a longing in our hearts O Lord for you to reveal...  Many at the service were clad in purple A.J.'s favorite color. Father Martin Lally noted the presence not only of family and friends but politicians and police and fire chiefs.  Please know that we are here for all of you and you are surrounded by a community of care here in Aurora.  A.J. grew up a member of this congregation and Lally told the crowd that he was baptized here.  It is easy for us today to remember A.J.'s life. Who can help but smile at the memories of a young man who loved life so completely a young man with the soul of an artist who wanted to teach others?  A.J. a recent graduate of nearby Gateway High School had planned to attend Rocky Mountain College of Art and Design in the fall. His uncle John Hoover told those gathered he was always drawn to art and music but his first love was pottery.  Hours spent spinning clay and firing pots - right where he wanted to be - creating something and bringing a pile of clay to life was what he wanted to do.  Hoover said he could not talk about A.J. without commenting on his appearance and how it mirrored his free spirit.  He started growing what he tried to pass for a mustache the first day he sprouted a hair on his face.   He grew his long hair and his attitude was this is me you love it do not be jealous.   A.J. he said was one of the most popular kids in school someone who was easy to get along with comfortable in any crowd. He loved movies and rarely missed a premiere which is why he went to the midnight showing of the Batman movie. His uncle ended by saying A.J. was not the biggest guy but he made up for it with a huge personality.  And we should celebrate A.J. and know we are a better people for having known him.  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper also spoke at the funeral. He is gone to every funeral and memorial service held in the area.  I guess I am here as a messenger for probably five and a half million people in Colorado that would be here if they could be.  At one point he spoke directly to A.J.' his mother father and one brother.  You are a symbol for us all of how to try and make sense out of something that is at its essence senseless.  Five people remain in critical condition at nearby hospitals. Dozens were wounded by the alleged gunman James Holmes a week ago in a horrific attack on the theater. Hickenlooper said the whole community is struggling to answer difficult questions.  And there is no one answer. There is no right answer. But I think we do have a choice to move forward.  The governor added that the community should use this time to do good and seek joy as A.J. would.    Come to his aid O Saints of God.  For NPR News I am Ben Markus in Denver.    Come meet him angels of the Lord. Receive his soul O holy ones. Present him now to God Most High. May Christ who called you take you home and angels lead...  This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 