 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. Nationwide the average price of gasoline has ticked up more than 30 cents a gallon since July 1st. Scott Detrow of member station WITF in Harrisburg Pennsylvania reports on the cause of the spike and whether an end is in sight.  If you plot out a chart of 2012's average gasoline prices you get what looks like a roller coaster - the steady increase from January to April the spring peak around 4 per gallon and then a steady decline in May and June. At the beginning of last month the national average was about 3.42. But since then that sharp roller coaster has been heading into its second big climb. Prices have been going up and up since July 1st and are now approaching 3.80. So are we still climbing or near the peak? Tom Kloza the chief oil analyst for the Oil Price Information Service thinks it is a short-term problem.  This is something you will have to put up with for a few weeks maybe more if you are on the West Coast but certainly not in the majority of the country.  Two factors are driving the increases. The first like always is the price of crude oil which has risen from around 80 a barrel to about 94 since June. The second factor is a bit more unusual a series of problems in the United States' energy infrastructure have created kinks in the supply chain.  It is the end of the summer. Refineries have been running hard and running at high rates and sometimes you get a cluster of breakdowns.  A fire at a Chevron refinery in Richmond California was the biggest issue. But two Midwestern refineries also suffered equipment failures around the same time.   Due mostly to the Richmond fire gas is already approaching 4 on the West Coast. The increase has been more subdued in places like Pennsylvania. So much so that some drivers like Marie Watson who is filling up her car at a Harrisburg gas station have not even noticed it.  I think it is gone down just a tad bit.  They went down in the spring but now they are going back up.  OK.  Three pumps over Anna Nielsen has noticed the change. But she says it has not affected her driving habits.  It is just kind of something I deal with. I am really lucky 'ecause I get really good gas mileage.  Nielson says she would probably cut back on travel if gas tops 4 a gallon.  Like my mom lives in Lancaster and I probably would not go see her as often. My best friend lives in Philadelphia. So I probably would not be doing as much of those longer trips.  National driving demand typically starts to fall after Labor Day. So barring a major disruption in oil or gasoline supply like a major Gulf Coast hurricane experts like Tom Kloza expect prices to start falling in mid-September and stay down until the spring.  When the whole cycle starts again. In the fall and the winter there is plenty of gasoline. We do not drive as much.  The shift from summer to winter-blend gas in pollution-prone areas will also help bring down the cost. For NPR News I am Scott Detrow in Harrisburg Pennsylvania. 