 If you have been to a beach this summer anywhere from Texas to the Carolinas you have likely seen it - masses of brown seaweed sometimes a few clumps often big mounds lining the shore. In many areas in the Gulf and the Caribbean it is more than a nuisance it is a natural disaster. Scientists say a massive bloom of sargassum weed has been appearing almost every year in the tropics. NPR's Greg Allen reports it is causing problems for islands dependent on fishing and tourism.  On Miami Beach recently Mike Berrier was enjoying the sun and the water despite the sargassum weed.  It is pretty nasty. I mean it is got a pretty strong odor. It is really affected by the tides. It kind of lays dormant for a while but then when the tides start changing it gets very active again in the water and on the beach as well. So it is definitely a irritant.  Every day on Miami Beach sanitation crews are out early removing the seaweed off the beaches. By midday sargassum weed is back. Ann Spiller out for a day on the beach with friend Andre Ruiz says for a local economy dependent on tourism it is a headache.  We both work in hospitality. And we deal with the hotel guests all the time like hey can you go - just go out on the beach and like put it away for us like remove it? And we are like we cannot do anything about it.  In Barbados Hazel Oxenford says sargassum is more than a headache it is a national emergency. Speaking over Skype Oxenford a fisheries biologist at the University of the West Indies says the seaweed piles up on the shoreline there 10 to 12 feet high.  And then it backs off and is held in the water offshore. And that is when it creates tremendous problems for the natural ecosystems. And we have had significant loss of endangered sea turtles that have actually drowned because they cannot get to the surface because the sargassum above them is so high.  Sargassum is a free-floating weed that forms large mats and is moved by wind and ocean currents. In Barbados the government has mobilized the military to aid in the cleanup. On Antigua large amounts of the seaweed have forced the closing of at least one hotel. In Mexico Grenada and most other Caribbean destinations local officials and hotel operators are struggling to clear beaches often using backhoes and other heavy equipment.  Sargassum had always been present in the Caribbean you know but never in such quantities. And 2011 was the first big year.  Jim Franks a marine biologist at the University of Southern Mississippi says at first many thought the seaweed was from the Sargasso Sea an area in the Atlantic north of the Caribbean. But a few years ago Franks and other researchers traced the seaweed to a massive bloom that has appeared nearly every year since 2011 off the coast of Brazil. Ocean currents carry the seaweed up the South American coast into the Caribbean where Frank says the impact on fisheries has been catastrophic.  Fishermen the fishers are having difficulty getting out to fish because it is filling up their bays and marinas and harbors. It is difficult for them to get through that stuff to get out to fish offshore.  Researchers say more work needs to be done to identify exactly what is causing the massive seaweed bloom. Oxenford says an obvious factor is the large amounts of nutrients being dumped into the ocean by farming and development worldwide.  From deforestation in the Amazon from urbanization in the Congo plus climate change particularly an increase in the surface water temperatures because the two things that plants or float - this floating seaweed will respond to is an increase in nutrients and an increase in water temperature.  Using satellite imagery researchers at the University of South Florida have been able to monitor and track the massive growth and the movement of sargassum. Mengqiu Wang a researcher in the College of Marine Science in St. Petersburg says for islands and coastal communities it is important to know where the masses of seaweed are headed.  Because in that way people can make preparations ahead of time.  Researchers say sargassum inundations are natural disasters. Like hurricanes there is nothing you can do to prevent them. All governments can do is mobilize people and equipment beforehand and respond quickly once they have hit. Greg Allen NPR News Miami. 