 The Minneapolis police chief has resigned after a fatal shooting by police there last week. The victim was Justine Ruszczyk. She also went by the name Justin Damond. She was fatally shot Saturday night after she approached a squad car. The yoga instructor had called 911 to report a possible sexual assault near her home. Andy Mannix is covering this story for the Minneapolis Star Tribune. He joins us now. And before we get to this shakeup in the department remind us the details. What happened in the shooting that makes it so controversial?  Sure. So basically what happened was Justine Damond - she is a 40-year-old woman from Australia. She is engaged to be married to a man in Minneapolis who she is living with here in south Minneapolis. She called 911 30 to report a woman screaming. She thought this woman may be in trouble. The officers arrived. And one of the officers a man named Mohamed Noor shoots her in the stomach from inside the police car and kills her on the scene. And you know we have been trying to unpack exactly why he produced and fired his weapon. But she was you know unarmed and as far anyone can tell just going over to talk to the officers to let them know what was going on.  Tell us about the community reaction. What kind of criticism was the police chief facing as a result?  Minneapolis Police Chief Janee Harteau has come under quite a bit of criticism. You know some context is that this is not the first high-profile police shooting we have had here. There was one a couple - well about a year and a half ago a guy named Jamar Clark an unarmed black man who was killed by Minneapolis police officers. There was a situation - it was a different department - but right outside of Minneapolis - Philando Castile. So there is been you know this huge conversation about - in the Twin Cities here - police reform more accountability for police. So this sort of comes in the aftermath of all of that. You know other criticisms have been were these officers trained correctly? They were wearing body cameras but were not recording so we do not have that objective video evidence that a lot of people would like. People are really upset about that. You know again the fact that this guy shot to some has called into question training. And finally you know Harteau's been taking a lot of flak because she was not here. The chief was not here when this happened. She was out on vacation and she did not come back for about four days. And a lot of people thought that that was just you know bad optics that sent a bad message.  So statements tonight from both police chief Janee Harteau and Mayor Betsy Hodges. Let us start with the police chief. What reasons did she give for her resignation?  Yeah I mean it is kind of you know frankly a pretty boilerplate statement. She is saying she is spent a lot of time reflecting on this since it happened. You know she thinks it is time for her to step away and let someone else take over. And you know a little bit of context is her relationship with the mayor with some other people in the city has been fairly dicey you know? It is been kind of publicly stormy to say the least. So you know that is also just a little bit of context of where this comes in.  In the meantime what is happened with Mohamed Noor the officer who shot Justine Ruszczyk?  He is - he is not been arrested or you know - he is not been charged with a crime - nothing like that. The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension which is a state police agency is investigating the shooting. It sounds like they have asked him for a - an interview and he has so far declined. He is hired a lawyer and is basically not cooperating at this point. His partner did agree to an interview with the BCA and we got a little bit of information on how that went - although you know really nothing that helps us understand how this could have happened.  Andy Mannix is covering this story for the Minneapolis Star Tribune. Thank you so much.  All right thank you. 