 Another source of political gamesmanship these days has been jobs and how to create them. President Obama recently unveiled his plan to jump-start the economy. We are going to hear reaction now from House Republican Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. The party increasingly turns to Ryan the chair of the House Budget Committee for guidance on economic policy and he says there are a number of areas on which he and the president actually agree.  On the stimulus we tried temporary tax rebates in the Bush administration a couple of times and in the Obama administration and they simply did not work to create economic growth and job creation. The other aspects of the package is basically more stimulus spending and more subsidies for state government budgets which I would simply argue the federal government's budget is even worse shape than most state governments. And so what we want to do are pass ideas that have a better track record of actually growing the economy and creating jobs than going back and re-passing ideas that have recently proved not to work.  Now Congressman I know that there are people shaking their heads as they listen to you when you talk about these temporary tax measures in this administration and in the previous administration. Some would say that they did create jobs perhaps not as many as you would like but they did have a stimulative effect on the economy.  And so we need to go back and go at the fundamental foundations of economic growth get those fundamentals right - certainty on regulations on taxes getting the debt and deficit under control so that our interest rates are stabilized so that we do not have a fear of inflation. Those kinds of things are what we have passed in the House all spring and summer long and we would love to see some movement on it.  Let me ask you about another area where it is not clear if there would be consensus. In an interview this weekend Mr. Ryan you criticized President Obama for attempting to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans. You argue that more than half of Americans get their jobs from job creators who fall into those top...  That is right.  ...tax rates. Well the top marginal rate in this country has been at 35 percent since 2003. It is a remarkably low rate by historical standards and yet those same job creators that you are talking about have been cutting jobs for much of the past decade. So we are looking at an equation with low low tax rates and still no jobs.  Those businesses that have been really clever and very good at utilizing loopholes in the tax code tax more of their money but do it at a lower rate so that everybody can have lower rates and small businesses will not be taxed at such an uncompetitive rate.  When you look at what is going on between I guess both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue in part this is a war of ideas but it is also a war of words. When President Obama recently argued for raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans you and others accused him of engaging in class warfare. But as we have said the top marginal rate is at the lowest point in the past century. And while I can respect your right to argue that a tax hike is bad economics why is that necessarily class warfare? And by declaring that this is class warfare is not that in some ways an act of class warfare?   I do not see the economic pie as somehow fixed and therefore it is the government's role to redistribute the slices of the pie. What I want to do as a policymaker is grow the pie so that everybody can get some prosperity.  There is a lot of anxiety right now and a lot of uncertainty about the economy. Is it fair to say that your party has at times preyed on people's anxieties or amplified those anxieties as well?  Well look I think both political parties have demagogued each other. To me that does a disservice. What I think is important is that we have leaders who see the problems for what they are who offer real solutions and give people of this country a choice of which path they want for America.  In order to move the economy forward at some point both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue are going to have to start rowing in the same direction working together. How would you characterize your relationship with the president? How often do you two talk and has it improved since what appeared to be a particularly low point earlier this spring?  I cannot say how our relationship is. We do not really talk ever so I do not really have much of a relationship but I am not a person who really worries about such things. I am a policymaker and I am really not worried about personal relationships. I have only spoken to the president a handful of times over the years since he is been in office. Most of them have been on TV and probably two times that have not been on TV and that is about it.  Paul Ryan is the congressman from Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District. He is the chairman of the House Budget Committee. Congressman Ryan thank you very much for your time.  You bet. Nice to be with you again Michele. 