 The state of Washington is proposing tougher regulations for adult family homes. These are residential communities that provide care to the elderly. They are less expensive and less regulated than nursing homes. The planned regulations were the result of a series of reports by The Seattle Times that showed these adult family homes are more prone to patient neglect. The paper documented deaths from suspicious falls choking and infections related to bed sores. Michael Berens is an investigative reporter who wrote the series. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Melissa.  And why do not you explain just a bit more about what an adult family home is and why a family might choose that over a nursing home? Mr.  Well on paper an adult family home is a fantastic choice for many seniors. Rather than go to a big box nursing home why not live in a cozy neighborhood with a small number of people? In Washington adult family home can hold only six people. The owners of this home agree to provide board and care for the six elderly or vulnerable people.  And when you started looking at deaths in these adult family homes what did you find? Mr.  Well what we found is that this fantastic concept has a dark side and that is the rapid growth of adult family homes that in some cases the seniors were being treated as financial commodities - bought sold and traded. We literally saw ads where adult homeowners would say you can buy my home for 200000 but if you want the three people inside it who are just an incredible revenue machine then I want 150000 cash only. And what we have found is 236 deaths that indicate neglect or abuse in the homes but were not reported to the state or investigated by law enforcement.  And what indicated that those were the result of neglect as opposed to terrible things that happen as people age? Mr.  What we looked for was a matching of the death certificates to the adult family home addresses. And within these death certificates we found people who were choking to death on their lunch or people who died from terrible pressure sores that were so bad that they exposed the bone and muscle. When we looked at the details on the death certificates we then asked was anyone checking into these deaths. And to our surprise we found that when the elderly die few people are paying attention.  These adult family homes that we are talking about even before the new regulations that are proposed these homes are regulated they are inspected. What happened? Mr.  Well they grew so fast. There was just a few hundred adult family homes back in the '90s. And then as word spread that any homeowner with just a 50 or 100 license fee as it is today could open up an adult family home many people just flocked to the industry. It does not require a health care license. You do not even have to have graduated from high school to run an adult family home. And so many many people did it. And today we have nearly 3000 of these homes in the state of Washington. Clearly the regulators just cannot be everywhere at every time and that is when the bad things happen unfortunately.  And apart from the people who own or run the homes what about the people who work there? Are they required to have licenses or training of any kind? Mr.  No. Actually in many family homes the caregivers are relatives or family members of the owner of the home. In other cases they are lowly paid caregivers. We have just seen scores and scores of cases where caregivers were sleeping on couches living out of closets paid sub-minimum wage.  Is it possible do you think Michael that there are some egregious examples of bad adult family homes that really skew the numbers here and that by and large maybe the system works better for a lot of elderly people than nursing homes would? Mr.  Well undoubtedly there are many many great adult family homes. And though although we cannot quantify how many I guess are good how many are bad there is a significant proportion that are bad. We have not just cherry picked a few dozen homes. In fact we posted a database with our current project of about a hundred adult family homes that have been cited for egregious violations within the last few months.  What do the owners of these adult family homes say about the things that you uncovered in this series in The Seattle Times? Mr.  You know I am in touch with many many adult family homeowners. The good homes applaud the series nervously. They are very uncomfortable with the coverage because they are worried about being categorized altogether. And truly I think there are just as many many good homes. I have been in the good homes so I know that for a fact. I think the industry released a statement just yesterday saying that they applauded The Seattle Times' efforts and that they are committed to rooting out the bad homes which they do know are of substantial number within their system.  Okay. Michael Berens thank you very much. Mr.  Sure. Thank you.  Michael Berens is an investigative reporter with the Seattle Times. You can find a link to his series Seniors for Sale at our website npr.org.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 