 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. There is a new twist in the story of Detroit is financial troubles. Yesterday it became the largest city in U.S. history to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy. Well today a county judge in Michigan ordered that the bankruptcy filing be withdrawn because it violates the states constitution. The state is appealing the order. Quinn Klinefelter of member station WDET is following these developments. And Quinn why do not you explain the grounds the judge gave for making her ruling today.  Well as you say she argues that it violates the Michigan constitution because it would lessen the pension benefits that would be given to some retirees from the city of Detroit. This judge from Ingham County which is by the state capitol in Michigan was considering three separate lawsuits on behalf of pensioners and retirees that said that they were going to be really hurt by the filing the bankruptcy filing from Detroit that it was going to really invade their pensions. And the judge says that the Michigan constitution prohibits that. It prohibits any action that would lessen the pension benefits of a public employee. And that includes those in the city of Detroit. The judge says that Governor Snyder and the emergency manager for Detroit Kevyn Orr violated that constitutional provision and that therefore the bankruptcy filing that was so touted yesterday should be withdrawn.  It does sound like a pretty startling turn of events. How typical is this if it is in a bankruptcy case?  It is not according to bankruptcy experts. They say it is basically unheard of. That is part of the reason that somebody actually goes bankrupt. Once the bankruptcy kicks in it is supposed to stay any litigation. That is the advantage of filing a bankruptcy case. And in this case in Detroit it was kind of a race to the courthouse and the emergency manager got there first. They filed the bankruptcy motion before this judge could make a ruling on those pension cases. The judge's ruling could become an issue in a bankruptcy court where they determine if a city like Detroit is actually eligible to declare Chapter 9. But instead of waiting for that the state officials are appealing the ruling to the Michigan Court of Appeals. So there may be some within the state contingent that think maybe they would not win that fight in bankruptcy court.  Well people in Detroit have had about a day to grapple with this notion that their city's going bankrupt. What is the reaction that you have been hearing?  It is been mixed. I mean there is some resignation. It was not unexpected for a lot of people. There are some that are even questioning - a fair amount I was a little surprised that I ran into you know a very unscientific sampling - that were questioning whether there really is a financial crisis even in the midst of all the evidence that there is. Some of them thought it was some kind of a game being played by state officials to take control of the city. Many of the business community in Detroit were welcoming the news. They said it will provide a firmer financial foundation for the city. And they are not so worried about their bond ratings. That was taking a hit after the bankruptcy was announced but they say that people were not dying to loan Detroit money anyway at the moment. There is others that fear what kind of cuts and services would happen. But the next step apparently is to determine if this county court decision's reaffirmed and find out whether Detroit is really in bankruptcy at all.  Okay. Quinn Klinefelter of member station WDET in Detroit. Quinn thanks so much.  Thank you. 