 Investigators are gathering more clues about the man who fatally shot five police officers in Dallas last week and wounded nine others. The chief of police there David Brown told reporters today that while it appears the gunman acted alone a roster of federal and local law enforcement officials are following every lead to ground to make sure that is the case.   Until you show we have exhausted every lead I am not going to be convinced that we know everything about what happened. We are going to turn over every rock. We are going to follow every lead till it is exhausted. You know I want to make sure there is nobody else out there that had something to do with this.  And part of that process is trying to understand what motivated the gunman. NPR's counterterrorism correspondent Dina Temple-Raston has been following the story and joins us now. And Dina what is the latest that investigators are finding out about the gunman?  Well they have been fanning out around the country to talk to people who knew 25-year-old Micah Xavier Johnson. They have his computer. They are looking at his social media accounts and sources tell NPR that experts in radicalization have been called in to analyze what investigators have gathered so far. And there are some who believe that if you look at the trajectory of Johnson's life it falls into a familiar pattern of radicalization. I mean in this country particularly recently when you talk about radicalization it is usually in the context of young Muslims who end up embracing violent groups like al-Qaida or ISIS but behind the scenes law enforcement officials have been worrying for some time about young people who are embracing other kinds of radical ideologies like white supremacy or some parts of the sovereign citizen movement which broadly is against government and also some strains of the black power movement.  Well what are investigators finding in Johnson's life that suggests radical ideas led him to violence?  Well we should say right away that there are some questions about his mental stability. Officials tell NPR that his journals are often rambling and confusing. At the same time he was able to negotiate for two hours with police before he was killed. And police said that he was reasonably cogent when he was talking to them. So one of the things that they are exploring is the effect that recent video showing police shootings one from Louisiana and the other from Minnesota had on Johnson's state of mind. The Facebook live video showing the fatal encounter between police and Philando Castile in St. Paul was watched by millions of people and Johnson mentioned it when he was in that standoff with police. So officials are looking at his writings to find clues on how those videos might have affected him.  But for - to hear you tell it they are not convinced that that is what set him off.  Exactly. I mean there are many things that are in play when something like this happens but experts on radicalization are now involved. And they see this as part of a larger puzzle. If you think about it in terms of ISIS ISIS radicalizes a lot of young men by posting emotional content - imagery that shows women and children suffering for example. The young men who were just convicted in Minneapolis a couple months ago for trying to join ISIS talked a lot about this. They said they watched ISIS videos showing women and children being killed in Syria and they felt they needed to do something to help.  And do police see parallels in Johnson's case?  Well that is one of the theories they are working on. I mean clearly something bigger led him to violence. But right now they are trying to understand motive in this context. Law enforcement officials say Johnson had been following various radical black power groups on Facebook for quite some time. They believe he would attended some of their rallies. And remember he was discharged from the military and his parents say that when he came home he was at a real loss. So law enforcement behavioralists  are looking at whether he used these extremist groups as a way to feel connected to something bigger than himself. And they are trying to figure out what led him to begin to see himself as essentially a self-appointed warrior for African-Americans. I mean this is still early days in the investigation but this is definitely one of the threads that they are pursuing.  Dina the Dallas police chief said that they found an arsenal in Johnson's house suggesting that he had a bigger attack in mind. What more can you tell us about that?  Well that also fits into this radicalization narrative and one of the reasons why they brought radicalization experts in to look at this. The narrative begins with holding individuals responsibility - responsible for things that appear to be unfair. And then it moves into seeing the whole system as corrupt and violent. And that might go some way toward explaining why he targeted so many police in Dallas on that Thursday night.  That is NPR counterterrorism correspondent Dina Temple-Raston. Dina thanks.  You are welcome. 