 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  First food co-ops. Here's Veronique LaCapra of St. Louis Public Radio.  In St. Louis just a few miles north of the famous Gateway Arch abandoned half-demolished buildings and vacant lots are a common site. In the 1950s many residents and businesses fled the once-thriving Old North neighborhood. Today only about 2000 people live here. The only major supermarket closed its doors a decade ago. Old North resident Etta Adams says up until now she is had to do her shopping outside this neighborhood.  Well there has not been nothing over here too much to you know to shop from.  Last fall Kara Lubischer began an effort to figure out just where neighborhood residents were getting their groceries. Lubischer who is with the University of Missouri Extension service discovered the answer was not in Old North. While the neighborhood is chock full of fast food restaurants and convenience stores the nearest large supermarket is a few miles away.  Which does not sound that far if you have a car but it sounds very far when you have to get on a bus and you have to carry your week's worth of groceries home with you.  Nearly half of households here do not have regular access to a car. Old North has had one small grocery store. It stocks mostly junk food cleaning supplies and alcohol. Its tiny produce section consists of a handful of sorry looking vegetables and pieces of fruit. But just a few blocks away things are now looking a whole lot better. Last month this community-run grocery store opened up.   The new food co-op is small only about 2000 square feet with a cement floor and plain fluorescent lighting. But the walls are freshly painted and brightly colored signs offer tips for healthy eating. A big cardboard vat of watermelon sits in the center of the store. Bushel baskets of tomatoes eggplants and corn fill shelves made from cinder blocks and unfinished pine planks. Etta Adams likes what she sees.  These are nice fresh vegetables and prices are nice and the food looks good.  A local nonprofit spearheaded the co-op project. Sean Thomas who heads that group hopes the store will make it easier for residents here to buy healthy food.  But it will be their choice. If they want to come in and buy a bunch of vegetables and fruit and get some of the other basics bread milk eggs that is great. If they only want to come in and get a gallon of milk once a week and do their other shopping elsewhere that is fine too. But we certainly want to make it accessible and affordable for as many residents around here as possible.  Like many co-ops the St. Louis store is relying as much as possible on local producers like this guy.  Hi how are you doing? I am Rusty.  Rusty Lee and his family raise vegetables and livestock on their farm about 70 miles west of St. Louis. Sitting on his red tractor Lee is dressed in denim overalls and a baseball cap looking every bit the part of the Midwestern farmer.   We saw it as an opportunity to help somebody out to help ourselves out. It is a market that no one has really been servicing.  For NPR News I am Veronique LaCapra in St. Louis. 