 The United States and Turkey are finalizing plans to create a so-called Islamic-State-free zone inside Syria along the Turkish border. The goal is to push out ISIS fighters and allow Syrian refugees to return to their country from Turkey and to provide a base for U.S.-trained Syrian rebels to fight ISIS. NPR's Tom Bowman has been at the Pentagon today and joins me now. And Tom let us start with this idea of an ISIS-free zone. Talk a bit about what that would mean exactly.  Well Melissa first of all U.S. officials say much of this area inside Syria along the Turkish border already is in the hands of rebels fighting the Islamic State or ISIS. Now there is a swath of territory - it is roughly 68 miles long - that is still under ISIS control. And that is the area the U.S. and Turkey want to make ISIS-free. Now they hope to isolate this part of the border and prevent ISIS from getting weapons recruits money through Turkey into Syria and this would sort of contain ISIS kind of make it wither on the vine. They would have no access to the outside world.  When they talk about isolating this border area how exactly would that work?  Well for the first time the U.S. would be able to fly attack aircraft out of as many as three Turkish bases. That would put U.S. planes much closer to ISIS strongholds in Syria. Right now they fly out of other bases in the Middle East much farther away. Now at the same time dozens of U.S.-trained Syrian rebels who are anti-ISIS have already started to cross the border from Turkey into Syria. They join other fighters and help secure that area. And I am told these U.S.-trained rebels would likely be working with the U.S. to call in airstrikes. And the Turkish military meanwhile has started firing artillery and tank rounds into Syria from their side of the border so it is really an increased effort all around.  Tom help us understand something that is confusing here because the Turkish government and Syrian opposition leaders for that matter have long been pushing for a no-fly zone along the border with Syria. This apparently is not that right? They are calling this a safe zone or an ISIS-free zone. What is the distinction?  Well first of all this is not a no-fly zone. And a no-fly zone means just that. The U.S. would not allow any aircraft - a warplane a surveillance aircraft even a helicopter - to fly in a given area. But ISIS does not even have an air force or any kind of aircraft. So what Turkey had long wanted was the U.S. to create a no-fly zone against the Assad government in Syria. The U.S. said no. It said we are fighting ISIS we do not want to - we want a negotiated settlement with Assad. We do not want to fight Assad. So the ISIS-free zone would use U.S. and other attack aircraft to target ISIS fighters in that area and again allow Syrian refugees to return home and of course allow rebel fighters to remain in that area and secure it.  Let us talk about numbers briefly here Tom. The Pentagon has acknowledged there are just about 60 of these U.S.-trained and vetted rebel fighters that they say would be the ground force for this plan - does not sound like a very robust force - 60 fighters.  It is not. It is been pretty embarrassing. The U.S. military planners had hoped to have hundreds if not thousands of fighters trained by now or by the end of the year. They have had a lot of trouble vetting these fighters. They said others have quit because they said listen we do not want to fight ISIS. We want to fight the Assad regime. But the Pentagon officials listen we are increasing the training efforts in hope to have hundreds more trained to go in soon. But they acknowledge this training effort so far has been something of a disappointment.  And what is the timeframe? When would this push to create an ISIS-free zone begin?  Well discussions are still ongoing with Turkey. I am told the White House could make a decision this week and then these American aircraft could start flying out of Turkish bases in the next few weeks. So it is all coming to a head pretty quickly here.  Are you hearing any concern about an escalation of the U.S. involvement in this area Tom?  Well not really. I mean the big concern is having troops on the ground. That is not going to happen. The president has said in Iraq and Syria no U.S. boots on the ground. You will probably see of course more aircraft - drones and attack aircraft - in these Turkish bases. That would be the only escalation we are talking about.  OK. NPR Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman - Tom thanks.  You are welcome. 