 So what if the Taliban had come to Camp David? For more insight on that image and the breakdown of a deal between the U.S. and the Taliban we reached out to John McLaughlin former acting director of the CIA. He wrote about Afghanistan in a column today for the online platform The Cipher Brief. I asked him if the deal - as we understood it to be taking shape - was in principle a good one.  Here's the problem. We are not used to ending wars this way. I know how it will not end. It will not end with some surrender on a battleship or in a conference room. I know how it should not end. It should not end with the kind of chaotic departure we had from Vietnam back in 1975 leaving our allies stranded and facing reprimands. It should not end that way so it is got to be somewhere in-between. I think the chairman of the Joint Chiefs the other day said something to the effect that the only way to end this war is through some sort of political agreement between an Afghan government and the Taliban. And that is the trick how to find that. But I do not think anyone should assume that this is going to be a smooth aftermath if there is an agreement.  You write the best-case scenario is that the aftermath will be messy but short of disasters.  Right. And I say that with more hope than confidence.  Why - because experience informs you that that it may well be messier?  Because we do not yet know everything we need to know about the Taliban. In some ways they may have changed. There are some reports to that effect as I note in this article. On the other hand for a group that is committed to Sharia law to commit itself to working in a democratic system kind of runs against everything they stand for. And so one has to be skeptical. It is a classic trust-but-verify situation. The problem is if we verify that they are complying well so to the good - if we verify that they are not we are not going to have a big troop surge back into Afghanistan. I just do not see that happening. So it is important to get the deal as close to right as possible because we are going to live with what we agree to.  I suppose that is one of the fundamental questions here. Whatever the Taliban agrees to in a deal what enforcement mechanism will the U.S. have to hold them to it if the whole point for the U.S. is to start bringing troops home?  Well enforcement will be difficult in any event. The bigger worry here I think is that the Taliban would try to turn back the clock to the day when for example women were not allowed to go to school. One of the huge advances in Afghanistan is that in a country of 35 36 million people about 9 million kids go to school and a third of them are girls. That is a big change.  As you note in your piece Afghan women might also have quite a lot of trouble with them breaking that deal. You note a third of the Afghan Parliament is now women.  Yes. I think the Taliban here would not face a compliant passive female populace. Women have held important positions in post-911 Afghanistan. Now that said if the Taliban have the guns if the democratic forces in Afghanistan collapse you have a situation where the guns may rule. Let us hope not.  John McLaughlin you were in senior leadership positions at the CIA on 911 and in the years that followed. If I had told you back then that the president of the United States had invited the Taliban to Camp David what would you have said?  Well we would have all fallen back in horror. And that is the emotion you have today when you hear about it all these years later. That said the important thing is has a meeting like that actually been prepared so that it is more than a photo op or more than an improvisational opportunity for an impulsive president? Which is what it looked like. You know at the end of the day the only way to end a war is to either defeat the enemy or make peace with it. And the trickier part is making peace with it.  That is former acting CIA Director John McLaughlin. He is now at Johns Hopkins University. John McLaughlin thanks.  Thank you Mary Louise. 