 Twenty-five years ago today right before dawn Hurricane Andrew slammed into Florida's Miami-Dade County demolishing a large part of it. Andrew was the last storm to hit the U.S. as a Category 5 hurricane. Some people coped with it by listening to one particular voice. Alicia Zuckerman of member station WLRN in Miami has that story.  As Hurricane Andrew made landfall TV meteorologist Bryan Norcross was on the air.   Get to that interior closet. Get a mattress over your head. Get your family in there and just wait this thing out. Hunker down.  He stayed on the air for 23 straight hours. The station was simulcast on the radio during the storm so once the power went people could still hear him. Immediately he became the hero of Hurricane Andrew. People were terrified.  The tree outside of my mom's window - she had a sea grape tree - shattered the window in her bedroom.  Natalee George Thornburgh was 13. She and her family went into the bathroom.  It was really hard to keep the door closed.  Outside the winds reached 165 miles per hour.  Like my arms bracing the sides of the wall and my back on the door. And my mom says when she would look up at me my body was shaking so violently.  The power was out. Water was coming in under the bathroom door. They were listening to Bryan Norcross taking calls on the radio and somebody else called in about trying to hold their bathroom door closed.   That is what you need to do. You need to do everything you can to hold that door in Madeline. And you all get all your might behind that because you need to stay...  In the morning when Natalee's family opened the door their house was destroyed. She and her sister moved in with some family friends and their mom's friend Lisa helped them write new lyrics to an old scout tune. Natalie had not heard this recording in 25 years.    It was a hurricane named Andrew.   Named Andrew.   Thanks Bryan Norcross.   Thanks Bryan Norcross.   Y100 too.   Y100 too. It was a hurricane named Andrew...  It is so surreal .    Thanks Bryan Norcross and Y100 too.   South Dade is gone.   South Dade is gone.  I think about it all the time  but I think Lisa was kind of a genius to have us focus our kind of turmoil that we went through during that storm.    People are still scared and paranoid.  They sent the cassette to Bryan Norcross. Lots of people were doing the same thing - writing songs about what they experienced and songs thanking him.  Boxes of mail showed up. And in those envelopes were thousands of letters poems stories and these cassettes.    Andrew first of his kind - monster. It blew my mind.    Now thanks to all the media folks. They sure did help us through. And hats off to Bryan Norcross who told us what to do.    It is a true story. This man named Norcross was busy tracking a hurricane on his own.    Bryan Bryan Bryan...  Bryan made us feel safe.  That is what people always say about Bryan Norcross. Nancy Bowers was the new director of the Cyprus Sound's Sweet Adelines Chorus when Hurricane Andrew hit.  We felt that Bryan had become our best friend our dear friend.    Keep shining knowing you can always count on Bryan for sure. That is why...  Bryan Norcross kept all these cassettes in a closet. He is a senior hurricane specialist at the Weather Channel now.  I had no plan for them until the HistoryMiami Museum called.  The museum asked him to curate their exhibition for the 25th anniversary of Hurricane Andrew. That is when he took out the box of cassettes. And earlier this month he heard them for the first time in 25 years.  It was therapeutic for them to share their emotions in some fashion after the storm.  They are all miraculous in their way.    And when I turned around I did not have no home no more.  Bryan Norcross has a new book out - My Hurricane Andrew Story. The songs are playing on a loop at the HistoryMiami Museum until mid-January.    We will just stay right here and holler.  For NPR News I am Alicia Zuckerman in Miami.    Everybody was ready. We sure did not know for what. But when Andrew started blowing man I would have taken less than what I got 'ecause I would never seen... 