 Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is back in federal court tomorrow facing charges of bank and tax fraud. It is the first trial in special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian election interference and possible collusion. Last week prosecutors gave us a peek into Manafort's lavish lifestyle - actually a peek into his closet full of custom suits and an ostrich leather jacket. His accountant later testified that she altered financial documents for Manafort. This week the prosecution is expected to call its star witness Rick Gates Manafort's business partner who served as deputy to Manafort when he ran the Trump campaign. To look ahead to the proceedings we were joined in the studio earlier today by defense attorney and former federal prosecutor Shan Wu. We should note he represented Rick Gates at one point. I asked Shan Wu how he thinks Gates will come across on the witness stand this week.  I should say at the outset Don that anything I talk about is not based on confidential information or anything attorney-client privileged. Of course it is all based on public information. I think he will be a very tough witness to cross-examine. I think he will be hard to rattle. I mean his credibility is completely at stake. I think he will come across well. And I do not think it is breaching any attorney-client confidences to say that it is well known his taste does not run towards ostrich leather.  So what does the prosecution need Gates to say to really make its case? Why is he the star witness?  They are really saying he is at the centerpiece. He is to blame - in fact that Manafort might not even have known  what was going on. And for that reason you will see from last week's testimony that was elicited by the prosecution that they are really having the witnesses talk about how Gates and Manafort are really one and the same - that they are completely joined at the hip. The defense now in order to make their strategy of saying Gates is to blame - they need to pry those two apart. They need to show that they were separate. Gates could have been doing things Manafort did not know about.  We have been watching for a week. I want to ask you about Judge T.S. Ellis. He was pretty hard on the prosecution in those first few days. They were bringing out example after example of Manafort's opulent lifestyle and the judge said in effect hey it is not a crime to buy a lot of luxury goods. How should we interpret Judge Ellis' remarks and his demeanor at this point?  Well I have been before Judge Ellis and he is very powerful in the courtroom. He really controls it very well. I think what he is doing here is he is actually trying to protect his record. He wants to make sure that if there is a conviction that on appeal there will not be a question of the prosecution having dwelled so much on the lavishness of the Manafort lifestyle that it could in the judge's words quote engender resentment. And so he is being careful to protect that record. He is of course known for moving at a lightning-fast pace - it is the rocket docket they call it that. And the pace is really quite unbelievable. I mean the fact that they have gotten through so much in such a short time places actually a lot of strain on both sides. I think for the prosecution they definitely would have liked to spend more time on the lavishness of the lifestyle in part to build the foundation for the motivation to be greedy to hide more money. But Judge Ellis definitely cut them short on that and they have been forced to move into really the nuts and bolts of a fraud case which is the documents.  We have said and we have heard over and over that this case is not about Russian collusion. It is about bank and tax fraud. And I am wondering though is there any way that it can possibly help Robert Mueller build a case toward Russian collusion - especially given that you know Manafort made so much of his money working for a pro-Russian politician in Ukraine?  I think there are a couple ways that it does factor in significantly to Mueller's investigation. First of course the pressure and the leverage on Manafort could ultimately still cause him to want to cooperate with the Mueller investigation. That is number one. The second way is because of his own business dealings and history in the Ukraine and with Russia it kind of adds an atmospheric that people very close to Trump had those sorts of connections. And in that sense it somewhat forces Mueller's folks to continue to dig because the - for lack of a better word the circumstantial evidence appears so compelling that you really need to make sure you are looking under every stone to make sure you have not missed something.  That is Shan Wu defense attorney and former federal prosecutor. Thanks so much for speaking to us.  Oh thank you for having me here. 