 Fifty years ago the idea of nuclear war was so terrifying the best way to comment on it was to make fun of it.    I am not saying we would not get our hair mussed but I do say no more than ten to twenty million killed - tops.  Dr. Strangelove the 1964 film is a dark comedy about the Cold War. Today the threat seems more remote. Still - some men and women keep America ready for nuclear war. They are the officers with a finger on the button. And they have learned to live with this grave responsibility. To see what the job is like NPR's Geoff Brumfiel got a ride to a remote nuclear command bunker in Nebraska.  Some most powerful weapons in the U.S. military can be found just off of the Interstate-80.   Taking these vehicles out on long distances - they have a lot of miles on them right now. So we want to make sure we are safe before driving out.  That is Captain Joseph Shannon of the Air Force's 90th missile wing. The missiles are scattered along the highways and back roads of Wyoming Nebraska and Colorado. Captain Shannon is about to take command of 10 weapons for a 24-hour shift. Even his drive to the site is done by the book.  So you check the oil make sure the battery looks good and check all the belts and what not.   We climb into this Ford Taurus with 168000 miles on it.  It is 11-6 departing for foxtrot 0-1. Lieutenant Bansal's the driver.  It is going to be about an hour and a half.  Lieutenant Raj Bansal is the second member of this two-man crew. Bansal is fresh out of college in the Air Force's ROTC program. Now he is trained to launch nuclear armed missiles. He wonders if that order will ever come.  I think it is something everybody thinks about when they get the job. I mean you are basically eating most of your meals when you are on alert next to the keys and switches that would cause that act.  That act - it is hard for even these officers to discuss a nuclear exchange. And these days most Americans do not talk about it at all. Lieutenant Bansal's friends know where he works but they do not really have a clue what he does.  A lot of them are like - hey well why are you complaining? You do not really do anything.   And that is the strange thing about nuclear deterrence. These two train constantly to launch a massive nuclear strike at a moment's notice. Their job is centered around being able to carry out that one order - an order they will probably never get. Though that is not exactly how Captain Shannon sees it.  Yeah I would not say our job is not to do something. The job of deterrence is actually working. Adversaries know that the missiles are here. They are in place. And they will be used. If it is sitting in the back of their mind they will not do certain actions to cause them to be used.  To make the weapons harder to destroy in a nuclear war the missiles and the bunkers controlling them are scattered across the countryside past Dix Nebraska.  Nine times out of ten you drive through these little towns you never see one person.  The road turns to gravel - high prairie in every direction. Eventually we arrive at what looks like just another ranch house.  Please pay attention. I Tech Sergeant Kaiser will be your escort official during your visit. As your escort official I am required to brief escorted personnel on applicable security and safety rules before entry into this restricted area.  Sergeant Raymond Kaiser is responsible for maintaining the above-ground portion of this command center. It is home to a cook and support staff as well as a heavily armed security force.  If you see something marked with a danger tag please do not approach it. Please do not touch it.  Most of the missiles themselves are 60 feet underground.  And just one last check - no unauthorized electronic devices.  Nope.  Door is open.  And at the entrance to the elevator they have added a decorative touch - a giant mural of the cartoon plumber from the videogame Mario. The elevator is an old one with a lattice gate instead of a door.   Through it you can see motifs from Super Mario Brothers all the way down - coins flowers. At the bottom Mario stands next to a mushroom cloud. Lieutenant Bansal opens an enormous two-foot-thick blast door - eight tons of steel.  Stand clear.   Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to level eight of Super Mario World. I am Lieutenant Clark your guide.  Kirsten Clark and her deputy are just finishing their 24-hour alert down here in the bunker - the capsule as crews call it. The room is hollowed out like a concrete egg. In the middle suspended on shock absorbers hangs the launch control center - a room within a room. It is long and narrow with a bed at one end and a toilet at the other. In between two chairs face computer displays. Lieutenant Clark hands over her command to Captain Shannon.  Security situations in progress?  There are no security situations in progress.  Maintenance in progress or scheduled?  None.  All right. And anything else helpful?  Let us see. We have got televisions working today for once.  TV is allowed down here. Crews have long periods of downtime where they still have to keep alert especially at night.  Usually I like movies 'ecause they make the time go by faster. Sometimes I watch the cooking channel or the news.  Handover complete- Lieutenant Bansal and Captain Shannon are now the final link in a system stretching from the President of the United States to these missiles.  And basically at this point in the day we would start our inspections. Since we have assumed responsibility for this alert it is our responsibility to make sure that all the equipment is functioning as it was briefed to us.  Life down in the capsule can be busy - maintenance crews and security forces are coordinated from here. Communication is constantly kept up with U.S. strategic command which would issue the president's launch order. The missiles themselves are displayed in a grid on the computer console.  This is actually gaining status from 10 nuclear missiles which is kind of crazy to think about. I mean when you have been staring at the screen for about 80-some alerts you kind of lose sight of what it actually is.  Each missile is just a tiny rectangle on the screen. It makes the enormity of this job seem small and abstract. And maybe the people we are asking to do this need it that way to let them get on with the day-to-day of keeping the weapons ready. Captain Shannon.  There is no emotional thoughts going into this. It is our job and this is what we are going to do. Now if we are topside actually seeing things you know I think that is totally different. But down here you do not get the visual. I mean this is what we see - something on the screen and that is it.  It is been a half-a-century since Dr. Strangelove's dark depiction of nuclear war. But in the capsule it still feels like 1964. The old telephone handsets toggle switches and dials marked launch. It could be a set in Dr. Strangelove.  I have it with me.   You have Dr. Strangelove with you?  Uh-huh.   This is what nuclear deterrence comes down to - two officers 60-feet underground - working watching old movies and waiting.   Capsule Lieutenant Bansal.  The lieutenant has work to do. It is time for us to head back to the world above.   Captain Shannon and Lieutenant Bansal are sealed in their capsule below. Geoff Brumfiel NPR News.   And tomorrow we will look to the future of these nuclear missiles - whether they are still relevant or should be retired. 