 It is graduation day for Rashema Melson. She is at the top of her class valedictorian at Anacostia High School here in D.C. She has excelled in class and on her homework. But for the past six years she has not had a home. Melson lives in a homeless shelter along with her mother and two brothers. In the fall she will be heading to Georgetown University on a full scholarship. I asked Rashema Melson to tell me how she manages.  30-ish. I try to stay out as late as possible. I would not say it is my favorite place. I will come in you know I will talk to my brother for a little bit. If I do have extra work still left over I will either put my headphones in do my work or I usually because I am so tired I will go to sleep and I will wake up in the middle of the night and I will do some work and I will go back to sleep. So however it is to get the job done whatever fits then I will just do that because sometimes it is really noisy. And you know going through security check is frustrating sometimes just in case you like leave your ID and you have so much on your mind. But I think I have done pretty good with blocking it out.  And we should mention that at this shelter they service up to 300 adults and 500 kids.  Yes yeah it is a lot. I do not know how I did it. I just know when I have a goal I try not to let anything get in my way. So I just decided to continue what I am doing.  What was the goal here? I mean it was not just about graduating right? It sounds like you are aiming for much more.  The goal that I have always had was to complete high school graduate college go to med school finish residency and become a forensic pathologist.  A forensic pathologist? OK.  Along the way we stumbled and we started struggling as a family and because I got school you know I am straight up academics. I am really good at that. It is not really a struggle to me. But I do try - I pick sports over getting a job. And it was just like am I making the right decision? So it was a little pressure on me. Like my coaches my teachers they were just like do not worry you are doing the best you can you know keep it up. Just do what you have to do. They was like you know live your life. You are going to succeed. Do not worry about your situation at the moment. Like they were always there for me. They took a lot of stress from my mind because it was just like well I need a job --what am I going to do? And I was like should I go work under the table? Or can I get a real job? 'ecause I just turned 18 last year.  So your teachers and your coaches had some idea that your family was struggling and that you were homeless. Did your friends know? And did you feel like you had to kind of keep that from them a little bit?  No I feel like I do not think have to keep anything from anyone. I feel like if it is none of your business then it is just none of your business. But it is not really something - I do not like sharing with kids 'ecause they start to like pity you or they start to look at you in a different way. And you know I feel hey I am just like the rest of you. I come in to get an education and just like you know OK. So I did not feel like I needed to share that. Like at the end of the day I was doing what I had to do.  Now that you are getting ready to go to school what are your worries for your family?  I literally - I had like a little breakdown because you know I watched the news and my mom also goes to the meetings that they have there. And it is like oh we are going to close the shelter down in 100 days. They said that last month. And it is been all over the news about the conditions of the shelter. I was just thinking like man I am going to college. You know I am happy for me but at the same time what is my family going to? I am - I mean I am worried but there is nothing that I can personally do. And you know if you cannot personally do anything about it do not stress yourself out too bad because it does not really hurt anyone at the end of the day but you. You know that is just how I feel.  What kind of advice would you give to other students who are experiencing homelessness?  I would just say keep your head up because you never know what is going to happen. I am graduating homeless and I am moving into college so you know you just have to have hope and faith you know and do not let it change who you are and do not become ashamed and do not be embarrassed and just know who you are inside. Because you live in a shelter that is not who you are that is just where you reside at for the moment. That is the best advice that I could give. That is what I tell myself.  Well Rashema Melson thank you so much for coming in to talk with us and congratulations.  Thank you.  Rashema Melson will be at Georgetown University next year on a full scholarship. Her message in tonight's valedictorian address at Anacostia High School - persevere no matter what.  ALL THINGS CONSIDERED continues in a moment. 