 This has become a lot more common in cities around the country.   That is the sound of a dirt bike. Most cities do not allow off-road vehicles on their streets but that is not stopping riders of dirt bikes and all-terrain vehicles or ATVs. They are often found in packs doing stunts and blocking traffic. To some it is aggressive and threatening. Riders though say there is more to it. Stephannie Stokes of member station WABE has our story.  In Atlanta the buzzing of dirt bikes and ATVs grows loudest on Sundays. That is when a group of riders called ATL Bike Life get together. I meet about 50 of them outside a park in Southwest Atlanta. They are doing wheelies and revving the bike engines. Do you get - do you... All of the noise makes it hard to ask a question so one rider Quint Grimes waves for his friends to stop.  Cut it out. We are doing an interview for the radio. You know there is so much bad publicity about us. They say we the bad guys.  And you do not think that is true.  No that is nowhere near true.  Grimes says these bikes are what they care about. And in the city there is not anywhere else to ride but in the streets.  We out here doing what we love and also keep a lot of people out of trouble. Like you see all the young guys right here?  He points to several wide-eyed kids checking out the bikes.  They look up to us. You know like of course we are breaking the law but it is better than having them going in someone house and robbing and killing them you know?  This message that bikes prevent more serious crime is something you will hear from riders across the country. Urban dirt biking has become popular everywhere from Baltimore to San Francisco but a lot of people do not think its rise is positive.  They are making noise. It is scaring motorists. These are people who basically - it is all about thrill for them.  Joyce Sheperd's an Atlanta City Council member. She says it is not just that dirt bikes and ATVs are not street legal. It is the riders in packs of sometimes 200. They take over city roads ignoring red lights.  They are doing all kinds of stuff to show out. They are doing things that even typical motorists do not do.  And there have been accidents - deadly ones. Just recently riders were killed in Miami and Cleveland after colliding with cars. It has officials like David Hartman with the New Haven Police Department fed up.  These are criminals perpetrating criminal acts. And they are dangerous. And people die and people get hurt. And it has to stop.  The question though is how to stop it. Hartman says New Haven now fines riders up to a thousand dollars and even takes away their bikes. But the hardest part is catching them.  You cannot chase these folks. It is impossible. They will weave in and out of traffic. A pursuit would just add to the danger.  His police department relies on community tips to find riders. Others follow them from above with helicopters. But in the end some leaders do not think law enforcement can be the full answer.  We have to engage young people.  That is Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson.  People look at dirt bike riders as this monolithic group. But people who ride dirt bikes are not all thugs.  Jackson believes some do just need an outlet. So Cleveland's building a place where they can legally ride a separate park for dirt bike and ATV riders kind of like there are for skateboarders.  We are not just looking at this and being permissive about it. We are just saying that if we are going to deal with this we have to deal with it in a holistic way.  Critics question whether urban dirt bikers would use a park when there is not the thrill of breaking the law. Quint Grimes with the Atlanta riders assures me they would. But until there is one here he says they will be on the roads.  This is us the bike life. We are going to be around. They as not going to get rid of us.  Grimes and the other riders take off to cruise around the city. A couple of kids are too young to follow. They stay behind riding around on toy ATVs instead. For NPR News I am Stephannie Stokes in Atlanta.  