 The Trump administration is making it more difficult for immigrants seeking asylum to resettle in the U.S. Under new State Department rules the number of refugees allowed into the country will be capped at 18000 for the next year - that nearly cuts in half the administration's previous refugee limit. NPR's Bobby Allyn was on a call with Trump administration officials who briefed reporters on the announcement and he is here with us now. Hi Bobby.  Hey Ari.  Tell us more about what President Trump ordered today. What does this mean for migrants fleeing persecution who hope to come to the United States?  Well it means their odds just got a lot harder of making it in. The cap was cut nearly in half to about 18000 people and that is going to affect you know the next fiscal year. And this year the Trump administration put the refugee ceiling around 30000 so that is a pretty substantial reduction. And what it means is that you know there is going to be more fierce competition among asylum-seekers who have dreams of relocating to the U.S. And for some context here that cut announced today is an 80 reduction compared to the refugee cap in the last year of the Obama administration.  Are certain groups of immigrants going to get priority under this new rule?  Yeah. So in the call with reporters the administration said those fleeing religious persecution will be the ones that they will prioritize the most. You know they said the administration has a real interest in religious freedom. And they also mentioned Iraqis who have helped the U.S. Those people will be given special status. And they mentioned a smaller group of migrants from Central America will be prioritized but it is a really small group - just 1500 of those.  What is the administration's justification for making this drastic cut?  So the administration says you know they are right now trying to tie asylum policy in the country to national security interests. And they said you know the federal government really needs to focus on the protection of people already in the country rather than bringing in tens of thousands of migrants who want protection here. And they said the U.S. immigration system is overburdened right now and they cited a number which is nearly 1 million. And that is the number of backlogged cases in immigration courts and many of them are asylum-seekers. So they say look - we have got to deal with all those problems in the U.S. here domestically before we welcome in more people.  What is the reaction from immigration rights groups?  So refugee advocacy groups like Oxfam America say this is further proof that the Trump administration is abandoning the country's founding principles of asylum law. You know we are supposed to judge the merits of each person's claim individually - that is what asylum law says and Oxfam says this is not abiding by that. And you know other groups like Amnesty International you know echoed that. You know they took it even further though. They said look - restricting migrants seeking asylum to this low of a number? And here's the quote they said - quote attempts to further hate division and prejudice in a country that once valued dignity equality and fairness.  Is this going to be challenged in court?  You bet it will be. And you know critics of the new cap say it is an egregious violation of a federal law called the Refugee Act of 1980 and that basically granted asylum to anyone who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution. And this 18000 asylum-seeker limit I must say is the lowest cap ever since that 1980 law was passed.  NPR's Bobby Allyn thank you.  Thanks Ari. 