 Tereza Lee is 35 years old a married mother of two a concert pianist and the inspiration behind something we have heard a lot about lately - the DREAM Act the effort to provide legal status to undocumented young people.   This all started - this DREAM Act all started with this young lady Tereza Lee.  That is Senator Dick Durbin Democrat of Illinois on the floor of the U.S. Senate. He is pointing to a giant photo a photo of Tereza with her long dark hair and glasses.   Korean brought to the United States at the age of 2 grew up in a poor family in Chicago and had an amazing musical talent was accepted at the - Manhattan's conservatory of music the Juilliard School of Music and because she was undocumented had no place to go.  Senator Durbin first encountered a teenage Tereza Lee back in 2001 and that encounter eventually led him to draft the DREAM Act. Today almost two decades later help for DREAMers is a central feature of immigration proposals from both Democrats and Republicans which made us want to know more about Tereza Lee and her story and what she makes of this moment. I asked her about when she first realized she was undocumented.  When I was 7 my dad called my family into the living room and said he had a very serious secret to tell us and that we cannot tell anyone outside of our family about this and that we were undocumented. And we do not have this paper that says we are allowed to stay here. We have this - we do not have a green card or a citizenship. I did not really understand what it meant to be undocumented at such a young age. I just knew that there was a real risk that I would never see my parents again. And...  It is still tough to talk about all these years later.  Well with what is going on in the news right now at the border in Texas - sorry.  Take your time.  So - yeah but when you are that young and you realize that you are undocumented and your family could be taken away from you that kind of fear is all-pervasive. And I have shared many stories with my other fellow undocumented friends of the recurring nightmares that we grew up experiencing. We would have visions of paramilitary-style raids police raids taking our families away. And also with that kind of fear comes a deep sense of isolation.  Let me ask you about one other moment before we leave your childhood just to get us to where you are now. This is a moment - I understand you were 17. You were really good at piano already. And a teacher the artistic director at your high school said you need to think about the top music colleges in the country. What happened?  Right. So I had one big piano competition. I got to play Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. And I was the first inner-city kid in Chicago's history to win. So it was a pretty big deal. And...  Yeah.  Ann Monaco the artistic director of the music school Merit School of Music at that time she approached me and asked which colleges I would be applying to. And so I told her that I was not going to college and this is the path that I am going to take I am going to become a concert pianist and be a freelancer. And she...  And what'd she say?  She said that is ridiculous. Everybody goes to college. And so she just handed me 10 college applications right then and there and told me to have them filled out and returned to her. And so that is what I did.  This is a good teacher.  Yeah .  But there were bits you could not fill out. I mean they ask for your Social Security number which I am guessing you did not have.  Right. So she immediately noticed that my Social Security number was missing in the box. And so I burst into tears and I begged her to not turn me in to the police because that would risk my family to be separated.  She had another idea too which was - she said we need to talk to Senator Dick Durbin a senator from your home state. And you did. Tell me about what happened. What was that encounter like?  That is right. So we started gathering letters of support from everybody I knew. And we turned them into Senator Durbin's office. And he said OK I am going to write a bill for you. It is a personal bill a personal...  It was just for you at that point.  Yes it was just for me. I had a specific number to it. And personal bills usually go by unnoticed and they pass very easily. So we were so excited. And some other undocumented students heard about this bill and they would approach him in the parking lot secretly and tell him that they are also undocumented can you write a bill for them too? And Senator Durbin realized he needed to redraft the bill into a larger bill. And that became known as the DREAM Act.  So he introduced the DREAM Act. To cut a very long legislative saga short it has never passed. It is been reintroduced in various versions ever since 2001 right up until this week where Congress is once again trying to figure out some sort of solution to what to do how to give legal status to children and adults who are here in the country under the same circumstances as you. Does this moment feel different? Do you feel hopeful about it?  I am not quite sure if I feel hopeful. It is been such a long journey - 18 years. The first version of the DREAM Act which - it was not a first version. It was just the version of the DREAM Act. It was introduced in 2001. And the first hearing was set for September 12 2001. We had 62 votes lined up. It was going to pass and President Bush was ready to sign it into law. And everything was canceled because of the terrorist attacks on 911. From then any immigration-friendly legislation was out of the question. And so that day was really what I feel like sparked a lot of fear. And that fear was exploited to justify a war on terror which also sparked a movement by the DREAMers who started to bravely come out of the shadows to tell their stories. And they were - the DREAMers were basically - they were leading a national movement to demonstrate and march and support one another. And we see that - last year we saw that they had actually won public support - 87 percent. And so I think that is very important to address - that the young DREAMers undocumented youth came out to organize and to mobilize.  Tereza Lee thank you.  Thanks.  Tereza Lee is now a Ph.D. candidate at the Manhattan School of Music. The lovely music you are hearing now - she is playing it. And as we heard she is also the original inspiration for the DREAM Act. Tereza's now an American citizen through marriage with two American kids. She continues to advocate on behalf of DREAMers.  