 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. President Obama is defending the NSA's surveillance activities. At a White House news conference earlier today he said there is no evidence anyone's civil liberties are being abused.  What you are hearing about is the prospect that these could be abused. Now part of the reason they are not abused is because these checks are in place.  But the president also said he is open to additional reforms. NPR's Larry Abramson joins us now to talk about the White House proposals for possible changes to the NSA's surveillance activities. And Larry the president talked about four reforms in particular. What did he propose?  Right. So going down the list he said he would like to possibly change the way the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court works - that is the court that OK's many of these wiretaps that we have been hearing about - and also allow them to hear from civil liberties advocates which would be new because they usually only hear from the government increasing transparency so that a lot of these orders that the court is using are not secret having a panel of outside experts look at this program see if there are not changes they could be making without affecting their effectiveness and also some reforms to the program that is used to gather telephone records which he said might be open to change.  The massive sweep of telephone data here in the U.S.  That is right.  Would those reforms if they actually happen satisfy people who say that these surveillance programs go too far that they violate privacy rights?  Well I think a lot of those critics welcome the reforms that the president suggested. They think it would be a good idea for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to hear another side. But basically no it does not satisfy them because they think these programs are dragnet fishing expeditions that they are going through the records of people who are not under suspicion of terrorism and that that is a violation of the Fourth Amendment. So on that most critical level these things just stop short and really are not nearly comprehensive enough and I do not think they are going to do much to fight back the criticism.  Larry the president was asked specifically about Edward Snowden who leaked classified documents about the NSA programs. How did the president talk about him in relation to these proposed reforms that have come as a result of these leaks?  I think he tried hard not to give Snowden any credit for sparking a discussion that the president says he welcomes. He says he welcomes a discussion but he thinks that he would have - that the country would have gotten to the same place under the president's own initiative if the Snowden leaks had not happened. And he reminded us that this - Mr. Snowden is facing three felony charges that the U.S. can never get its hands on him because as we know he is now in Russia and that this is not the way to do this. And he took credit out actually for advancing whistle-blower protections that would have allowed somebody he said somebody like Edward Snowden to make these claims bring up these issues without leaking classified information.  Larry there is an interesting tension here. On the one hand the president seems to be saying the programs are legal. They are crucial to national security. They are not subject to abuse. On the other hand he says there is room for reforms. How does he have it both ways?  Well you know I think that the president is trying to be open to criticism without admitting that these programs are - without conceding to criticisms that these programs are not constitutional because it is something that his administration has been doing for years. And you know it is hard to imagine that the president of the United States would be sitting up there talking about the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for an hour if the Snowden leaks had not happened. So it is a very difficult line for him to walk and he is clearly a little bit uncomfortable about it but is trying to grab the bull by its horns and get some credit for making some changes himself.  OK. NPR's Larry Abramson. Larry thanks.  All right. Thank you. 