 As we have just been hearing Hurricane Dorian is an incredibly powerful storm. And in recent years Dorian's had a lot of company. Hurricanes Maria Irma Matthew and Florence were all Category 4 or 5 storms to name a few. So for more now on intense storms like these we are joined now by meteorologist Jeff Berardelli. Welcome.  Glad to be here.  So let me ask you are hurricanes becoming more intense and more destructive in general because it certainly feels like that? I mean is it normal to have a new Category 5 storm every year?  It is not normal. In fact the chance any one year of a Category 5 is about 20. We have seen five Category 5s in four years.  Yeah.  And your other question was are we seeing an increase? Yes we are - in the strongest of storms. There was a study done and since 1975 they said there was a substantial and observable increase in the proportion of Category 4s and 5s - in fact an increase of about 25 to 30 per degree Celsius of global warming so that is 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit. So yes there is a substantial increase in global Cat 4s and Cat 5s because of a warmer climate.  OK. And how does that work? How does climate change affect the severity of a hurricane?  Every single year we set new records for ocean heat content. So although the global temperatures may go up-and-down every year the ocean does not go up-and-down. It just only goes up and that is because 93 of the excess heat that we are trapping because of greenhouse gases is stored in the ocean - 93. Well that has to come out somehow and that is high-octane fuel for hurricanes. So the more heat that there is in the ocean especially near the surface of the ocean the stronger these systems tend to get. And that is what we are seeing.  I see. So with Dorian it is basically been hovering over the Bahamas for a while now. The storm's moving really slowly. It is dropping a ton of rain. Are we seeing slower wetter storms now?  Yeah it does seem like the latest research shows that storms are in fact slowing down especially close to the coast. And the slower they move the more rain they drop and the more destruction they cause.  Let me ask you what about - are we just seeing more hurricanes overall in the Atlantic?  No it does not look like that. In fact globally speaking there does not seem to be a trend in the number of hurricanes. And we are not sure that there is going to be. There might actually be a cap in tropical activity in terms of energy per year. And so if the intensity goes up the number may have to go down. That is just a theory but it is a possibility.  But as the intensity of storms is ramping up over the years is this a reversible pattern at all if some sort of action is taken or are we stuck dealing with more intense hurricanes going forward?  So the answer is both. We are stuck because there is a lag time. We release all this carbon dioxide other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere so we have at least another 1 degree Fahrenheit of warming that is going to happen regardless of what we do. And so hurricanes will continue to get stronger. But the other answer to your question is yes if we reduce and eventually eliminate the use of fossil fuels we start sucking carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere then later in the century there is the chance that we could reverse this trend. But as it stands right now we are certainly not on a good track to reduce our fossil fuel consumption.  That is meteorologist Jeff Berardelli. He contributes to CBS. Thank you very much.  You are welcome. 