 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Chaos or gridlock it is hard to tell which better describes the situation in at least  California's and New York's. More on the Golden State in a moment but first to Albany where pending legislation is in limbo ever since Republicans and two dissident Democrats tried to take control of the State Senate on June 8th. Here's NPR's Margot Adler on how it all began and what New Yorkers make of it.  It started weeks ago with a Republican coup. Two Democrats defected to the other party. One later came back to the fold.  A 31-to-31 stalemate in the State Senate. No one knows who is in charge. New York's governor David Paterson is considered weak. Only 21 percent of New Yorkers think he is doing a good job. Paterson demanded the senators meet even on weekends and holidays but no pending legislation has yet been passed. Republican senators went to court. Meanwhile 84 percent of registered voters told a Marist poll this was simply a power play. On the sidewalk in front of Zabar's New York's famed gourmet food store Paul Rubenstein was philosophical. Mr.  I think that those people are absolutely irresponsible for the way they are behaving but on the other hand I do not think that the New York State Constitution has any solution to address a tie in the Senate. So I have not got an intelligent suggestion of how to fix it because the fix does not exist.  But most people just threw up their hands. The voices of New Yorkers Don Yeats Rosemary Erickson and Phyllis Gates. Mr.  Oh those people are idiots. They are just idiots. Ms.  I cannot believe that adults are doing what you would not even expect of children. Ms.  What could one possibly say? It is insane.  Undisciplined and tribal were the words from another woman. Voters are clearly disgusted. And while this may seem an arcane matter pollsters found that 75 percent of registered voters in New York knew a good deal about the current crisis and most said they did not think their elected officials have their interests at heart. Seven in 10 voters said they were angry and this was almost equal among Democrats Republicans and Independents. Meanwhile the stalemate continues and it is beginning to cost the taxpayers. Apparently expenses for the senators to stay in Albany and do nothing are already approaching 100000. Margot Adler NPR News New York. 