 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. Today it was House Speaker John Boehner's turn to outline his prescription for the ailing economy. The speaker said that America's private-sector job creators are on strike. And in order to start hiring they need cuts in government regulation and tax reform.  Boehner's speech came on a day when a panel of economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal put the odds of a renewed recession at one in three. Over the past few years our co-host Robert Siegel has been visiting Chillicothe Ohio to report on the state of the economy there. Robert went back to the city this week  Unemployment is down but confidence in the economy is also in short supply.  Government offices are here though and I spoke the other day with Mayor Joe Sulzer who is about to retire from his Paint Street office. How is Chillicothe doing?  We are keeping our heads above water barely. The labor force is about 50 percent of what it was.  Fifty percent...  Fifty percent.  ...of what it was the people working for the city of Chillicothe?  Correct.  When you say 50 percent by the way from - roughly from what to what?  Approximately 40-some down to 20. And it makes it difficult for us to keep up with what the citizens of Chillicothe have become accustomed to over the years.  In the fall of 2008 when I first came here unemployment in Chillicothe and surrounding Ross County Ohio was around 8 percent. I came back in January of 2010. It was over 12 percent. Now it is 10.4 percent. Better than it was better than neighboring counties but not very good. If you do want to hear some very good economic news here go to Chillicothe is number one manufacturer the big Kenworth Truck plant.  OK this is a T700. It was named Truck of the Year by the Association of Truck Dealers the most aerodynamic truck that Kenworth makes.   Scott Blue is the plant manager at Kenworth and he is had quite a ride over the past few years. In 2008 the plant was producing over 100 trucks a day and it was looking to do more. Then as the recession hit they cut to 60 trucks a day. When I met Scott last year he would laid off workers in response to that low demand. Now the truck business is back and Kenworth is back to over 100 trucks a day. They have added 1000 jobs.  Business now is certainly much better than the last time you were here. We have been able to get all of our employees back to work and we have been able to hire even more employees. We have a second shift going now and so it is certainly a whole lot better than it was back in 2010.  What happened? Well when you sell trucks that might cost 100000 you do not build them for the showroom. Dealers get orders first and then you produce. This year Scott Blue says there was pent-up demand for new trucks.  People have not bought trucks in the past because the - a lot of the emissions changes that have happened and so forth and buyers were reluctant to spend the extra money to get the new truck. And now their costs are such that the - it costs them more to keep the old truck than it does to buy a new one so a lot of pent-up demand.  So your friend in all this was that aging old truck that the company had and the older it got the more attractive a new truck looked.  Certainly is one of the cases you bet.  So Chillicothe is biggest manufacturer is on the mend and the other big manufacturer here a local paper plant is holding its own. So that sector is doing pretty well. The outlook is more mixed at Chillicothe is other big employer Adena the local health care system.   This is a nurses' station in the new northeast wing of the Adena Medical Center. Mark Shuter the president and CEO of Adena says the system employs about 2600 people now. That is 100 more than a year ago. But Shuter says that number used to grow by about 200 a year.  If you look at the basic trend lines the recession never ended. When you go back to like May of 2008 roughly 40 percent of the people we serve had commercial insurance. That has just gradually gone down to 29 percent.  From 40 percent to 29 percent.  When you see all these other patterns of some slight lifting of unemployment most likely those people gaining employment they are not having benefits. So people have to make different decisions about their health different decisions about everything.  I hope they are making decisions about elective matters. I mean I assume you are getting the same kind of cardiac patients and the same kind of childbirth patients happen.  Well during the recession deliveries were down 30 percent. So this is going to be more the same for a long time. And so you know...  This is the new normal.  The new normal. I do not look for this to change even if the economy perked up tomorrow and there is 5 percent unemployment.  When I was here last year I met with three senior blue-collar workers at the Kenworth plant people who were coping with layoffs with college tuition for their kids with 401s that were getting eaten up in the market. Joyce Underhill Mike Miller and Rob Call are all in their 50s and they all have salaries in the 50s. They are grateful for good jobs and good times at Kenworth but they see an economy around them that is painful and scary. Here's Joyce Underhill.  There is a lot of people that do not have money to spend. For instance our church food pantry we have like tripled the amount of people that we are giving food to now. And that just stays in my mind about how bad things are out there. As for me I try to keep a positive attitude but I know for a lot of people it is not good.  The official unemployment rate for Ross County at least Chillicothe and surround is 10.4 percent. Do you have friends family or neighbors who are unemployed Mike?  You know that is like what Joyce said. That is the things that worry me about the way the economy is going because you are - like our market right now is either booming or you go to the next one and there is just nothing there. What Joyce said about her church my mother and where we go at we are seeing more and more people wanting help. The scary part of it is it is people that are out there looking for work and just cannot find anything.  Rob Call your experience of that unemployment rate?  I have a relation at work at the cabinet factory down in Waverly there and they had recently closed the doors down there. And there was several hundred people that were unemployed down there. Some of them were still out of work today but there had been a few that was able to get on up here and - Kenworth here and employ those people up here in Chillicothe so some of those people were pretty fortunate.  Well generally I would like to hear from all three of you. Do you get the sense that not just at Kenworth but in Chillicothe generally that the worst is behind you the worst of the recession happened? Or do you go to work each week thinking that either it is still bad or it could yet get worse again? Joyce you are shaking your head.  I believe that it is just stagnant. I do not feel any better now than I did two years ago.  Are there changes that you have made and your family have made in your lifestyle and what you do what you spend on that have now become permanent in your lives or - Joyce anything like that you have decided you are just will now have to do without?  Oh I thought at this point in my life my kids are gone they are on their own that I would be traveling a little bit more and it just does not seem to happen just now. I just think we need to wait see if things get any better. I have put them on hold just in case I need to help my children or my mother.  Mike you changes?  Yeah. As far as how we do things as far as a family as far as going out to eat we took our first vacation this year for the first time for a couple of years. My mother is on a fixed income Social Security and she is doing OK. But yet I go in there and I say Mom how you are doing? And she says well I am doing good. And you open up the refrigerator door and you do not see the things that you feel like should be in that refrigerator.  And Rob Call are there changes in your life?  No major purchases maintaining a three-month income level in the bank to make sure if anything major does happen you know we are good for a little while. Paying for college is a big thing right now for us. So that is pretty much where any extra cash that we have will go to help pay that off and cover that. But just trying to stay very cautious with what we do.  Well Mike Miller Joyce Underhill and Rob Call all of Kenworth Truck Plant here in Chillicothe Ohio. Thanks a lot for talking with me once again.  You are welcome.  You are welcome.  You are welcome.  This is Robert Siegel. 