 And joining us now is Harris County Judge Ed Emmett. He is the top elected official for the county that includes Houston and he directs emergency management services there. Judge Emmett thank you for making the time today.  Good afternoon.  I would like to begin with the decision you made not to evacuate Harris County and therefore the city of Houston. At a news conference on Friday you said evacuations for water are usually related to storm surge rather than rain. Let us hear just a bit of that press conference.   At this time I can re-emphasize there will be no mass evacuations called. We will have a lot of water but it is not the kind of water that we would ask people to evacuate from.  Judge Emmett was that the right decision?  Yes it was. Looking at it now you say my goodness those of us who remember the evacuation in front of Hurricane Rita it was an absolute nightmare. It was chaos. And many many people died on the roads. The other situation - the difference is when a storm surge comes you know where it is going to hit. You know which neighborhoods you need to evacuate. If it is an eight-foot storm surge we have zones. We can say how high it is going to come up on land and we evacuate those people. In a rain event like this a very significant rain event - matter of fact this is a thousand-year rain event by everybody's measure - you do not know which neighborhoods are going to be affected. So you would in essence have to evacuate the entire region not just Harris County - Galveston County Brazoria County Fort Bend County. You are talking about almost 7 million people. That is just not - and where would those 7 million go? There are not shelters set up for them. It would not have been something that people would have taken kindly to shall we say?  Right now we are hearing of people...  And it would not have been the right thing.  We are - right now we are hearing of people waiting hours on hold with 911. Do you have a sense of how big the backlog is of demand for urgent emergency response?  I do not at this time. I know it was bad. We have - in Harris County and the city of Houston we have three large 911 call centers. But again this is an event that is absolutely unprecedented. And we are pulling people out as fast as possible first responders - it was complicated even more. The state sent resources National Guard and Texas Task Force 1 but they could not get through the high water either to get here. So that is when I put out the call for private residents if they had boats to come help and coordinate it through us.  And more rain is coming which means more people will need rescuing. So is help on the way...  Well that is not - no that is...  ...Or should people expect to fend for themselves?  No no no that is not necessarily true. More rain is coming. The areas that have flooded are flooded. And now National Guard is here Texas Task Force 1 is here. And we are working as fast as we can to remove all those people out of harm's way.  So if people are concerned about rising water where they are is help on the way? Or are they more or less going to have to fend for themselves or hope that a neighbor stops by?  Well as I just said help is already here. The National Guard is now here. Texas Task Force 1 is now here. Many many private folks are also here assisting the first responders. We are pulling people out. Houston Police Department sheriff's office constables National Guard - everybody is full at it. And we are getting that number down as rapidly as we can.  Our reporters are describing shelters that do not have enough food that are already overcrowded. If more people show up to those shelters will there be enough cots for them? Will there be food for them?  There will be but the same circumstance applies. The Houston Food Bank was surrounded by water and so therefore trucks could not get in and out in order to deliver food to the Red Cross shelters. That is being done now that the National Guard is here. We have put together a plan. The first responders were pulling people out and bringing them to high ground to safe places as fast as they could. And now we have put together a logistical plan with Metro to use their buses to go pick up people and take them to the shelter. But not just any shelter. One of the lessons we have learned over - from hurricanes over the years is you really do not want people to be too far from their homes even if their homes are not livable. The children will still need to be back in school not this year - not this week but perhaps next week. People need to be close to their jobs. And we want to make this just as - we want to restore their life to as normal as possible as soon as possible.  The phrase that was used at the press conference this afternoon was we are going to have to get used to a new normal. Just briefly in the final seconds what do you see that new normal as being?  I think there will be people out of homes for years depending on how quickly FEMA can work. And FEMA is already in Texas. But again this is an unprecedented event that we have never seen. And we have to remind people Houston - Harris County did not get hit by the hurricane. There are still other parts of the state that were hit...  It is the tropical storm - Harris County Judge Ed Emmett we appreciate your time. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 