 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block. A laptop computer ramen noodles a wooden black squirrel  just some of the items that went into the Kent State University centennial time capsule this week and buried under Rizman Plaza on campus. If all goes according to plan students will unearth this steel box in 2060 - that is if. Over the years there is been talk of another time capsule supposedly buried 50 years ago to mark Kent State's semi-centennial. At the time the student newspaper made multiple references to it. But now no one can find it. Pamela Jones joins us to talk about the time capsules old and new. She is a member of Kent State University's Centennial Committee. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you.  Let us talk first about that time capsule from 1960. You think it actually exists or is this just a Kent State legend? Ms.  I am beginning to think that it might be a legend. We have contacted the actual alumni who were students at the time serving on the semi-centennial committee. Each of them say today yes we remember having a time capsule but when the drum-roll question was asked  where is it buried - no one was able to remember. We have also checked our university architect records as well as city records to learn if there is any documentation of a time capsule existing. And so far no documentation or records indicating that a 1960 time capsule actually exists.  But as we say the student newspaper did talk about it and this is not exactly ancient history here. We are talking about 50 years ago. Ms.  Yes you are right. The articles in the Daily Kent State are dated back to 1960. The information continues about the planning of the semi-centennial the celebration that took place as well. But the mention of the time capsule that information stops at a certain point. And there is no further discussion about the time capsule. So we found that to be a little odd as well.  Okay well there definitely was one buried in 2010 right? What went inside besides the things that I mentioned - the noodles the computer the squirrel? Ms.  We have wonderful items. And a lot of personal items from faculty student staff alumni as well as the city of Kent. We have items from our athletic department - uniforms bats balls golf clubs helmets. We have research manuscripts from faculty members. We have thesis papers from a variety of our honor students. Also microwave popcorn beef jerky.  Ms.  And I will tell you what I am most excited about and pleased with. I camped out in the student center for an entire week and the purpose of that was to have them write messages. They talked about women's rights religion social issues - many of our students wrote in their native language - and that is what I am most proud about. So there are hundreds of sheets of message paper and also a long scroll that has messages written on it from students.  I am thinking this is a pretty hefty time capsule you are talking about here. How big is it? Ms.  It is 36-by-36-by-36 inches.  Did you reject anything? Something anybody wanted to put in that you just said sorry we have got no more room? Ms.  Nope. Nothing was rejected. I am an excellent packer.  Ms.  So we stuffed every item in. No items were rejected at all.  Okay and if we hear anything from our listeners about that phantom time capsule from 1960 we are going to send them your way okay? Ms.  Please do.  Okay. Pamela Jones thanks so much. Ms.  Thank you.  Pamela Jones is academic program and student development coordinator for Kent State University and a member of the school's centennial committee. 