 The Caribbean is hurting today. Hurricane Maria has hit the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico hard. The storm came at the islands with powerful force. And to make matters worse it hit areas still recovering from Hurricane Irma. Earlier today I spoke with Carlos Mercader. He is the Washington D.C.-based representative for the governor of Puerto Rico. And I asked him what could he tell us about the situation on the ground?  We have got to understand that this is a historic storm. We have not seen something like this ever - in the region or at least in the last a hundred years. So damages on the island - it is a devastation. The one thing that we are proud of is that we were prepared. And it is very difficult to basically do everything possible so that your infrastructure does not suffer. But the one thing that we were able to accomplish which is saving lives - up until this day we do not have any casualties...  No deaths.  ...Out of the hurricane. So in that sense you know I do not know what is going to be ensuing within the next couple of days. But up until now we do not have any casualties.  Can you tell us how bad that damage is to property?  Yes of course. Yeah - no it is - well OK. Two weeks ago that the Irma - when it passed by Puerto Rico the eye did not go through the island.  Right.  But even though it basically jumped the island the reality is that there were more than a billion dollars in losses in Puerto Rico - in damages. Right now the eye of the storm entered through the northeastern part of the island. It went across the island. You know a couple of hours ago the eye left the island. So it was - the island was receiving winds - like hurricane winds from 3 a.m. in the morning up until like 4 p.m. 6 p.m. in the evening.  So...  Almost - it was too much. For too long we were you know being hit with catastrophic conditions. So damages are going to be - you have got to multiply that billion by 10 20 - I do not know.  Well we have heard reports that the entire island has lost power. Is that true?  That is right. That is right.  The entire island?  The entire island yeah without electricity...  Before...  ...And 70 percent without water.  Before the storm we heard on our program from Puerto Rico's governor that the power grid was extremely fragile...  That is right.  ...And that if it did go down it could be months down. Is that going to be the case? Is Puerto Rico going to be going months without power?  I believe so. The...  Really?  Yes yes. But it was that kind of a storm.  But what happens to say hospitals? We heard today from an administrator of the children's hospital in Puerto Rico's capital San Juan. And he told us that the hospital can survive for maybe three four days on generator power. But after that the situation could be catastrophic.  Yeah. So thankful...  So how is that going to be managed?  Yeah. So thankfully we have been planning for this. And we have a big number of brigades that are going to start working immediately only on the electric grids - right? - on the energy grids. Plus we have been collaborating with FEMA Department of Energy personnel and also with Army personnel that they are - right now they have boots on the ground in Puerto Rico. So as soon as the rain stop they are going to start working immediately on this because they all know that this is the main issue that we need to tackle the electric - energy.  That was Carlos Mercader. He is the Washington D.C.-based representative for the governor of Puerto Rico. Thank you very much for coming in and talking to us.  Yeah thank you. 