 And as we said the extreme heat is now making its way to the East Coast. New York City is now enjoying its first official heat wave of the year. The mercury could reach 100 degrees by the end of the week there. We sent NPR's Joel Rose to find out how people who work outside are staying cool on the job or elsewhere.  There is plenty of advice out there about how to survive a New York City heat wave. Here's one memorable suggestion from Marilyn Monroe in The Seven Year Itch.  Ms.   Let me just go put something on. I will go into the kitchen and get dressed. Mr.   The kitchen? Ms.   Yes. When it is hot like this you know what I do? I keep my undies in the icebox. Mr.   In the icebox?  OK. So maybe refrigerating your underwear will not really keep you cool if you are toiling away in a food truck in midtown Manhattan. For that Tan Vir recommends lassi. Mr.  Lassi. That is a special drink a summer drink of India. It is called lassi. It is yogurt with water and black pepper and basil seeds.  And does that work? Does it keep you cool? Mr.  Oh yeah it does. It is working for a billion people in India so it is going to work for 300 million here you know?  Vir runs an Indian food cart at 39th Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan. Lassi notwithstanding he says heat waves like this one are not good for business. Mr.  People do not go out you know as much as like what they normally go out you know? People you know scared of going out in the heat. So it does affect our business here about 30 percent. Mr.  Good morning guys. Going up to the Empire? Would you like to go up to the Empire State Building? Anybody going up sir?  A few blocks south Joseph Jackson stands in the middle of Broadway for hours in the midday sun hawking tickets to tour the Empire State Building. So how does he cool off? Mr.  I drink a lot of water. That is the best thing to do. Anything else does not help. Gatorade Pepsi none of that works. It is water.  It was also business as usual at Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn where construction of a new basketball arena is under way. Electrician Steve Lewis is rewiring streetlights on Flatbush Avenue near the future arena. Mr.  Nothing's different. Just do your job and make sure you drink a lot of water to stay cool. This is nothing. Wait until Friday right?  And sometimes the best way to beat the heat at work is not to work at all. The Skee-Ball machines and roller coasters at Coney Island were full of people playing hooky from something or other. Merlin Fahey took the day off from his job at the City University of New York. Mr.  It is like we just come down here to be among families and to watch people and just relax. I mean my bones relax once we hit the you know near the water. It is just wonderful.  Brenda Turner took the day off from her job as a caterer to bring her young nieces and nephews to the beach. Ms.  We came all the way from Queens. How long did it take in the train?  Like 45 minutes.  Why do you like it here?  Because there is all the rides and there is the beach and you get to swim and relax.  How about for you? Do you get to relax too? Ms.  Yes I do. As long as these guys are happy that is relaxing for me.  The Turners may want to plan another trip to Coney Island tomorrow. The forecast for the rest of the week calls for temperatures around 100. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 