 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Audie Cornish. Lots of people have tough jobs. Few face bigger challenges than the postmaster general. The man who holds that job Patrick Donahoe is tasked with making the Postal Service relevant in a digital smartphone world. The Postal Service faces huge financial losses and dwindling mail volume so Donahoe needs to make changes. And to do it he has to work with a reluctant Congress and union officials who have their own ideas about how things should be run. NPR's Yuki Noguchi has this profile.  It is a strange irony that what originally drew Patrick Donahoe to postal work was the money.  4.76 an hour. And in 1975 that was a lot of money. So I thought well I will try that for a while until I am done with school and I never left.  In 37 years he is occupied nearly every position at the Postal Service.  Vehicle maintenance airport operations accounting personnel labor relations...  The Postal Service is one of the largest employers in the country but is saddled with enormous retirement and health care costs it cannot afford. It is running billions of dollars in the red and has had to borrow heavily from the U.S. Treasury. Its main source of revenue first-class mail is falling off. It is trying to grow its package delivery business. But there it competes with FedEx and UPS and technological change is swift. Donahoe grew up in Pittsburgh coming of age at a time when that city was shaped by its own rapidly declining industry.  In the '80s we lost the steel industry. Gone. I witnessed 100000 people lose their jobs because people did not pay attention to what was going on in the economy.  Donahoe is closing some mail-sorting facilities and reducing hours at less-trafficked post offices. Reining in costs is not just a business challenge it is politically fraught. That is because though its operations are not taxpayer funded the Postal Service is also controlled by Congress which mandates delivery of mail to every household in the US and requires it to pre-fund retiree benefits decades into the future. This hybrid governance structure not surprisingly leads to tension. Donahoe's most public skirmish with Capitol Hill came earlier this year when he announced plans to save money by ending Saturday letter delivery without congressional approval. Two months later Congress forced him to scrap those plans. Gerry Connolly a Democratic congressman from Virginia blasted Donahoe.  Basically flouting the will of Congress on issues like six-day delivery versus five-day delivery. I think that was a sorry episode a series of real misjudgments by the postmaster general that I think ended up hurting his credibility and hurting the Postal Service. Postal workers' unions agree saying Donahoe misunderstands the problem. Fredric Rolando president of the National Association of Letter Carriers testified before Congress in April on the Postal Service's financial crisis.  It is not merely the result of technological change the bad economy or poor management though those factors have contributed.  Rolando claims reducing required retiree contributions would solve most fiscal problems without reducing deliveries. Donahoe counters it is the unions who are misguided.  I think they are not reflective of their membership. I speak to the people in the field and time and time and again they have said to me do not give up on this stuff. My job's at stake.  Polls indicate the public supports ending Saturday letter delivery. So does California Republican Congressman Darrell Issa who this month introduced a bill that among other things would allow that cut. Donahoe says he does not like the political crossfire. He demurs when asked his party affiliation.  I better not say.   I am not going to tell you what I am but I am probably different than most people think.  But he lights up when discussing stamps especially collectibles.  We think this will keep people interested.  Donahoe owns every stamp printed since 1892. He opens a box of sheets of reprinted vintage stamps.  ...These are proof sheets. They are stamps but they are not cut so...  Generating almost pure profit for the Postal Service he notes. But the fact is stamp collecting is not exactly in vogue.  See everybody knows how to do Facebook and iPads and stuff like that. But that kind of stuff that is a lost art. That is a shame. That is a problem because there is a lot fewer people who write today.  Donahoe laments the current state of things. He may be nostalgic but he also says that in order to survive the Postal Service must embrace the future. Yuki Noguchi NPR News Washington. 