 Last year we brought you the story of a young victim of war - a 6-year old Afghan girl who was severely burned. She received life-changing medical treatment here in the U.S. The journey from central Afghanistan to Los Angeles changed her life as well as the lives of the two women who cared for her. Reporter Gloria Hillard has an update now on us Arefa's Story.  When I first met Arefa last September she was a 6-year-old in Hello Kitty shoes who had turned the daily changing of her head bandages into a counting game.   OK. Ready Freddy? One...  Two three four five.  Staci Freeman and her sister Jami Valentine had taken in a child ravaged by the war in Afghanistan. Freeman says when Arefa arrived third-degree burns mapped her body and her head was an open bleeding wound.  When she came she came crying and in pain and her head hurt.  For months they bore witness to her pain sat vigil after surgeries and held her through both silent and excruciating screams. When she had healed to where she could return to Afghanistan they hoped - prayed - they would see her again.  Yeah. I think anytime I saw something with Afghanistan and especially that had to do with kids like immediately I would think of her. It is like I would picture her little face and think oh you know I pray it is not her. I pray it is not her family.  The child they had grown to love left behind her fingerprints on everything along with her drawings an errant sock and the stuffed animals that could not fit into the suitcase. The sisters kept them for her in a large box in the living room. Today they are back on the furniture.   My tickle.  Oh are you tickling?  Where are my little babies?  Jami Valentine says the child that returned this summer had not only grown a few inches taller...  There is been a much more goofy side. She is been very wiggly and dancey and just funny and laughing a lot. So I feel like she came back a different little girl for sure.  Arefa was just 3 when she was badly burned after a rocket-propelled IED engulfed her family's tent in flames. When U.S. doctors saw her they said it was a miracle she had survived those years. Today her most serious physical wounds are healed but her emotional ones still glow in the dark.  It is only at night that I remember. It is just this glimpse I have of what her life is like at home and ongoing. She talks about - ongoing - of being scared at night of hearing helicopters of waking up her dad of crying - all of those things. So night is a time that I kind of remember oh this is a little girl who has walked through some hard times and is continuing to walk through hard and scary times.  She still needs another surgery. Scar tissue prevents her from closing her eyes when she sleeps. Arefa along with other children from Afghanistan were brought here for medical assistance by the nonprofit Solace for the Children. Valentine says as the planned U.S. troop withdrawal from Afghanistan looms it is becoming more difficult for the humanitarian organization to do its work.  As things get worse it is getting harder and harder for us to get visas for the kids. I just wanted to make sure that if I sent her back that she is in a spot where she can live a healthy life because I do realize apart from anything else there is a very real chance that it just will not work for her to come again with everything going on in our world.  They knew this would be a shorter stay and then the day arrived too quickly. The flight from LAX was leaving in three hours. Arefa sat atop a bright-pink carry-on clutching a stuffed dolphin she named Flower. Everyone wanted a picture of Arefa but the 7-year-old wanted to look at the photo album Jami and Staci made for her.  Oh look at all the pool ones you have got.  Yeah.  A few hoola-hoops.  Yeah hoola-hoop.  We have been saying goodbye for probably a solid week now and I talk about being sad and she is talked about being sad.  And together they had been practicing something.  What was it? You are strong...  Strong and brave and happy!  Yes. Strong and brave not scared and happy. Yeah.  The plane is departing in 40 minutes and Arefa's host moms are trying not to think about their return to a quiet apartment.  She left notes. She liked to write notes so I think inevitably we will probably be finding Post-it Notes and different things around the house with her little scribbling with her name on it. Our house is her so...  The boarding passes are finally issued. Arefa jumps into Jami's arms and then Staci's. These goodbyes are whispered. When tears start to roll down Arefa's face she buries her head in Jami's arms. The sisters remind her once again that she is brave and strong and happy. Arefa grabs the handle of her suitcase.  Are you gonna hold Flower on the airplane and make sure he is buckled in safe?  One of Arefa's favorite things to do is to run - along the beach in the park. So maybe that is why when Arefa looked back over her shoulder the sisters smiled waved and told her to run - run fast.  Keep running. Go go we gotta go. Hurry. Bye. Go!  This time she did not look back. For NPR News I am Gloria Hillard. 