 We are continuing to follow the catastrophic flooding in Houston where rising flood waters have trapped many people in their homes. But 911 dispatchers are being swamped with calls so some people have taken to Twitter to ask for help. That is where we saw a message from 19-year-old Jada Wilson. We reached her in northeast Houston where she is stuck in her grandmother's home in waist-deep water.  I am with my six other family members. My four siblings are here with me and my dad and my grandma.  When did all this start?  Well the rain and the winds probably started like yesterday afternoon - not even afternoon - probably a little later than that but then it picked up really quickly. 30 a.m. our house started to flood.  Were you awake?  Yes. We - well most of us did not really steep through the storm. And we were awake. But by then once the water started seeping into the house there was no way we could leave.  Where are you right now in the house? I hear water. I can hear water. So where are you?  Oh yeah. We are waist-deep in it. And we are - well right now we are just like kind of wandering around the house looking for other things that we can pick up that might be valuable. We mainly just stay in the kitchen because it is the one room in the house that has a light on - that was able to use a light.  Yeah. Do you have any water anything to drink? Have you had anything to eat?  We have not had anything at all to eat. We have been up for more than 15 hours probably and our water supply is not low. It is just that we do not have much access to it. Some of it is just floating around. Others of it is stuck in our fridge which is currently floating in our kitchen.  And have you called for help? I mean what are you being told to do right now?  We have been told to get on the roof which we tried. And it is just too dangerous with all the rain that is still continuing to go and that we could possibly slip off because we do not very have easy access to our roof. And we have called so many numbers. We have tried every number that we possibly can any number that was handed to me on social media any number that is been advertised. We cannot get ahold of anyone. There was one person - our friend that got ahold of 911 for us. And he lives on the opposite side of town. They said they are sending in the Coast Guard but we are on a waitlist and we just have to wait to be rescued which we do not know when that would be. It could be tonight. It could be tomorrow.  So you are just standing in this water right now.  Yes.  Everybody's just kind of standing and kind of - how is your grandmother?  Oh she is not well. We have all been panicking. She is been panicking the most since this is her house. She and my grandfather built this house.  Do you feel - I know this is not like your main preoccupation right now. It is like getting out of there. But do you feel you should have been told to leave? I mean if you had been ordered to leave would you have left? Do you think you could have safely left?  I do not think at the time we could have safely left. If we had been told to leave earlier in the week if we did not have jobs and schools to go to we probably would have left way sooner. But we were pretty much given a false hope that things would not be so bad for Houston in particular.  How is the rest of the family holding up?  Not too well. We are extremely cold. This water - it just gets colder and colder.  Well Jada thank you so much for speaking with us. I am very sorry that you know we are meeting under these circumstances and we are all thinking about you and your family. And you know we are hoping for the best. And we certainly are glad to at least know where you are and we will keep checking in with you as long as the power holds out. And you know we hope that someone comes to get you soon.  All right. Thank you so much.  All right. Take care. 