 As we have heard the barrier islands of North Carolina's Outer Banks lay squarely in the path of Hurricane Irene and they are under evacuation orders. The small island of Ocracoke is accessible only by boat. Tourists were evacuated yesterday. Ocracoke residents were told to leave today. Well among those staying behind Leslie Lanier and her husband Beaver Tillett. I asked Leslie why they are still there with this powerful storm headed toward them.  There is a lot of answers to that. It is our home. We are staying to protect our home and do what we can do. When we do leave it is very difficult to get back. And it costs a lot of money to leave. It is hundreds of dollars when you leave the island.  Is anything that you are hearing about this storm making you rethink where you are right now? Are you thinking we really should be starting to go?  Absolutely absolutely. Every minute that you listen. But my husband's a commercial fisherman. Everything we own is here and we are going to stay and take care of it.  Has there been a hurricane that you have evacuated Ocracoke for before?  Absolutely. I left for Hurricane Isabel in 2003.  And was that the right decision?  It was the right decision for me. I had two young children. I had probably about a three-year-old and a six-year-old and if I had young children I would be out of here but I do not. They are older and they are a lot of help now.  Was Isabel the only hurricane that you left for?  No. I think one of the first ones I left for I think was Hurricane Bertha I believe. I was pregnant. And then Hurricane Dennis and Floyd in 1999. I had a son born right after Hurricane Dennis right before Hurricane Floyd.  So you have some pretty long history with this.  Yes.  Yeah.  Yes. It will be fine. It is all going to be good.  It is all going to be good. How do you know?  You know you cannot go into it not thinking anything else. You have to be positive. You also do not have to be drunk. I will not be at drunken hurricane parties. I think it is wise not to see how much you can drink during a hurricane.  That is probably very wise advice.  Yeah.  Ms. Lanier I gather that your husband is there with you Beaver Tillett. I wonder if you could put him on the phone.  Sure.  Hello.  Hi Mr. Tillett. How are you?  All right.  Now you are a fisherman right?  Yes madam.  Well what do you think about Irene headed your way and your decision to stay?  Well it is really going to mess our fishing season up. We are getting ready to come up for flounder season. It starts in September and goes through November and we catch the flounder when they are leaving the sound to go to the ocean for the winter and that'ill pretty much be devastation for that.  Really? So you are worried about your livelihood there?  Yes madam.  And what about just the impact of the storm itself on where you are?  Well if it comes on up the sound we are definitely going to get water in liable to be waste deep liable to be neck deep but it is just not going to be a very pretty scenario. That is for sure.  You know a lot of people listening to this are just wondering right now why you are still there if it looks like it is going to be bad as they are saying it is.  Well we have left before and went to Greenville North Carolina and the Tar River overflowed like they drowned us there with half of Greenville eastern North Carolina and it is just more scary away than it is here.  Really?  Yes.  Even though you are right there on the Outer Banks?  Yes madam.  How do you explain that?  I do not know. I guess it is just born in you.  What do you mean?  Well it is just everybody that is always lived here I mean through the years and generations we are from here and that is just what you had to do. Years ago you did not know a storm was coming until it was too late so you had no choice but to stay.  Well Mr. Tillett we wish you all the best.  Yes madam.  And to you and your wife Leslie Lanier thank you very much.  All right. Thank you very much.  Oh thank you so much Melissa.  Leslie Lanier and Beaver Tillett are staying on Ocracoke Island North Carolina at least for now.   This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News.  