 Earlier this afternoon I spoke with Senator Mark Begich Democrat of Alaska before he headed into the briefing that Ailsa was talking about. I asked him what questions he wanted answered.  How does the process work? Does the court system just rubber-stamp the kind of requests that are coming forward? It is clear to me and more and more daily that the expansion of this program has been pretty significant. I am concerned now they have expanded beyond maybe what the original bill had said. And of course the revisions of this bill and the updates on the bill I have voted against because of this concern. And now it is become apparent that these concerns are probably valid.  Are not the aggregate numbers from the FISA court given to Congress every year? And they detail exactly how many measures have been approved how many have been modified over the years.  Right but also it is not clear for example - I want to make - I want to hear it - and that is because it is - by those reports it does not look like they have rejected any requests.  But they have modified them. They have had the administration change the parameters.  Yeah but what does that mean? You know what I mean? The words saying that they could have modified it to just meet a certain need and at the end of the day they still are expanding the definition of what the law intended. And that is what I need to understand is have they gone beyond what the law's intent was? But at the same time the public really deserves an understanding of the process not just to us 100 U.S. senators or even just the Intelligence Committee which is really the one that gets more briefed on this. We should understand how they are going about this in a little more depth. It does not mean they have to give up their positions of security. We just need to make sure and find the right balance between security and privacy.  Senator Begich when Congress reauthorized the Patriot Act did it in effect authorized data collection like this?  I did not vote for it.   Well but Congress did. It did pass Congress.  Yeah well I disagreed and I felt like it would go beyond where I think the public viewed this legislation.  The head of NSA Keith Alexander told the Senate yesterday that dozens of terrorist events were thwarted because of NSA surveillance. Does that argument sway you in any way?  Well I guess you know I would want to know - as you remember some of the questions that came in from the panel he could not answer them because they had to be in a confidential setting. And he even noted that maybe there is some information that could become more public and transparent which is exactly what we want to know because I think more people want to understand how this process works. I cannot tell you if that one single - and I do not think he said that that one single act of a phone tap thwarted that terrorist act. He said they thwarted dozens of terrorist potential attacks but that was through multiple means. It was not just this issue. So I want to see how much this weighs in. But even he noted yesterday that they should review and maybe there is additional information that would be public. And that is what I am looking for is what is the right balance here between privacy and protecting an important part of what makes our country great at the same time recognizing we do have security risks that we have to deal with and creating that right balance. And I think he even was starting to lean in to say those comments in his testimony.  Senator Begich I want to play you a bit of an exchange from a Senate hearing in March. This was a question posed to the director of National Intelligence James Clapper by your fellow Democratic Senator Ron Wyden.   And later Mr. Clapper said that he responded in the most truthful or at least - or the least untruthful manner. He also said his answer was too cute by half this past weekend. Others have said he was lying to Congress and he should be fired. What is your take on what Mr. Clapper said?  Well I think you know that is what I worry about - just that kind of statement. They are too - they parse their words. And what he should have said is if he felt that was a risk to public security to be able to answer that question publicly he should have said that. And I think the president should take into account anyone who misleads Congress in any form and take that as a serious situation and one that he should respond to. Now I will leave it to the president to make the decision of who he keeps. But I will tell you the credibility of the individual drops rapidly when you know he parse his words and later says well maybe I was not as truthful as I should have been. Well that is a problem.  Senator Mark Begich Democrat of Alaska. Senator Begich thanks for your time.  Thank you. Have a great day. 