 Fifty years ago farmworkers in Texas walked off their jobs to protest low pay and terrible working conditions. They marched across the state in the searing summer heat. Many of them were beaten and arrested. It is a historic event rarely mentioned in history books. Now some of those marchers are telling their stories. From KUT's the Texas Standard Joy Diaz reports.  Daria Vera has never forgotten that brutally hot summer back in 1966.  .  Wait for me here she says as she goes to the back room of her tiny home. Vera comes back holding a box and shows me some of her pictures.  .  Pointing to a little girl on the picture Vera says this is my daughter. She was so little probably 2 years old always with us even during the strike. In 1966 Vera was only 20. Both she and her husband picked onions and cantaloupes for a living with their child by their side.  .  Renters used to pay us 40 cents an hour for picking cantaloupes she says. Wages were so low that kids as young as 5 would join in the picking to add to a family's income. Just to put things in perspective sanitation workers at the time made about 1.27 an hour - three times more than a farmworker.  .  Out of the box comes another photo. .  .  Who are these people I ask. They are some of the farmworkers who went on strike she says.  .  Do you want to hear from them? Come. Let us visit Valdemar Diaz. He lives nearby.  .  It is a hot day in Rio Grande City Texas about 15 minutes from the U.S.-Mexico border. Trees surround the Diaz mobile home. We wait in the shade.  .  When Diaz joins us under a tree he says before the strike working conditions for south Texas farmworkers were the stuff of nightmares. Bathrooms were nonexistent medical services - a fantasy and even drinking water was a luxury.  .  I remember we would drink from puddles left by the irrigation system he says full of frogs and crickets. We would push the critters out of the way and drink from the puddles. In the spring of '66 the workers decided to walk off the job. Union leaders from California including Cesar Chavez came to Texas and helped organize the strike. Their demands were simple. They wanted work contracts wages of 1.25 an hour water breaks and access to bathrooms.  .  It was like heading into war Diaz says because ranchers were not budging. Indeed ranchers dissed the farmworkers' demands and called in the Texas Rangers.  .  They used to beat us up Vera says and would arrest us. But the Rangers - their beatings even the arrests failed to break the strike so ranchers opted for a different route. They started bussing in workers from Mexico. Strikers knew their only hope for success was to damage the ranchers financially so they blocked the U.S.-Mexico bridge in Roma Texas.  .  They handcuffed me behind my back Vera says they dragged me across the bridge and arrested me. By summer it was clear the strike alone was failing but unrest was palpable all over the country. Inspired by the famous Selma to Montgomery march led by Martin Luther King in '65 farmworkers in Texas decided to march too.  We started right about right here.  Erminia Ramirez Trevino was only 13 the day the march kicked off.  From Rio Grande City all the way to Austin Texas. It took us two months.  Change took much longer - years. So I ask Daria Vera was it all worth it?  .  Oh yes she says workers should be proud of what we did.  .  Today fields in Texas have port-a-potties and water stations for workers. Workers are entitled to earn the federal minimum wage. One thing has not changed though. Farm work in Texas is still plagued with abuse and those who dare to speak up on this side of the border continue to be easily replaced by those from the other side. For NPR News I am Joy Diaz in Rio Grande City Texas. 