 Scientists are always looking for new ways to get data. That is especially true for ocean and coastal research where the sheer scale and environmental challenges can be overwhelming. NPR's Nathan Rott spent some time with a researcher who is pushing a novel way to get more data sensors in the water by giving them to the people who seek out some of the wildest parts of the ocean - surfers.  You know you are in for a good day of reporting when the person you are interviewing directs you to meet him on a sandy beach north of San Diego and to bring your surfboard. You must be Phil.  I am Phil.  What is up? Dr. Phil Bresnahan is that interviewee. He is an oceanographer with the Scripps Institution of Oceanography.  Good to meet you.  Good to meet you too. He is wearing a wet suit his surfboard at his feet and he is holding the reason that we are both here - a surfboard fin no thicker than a quarter that is packed with technology.  So this is it. We have two different versions. We have a longboard version single fin and then short board side fin.  Now these fins for those who do not surf are what go under the back of a board. They are shaped like a shark's dorsal fin and help give a surfboard stability as it is cutting across a wave. Only this fin - the smartfin as they call it - does more than that. It also records second-by-second data.  Temperature and motion.  As in temperature of the water around the fin and motion or orientation of the board once it is slid into the fin box and secured...  All right.  ...And turned on by three taps to the side of the board.  So one two three.  Oh yeah.  And it is on.  OK so why should you care? As Bresnahan points out buoys across the ocean already give us information about waves and currents. Satellites already provide us incredible measurements of the ocean's temperature from space. That is all great Bresnahan says.  But getting smaller resolution finer resolution on temperature data can be really tricky 'ecause it means putting a lot of sensors out.  And that finer data could be hugely helpful in understanding global issues like climate change or coral reef die-offs a result of marine heat waves. The problem is coral reefs and coasts shallow areas...  Those can be the most dynamic and essentially violent places to put sensors.  So instead Bresnahan says the idea is to put the sensors on the boards of people who seek out that madness recording site-specific information that gets uploaded to your phone and a database using Bluetooth when you are out of the water that oceanographers can later pore over. They have given out more than 200 of these fins so far with the hope of putting out many more. But right now a big set of waves is coming through. So...  You going to surf?  Yeah let us surf.  All right.  ...Priorities. Nathan Rott NPR News. 