 President Biden fell short of his goal of having 70 of adults get their first COVID-19 shot by July Fourth. Today he announced the next steps in the campaign to get more people vaccinated.   We have to keep it up though. We have to keep it up till we are finished.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith joins us now. Hi Tam.  Hi Ari.  Why did not the administration reach its goal and what is the new target?  Well this is an administration that has made a habit of setting goals. But today there is no new tangible numerical goal no new target. They are still pushing to vaccinate as many Americans as possible. And frankly they are still trying to reach that goal of 70 of U.S. adults getting their first COVID shot. So why did not they make it? It was not for a lack of trying and there were no major missteps. But part of it was underestimating how much demand would slow down. There has been an inability to break through with people who continue to have concerns or not trust the vaccines. There is a steady flow of misinformation and there are significant regional disparities in vaccination rates with Southern and some Midwestern states just really lagging.  So what are the new steps to get more people vaccinated? And how different are they from what the administration's been doing?  They are going to wind down - and have been - the mass vaccination sites and focus on places where people can have one-on-one conversations that could possibly break through with people who are hesitant or complacent or may have gotten that misinformation. There will be a renewed emphasis on getting vaccines to primary care providers and pediatricians partnerships with employers and an expansion of mobile clinics to connect with people in hard-to-reach communities. Here's how President Biden described this next phase.   Now we need to go to community by community neighborhood by neighborhood and ofttimes door to door - literally knocking on doors - to get help to the remaining people protected from the virus.  And one initiative they talked about a while back that is getting new emphasis is working with schools and family doctors and pediatricians to make sure that if kids 12 and older are coming in for like a back-to-school physical or sports physical that they are offered a COVID vaccine there as well. And eventually they do expect the vaccines will get authorization for younger children also.  Now on the topic of schools some colleges are starting to mandate vaccination for students to return to in-person learning. Where does the White House stand on vaccine mandates?  They are proceeding with extreme caution and have made it clear that they do not intend for the federal government to require vaccination. Press secretary Jen Psaki has also made it clear they do not intend to be in the vaccine verification business either. They are not even talking about checking to see whether travelers from other countries are vaccinated. At this point they are leaving it to schools and businesses to put mandates in place if they choose. And they are offering to support those entities if they want to make it easier for people to gain access to vaccines right there.  And where does the more contagious delta variant fit into all of this?  The White House is standing by CDC guidance that says if someone is fully vaccinated they are protected even against the delta variant. They can go without a mask. They can shake hands hug attend concerts or in the president's case a great big Fourth of July barbecue on the South Lawn of the White House. But given that now there are outbreaks happening in areas with low vaccination rates the White House says the delta variant is just another reason to get vaccinated sooner rather than later because at this point virtually any death from COVID in the U.S. was preventable.  That is NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thank you.  You are welcome. 