 Here's some news out of Afghanistan that is not about American clashes with the Karzai government or the Taliban. This is about the ledger book. Reports from the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction show mind-numbing spending decisions on military facilities that will never be used. In addition there are details about multimillion-dollar waste incinerators that are sitting idle while troops continue to inhale unhealthy air from open burn pits. The special inspector general behind these reports is John Sopko a former Capitol Hill counsel and organized crime prosecutor and he joins me now. Thank you for coming in.  You are welcome.  Let us start with this massive headquarters that is just wrapped up construction at Camp Leatherneck. That is the Marine base in Helmand Province Afghanistan. It cost 34 million and according to you - and I quote from the report - It is unused unoccupied and presumably will never be used for its intended purposes. How is that?  Well because it was originally built for the surge for an Army headquarters and before it was constructed the Army decided not to move in to there. So the Marine Corps was supposed to take it over. The Marine Corps general - and this is back in 2010 - said I do not want it. Do not build it. I will not use it. So stop construction. A year later construction began. And so it was constructed over the last two years and nobody wants it and it is a beautiful building that is not being used currently.  Does it have any potential use for the Afghans for some other activity?  Well I do not believe the Afghans have been spoken to about this. They probably cannot use it themselves because it would cost so much money to maintain it and to retrofit it. It was built to U.S. standards for electric and everything else and they just do not have the capability or the money to sustain it.  Do we know who the contractor is? Who - at the time?  Oh we do know who the contractor was and I have no criticism against the contractor. The contractor did what they were told. It is actually the best building I have ever seen in Afghanistan. It is better than my current headquarters. It is better than the Pentagon. But...  It is just useless is what you are saying.  It is just useless. It is a 34 million waste of the taxpayers' money.  NPR's Tom Bowman reported about that as did The Washington Post's Rajiv Chandrasekaran who also pointed out a 45 million facility for repairing armored vehicles and an 80 million consulate building in Northern Afghanistan neither of which will be used as intended.  That is correct. I have seen both. This is just the tip of the iceberg. There are plenty of buildings and plenty of equipment that is not needed. We have seen this time and time again.  These are projects that were really - that people broke ground for as we were clearly on the way out of Afghanistan?  Oh absolutely. I mean the joke in my office is we will eventually see a base where on one side of the base they are destroying it while on the other side they are building it and they will probably meet in the middle. It epitomizes what we have seen and that is if you appropriate it they will spend it.  Today you have a new report about open-air burn pits at Camp Leatherneck while huge incinerators sit idle. And these incinerators are there in part because people had detected this problem in Iraq already.  You are absolutely correct. And this is a real tragedy. This was a lesson we learned in Iraq. Congress responded put money into various appropriations bills to build incinerators. The problem is the incinerators are either poorly constructed too small or unusable. So we continue to build incinerators. In this case in Leatherneck it was over 12 million incinerators. And they are not sufficient so we are still continuing the burn pits and still creating that health hazard for our soldiers and civilians.  You - in that report you say - you were told well the incinerator is going to be working within two weeks then you made a couple of return visits and the incinerators still were not working.  That is correct. That is usually the standard line we get. You wait a few weeks or wait a month and come back and it will be working with the assumption that we will never come back. In this case we actually have people on the ground who can visit on a daily basis.  Eighty billion dollars has been spent on the reconstruction. Even 80 million is a very small fraction of that. Do you think you have scratched the surface of what is been misspent in the reconstruction of Afghanistan?  We have started to scratch the surface. I think what we have identified are some of the key problems that cause the wasting of money. But I cannot say we have looked at all 90-some billion that actually have been appropriated. But we are - we have a target-rich environment over in Afghanistan to say the least.   As a...  As a former prosecutor and as an investigator it is target-rich.  Well John Sopko thank you very much for talking with us.  You are welcome.  John Sopko is the special inspector general for Afghan reconstruction.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 