 President Biden says the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan will continue - this despite the deaths of 13 U.S. service members and dozens of Afghan civilians in an attack by ISIS-K. That is the Islamic State affiliate in Central Asia. It is the biggest single day loss of life for U.S. troops in years. And Biden vowed that there would be a response to the attack.   Those who carried out this attack as well as anyone who wishes America harm know this. We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will hunt you down and make you pay.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez was in the room for the speech. He joins me now. Franco what more did the president say about how the U.S. might respond to this attack? FRANCO ORDOEZ  Well Audie he said ISIS-K was responsible for the attack. He said the U.S. would respond at a moment of its choosing. But he also emphasized that it will not affect the mission over the next few days. Now they are trying to get out as many Americans as well as as many Afghans who help U.S. forces as possible. But the August 31 deadline is looming and he also needs to get troops and equipment out. And after the withdrawal there are questions about how difficult it will be to get intelligence on terror threats from groups inside of Afghanistan.  The president was also asked about maintaining this withdrawal deadline - right? - of August 31. Where does the evacuation effort stand? ORDO Well the State Department says that about 1000 Americans remain in Afghanistan. Some of them want to remain or at least they are not ready to leave yet. But there are also thousands of Afghan people many of whom helped troops during the 20-year war. And they are trying to get out too. Groups working with them are really worried that many of them will be left behind and that they will be at risk. I asked the president about that today specifically and he said they are going to continue to try to get them out.  Even before today's attack President Biden was under criticism for how he was handling the U.S. withdrawal effort. Did he get asked about that? How did he respond? ORDO Yeah he did. He was pressed on whether he is responsible for what happened and he did say he takes responsibility. But he was also quick to blame his predecessor for the situation he is in. It was also interesting Audie how he defended the U.S. working with the Taliban a group that has been the U.S. enemy during this long war. Biden says the U.S. does not trust the Taliban but there is a mutual interest. The U.S. is trying to get out. The Taliban wants the U.S. out but it also does not want Isis-K to take hold in the country. Now Biden also said this tragedy underscores why he wanted to get out of the 20-year war. And he said it is too dangerous and he did not want to see more troops lose their lives.  What did he have to say about the troops who did? ORDO Well the White House says the family members are still being notified by the Pentagon. Press secretary Jen Psaki was asked about whether Biden would go to Dover Del. That is the base where caskets of U.S. troops killed in action are received for somber ceremonies. She said the president will do everything he can to honor their sacrifice and she also said flags at public buildings would be lowered to half-staff.  That is NPR's Franco Ordoez at the White House tonight. Thank you. ORDO Thank you. 