 More now with Dr. Mark Emmert the president of the NCAA and formerly president of the University of Washington. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  Let me ask you first why did not you impose what they call the death penalty and shut down the Penn State football program for a year or so?  Well we - and by we I mean myself and our executive committee and the Division I board of directors - certainly explored that option and considered it very seriously. But in the end we concluded that the suspension of program the so-called death penalty was in many ways too blunt an instrument. It had a very large impact on a lot of people who have very little or nothing at all to do with this case and similarly we were recognizing the very good work that is been done by Penn State's new chairwoman of the board and its new president to be as open and forthright as they have been throughout this process. And when we looked at it over an extended period of time we realized what we wanted was a series of penalties that were tightly focused that also would provide the opportunity for the university to change its culture to get better...  Yeah.  ...to improve upon its current circumstance and that is the package of sanctions that we came up with.  You have spoken of the culture at Penn State. Is not it fair to say that the notion that the culture of football trumps other academic concerns at American universities that is not confined to Penn State? Would not you say that that is true of many schools with big football programs?  Well of course. And this has obviously been part of the dynamic tension of college sports for more than a century. It is one of the reasons that the NCAA was formed over 100 years ago and it is something that universities and their communities have always sought to balance. And the message of this cautionary tale for the rest of higher education of course is that we simply cannot allow football or other athletic programs to become such a dominant force that they overwhelm the values of the academy and the values that we all want to adhere to.  Dr. Emmert why is it that the NCAA only steps in after Ohio State football players sell their jerseys for tattoos and the coach says he did not know or after it turns out that USC boosters were paying a star player and now after what is happened at Penn State? Should not there be by now some systemic reform of college football so that these things might be prevented rather than merely remedied?  Well we certainly work very hard at that and indeed we are right now in the midst of a very large-scale reform in all of our dimensions of regulation and supervision of college athletics. This past fall we put in place new academic standards to make sure that our student athletes are being successful as students and indeed they fit the definition of a student as well as an athlete. We are going to in actually just a little over a week vote on a new model for our enforcement process and our penalty structure and our adjudication system. And we will probably by January have completely rewritten the Division I rulebook which is a ponderous document with many regulations in it that are downright silly and that distract from the core values of the NCAA. So we have always as the association in its 100 years sought to be more preventative than punitive. We nonetheless are constantly in the process of trying to keep up with the developments that occur in college sport and our new reforms I think are going to be a very very big step in that direction.  You mentioned that one reason for not imposing the death penalty was not punishing young people in the football program for the misdeeds of past administrators and coaches. The family of Joe Paterno issued a statement calling the NCAA sanctions a panicked response that punishes Penn State students. In fact does not barring their participating in bowl games or televised games does not that punish students on the football team?  Well it is certainly meant to have a punitive impact on the institution. But what we are trying to say is look for the next four or five years Penn State do not worry about going to the Rose Bowl worry about getting your culture right worry about finding the right balance between academics and athletics and reintegrating your athletic program into the full body of the university. This needs to be about more than just trying to get to a bowl game but about having athletics find its rightful place in the academy.  But those concerns sound perfectly appropriate to lots of universities where there has not been felonious behavior by a former member of the coaching staff. Why not bring those same pressures to bear on the - who knows how many other universities where football is king?  Well you know the fact that football in of itself is very popular and very successful does not mean that the institution is doing anything wrong or egregious. You know in this particular case most everyone agrees that this was as egregious a behavior as anyone's seen in an NCAA case because of the nature of course of the criminal acts which the NCAA has nothing to do with. We focus so much attention on cases like this and then when you look at the behavior that is outlined in the Freeh report around that criminal conduct this case rises far and above most all of the other cases that we have seen. And the fact that football is popular or basketball is popular at an institution and indeed that a coach is held in very very high regard does not necessarily mean anything wrong is going on there but it certainly does mean that the people in those university environments need to be very very attentive to not letting the athletic tail wag the academic dog.  Dr. Emmert thank you very much for talking with us.  My pleasure.  That is Mark Emmert president of the NCAA talking with us from Indianapolis about today's sanctions against Penn State University. 