 From the studios of NPR West in Culver City California it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Arun Rath. Last weekend the news was focused on Las Vegas where a husband and wife went on a shooting spree murdering two police officers and a shopper at a local Walmart. By days end five people were dead including the shooters. We have since learned a lot about the suspects' anti-government and anti-law enforcement views. Investigators have also been focusing on time the couple spent at a recent armed standoff at the cattle ranch east of Las Vegas owned by Cliven Bundy. NPR's Kirk Siegler is just back from Nevada where he spent the week reporting on the shootings and also traveled to the Bundy ranch. And Kirk first of all what is the connection between the shooters and the events that had been unfolding out at the Bundy ranch?  Well Arun from what we know from law enforcement it is really pretty loose. We do know that Jerad and Amanda Miller traveled out to that armed standoff. And Jerad had written on his Facebook page that he felt like people there were under siege by the federal government. You know when I was there last week Cliven Bundy told me that he had never met the Millers before which is pretty believable because there were you know - there were hundreds of people at that protest in the armed standoff. And when the militia members found out that Jerad Miller was a convicted felon they apparently asked him to leave. And they even even offered the couple money to leave. And from what we know and from what Cliven Bundy told me it appears that they did at some point.  Well tell us more about your trip to the Bundy ranch 'ecause you actually went out there it was where the standoff took place and talked to the man himself.  Right. Well I had been warned that you know I might be stopped on my way out there by an armed guard on the road that leads into the Bundy place. But there was no one there. You know it is pretty quiet. There is not a lot going on. And it is really really hot. When I drove down the dusty lane into Bundy's place you know there he was. In some corners he is still considered this icon of the far-right anti-government movement. Well there he was you know hosing down the dust from his sidewalk leading into his place. He smiled gave me a wave. One of the first things we talked about was the Millers. And he was quick to condemn their actions. You know during our interview Arun he rambled some. But you know he always brought the conversation back to the themes of the Sagebrush Rebellion - the federal government is an unwelcome over-regulating presence and that his fight. It is a lot more than just about cows or the money the federal government says he owes.   What is at stake here? Freedom and liberty and statehood. That is what is at stake here.  Valuing freedom and liberty is pretty universal. What is Cliven Bundy so mad about?  Well I think we need to say you know he was widely discredited especially after he was caught making racist remarks recently.  Right.  But you know as you say the roots of his anger towards the federal government - I think it is safe to say that goes back decades. And they are frankly shared by quite a few people in that part of the country you know who feel like the Bureau of Land Management has steadily been trying to run cattle ranchers out of business largely due to environmental protections. You know it is interesting. I found out while I was out there that there is a real sentiment that you know as Las Vegas grew over the years the habitat for the endangered desert tortoise that shrunk. And the local ranchers out near Bundy's place are quick to tell you that they feel like they have borne the brunt of all the environmental restrictions as a result of that. And you know you can definitely see that Cliven Bundy still has a lot of support there. You know just by driving the roads around his ranch you see handmade signs that say things like welcome to Nevada land and give us back our land. And the one that stands out to me is BLM get out. That one really stands out because the Bureau of Land Management for all intents and purposes really has left the area. They have pulled out. They are pretty much - there is no one patrolling the vast public lands in that area. There is no land managers doing daily business since the standoff. You know no firefighters either at the ready. So it is a big issue that is still very much unfolding out there.  Interesting stuff. That is NPR's Kirk Siegler. Kirk thank you.  Glad to be here. 