 It is a bad economy for everyone even the dead. More families who have lost loved ones now cannot afford funeral costs. And that means county morgues and county coroners across the country are taking care of more bodies at taxpayer expense. Lieutenant David Smith is an investigator with the Los Angeles County coroner's office. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  So your office handles homicides or other suspicious deaths. What is different now because of the economy? Lt.  We have found a marked increase in requests for the county to handle the disposition of loved ones pretty much an 80 percent increase over actual requests.  Eighty percent? Lt.  Eighty percent yes from a - well our original snapshot from July '07 to January '08 there was 205 cremations performed in that same time period. But July '08 to '09 368. Obviously it put a strain on a lot of different type of resources.  And that is because what? People family members just cannot afford to claim the body and bury it at their own expense? Lt.  Exactly because one of the things I wanted to look at was I was assuming maybe we had an increase in our caseload. But that turned out actually not to be the case. Our actual caseload was the same. It is just that the actual number of people saying that they cannot afford to handle private arrangements for their loved one actually just dramatically increased.  What is the cost? Lt.  A inexpensive direct cremation seems to run anywhere between 900 to 1000. And if you get into doing full services burials cemeteries you could easily approach the 7000 mark.  Now I understand the demand at the county crematorium is so high they have stopped taking bodies from your office from the coroner's office. So what are you doing instead? Lt.  Yeah as of February of this year the county morgue notified us that due to their increased caseload they would no longer be able to take the county coroner's indigent dead. As a result we were forced into having to locate contract crematories to come in and help us out with the caseload.  How much is it costing you? Lt.  The crematories who agreed to help us are basically doing this as almost at a at-cost basis of 150 per case. I average about 20 cases per week. There was no budget set aside for it so when this situation came to light in February and we were facing it basically head-on we had to evaluate how much are we doing a month and at 150 what would the cost be? And unfortunately we were already in the midst of a budget crisis to begin with. And we are just basically trying to put the department on cruise control to get through the end of the fiscal year then this hit.  So that is about 3000 a week 12000 a month that you have to pay? Lt.  Just about.  And where are you taking the money from? Lt.  Other encumbered funds that we had. So it almost came down to a point of who does not get paid this month - not person wise but - maybe you know entity or which chemicals do not get ordered which you know this does not get paid if we do not handle this then we see obviously the volume in our crypts start to get to uncontrollable or unmanageable levels.  I guess you are just hoping for the economy to turn around. Is that the only solution so that people can once again afford to claim their loved ones? Lt.  That would certainly be one answer to it at least anyway. I do not see the cost of cremation or funerals getting cheaper as time goes on. The problem with the coroner cases traditionally is most of the deaths that we have are unexpected. They are sudden unexpected deaths. Typically you know an elderly person who is been sick for a while the family recognizes that this is a need that is going to come and either through insurance or you know through savings can take care of it. But when it is a homicide a traffic accident something along these natures - that is of a sudden nature the families find themselves ill-equipped to pay for it.  Lieutenant David Smith is a supervising coroner's investigator at the Los Angeles County coroner's office. Thank you. Lt.  You are welcome. 