 Spygate is officially over those words from a town council member in Riverhead New York on Long Island. The spygate he is referring to does not involve Russian double agents or top-secret security breaches. It is all about swimming pools. The town of Riverhead has voted to stop using Google Earth satellite images to find backyard pools that do not have proper permits. Leroy Barnes Jr. is Riverhead's chief building inspector. Thanks for being with us. Mr. LEROY BARNES JR.  How are you?  I am okay. Now when did you start using Google Earth to find these pools? Mr.  About a year and a half ago.  Uh-huh and how many total number of pools did you find that were not in compliance did not have the right permits? Mr.  Well there were people that had open permits but that had expired. So I consider them not having permits. So there was a total of 250 pools that had either an open permit with no inspection or there were pools that had no permits at all to begin with and were constructed.  And you were able to figure that out by looking at these satellite images and comparing them against I guess the records you keep. Mr.  Right and also checking on our building permit system to see if they had a permit. So when they started to look at the ones that had expired we started stumbling across ones that had no permits to begin with and that is when we started using the Google Earth to verify.  Hmm. Did you have anybody complaining to you about privacy and how you found out? Mr.  Well you know it is funny. Most of the people that complained were the ones that did not have the permits.  Well yeah. Mr.  I have gotten a lot of emails and kind calls from people that live in the town and they were happy that we were doing that because a lot of people do not get permits because they do not want to pay property taxes. So by not getting a permit the assessors are not aware that those structures are there and they cannot assess them. So that is what is created such an issue for people. But I use it strictly for safety.  And what are the safety issues that you are worried about here? Mr.  Well every pool that is constructed in the state of New York has to have a legal barrier around the pool and it also has to be alarmed. You have to have a barrier which is a four-foot fence with a self-closing self-latching gate. And also you are supposed to have alarms on your rear doors in the fenced area of the rear yard so that if you have kids and they go outside the alarm trips. So they know their kids are in the backyard. And you know people leave gates open unlocked and kids do fall in pools and they do drown. I mean our local our Newsday which is an island-wide newspaper certainly gave a very nice editorial towards my office and me saying that it was about time that some of the towns are using their heads and using the resources available that are free.  So when you hear one of the town council members there in Riverhead refer to this as spygate maybe he is joking maybe he is not. What do you think? Mr.  I think they are doing it affectionately honestly. You know I talked to Mr. Gabrielson about it after. So you know he is not trying to be offensive to me or anyone else. I think he was just joking around and it turned out to be called spygate. But we are not really spying.  Well Mr. Barnes it is good to talk to you. Thanks very much. Mr.  Well thank you Melissa and you have a good day and a nice weekend.  You too. Mr.  Take care.  That is Leroy Barnes Jr. He is the chief building inspector for Riverhead Long Island where the town council voted Wednesday to stop using Google Earth or other satellite images to find pools without permits. 