 The deaths of the 19 members of the Prescott Granite Mountain Hotshots has drawn focus to these elite units. More than 100 Hotshot crews work around the country and they are often the first line of defense in a major wildfire. These back country firefighters go in with nearly all of their equipment carried on their backs and stay for days at a time. Their intense training programs are sometimes likened to that of Special Forces units in the military. To understand more about these crews we turn to Kyle Dickman. He was once a Hotshot crew member in Tahoe and returned to his unit last summer to write about it for Outside Magazine. Kyle Dickman welcome.  Thanks for having me.  So begin just with your own experience. Describe what it is like when a crew first arrives on the scene. What are the kinds of things that they are seeing?  Well usually what you see when you pull up is a big column of smoke actually. And it is pretty chaotic and there is a lot of fire engines. There is typically helicopters water tenders. There is logistics and operations units there. So the Hotshots will pull in and you know get orders for that day. And typically they will show up and within a matter of you know 30 to 45 minutes they will be sent out onto the line.  And so talk a little bit about the work that Hotshot crews do. How is this different say from smoke jumpers who parachute straight into burning forests?  Well Hotshots are sort of elite teams of 20 men and women and their job is to fight the most dangerous fires in the West and very big fires. You know that is the most significant difference. They will go out to these fires and they will build line. And what that means is removing all the vegetation using chainsaws and shovels to move anything that is flammable in front of a fire and to remove it so that when the fire does burn into this line it stops.  What is the training like for this kind of unit and can any amount of training really prepare you for what you encounter?  Well the training is very intense. I mean I think fitness is - in the world of Hotshots fitness is sort of the first line of safety. It is what allows these men and women to operate you know and to work for 16 hours a day on the line. But there is nothing that can prepare you for what you are going to experience out on the fire line. You know it is always very hot. It is you know 100 to 105 degrees and it can be very windy. There is poison oak. There is bugs. There is bees. I mean it is just a difficult and a typically uncomfortable job.  What are the relationships that are built and how tight knit is this community?  The community is very very tight knit. These guys you live and you sleep and you work with these people. You know it is day in and day out. Usually when you start the fire season you go out and you will start the fire season and man you do not know any of the - or you will know some of the people that you work with but not all of them. And there is sort of this - it is like going to school at your first day of school. By the end of the year you know some of the guys that you are working with are your best friends and some of them are your enemies. And you know the crew that I embedded with last year the one woman on the crew was - she went through a divorce and that is actually very common in wildland firefighting marriages because both the husband and the wife spend so much time apart. You know Hotshots will spend six months of the year traveling between fires you know in all 50 states.  You talk about husband and wife firefighting teams. What kind of person is drawn to this work?  Well it is a very very diverse crowd. I mean on the crew that I was working with there was college-educated guys with Masters degrees who had left jobs making 100000 a year in finance working right beside guys who were ex-cons. And I think what unites these people is that they are all very tough and I think they are also passionate about their jobs. I mean they love spending the entire summer sleeping out. You know they are camping in some of the most beautiful places in the West. Those places just happen to be on fire.  Kyle Dickman thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you for having me.  Kyle Dickman is associate editor at Outside Magazine. He spoke to us from Sante Fe. 