 One of the busiest bridges in the nation will be out of commission tomorrow morning. In California workers are scrambling to repair a crack discovered over the weekend on the Bay Bridge that connects Oakland and San Francisco. A spokesman for California's Department of Transportation says crews are facing unprecedented logistical challenges getting parts in place for an unexpected repair.  It has been a tremendous effort at this point to just get everything here get it inspected and get the work crews working. And what they are doing right now is basically working 120 feet in the air putting these saddles and rods in place so that the repair can be completed.  That is one problem. A bigger one might be thousands of people in the Bay Area are figuring out how they will get to work in what is expected to be a major commuting headache. Joining us now from San Francisco is Kelly Wilkinson of member station KQED. Kelly the transportation officials held a news conference this evening. Why did they tell people living in the Bay Area that they could actually look forward to tomorrow morning?  Well they told them that they could not look forward to the bridge reopening tomorrow as scheduled. They were hoping to have the Bay Bridge open again by 5 a.m. tomorrow Tuesday morning. And they said that they are at this point they think they need one more full day. So we are now looking at a new target of Wednesday morning at 5 a.m. to have the Bay Bridge open. This was closed for major seismic work this weekend. And this crack that they are still working on was a surprise. So it looks like they will have all of the massive construction that they had scheduled for this weekend done on time but not the repairs to this crack that they discovered during a routine inspection of the bridge.  Now will this be something new for the Bay Area commuters? Have they had a closed-down-Bay-Bridge situation before?  We have had a closed-down bridge before - once in a Loma Prieta earthquake 20 years ago. That of course was after a massive earthquake and a section of the Bay Bridge collapsed. Ever since then they have been working on a new eastern span of the bridge. And that is what all of this work has been about. This is the third time in four years that the Bay Bridge has been closed. But of course Transportation officials have had plenty of time to get the word out and ask people to make other plans for getting in and out of the city in and out of work. So now they are looking at a matter of hours and asking people and Transportation agencies buses and ferries and trains to come up with contingency plans.  What kind of measures are they taking to expedite the repair this weekend already?  It is really been pretty extraordinary to watch. It is sort of like an infrastructure action movie out here. The repair that they did not expect kicked off a sprint to try and finish this. They were trying to open it again of course for tomorrow morning. They are not making that target anymore. But they had to come up with a design on the fly for making a repair. They had a piece of steel - several pieces of steel manufactured in Arizona overnight. They flew out here on a chartered DC-9 to get those materials out here and those were escorted out to the Bay Bridge by California Highway Patrol. And they are working flat out right now to fit that and get that essentially as a splint that will be in place for a major support structure of the bridge. So it is been really a whole weekend of pretty epic engineering and construction going on out here.  That is Kelly Wilkinson of member station KQED in San Francisco talking about emergency repairs still underway to a crack on the Bay Bridge connecting San Francisco and Oakland. The bridge will be shut down until at least Wednesday morning creating a major commuting challenge for thousands of people in the Bay Area. Thank you Kelly.  Thank you. 