 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. More than a week after Hurricane Isaac settled over southern Louisiana much of Plaquemines Parish is still underwater. Plaquemines is a long arm of land that stretches out into the Gulf of Mexico with the Mississippi River flowing right down the middle of that arm. The areas that were badly flooded sit outside the bulked-up federal surge protection system and they took a big hit from Isaac. Plaquemines Parish president Billy Nungesser explains they have now made intentional breaches in the parish levees to drain the floodwaters.  We cut breaches in the levees on both sides on more than a dozen locations on each side of the river and continue to see that water flow out. But we saw more water in these areas than we did for Katrina and Katrina was a lot stronger storm than this. So we are still in awe of how this water just kept pouring into the parish.  And at the deepest points right now how deep would the standing water still be?  Right now we have about three feet on Highway 23 which leads to the oil industry in the south end of the parish. That is down about eight inches from yesterday. And we continue to see it roll out. And when that water neutralizes we will then have to close those gaps and start pumping it out which will be a slower process.  Are you hearing from people there in Plaquemines Mr. Nungesser who are say I am done with this I have seen Katrina I have seen Rita who knows how many other hurricanes now Isaac - I am going to a different parish I am going maybe to St. Bernard or someplace that is protected.  Absolutely and that is just breaks my heart because I know what this parish means. I mean if you just look at the people that went and risked their lives to rescue their neighbors this is a unique place with unique people. I am hoping that these waters go down and the emotions go down a little bit that we can get some commitment from the federal government the president to give them the protection our neighboring parishes have in a short period of time to where people can rethink it and agree to stay where their families have grown up for years.  How many people in your parish still do not have any electricity?  Well we have got about 50 percent of the parish that does not have electricity. We should see in the south end and the west bank a good improvement by next Tuesday. But on the east bank of Plaquemines it is going to be four to six weeks before we see power over there.  Four to six weeks.  Yeah it just was devastated. Everything is down.  We have been seeing images Mr. Nungesser of a lot of dead animals livestock and also nutria - the rodents that you have down there in Louisiana. How big a problem is that?  It is huge. I have seen more dead cattle stuck in the debris. The debris is packed in some areas 10 feet high. I have people that are staying at my house down in the middle of the parish rescuing these animals. And I think because it was a minor storm people said hey I will evacuate but I will come back tomorrow my pets will be OK. And we found cattle on front porches of people's house. In one instance a cattle went through the window and was inside the house floating on a bed to get away from the floodwaters. So we have seen some animals really go beyond to rescue themselves. But we have seen a lot of loss of wildlife and it breaks my heart.  Are you surprised Mr. Nungesser that it is been a week now since this Category 1 storm blew through and you are still looking at the problems and the damage and the destruction that you are facing there?  I actually - the days go together. I cannot believe it is a week. And you got to realize the storm stayed over Louisiana for 60 hours. That is historical that we had a storm blowing that water in up the Mississippi River for that long. Thank God it did not get organized like a Katrina and blow through like it did. It would have wiped out everything.  Well Mr. Nungesser thanks for talking with us and best of luck with everything.  Thank you.  That is Billy Nungesser the president of Plaquemines Parish in Louisiana speaking with me from the emergency operations center in Belle Chasse. 