 There was a disturbing scene at a nursing home in Hollywood Fla. today - elderly residents suffering in stifling heat. They were found by first responders answering an early morning emergency call. Hurricane Irma apparently left the facility without air conditioning. Eight people are confirmed dead. Others are being treated at nearby hospitals. Police say they are now conducting a criminal investigation into what happened. NPR's Jon Hamilton went to the nursing home earlier today and joins us now. John what was the scene when you got there?  Well it was it was pretty grim. There were sirens ambulances fire trucks a line of medical vans going by and this news helicopter flying overhead. And of course in front of the nursing home itself the police had parked their crime scene investigation truck. We also saw several family members who were trying to get information about relatives they had in the facility. One woman who talked to us - her name was Flora Mitchell. She said her sister had been in this rehabilitation center for 10 years and here's what she told us.  I do not know if my sister's living. Nobody tells us nothing. We do not know nothing.  Jon do you know how this happened?  It is not entirely clear. We did learn some things from a press conference held by police and government officials. There have also been some statements by nursing home groups and regulators and even some government officials. So this is a place called the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills and it is both a rehabilitation center and a nursing home - so long-term care and then some people out of the hospital. And apparently the facility lost some but not all of its power after Hurricane Irma. The thing is as of yesterday it was reporting that everything was OK that they were using portable air conditioners and fans. Then early this morning someone called 911. Police and fire units showed up. And when they went inside they found a couple patients who were already dead and others in really bad shape. The police say - also said that when they got to the second floor it was really hot. And so of course ultimately eight people have died. A dozen more were taken to a nearby emergency room and 115 people were evacuated from this facility.  What have you been able to learn about the history of this facility?  Not a whole lot but it does have a somewhat troubled history. It appears that there is a pending lawsuit alleging negligence. Under a previous owner the place was found to have committed Medicare fraud and I think had to pay a fine. There is been a bankruptcy a change of ownership. And Medicare inspectors have given this place below average ratings. So there is some reason to - that people might want to keep the eye on this place.  Do you know whether this could have been prevented?  There are some pretty strong indications that it could have. I mean nursing homes are supposed to have backup power and generators and have an emergency plan where they think about events like this. Also all nursing homes are supposed to let the power company know that they are critical facilities that are supposed to get top priority when the power goes out. And it appears this facility did not do that. The other thing is this place is right across the street from a hospital and that hospital had power. Its emergency room was open. Its emergency room doctors and staff were ready to help. Help was only a few steps away but it appears that the nursing home waited a very long time to ask for it.  That is NPR's Jon Hamilton speaking with us from Miami. Thanks Jon.  You are welcome. 