 Right now I want to start - we are using 4 minutes and half. It is symbolic. Start now. I do not want no sound. Quiet.  Earlier today calling for silence on the streets of Ferguson Mo. It is been exactly one year since police officer Darren Wilson shot and killed 18-year-old Michael Brown there and people have been gathering in the area this weekend for days of remembrance and protest. Camille Phillips is with St. Louis Public Radio and she is been in Ferguson covering the events. Camille thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And what can you tell us about the events today.  Well people began gathering about midmorning at the Michael Brown memorial in Ferguson. Michael Brown's father and several other people spoke and then around noon the crowd was called to silence for 4 and a half minutes. That number - four and a half - is symbolic. It is used often at Ferguson protests and Michael Brown events symbolizing the 4 and a half hours Michael Brown's body laid on the pavement after he was killed. I would say there are about 500 people - maybe as many as 2000 - in the crowd and after some speeches they lined up and marched through the streets about a mile in silence. There was some quiet conversation - no chanting though no singing or anything like that.  The police response to last year's protest was the focus of intense scrutiny. Can you tell us what the police presence was like at today's events?  Well it was really low key. They are very visible but mostly used as traffic control. For instance at the Michael Brown memorial in the apartment complex no police were there at all.  And Camille I understand there are additional actions that are being planned for tomorrow.  Yes tomorrow is being billed as a day of resistance or Immoral Monday. Unspecified acts of civil disobedience are planned. I have covered two similar events in the past. Generally activists tried to shut down a highway. But we do not know where or when these acts will occur at this time.  That is Camille Phillips with St. Louis Public Radio. Camille thanks very much.  Sure thing. Thanks for having me. 