 We begin this hour by examining a celebrated counternarcotics squad that went crooked. It happened in the Rio Grande Valley a place accustomed to seeing public officials led away in handcuffs. And yet many were shocked by this case. The FBI has launched a task force to clean up entrenched public corruption there. And NPR's John Burnett has been looking into some of the misconduct. He began that coverage this morning and he now brings us this story - the anatomy of a rogue cop.  Jonathan Trevino had been a police officer for only three years. At 24 he became commander of a newly created narcotics squad called the Panama Unit. Their charge was arrest drug dealers who had infested the streets of the city of Mission and eventually the unit worked all over Hidalgo County.  We were getting well over 30 narcotic arrests a month and we were seizing thousands of dollars every month for the department.  The squad members were all in their 20s swaggering and aggressive. The Panama Unit was the pride of the Valley until they went to the dark side.  It was bad. What we did was real bad and I will pay for that for the rest of my life 'ecause that one night is what happened.  Jonathan Trevino sits at a long wooden table in a quiet carpeted room. It is lined with pictures of past wardens of this low-security federal prison in Loretto Pa. Trevino wears inmate khakis. He is pale slender and serious. At 31 his hair is already flecked with gray. He vividly remembers the 2 a.m. traffic stop that he says started it all. The driver was drunk and high. They found a couple of ounces of cocaine in his car and took him to jail. There was a bag on the front seat and inside the bag was 50000.  One of my partners says hey why do not we take some of the money? I am looking at him like - I say did you just ask me that 'ecause we would never talked about going illegal doing anything corrupt before. So we agree. Let us do it. And later that night we end up splitting the money and it was like 3000 each. That was our first deal. And why did I take the money that day? I do not know. I do not know.  They got away with it. Soon the young lawmen were using their badges to escort drug shipments on the highway and they graduated from stealing drug money to the dope itself. James Sturgis is the federal prosecutor in McAllen who sent them to prison.  This case these individuals were actually trafficking themselves.  So the cops actually became drug traffickers?  Yes.  They would identify a trafficker bust his stash house confiscate the weed or coke check a portion of it into the police evidence room and then resell the remainder to another drug dealer who put it back on the streets. But they had to be careful. Trevino had to make sure they were ripping off an independent dealer not someone who worked for the murderous Gulf Cartel based across the river in this Matamoros.  I never went in and took any of the cartel's stuff 'ecause if I would have I would not be here today. It is plain and simple.  The Rio Grande Valley is flooded with dirty money tied to the cartel. One local social scientist estimates 5 to 10 percent of the Valley economy is tied to illegal activity primarily drugs. This is what investigators call a high-temptation environment. In the last 21 years no fewer than five sheriffs have been busted for corruption. And from 2000 to 2013 13 officers with U.S. Customs and Border Protection went to prison for federal crimes according to the center for investigative reporting. And that does not count all the deputies constables and local cops who have been arrested. The Panama Unit was a shocker because the whole squad went rogue. Carlos Cisneros is a Brownsville attorney who writes crime novels set in the Valley.  The Panama Unit - these are supposed to be the good guys the guys that are protecting us and keeping out community safe and they are just as bad as the bad guys.  People in the Valley say Panama's crimes went on for so long - two years - because the unit was protected. One officer's father was a city police chief and Jonathan Trevino's father is Lupe Trevino who was then the powerful popular sheriff of Hidalgo County. It was the sheriff who created the Panama Unit and put his son in charge. Harry Jimenez is the deputy special agent in charge of Homeland Security Investigations which was a key player in busting the unit.  When you work narcotics - bulk-cash smuggling weapon smuggling - any of these activities generate a lot of money and you have to have the oversight by independent units within the department. Panama Unit did not have any oversight. Jonathan reported directly to his father.  Jonathan Trevino made good money for a South Texas cop - 72000 a year with overtime. He had no family. He lived with his parents. He drove a fancy pickup confiscated from a drug dealer. Harry Jimenez says there were ample warning signs that something was not right.  The lifestyles of these police officers evidently showed that there was a lot of influx of money from somewhere else.  This was Panama's favorite restaurant - Lansky and Brat's the swankiest steakhouse in the Valley. Trevino was generous with his squad. He would pick up a 2000 tab here. Afterwards they might cruise over to Stiletto's strip club and take over the VIP room. As the money rolled in there were gambling trips to casinos in Lake Charles La. the Retama Park horse track in San Antonio and the Bellagio in Las Vegas. Life was good while it lasted. But it would not last. Rumors were flying around the Valley among traffickers and law enforcement that Panama was crooked so federal investigators set up a sting. They attached a tracking device to 10 kilos of coke and then enlisted a local madam to smuggle it. She contacted Panama to protect the load on the highway. They were arrested in December 2012.  That was going to be the last bust and that is it. And the feds of course made sure of that right? But I am glad they did. I will admit it. The unit was out of control.  Jonathan Trevino got 17 years in prison. The other eight squad members received 10 to 14 years. Last July Sheriff Lupe Trevino who maintains he never knew his son's squad was breaking the law was sentenced to five years in prison on a separate conviction. He admitted taking 10000 in illegal campaign contributions from a drug trafficker known as The Rooster with ties to the Gulf Cartel. After the Panama Unit imploded the Mission Police Department and the Hidalgo County Sheriff's Office instituted polygraphs background investigations and more oversight to keep their officers clean. Inside the dormitory-like prison Jonathan Trevino spends his time working out playing cards emailing friends and taking classes. He says when he is released he will go home to the Valley. He wants to speak to police cadets to warn them of the consequences of going bad.  And I want people to know that I am human and I did not wake up one day and say I want to be a corrupt cop. This is something that happened after years of my career started. And it was a combination of temptation and agreed and I let it get the best of me.  You will get away with it for a while and think you are on top of the world Trevino continues. Then you will get caught and they will send you here. John Burnett NPR News Loretto Pa. 