 Many people in the U.S. are shut out of the housing market. Sometimes that is because they cannot afford a down payment or have bad credit. Other times it is because there are not enough homes for sale. This week we are reporting on a new housing crisis a crisis in supply. Today reporter Ben Markus of Colorado Public Radio looks at some of the powerful-but-lesser-known forces keeping homes off the market.  The housing market in cities like Denver is seized up. It is not working the way it used to before the Great Recession. The problem is not obvious. And oddly enough one of the indicators that something is wrong starts with a bathroom remodel.   In a condo in Denver's Capitol Hill neighborhood a construction worker scrapes tiles from a shower with a power tool. Remodel activity is at an all-time high nationally and in Denver.  Does not surprise me .  That is Brian Prendergast with Professional Home Design. He says he gets two to three calls a day.  So they may do a bathroom and then next year do a kitchen. But they seem to be on track to remodel as much of the interior as they can.  Because rather than compete for a shrinking pool of homes for sale many homeowners are deciding to stay in their home and spruce it up which is actually making the problem worse. According to RealtyTrac Americans are living in their homes almost twice as long as before the recession. That is the situation for Marjie and Ben Vic who live in a suburb of Denver. They are customizing their starter home for the long term starting with the kitchen.  Basically Marjie is not exactly the tallest person on the planet so there is no top cabinets. Everything's down low. So that was you know - part of the design intent was again making it our own and making it work for us.  They have been here for four years and these first-time homebuyers could not have picked a better investment. The competition for houses in Denver has driven up prices and their property incredibly has almost doubled in value. B.  We thought it was pretty incredible until we started looking around to see if there is anything else that we could move into.  Marjie says they really wanted something with a bigger yard. But at every potential house they got outbid or they lost to cash offers. Marjie says they are trying to live within their means and not buy a home that they cannot afford you know learning the lessons of the last housing crisis.  And the market's telling us if you want to compete you have to like shed some of that and we are not willing to do that.  Unwilling to put their house on the market and take the risk of overextending themselves they are not moving. There is another group of people staying put - investors guys like Charles Roberts. He bought up a bunch of homes at a discount during the foreclosure crisis. The plan seems brilliant in retrospect. But at the time people genuinely thought he was crazy. The economy was in freefall.  You got to actually put yourself in 2008 2009 when you are sitting down at a closing only to find out that the bank who was funding the loan just went out of business and everybody lost their jobs. It is - it was really incredible.  But Roberts was able to build a portfolio of 16 homes that he converted to rentals. Roberts and other investors bought in lower-end neighborhoods and these homes would be affordable options. But...  I guess I am the perfect example of someone who has no interest in selling. I figure I will probably go through two more downturns in my career and then you know I will be dead. So something will happen at that point but it will not be my selling my properties.  And why should he? Rents that landlords charge in Denver have risen 50 percent just since 2012. Denver's population has boomed and the recession created a whole new class of renters.  There is not an unhappy landlord you know in the Denver metro area. I can tell you that for sure.  This is not just a Denver phenomenon. Since the Great Recession about 4 million single-family homes in the U.S. have been converted from owner-occupied to investor-owned rentals.  And that is one of the key reasons inventory's been low and will probably stay historically a little low.  That is Bill McBride an economist who writes the blog Calculated Risk. He is famous for predicting the housing crisis 10 years ago. McBride says he is also talked to investors who have done the math and say they will probably never sell.  If they sell a property they have to pay capital gains and then they have to find a place that returns you know something better than what they were getting. And in general they - that is hard to do right now.  But it is creating a have and have-nots situation where people with homes are doing well and those without cannot stabilize their housing costs or build wealth. Back at Marjie Vic's house she admits that they are lucky. They have built a mountain of equity. But still they are stuck in this starter home. M.  Yeah I think it is - you know we work hard for what we have and what we want and you know what we want our life to be. And it is just a dream that we cannot attain.  A dream that is increasingly unattainable for millions of other Americans. For NPR News I am Ben Markus in Denver. 