 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. The parents of Michael Brown the 18-year-old shot by police in a St. Louis suburb are expected to be in New York this weekend. They are supposed to take part in a rally for another unarmed black man who was killed this summer. Eric Garner died in Staten Island after being placed in a chokehold by police last month. The two incidents have much in common but as NPR's Joel Rose reports there are also key differences including the way police in the two communities manage the aftermath.  The protest in Staten Island is being led by Reverend Al Sharpton. It is been a busy month for him shuttling between New York and Ferguson Missouri. On Wednesday Sharpton was at the tony Manhattan residence of Cardinal Timothy Dolan. For a meeting with the Mayor the  police commissioner and city religious leaders aimed at easing tensions after Garner's death.   When I flew back the other day I thought about how different it was. That we are going to sit in the Cardinal's residence than what I saw in the streets of Ferguson.  Sharpton is not the only one who is noticed the contrast. In Missouri days of violence and looting followed the shooting of Michael Brown and unarmed black 18-year-old by a white police officer. New York has seen large but peaceful protests since Eric Garner died after police arrested him for allegedly selling untaxed cigarettes. The incident was captured on cell phone video. You can hear Garner repeating the phase I cannot breathe after he is  placed in a choke hold and held to the ground by police.   I cannot breathe. I cannot breathe.  The next day the video went viral. Officials in New York immediately called a press conference to explain how they were responding. The day after that the officer who used the chokehold was identified and stripped of his gun and badge. Within a week the police commissioner had announced plans to retrain all 35000 NYPD officers on how to use force. But that is not how Missouri officials responded says David Klinger. He is a former police officer who now teaches at the University of Missouri St. Louis.  If the local officials had called a press conference early on or gotten ahead of this and I think that would have calmed a lot of the concern because so much was going on that people just did not understand.  Instead information emerged sporadically from Ferguson and county police. Details of Brown's shooting are very much in dispute. Still it took Missouri officials close to a week to release some basic information about the incident. Including the number of bullets that struck Brown and the name of the officer who fired them.  They have been tone deaf from the very beginning.  Norm White is a professor of criminology at St. Louis University. He says the way police handled the aftermath of the shooting contributed to public mistrust in Ferguson.  Communities that are already in a tense relationship with law enforcement need to have a sense that they are being respected and they have not gotten that sense.  But White says it is not fair to blame the cops for everything that happened in Ferguson. More than 160 demonstrates have been arrested including some from outside the community. Police were pelted with bottles and rocks Molotov cocktails were thrown and businesses looted. So White says the community also bears some responsibility for the violence.  There has not been what seemed to be adequate leadership in the streets.  Is that a failure of political leaders or community leaders or both?  I think it is about failure. As people who are committed to the community that we have not been able to figure it out.  White says that is another key difference between the two cities. In Ferguson there is no tradition of dialogue between community organizers and the police. But in New York for better or worse police and community organizations have years of experience working together to plan demonstrations during moments of racial tension.  My main goal right now is to make sure that I go around in the community and get that message out. That this is going to be a peaceful march that we are marching for justice.  Cynthia Davis is helping to organize tomorrow's march in Staten Island where she lives. Davis heads the local chapter of Sharpton's National Action Network. She is been protesting for years against what she sees as racially biased policing in New York. And she describes the chief of police in Staten Island as a friend.  He is working with us to make sure that this march happening and happens properly. And that the police are going to be as invisible as possible. They are going to be barely seen.  That would also be a sharp contrast with Ferguson where the conflict has been defined by images of police and National Guard troops with military style equipment firing tear gas at protesters and journalists. Despite her respect for NYPD leaders of Davis says she has plenty of complaints about the department including the aggressive policing of minor offenses that critics say led to Eric Garner's death. The protesters are still pushing for criminal charges against the officers involved but they want that message not another clash with police to take center stage. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 