 Rick Wentzel was helping people in his community in Livingston Parish La. helping them into a shelter when his wife called - their own home was flooding and he had to go rescue her. Wentzel is also just a little more than a month into a job as superintendent of the Livingston Parish schools schools which are now closed because of the flooding. Rick Wentzel welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert. I appreciate the invitation.  Tell us about that call as you were setting up the shelter and helping people into it.  Well you know it was interesting. And really the night before I would been asked to open up the shelter and I had opened it up. And I stayed there till late in the night went back home and my wife and I talked about flooding. We have never flooded before. We have lived there 22 years no problems. And I went back to work the shelter the next day because they needed help and they - we were just having floods of trucks coming in. 30 that night and said hey the water's coming up in the back. I said I do not think it will be there but if it does give me a call back. Well it was not 30 minutes later she calls back and says hey you need to send somebody to get me. And so she said a friend of ours was coming in a boat and I called him. And he said yeah I am heading that way. I said meet me at the gas station. It was about a mile from my house.  Where are you staying now at the shelter?  Yeah I am at the shelter.  The shelter is in one of the schools in the parish where you are now superintendent. What is the condition of the schools generally?  We have 46 school sites. Fifteen - that is one-five - of those sites were affected by water in some way. We had eight that really took heavy doses of water. And I guess when I say heavy doses I am talking anywhere from 3 to 6 foot.  But are the schools now closed parish-wide including those that were not flooded?  Yeah. Yeah. And the reason for that is because our employees they live all over this parish. We are probably somewhere in the neighborhood of about 3300 employees total throughout the parish. We have last count pretty close to one-third of that little bit over a thousand that were impacted by the water. And they have either had to relocate - in some cases they have completely lost their homes. And many of those are staying with relatives friends family. The ones that have lost their homes we have set up a connection with them and FEMA and trying to provide them some type of FEMA housing so that they will be ready also when we get back to work.  What is a realistic time to assume that the school year will begin in Livingston Parish?  Realistic time? Oh man that is hard to say because we are still doing evaluations of our sites to see what kind of damage has been done and how quickly we can get it up and running because we are going to need some of those facilities for us to start back. I would say in a gauge maybe two to four weeks.  There is often a touching subplot to the floods that is - what happens to all the pets? What do people do with the beloved dog in the house? Is he welcome at the shelter? Is - what do you do?  Well let me tell you. I remember that first little old lady getting off that first bus and she had that little animal in her hand. And she came up to me knowing I was the - in charge of that facility and said honey will I be able to bring my pet in this facility? And I said sweetheart as long as you hold onto that dog and it is not aggressive it would not hurt anybody. I am not turning you away nor that pet. And so she went into that facility and that is the way we ran it.  Well Rick Wentzel thanks a lot for talking with us about it today. Good luck to you.  Robert I appreciate it. And thank you for spending time with us.  You bet. Rick Wentzel is the superintendent of schools in Livingston Parish La. 