 Hurricane Irma which tore through the Caribbean and across Florida earlier this month complicated life for a lot of people including Florida citrus growers. Ellis Hunt Jr.'s family has been in the Florida citrus business for almost 100 years. He has 5000 acres of citrus trees and a lot of these trees were badly damaged. I talked to Hunt today. And before I did I looked at pictures he would shared with us of trees bent sideways and uprooted and trees still under a lot of water with what looked like hundreds of grapefruits floating on top.  The pictures do not do it justice. When you stand there and you physically smell the stagnant water and the rotting grass and the fruits laying in the water and it is a whole crop that was weeks away from being ready to harvest and all the time and effort and dollars that went into raising that crop are lost it is devastating.  Right. So how would you quantify it? How badly has this storm hit the citrus industry overall?  It is a severe blow. I mean you know all farmers are extremely resilient and tough and just so stubborn that no matter what happens they all get up and we go again because that is what you do if you are a farmer. But it is a very significant blow especially south Florida region and the Indian River. They are great growing regions. But they are also flat and you cannot get rid of the water quick enough. And so these trees have been standing in water for 10-plus days. And they cannot take that. So does that weakened tree bear a crop next spring? It is really too early to know the significance of this damage but just looking at the fruit on the ground - what we have lost immediately is this year's crop and all of the dollars spent on this year's crop. And beyond just the loss of this fruit and the effect on the grower it is the jobs for all these employees the citrus industry employees - close to 46000 people - and that trickle-down effect where it is immediate for those people. So this is impacting 46000 lives and their communities.  You know you said it is hard to assess the damage right now but are we talking about just one season here? Are we talking about a much bigger-scale damage?  You know it is still kind of early to tell but I would think at least - and this is the state as a whole. Maybe it is 50 60 percent loss and that is just a guess.  'ecause there are some articles in the newspaper saying you know the industry was already hurting from disease from a downturn in demand for orange juice in particular. I know you said farmers do not like to talk in a pessimistic way but are you feeling kind of pessimistic right now about the industry?  No because like I say we are just stubborn. We are going to fight back 'ecause that is what we have been doing. My family's been doing this since 1922. I am a third-generation citrus grower. I know growers that are fourth- fifth- sixth-generation growers. So when you have been doing something for close to a hundred years in your family - over the last hundred years there is been numerous things that were going to be the end of the citrus industry. And lo and behold we keep finding ways to fight back.  Ellis Hunt Jr. is a citrus grower and chairman of the Florida Citrus Commission. Thank you so much for talking to us today.  Thank you. 