 Before she was a hashtag or a headline before protesters around the country chanted say her name Breonna Taylor was someone who played cards with her aunts and fell asleep watching movies with friends. In March police officers executing a no-knock warrant in the middle of the night killed her in her own apartment. Now we are going to look at who Breonna Taylor was before she became a symbol of police violence by talking with some of the people who knew her best.  That is my little Mini Me.  Your little Mini Me? Is that what you call her? .  I said Tamika had her but that she was all mine.  Aw.  Breonna's aunt Bianca Austin invited us to her home along with another aunt Tahasha Holloway and an uncle Tyrone Bell.  I called her Breezy .  He called her Breezy.  Breezy .  She is cool. She is a cool cat.  And we also visited two of her best friends since high school - Erinicka Hunter and Shatanis Vaughn.  We met Breonna sophomore year.  Well I met Breonna through you.  Yeah. So...  She introduced us.  So was it me then her. And we have been inseparable ever since.  Yeah three amigos .  That is what we called ourselves the three amigos literally.  And collectively her friends and family gave us the unvarnished picture of Breonna.  The laugh - her laugh and her voice. She is got like this baby whiney kind of voice. Like she is like...  Oh my goodness.   You all do not know. You all do not understand. Like - .  So you definitely know like when we mock her like you will know who it was if you knew her.  Breonna Taylor loved old music from the '80s and '90s card games with family.  Let us play some Phase 10 and listen to some music.  OK what was her favorite game?  Skip-Bo or Phase 10.  Skip-Bo and Phase 10.  And singing.   Oh she is going to sing that to the top of her lungs like...  Oh so she liked to sing?  She liked to.   She liked to. She could not.   Her friends told us the same thing about her cooking. She loved to do it but...  She could not cook.  She could not cook? She...  No.  Yes she could cook.  She could fry food.  That is cooking.  Oh see? She cannot cook either.  I can cook a little bit. Her favorite food was chicken.  .  She fried some good chicken.  Yeah she did fry some chicken.  But that is it.  Like I said this is the unvarnished picture. A lot of Breonna Taylor's extended family moved from Michigan to Kentucky - a few at a time over the years. She came to Louisville as a teenager and fit right in.  Breonna loved it.  Loved it here. Oh she absolutely...  To this day she loved it in Louisville Ky. yes.  She absolutely loved it here - like everything about it.  When did you first know that she wanted to go into medical work and help people?  I think...  She is always had a caring heart. It was just in her nature to just take care of people.  I got this Facebook post that she made for me last year when I had a stroke. And I do not know it just like I saved it and everything. Like it just really...  Yeah. What does it say?  ...Touched me. But she said working in health care is so rewarding. It makes me feel so happy when I know I have made a difference in someone else's life. I am so appreciative of all the staff that has helped my uncle throughout this difficult time and those that will continue to make a difference in his life. Keep pushing T-Bill . You got this Unc. With that attitude and determination I am positive you will recover in no time. We love you. And it is just...  That says so much about her.  Right. It do. It says a lot about her. Like and that is her. Like that is her all the way.  Last year her friend Erinika Hunter had brain surgery. She and Breonna had drifted apart at that point and Breonna showed up at the hospital to reminisce with her about old times.  And - oh gosh this is hard. And I am like well why did we fall out? I do not understand. She was like it does not matter Ni . We together again you know? Do not worry about that. I love you. Just know that we are here. You here.  Yep. That is the type of person she was.  But she is not here. She is not here at all. And it is not right. I feel like we was robbed.   Neighbors near PRP say they woke up to chaos sounds of breaking glass gunshots and sirens.  Today we know the outlines of how Breonna Taylor died. Police doing a narcotics investigation burst into her apartment in the middle of the night with a no-knock warrant. Her boyfriend Kenneth Walker thought someone was breaking in and shot an officer in the leg. Police shot up the apartment killing Breonna. They arrested her boyfriend. There was no body cam footage. Kenneth has since been released and the charges against him dropped. When all that first happened in mid-March the initial news reports told only one side of the story referring to Breonna Taylor and Kenneth Walker only as suspects. This was from the local NBC affiliate.   Video of a deadly exchange of gunfire that happened between officers and suspects early this morning.  One suspect is dead. An officer is recovering after...  And when her family saw those stories...  I was angry. I was so angry. Oh my gosh.  It still pisses me off. Just - suspect? Like seriously? Unbelievable.  When I read that article I probably said more cuss words in that little time then I said throughout my whole life . Like angry is an understatement. Like that is an understatement.  They think this first narrative of Breonna as a suspect could be one reason on top of COVID-19 that most of the mortuaries they called refused to take her.  You know that was part of the reason like people were turning us away. Like you know we are calling these churches and you know mortuaries. And they are like is this the young lady - this is the incident you know that they - and I am like you know yes. And - oh we will get back with you and stuff like that. It was just - it was unbelievable.  And they did not even know her name.  Attorney Lonita Baker has been representing the family since even before Breonna Taylor's funeral. She is a personal injury lawyer who used to work as a prosecutor. The family hired her to file a suit against the police and they are also pushing for policy changes around body cams and no-knock warrants. She went to Breonna's apartment as soon as she was allowed to.  Even in being a prosecutor I had never quite seen that many bullets in one apartment. To know and to see that bullets went through neighboring apartments as well afterwards in talking to Kenny when he told me where he was - and he was laying on the floor right next to Breonna - it is only a supreme being that - a supreme reason that he is still alive and able to talk to us about it. And I do think that that reason is that we needed someone to tell us the story of what happened so that we can get the change that is needed.  So when protesters today say her name Breonna's family and friends say they feel lifted up. At the same time they have complicated feelings about the person they love becoming a larger-than-life figure in death. Is it weird to share your best friend with millions of people you have never met?  Yes.  Yes. It makes me jealous a little bit.  Like you do not even know her.  Seriously. Like...  .  But it is wonderful. It is a blessing all in the same. Like thank you for you know acknowledging her and you know and loving her just off of what you think. But I actually knew her you know?   Let us make that clear.  And she blessed my life. You do not know.  Breonna's aunts and uncle are still wrapping their heads around the fact that their niece who they have known her whole life is now a symbol - a hashtag.  Never would think that her name would be added to a list...  Or hashtag.  ...Or hashtag. Or you know now you write and say her name. You just think like how? Like why is she even part of this? How does this happen?  And in a sense we are grateful that her name is where she should be. You know unfortunately in this situation but you know we do not want this at all. We want her back. Like I would rather just go back in time. Like just crazy.  Do you think something good will come of this?  I hope so. I am praying to God. I said we need real change in America because it is scary. Like I got to still raise a little black boy here in this world we live in. Anybody - nobody's safe. If this can happen to Breonna it can happen to anybody.  Erinicka Hunter was going through Breonna's things after her death and found something she had not seen in years - a scrapbook page that Breonna made in high school memorializing their friendship.  This is our senior page from our scrapbook.  It is the two of you in like a bunch of different photos together. And then what does it say here in the corner?  Erinicka is like the sister the same age as me that I have always wanted. She is the one who is always there right beside me when I need her.  Erinicka sets the page and the tiny urn with some of Breonna's ashes next to each other on her kitchen table.  Yeah those are her ashes. I know people think I am so weird because like sometimes when I need a drink I sit down prop it up just like this. And I talk to her. I talk to her ashes.  Across town there is another image of Breonna. It is a portrait drawn in chalk at the center of the protest in downtown Louisville. People gather in a circle around it chanting.   Say her name.  Breonna Taylor.  Say her name.  Breonna Taylor.  Say her name.  Breonna Taylor.  She always said this she would be a legend. I just never imagined that it would be like this.  Is that true? She said that?  Yeah. I am going to be one of the greats. I am going to be a legend. You all are going to remember me .  Tomorrow would have been Breonna Taylor's 27th birthday. Her family and friends are going to get together for a barbecue. And then on Saturday hundreds of people maybe thousands will gather for a larger birthday celebration here in Louisville releasing balloons and butterflies in memory of the woman they never met.  