 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  I am Robert Siegel. There is guarded optimism on the Gulf Coast and at the White House today now that the blown out oil well has been capped. BP says no oil has leaked from the Deepwater Horizon well for more than 24 hours. The company closed off all the valves on a new tightly-sealed containment cap yesterday. In this part of the program we will hear about reaction to that news and next steps. We begin with NPR's Debbie Elliott in coastal Alabama.  President Obama says the new cap is good news but cautions it is not the final solution.  It is important that we do not get ahead of ourselves here. You know one of the problems with having this camera down there is that when the oil stops gushing everybody feels like we are done and we are not.  A relief well to permanently plug the leak is expected to be complete in mid-August. But for now BP has shut in the well and is conducting tests to make sure the procedure is not causing other leaks elsewhere something President Obama says would be catastrophic. It is the first bit of hopeful news for people on the Gulf Coast who have been disheartened by BP's inability to stop the underwater gusher until now.   On the public beach in Orange Beach Alabama today less than two dozen tourists navigated around tiny tar balls to lounge on the sand and watch the emerald green waves wash ashore. Ms.  It looks so pretty. It just is alluring.  But Pat Conerly of Carrollton Georgia is staying out to the water even though there are no signs of oil washing in. She hopes the new cap will hold. Ms.  I am elated but I am very scared that it is not going to work. I think I am afraid it is going to blow somewhere else. And if it comes out at the sea level I mean the floor level then there is no way to stop it you know. I mean oh it is just heartbreaking to me. But I have got my fingers crossed. I mean I am wishing them well for this one thing.  Art Harrison of Pensacola Florida says he was overjoyed to hear that something had finally worked. Mr.  Yeah I realize that we really should not be we are not really ready to celebrate or party yet because it could blow off tomorrow. I know that. I am just thankful that we got it stopped for now.  It is about time says Orange Beach city council member Ed Carroll. Mr.  That should have happened a month ago or better. But it is great to see that they finally got it capped. And of course it is nothing - a simple matter.  The complicated picture deep below the sea is what worries local resident Frank Burkhalter. He would rather see BP use the new capping system to bring oil up to production vessels on the surface. Mr.  Well I am just kind of scared that they are going to put all that pressure on the pipe and there will be another leak and mess up the whole thing. I think they ought to keep on sucking that oil out of there.  Still many locals acknowledge this is the best news they have had yet in the 87 days since the well blew. Gin Arnold manages the gift shop at Tacky Jacks the restaurant President Obama visited on his last trip to the Gulf Coast. He is got mixed feelings. Mr.  I was happy that they got it done but is it for real? And how much damage have we had already?  Now comes the hard part  the cleanup and trying to get the region's economy back on track. Mr.  Now we can only hope that the American people say well it is capped so let us go to the beach.  Debbie Elliott NPR News Orange Beach Alabama. 