 It is been a year since health officials in Michigan warned people living in Flint to stop drinking their tap water. The situation has improved a bit. But to this day Flint's water is not safe to drink without a filter. Funding to replace corroded pipes has been scarce. This week Congress reached a deal that would send millions of dollars to help but it is not coming immediately. Michigan Radio's Lindsey Smith brings us the story of one family's challenges and how things are finally changing.  This week Mike and Keri Webber marked a big anniversary.  It is actually a great one is not it babe?  It is - 25 years.  But the last year has been rough on a lot of Flint families. Every member of the Webber family tested positive for lead even the dogs. Keri's 16-year-old daughter had levels that were considered elevated. She says her daughter struggles with anxiety about the water.  You know she is been in counseling for over a year now.  Yeah we have started seeing a counselor because of what this has all done to us and how it affects you. It affects just - not just you know your organs in your body. It does affect you emotionally and it affects your mind.  Mike was angry angry his blood pressure was out of control from the lead exposure angry a resulting eye stroke left him partially blind angry he could not do anything about the high levels of lead in his tap water. But this week on the morning of their anniversary the couple got a wonderful surprise. They watched from the driveway as a four-man crew dug up mounds of dirt in front of the sidewalk. The crews came to replace the old pipe that brings water into the Webber's home. Their oldest daughter Stephanie holds up her phone to record the action.  It is the biggest deal. I cannot - I mean it is - it means the world. It really truly does.  After an hour the men find what they are looking for. A crew member in a yellow vest climbs down into the 7-foot hole and uncovers the old pipe. It is made of solid lead. Lead pipes like these were severely corroded over the 18 months Flint used water from the Flint River. The water was not treated as it was supposed to be and that meant lead from old pipes leached into people's drinking water exposing untold tens of thousands of Flint residents. Stephanie Webber.  With the struggles my family has been going through you would think that the state would have put us right at the top of their priority.  But it was friends not the government who found donors to give money to replace the lead line. So far the state of Michigan has given Flint 27 million to replace old lines. Mike McDaniel is coordinating the city program to do that.  I wish we - the pace was a little quicker than it is been.  As of this week the government has replaced fewer than 200 pipes. When McDaniel started back in February he wanted to have 10000 lines replaced by now. He stands in front of a huge map of Flint. Neighborhoods he hopes to hit soon are highlighted in pink marker.  My greatest concern is the funding. I mean if you look at the pink that is what we think we can do with the 27 million. That is not enough to do the entire city.  This week leaders in the U.S. Congress struck a deal that could send 100 million or more to Flint. But the details will not get hashed out until after the November election. At least the Webbers will not have to wait that long. Traditionally couples mark their 25th wedding anniversary with silver. But this year they are thankful for the shiny new copper pipe they hope will help make their water safe to drink again. For NPR News I am Lindsey Smith. 