 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in California where lawmakers are close to approving a budget deal. Yeah you have heard that before. But this time it could really be true. The state Senate passed a budget deal this morning after working through the night. The Assembly - it is still debating. Whatever the final details the plan to reduce California's deficit will be very tough on cities. Antonio Villaraigosa is mayor of California's biggest city Los Angeles. I spoke to him today about the money the state is taking from his budget.  They are taking about 261 million from the city of Los Angeles in the first year 337 million over two years. This number's absolutely unacceptable when you think of that we already have had to balance about a 540 million deficit here in the city of Los Angeles. And now we will have to go back to the drawing board and make even further cuts more drastic and draconian cuts. While part of it is a borrow most of it will be a taking in fact highway robbery.  Well you are a big proponent of transportation projects. You want a subway to the sea. What is this going to do to your ideas for that - your grand plans?  I just led an effort to pass a half penny sales tax. Measure R here in Los Angeles our own mini stimulus plan a 40 billion initiative to invest in public transit to highway repair and congestion and gridlock. This will mean that money we would have otherwise received from the state for street repair will have to be taken from Measure R and other local monies. What they do here is shift the responsibility for public transit and highway repair from the state to the city.  What about help from the federal government? The federal government has said no to a general bailout of California. But what about stimulus money are you angling for some more stimulus money to reach Los Angeles?  Well we have been very aggressive at trying to access President Obama's stimulus money. I can tell you that what this does as well is kind of cut at the knee cap the federal effort to invest in cities in metropolitan areas. Because money that would have been in addition to state money will now be replacing state money and so we end up at a zero-sum game instead of what it intended and that was to be an addition too.  Mayor in your view what are the fundamental changes you think are necessary to prevent this kind of budget crisis from happening again in California?  I think the system is fundamentally flawed and broken. And it is broken on the right and the left. Term limits is broken. Six years is just too strict. It does not allow for the talent to mature and for leadership to really get the kind of experience they need to lead a state this large and this complex. And I think we need to address our tax structure currently. It relies too much on the upper income and does not do enough to have a steady income through you know the ups and downs of the economy. I think we need to address the two-thirds vote was probably the most important.  It takes two-thirds vote to pass a budget but a majority vote to deny a whole group the fundamental right to liberty and happiness the right to marry. I mean there are just so many things wrong structurally with government and that is why it is not working. And it is in a literally meltdown as we speak.  So constitutional convention redraw the constitution?  Oh I support a constitutional convention. If we want to fix what is wrong it is not just shifting the chairs on a sinking ship. It is deeper than that. And we are going to have to change structural things if we are going to really get the change that we need and want in California.  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa thank you very much.  Thank you Madeleine. 