 Texas Governor Greg Abbott has launched a border security crackdown for the state and it is strikingly similar to former President Trump's. While critics have called the measures blatantly unconstitutional Abbott has touted them including disaster declarations jailing asylum-seekers building a wall and patrolling the highways for migrants. The Texas initiative though lacks the immense power of the federal government. NPR's John Burnett spent time along the border and found the crackdown falling short of the hype.  The Texas-Mexico border is again the backdrop for a set of hard-line policies designed to discourage migrants from crossing the Rio Grande. This time the instigator is Greg Abbott. The 63-year-old Republican is running for his third term as governor and hoping to capture Trump's fanatical followers in Texas. Here's Abbott on Fox.   We are not playing games anymore. And we have a new program in place because the Biden administration plan is to catch and release. The Texas plan is to catch and to jail.  Abbott has created a sort of Lone Star border force made up of state troopers National Guard and reinforcements from other red states. Their mission is to curtail the migrants surging across the Rio Grande a goal the Biden administration has so far failed to accomplish. Ground zero for the governor is Del Rio a friendly border city of 35000 in the West Texas scrub desert. It is become the second-busiest region for illegal crossings on the southern divide. Agents apprehended a thousand people a day in June a 500 jump over last year. The strategy is post no trespassing signs on private property along the river. Then when an immigrant steps on to land nab him for trespassing a class A misdemeanor. To find out if it was making a difference I hopped in a truck with Valverde County Commissioner Gustavo Flores who has 90 miles of river border in his precinct. He wears a bushy mustache and a white cowboy hat.  We are going down the river area where it is a hot spot a lot of immigrants crossing through there here and there and everywhere.  But as we drove along the rutted county roads we did not see any immigrants. All we saw were black and white SUVs of state troopers and National Guard Humvees. What is happening is human smugglers and migrants have changed tactics. As soon as word got back that the cops were arresting migrants on private property Flores says the vast majority now cross downstream on federal property.  Coyotes are getting informed good spots to move people through. They have learned if they stay in federal land which is where that - they build that high fence the state really cannot touch them.  The governor was so sure of his plan that with great fanfare he opened a special booking center and cleared out a prison in South Texas and converted it into a jail. But since the dragnet began the troopers have only averaged eight arrests a day. Meanwhile every day hundreds of migrants continue to wade hip-deep across the river and surrender to Border Patrol agents on federal property where they know they will be booked and released. Yeah?  Do you have permission to be here?  Sure enough as soon as the commissioner parked his truck near the International Bridge we spotted two large groups of Haitian nationals who had splashed across the river to turn themselves in to the green-suited agents. I stepped through an open gate in the border wall to take a picture.  This is federal property.  OK.  So please step back.  Thanks Officer. Abbott's border offensive dubbed Operation Lone Star is popular among some landowners who are getting a free chain link security fence paid for by the state. But it has not made a dent in the flow of asylum-seekers says county attorney David Martinez. As the official responsible for prosecuting the trespassers he was told to expect as many as 200 migrant arrests a day.  Well obviously at 200 a day that is a thousand arrests a week. We certainly have not approached anywhere near those numbers.  Still local officials appreciate that the state is trying something to help them out. Martinez a Democrat says the situation is unsustainable. The feds cannot keep releasing immigrants onto the streets of Del Rio.  We are not set up for this. So without a doubt it is an issue that needs to be addressed or a lot of us over here are going to be in trouble fast.  In fact they are already in trouble. The Border Patrol apprehended 210000 people last month surpassing a 20-year high. In Del Rio agents are holding migrants in open-air corrals under the international bridge. They are also pinning them up under a bridge in the Rio Grande Valley where agents encountered 3000 immigrants in one 24-hour period. U.S. Customs and Border Protection declined to comment. Locals are upset too. Last week I was interviewing a Venezuelan man in front of the Whispering Palms Motel in Del Rio. He was waiting for the first of a series of buses to take his family to Florida and telling me about how the Venezuelan government was persecuting him because he belonged to an opposition party.  .  The innkeeper burst out of the lobby to have her say.  You do not just drop them on the streets. Have a plan for them. Have something for them.  Her name is Maria Cannon. While she is distressed at all the immigrants congregating around her hotel she is dubious of the heavy law enforcement presence in town.  Because it is not going to help anything. They are still going to come across. And you know what? I do not blame them. I do not blame them for coming. The thing is this - they are suffering. They are suffering.  Governor Abbott keeps adding new executive orders to his border operation. He is vowed to complete Trump's unfinished border wall. Bulldozers have cleared brush alongside a state highway in neighboring Eagle Pass for construction. Abbott diverted 250 million in state funds and raised 900000 more in donations for the project which is only enough for several miles of barriers. And last week Abbott ordered state troopers to interdict any vans or buses carrying migrants released by the Border Patrol saying the passengers may have COVID. The Justice Department promptly sued and on Tuesday a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order that Abbott was likely overstepping his powers. Yesterday the ACLU sued the state on the same grounds. Kate Huddleston is a lawyer with the ACLU of Texas.  Governor Abbott cannot seek to enforce his own version of immigration policy. That is because the federal government not states not local governments sets immigration policy and enforces immigration law.  While the efficacy of Governor Greg Abbott's border crackdown remains elusive it has resulted in one concrete result. Earlier this summer Donald Trump endorsed Abbott's bid for reelection. John Burnett NPR News Del Rio. 