 Florida continues to be hit hard by the coronavirus with significant numbers of deaths every day and a high rate of community transmission. But the state is taking one of the most aggressive approaches to getting students back into buildings. Richard Corcoran is the Florida education commissioner and he joins us now to talk about how they are handling it. Welcome.  Hey thank you for having me Ailsa appreciate it.  So as we mentioned Florida is still seeing high rates of transmission so why do you and Gov. DeSantis think it is safe for kids to go back to school now?  Actually you know we have turned the corner and our transmission rate today it is been on a two-week decline. Our transmission rate today's down in the sixes. And if you look at our - that is our percentage of cases. And if you look at our transmission rate we have - they were in the top 15 in the country for transmission rate and we are ahead of every large state - I do not care if it is New York California Texas Pennsylvania Ohio Illinois. We are better than all those states. I think Gov. DeSantis has done a fantastic job. It is been very very strategic following the facts following the guidance following the medical expertise. And what we know is that the consequences of not letting these kids come back into school is so much more drastic sure and profound than the very low risk - less than seasonal flu - that these kids face by coming in with the risk of COVID. And so you know...  Well let us talk about that risk. I mean the state testing labs in Florida are turning around COVID tests in 48 to 72 hours which is not enough time to respond to a potential case without many more people potentially getting exposed. So what tools will schools have in place for rapid testing?  Yeah. So we have the district right here in Tampa that - they are partnering with the department of health. They are having a testing apparatus right there on the campus for a teacher. But the bigger thing is if they have symptoms. We have looked at it from the world. We have looked at from the nation. If you have somebody with symptoms they need to stay home and not come to the campus. The problems in our schools are people - adults mostly - coming into the schools infecting the environment not the other way around. And so if we can clear out anybody who is sick anybody who is symptomatic then that is literally how...  Well let us talk about that. Let us talk about it. Let us say a student or a teacher is symptomatic. Should an entire class be quarantined if that student or teacher tests positive you think?  No. You partner with the department of health and there is clear guidance from the CDC and it is guidance that is been improved and improved and improved. And what you do is you contact trace who - what person or persons or children had exposure to that individual who is COVID positive within 6 feet for more than 15 minutes and then those people would have to go home and...  Well would not an entire class of students be potentially exposed? I mean...  No no because all these schools are doing different protocols where they have - instead of the teacher walking like we would have done when we were in school up and down the aisles now they are standing in front of the classroom 6 feet distance from their students and they are maintaining that 6 feet balance. And so you are going to have less and less people that are exposed to it if they are symptomatic. And the proof's in the pudding. We have - 65 of our kids are in face-to-face instruction and almost 95 of our teachers.  Richard Corcoran is the Florida education commissioner. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 