 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeline Brand in California.  And I am Melissa Block in Washington. Yesterday on the program we heard about the governor's race in New Jersey where the Democratic incumbent looks to be in trouble. Today we are going to hear about the governor's race in Virginia which has been trending Democratic in recent elections. The current Democratic governor Tim Kaine is term-limited. This year's race pits Democratic State Senator Creigh Deeds against Virginia's former attorney general Republican Bob McDonnell. And political reporter Jeff Shapiro of the Richmond Times-Dispatch joins us to talk about the race. Welcome to the program Jeff. Mr.  Thank you for having me.  And what are polls showing right now? Mr.  The latest polls show Creigh Deeds trailing by as many as 14 percentage points. But  say it is early August and Virginians are focusing on things other than politics - summer vacation for one.  Well let us get a sense of each of these candidates. First the Republican Bob McDonnell and let us listen to the first part of a TV ad that he is been running.  Mr.  Raising five kids and running for governor can be hectic. But we find time to relax. Ms.  Honey I have a few errands. Later. Mr.  I taught our twin boys how to play soccer in our front yard. Mr.  Dad soccer game. Mr.  Keys.  Jeff tell us more about Bob McDonnell. Mr.  I may be dating myself that is a sort of Leave It to Beaver sort of ad. This ad is all about making sure people know that Bob McDonnell is not as conservative as his record which show that he is a very approachable guy much like many of us with families mortgages kids educations for those children very prosaic very ordinary very everyday sort of stuff.  But key here I think is that Bob McDonnell represents the Northern Virginia suburbs that we hear so much about as being a political force in the state. Mr.  Certainly that is where he got started growing up at that end of the interstate. He got his real start in politics. At the other end Virginia Beach down along the Virginia seacoast where the brand of Republican politics that he practiced was very conservative.  Well let us talk more about the Democrat Creigh Deeds from rural Bath County. And here is part of a biographical video that he has up on his Web site.  Mr.  I grew up in a watershed of the Cowpasture River on a little creek known as Mill creek. I grew up swimming fishing canoeing all up and down the Cowpasture River. I have done it all my life.  And Creigh Deeds' definitely painting himself as the emblem of rural Virginia. We see him as a kid riding on a tractor in a flannel shirt. Mr.  This is an area that - in which the Democrats need to be strong and competitive. Given the advantages they have amassed in the suburbs Democrats see Creigh Deeds with his rural pedigree as you know someone who more closely fits Virginia as a whole. And this means you know swallowing hard on some of his more controversial positions including his advocacy of gun rights.  Jeff it was a really big deal when Barack Obama won Virginia last November. It was the first time I guess since 1964 that Virginia went Democratic in the presidential race. President Obama is in Virginia tonight campaigning for Creigh Deeds  Has the president's luster dimmed in Virginia? Mr.  Well certainly the polls which that and there is a lot of anecdotal evidence as well to suggest that people are you know less enthusiastic about Barack Obama at this point than they were last November. And clearly that pushback is creating problems for Creigh Deeds. The Republicans know this and if one looks closely at the matter in which the Republicans are executing this campaign they have nationalized it - largely nationalized it.  How so? Mr.  Well for example Bob McDonnell talks about issues that have no real immediate application to what is going on in Virginia. He talks about cap and trade card check. He will make occasional references to what he has described as socialized medicine. These things do not have a lot to do with solving transportation problems educating kids in public schools keeping tuition rates down that sort of thing.  But he thinks he can use the Democratic record or the Democratic proposals on the national level successfully against Creigh Deeds. Mr.  Absolutely. Now there is something that also needs to be pointed out. The turnout in that presidential election was 75 percent. It is probably going to drop to 42 43 percent. That means the respective base votes of these two parties can be very important. And so one way Bob McDonnell in particular can really energize his Republican base is capitalizing on that discontent with Barack Obama.  Okay. Political reporter Jeff Shapiro with the Richmond Times-Dispatch. Thanks very much. Mr.  Thank you. 