 Later this summer another trip to the Gulf Coast for President Obama but this time it is a family vacation. The first family is scheduled to visit Florida's Gulf Coast in August. The president and the first lady have been encouraging Americans to visit the hard-hit region but for their most recent vacation they went to Maine. For some advice on what the Obamas might do when they head to Florida I called on Pensacola native Joe Scarborough. He is a former Republican congressman from Florida and the host of Morning Joe on MSNBC. He says a presidential vacation could do a lot to boost local tourism.  We all saw the pictures of the president and the first family walking in the mountains of Maine. And I will guarantee you  Hey we should go up to Maine. That is really beautiful. This will be a very positive image of a first family walking along Florida beaches and sometimes just being president and showing up at a certain site is enough. And I think this is one of those times.  You know this area so well. So why do not you give us a quick travelogue of the things that they might want to see and do the restaurants and the salt water taffy operations and the snow cones and the charter fishing. Just give us a quick list.  I would guess that the president's already being advised to make sure that he - of course he starts with the beaches which really - from Perdido Key which is on the Alabama line all the way over to Panama City are - they really are the whitest in America. Seaside and Seagrove and just some wonderful cities that - beach towns that actually are up on cliffs that overlook the Gulf Coast waters which again are still beautiful.  The one place that the first family might want to think about that is not a natural for tourists that only the locals know about?  Well unfortunately I always go back to food.  Food is good. We do not mind that.  If that is okay. I always go back to food. In Pensacola Florida there is - the first stop is always the Fish House downtown where they tell you they still are serving very fresh very safe fish from the Gulf Coast. And a burger joint Jerry's Drive-In where I drag the entire crew of Morning Joe to every time we go down there. It is a wonderful greasy spoon and in the morning there is only one place to start your day and that is at Bagel Heads. They are about as good as it gets. That would be a great place for the president to start.  All good. You are making me hungry Joe.   I am making myself hungry. That is why I am going home next weekend again.   Anything the first family or the president in particular should avoid? Showing up for instance at the beach in hard-soled shoes?  Well I was just going to say yeah please do not go Nixon on us and be caught walking along the beaches in wing tip shoes and black socks. Just it was not a good call for Nixon in the '60s. It would not be good for Barack Obama in 2010.  Joe Scarborough always good to talk to you.  Great talking to you. Thanks.  That was Joe Scarborough the host of Morning Joe on MSNBC. 