 College costs are rising student debt is mounting and the unemployment rate for recent graduates is not improving. Those are some reasons that a group of young people in Charlotte  apprenticeships. North Carolina Public Radio's Asma Khalid explains.  Seventeen-year-old Rebeca Espinal admits with a shy smile that she is a straight-A math student. She is a high school graduate who dreamed of going to college out of state. Instead she is working in a Charlotte factory that makes gas turbines and generators. Espinal is an apprentice with the German company Siemens.  I was planning on getting a degree in international relations but with financial aid and how difficult it is to pay for college and everything.  So when Siemens came along and gave me the offer it was too good of an opportunity to just let it go or something.  Siemens hired Espinal and five other apprentices last year. These days Espinal works on the factory floor.  Running a machine learning about programs how to set up a machine for a program also learning how to use tools and learning how to read blueprints.  She learns all this with the help of her personal mentor Danny Hawkins. He likes to call her Dora the Explorer and you can see the resemblance.  It is a great way for these young people to learn that there is a demand for skilled workers. Siemens has a very large workforce that is fixing to retire and there is nobody to replace them.  When Espinal finishes her four-year training program she will graduate with an associate's degree a journeyman's certificate in machining and a guaranteed job that includes a starting salary around 44000 a year. Espinal is part of Siemens' first apprenticeship class. But these apprenticeships in Charlotte go way back back to 1995 when the Austrian manufacturer Blum could not find skilled workers. So Blum created Apprenticeship 2000. It is a co-op with seven other firms. It was revolutionary for its time. But Andreas Thurner says it suffered from an American stigma against blue collar work. Turner runs the program.  You have the one-way path in America this is college education. So it was you can imagine a lot of resistance from counselors from teachers from principals.  Over time the stigma faded as the program grew. This year Apprenticeship 2000 received a record number of applications. The companies foot the bill for training and that costs about 160000 per student over the course of four years.  I think it is a small price to pay because I know the time when we could not do what we do now. We could not grow the business. We could not get machines in that they wanted because we did not have the people to run it.  Thurner says there is no alternative to this on-the-job training. Modern manufacturing is high tech you are dealing with expensive equipment. Push the wrong button and you have got a 50000 mistake.  And so what is going to be the speed of this shaft compared to the speed of the...  On days when the apprentices are not on the job they are here at Central Piedmont Community College in downtown Charlotte. The companies partnered with the school to develop a curriculum that mixes mechanics and electronics. Today they are learning about chain drives.  ...is 36. Sixty-four which is 0.5...  Rebeca Espinal the straight-A math student we met earlier says she does not regret giving up that international relations major.  I do not regret it 'ecause you have opportunities in this company to grow. And so one of my goals ultimately in this company is to become an engineer and possibly you know travel around the world go to other Siemens factories and maybe you know work with other engineers from other countries.  There are more than 20 other apprentices in Espinal's class and they are smart. Some tell stories of taking AP courses or receiving the top grades in physics. But apprenticeships are still fighting an image battle. Only 0.3 percent of the American workforce are apprentices. That is according to a report from American University economist Robert Lerman.  It is a very minor phenomenon.  Lerman is a fellow at the Urban Institute. He says studies show students truly benefit from on-the-job training.  I do not understand why there is not a much bigger push toward shifting funding toward apprenticeship programs.  Lerman is hopeful though. He says these days there is a willingness to discuss apprenticeships as a viable career alternative in a way we have not in years. It seems the crummy economy is encouraging parents and kids to rethink the value of an expensive college degree. For NPR News I am Asma Khalid. 