 For decades people have been saying that clearing was a stop on the Underground Railroad. Now archeologists are excavating and seeing that freed and escaped slaves did not just pass through this stop they stayed. NPR's Sam Sanders reports on the town they built.  Patricia Markert of Temple University and about a dozen others are digging and cleaning on a 100-degree July day.  We have been here since June 3rd June 4th. Our last official day was July 3rd. So...  Patricia Markert's standing near a gaping hole in the field where a building once stood. Her team has carefully dug down layer by layer. The holes edges are lined with tarp shovels brushes and rope lines. Underground are several houses roadways remains of a church and a school.  So the first area that we really dug are these center bricks the center of the eastern foundation that you see here.  The bricks they found are throwaways from the Quaker brickyard that used to operate down the road. The construction isn' The residents of Timbuctoo did the best they could with what they had.  These people had to deal with Jim Crow laws. They had to deal with slavery. They had to deal with economic oppression and racism. And that is what we are trying to really find.  That is Chris Barton the Temple archeologist leading the excavation. He says that every artifact recovered helps show the amazing tenacity of Timbuctoo residents like what is known as the Battle of Pine Swamp. In 1860 the town rallied to protect a runaway slave named Perry Simmons from Southern bounty hunters.  Most of that stuff is...  Today about 40 feet from the hole Patricia Markert rummages through an old white van. It is full of bottles tools and toys dug up from the ground.  Let us see. What else can I get for you? These bottles are interesting.  One of the local volunteers 75-year-old Mary Weston lives just down the street. Since the dig began she is been a fixture at the site.  Because my great-great-great-grandfather purchased the land for actually it was 38 dollars I think and 50 cents.  He was one of the founders of Timbuctoo. Inside Mary Weston's home only a few hundred feet down the road she is been collecting the history of her family and Timbuctoo. She is sitting on her freshly vacuumed floor surrounded by artifacts.  This is my family Bible. It was passed down to me from the 1800s and I am quite excited about that. I keep it together with a belt because I am determined that my children and my grandchildren will know a lot more about not only their family but about their heritage who they are where they came from.  Back at the dig the mayor of Westampton Township Sidney Camp has arrived. He was a frequent visitor to the clearing before he knew it was Timbuctoo.  When I was having a bad day I would come out here and just stand in the middle of this field because it is so peaceful and serene out here. And now you know to come out now and see what I have been standing over for so many years is amazing. It is indescribable.  Sam Sanders NPR News. 