 William Krisel brought mid-century modernism to the masses. He might not be a household name but the silhouettes of the homes he built in the post-war years are instantly recognizable. Krisel was an early innovator of tract housing. He died Friday at his home in California at the age of 92. Matt Guilhem has this remembrance.  William Krisel's homes had open floor plans and walls of glass with even more windows above them. His designs were the harbinger of what came to be known as California living. In a 2016 interview Krisel said there are real benefits to what good design can do.   First of all it makes you aware that it is a beautiful day or a dark day because the outdoors comes in. Secondly the space that you are in is not held in by four walls. Your space goes as far as your eye can see.  As modern as his designs are William Krisel grew up in the Far East in a bygone age.   In Shanghai we had a very big house. And we had a staff of 12 or 15 servants so we did not have to do a thing. So we had a life that I do not think anybody can match today.  Krisel's father worked as the sole film distributor to Asia for all of the big Hollywood studios. But the young Krisel was interested in architecture. When he was 11 he drew sketches of the proposed family home in Southern California. His father sent the drawings to the architect.   She said well he shows talent. He ought to become an architect.  While he had a knack for drafting and a love for drawing he did not find his vocation until joining the Army in World War II and chatting with his fellow soldiers about what they would do after the war.   Everybody had an idea of what kind of a home they wanted and whatnot. And so I made up my mind that when I got out and I was going to go back and finish architecture I was going to try to be a specialist in housing.  While he designed high-rise condos and apartment buildings later in his career it is his early tract homes built by the Alexander Construction Company in Palm Springs Calif. that earned him a reputation with buyers and builders. The small homes could be built quickly efficiently and most importantly affordably. Buyers in the late 1950s got...   A hundred-by-hundred lot all fenced in landscaped modern design air condition swimming pool all for 29900.  Krisel varied the setback from the street changed the rooflines and employed a complex schedule of paint schemes so no two tract homes next to each other looked remotely the same despite all having one basic floorplan.  We are talking about a tract house and most people when they hear the word tract it is kind of a denigrating term.  Heidi Creighton lives in a Krisel-designed home in Palm Springs and co-edited a book about him.  He cared about the way people were going to live in these places. He was able to do extraordinarily creative things within a very narrow framework. And that is the sign of a true artist I believe.  Krisel's tracts did more than bring revolutionary design to something once viewed as below serious architects. His meticulously planned neighborhoods elevated mass-produced housing to the realms of respectability and admiration among those in the profession and beyond.   I have had a very happy and successful career and I have achieved what I set out to do when I was a very young architect - that I wanted to create housing for the masses that they could afford and that would change their way of living and make life more enjoyable.  The number of lives his buildings have touched cannot be calculated but by William Krisel's own estimation more than 40000 housing units based on his designs were built. For NPR News I am Matt Guilhem. 