 And if you are just joining us it is WEEKENDS on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. I used to think this recording Poor Butterfly by Judy Garland was perhaps the most romantic take on the subject...   ...the subject being butterflies.   Until last week when I stumbled on the home of Dr. Jason Hall one of the world's leading entomologists having described 150 species of the butterfly known as Riodinidae. DR.  I work at the Smithsonian on the tropical butterflies. And this is my wife Alma Solis Dr. Alma Solis.  Nice to meet you Dr. Alma Solis. DR.  Hi. Hi. Well I work for USDA at the Natural History Museum and that is where I met my husband.  Dr. Jason Hall and Dr. Alma Solis live in Silver Spring Maryland in a house that is one big butterfly garden which they created themselves. He is identified more butterflies in his yard - around 50 - than exist in all of his native England.  Well for instance the Papilio glaucus the big yellow swallowtail cabbage whites white spotted skipper...  As a couple they are more rare than even the brilliant green and blue butterflies that Jason collects and classifies in Ecuador even more rare than some of Alma's moth sightings in Mexico.  We are the only mothbutterfly couple up until about a month ago when we had some colleagues in Finland get married. But we were it until then. And...  So here's their story. It started with how they met at the Smithsonian almost a decade ago. Now there are a scant few songs about moths so we threw in a few other butterfly songs in here because you know why not?   We actually - when I arrived Alma was on sabbatical. So there was this empty office next to mine. So of course when she showed up a few months after I arrived I was curious to find out who was in this office. So I went and introduced myself. We went out to the movies and then one thing led to another.   That is what happened.   You have got a big smile on your face.  Well you know I mean I have always had to deal with the idea that sometimes that if you get married your partner may not be - have to share the same interest. And I mean how do you tell your husband that you are going into the field with men for three months and that you are going to have to share tents and all this? I mean...  Like oh I am going to Guyana for a month. OK honey. See you.   Well it is a very unusual shared passion.  Yes. Yeah. Yeah.   He works during the day and I work at night. I collect my moths at night. So traveling together and looking at our organisms is very difficult.   Yeah. It is true. We had different backgrounds.  Yeah. But I came to it late. Most of my colleagues my male colleagues...  Are more like me.  ...are more like him.  Little kids collecting butterflies in jars.  Butterflies. But you know all this kind of thing. I mean I was an English major when I went to college. And then I learned that they had this biological station in northeastern Mexico and it was the most amazing place I have ever seen. I mean the trees are humongous. I mean you know they are 100 feet tall 90 feet tall and everything glistens. And the clouds move in and you just see things that you have never seen before. And I thought I want to spend my life discovering and learning new things. And so then I just started taking science classes.   So in Ecuador there is one day on a ridge top and cloud forest where I discovered two new species of Riodinidae butterflies on the same day. And they are beautiful creatures. They are very small. They have incredible metallic blues and greens long tails bizarre wing shapes orange and blue markings with iridescent silvery-blue line down the outside of the wings. Just very beautiful.  What I remember is my very first time collecting moths. The way we do it is we put a sheet out. We put a special light to bring the moths in. And I remember very distinctly this sheet just full of moths and then the bats coming in just to try and get some dinner. The very first time - and I was there by my - all by myself and that was really scary to me. But I got over it.   And for his butterflies you have to climb to the top of mountains basically.  Well if you are a moth you put out this sheet and the moths come to you.  Come to you.  The moths come to you.   But to catch butterflies you have to go to them.  You hike.  It is a lot harder.  You hike. You hike straight up right? .  Not like walking around the garden here where everything's just you know like pull it off the ground.  Not there. I mean...  It is a cathedral. They can be 10 20 meters up.   And this is why I am also finding these species. The rarer things fly higher up.  There is been so much destruction too of course in the - of the Amazon...  Mm-hmm.  ...and territory there. That is also got to be another concern to entomologists.  It is a big concern. I mean almost every time I go back obviously you are going back to places that you found before and you find places that have been cut. And I have just cried like a baby. On one occasion I cried like a baby when I got there and found you know a couple of new species I was trying to find like the male of something that we would found the female of - it was a new species - and I could not even find the location the exact place where I found it before because what was a beautiful forest was now a field.  Entomologists like us we live for going out into the field. And so when we first met we talked a lot about where we would conducted fieldwork and what we would discovered and you know what we wanted to do in the future and where we wanted to go collecting or where we want to go study.   So when you come back and now we are sitting here in you know suburban Maryland it must seem a little tame.  Definitely. It is very quaint...   Quaint yes.  ...compared to five-feet mud and you know west Nicaragua. Yeah. But that was part of the reason to have a little butterfly garden. You know when you are not in the field it keeps the butterflies close. It keeps them in sight. You know it reminds you of what you enjoy doing.   Jason Hall and Alma Solis live in Silver Spring Maryland. Thanks too to the Friends of Sligo Creek for that story.  