 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. Some owners of lakefront homes in Iowa today find themselves with homes but no lake. Torrential rains over the weekend knocked out the dam that was built to create Lake Delhi in the 1920s. And without a dam the lake drained leaving behind a river and millions of dollars in damages. Jim Kouba is a dentist whose family has a vacation home on what was formally the banks of Lake Delhi and he joins us. Dr. Kouba welcome to the program. Sorry about what happened there.  Thank you Mr. Siegel.  What does it look like now where your house is?  We are sitting looking out over the river. We had a nice little sandy beach right on the lake. Now it is probably 75 80 yards to water. And the water level is probably 30 feet below us.  Just a lot of lakebed now in front of you.  Yes.  And generally if you look up and down the river how much damage was there?  That is all you can see is boats precariously hanging on to very steep hillsides trees debris in the water boat hoists that are collapsed. The - a lot of the boats are missing from the boat hoists because they floated away. There is a lot of debris going by. LP tanks that were hissing floating by rooftops floating by a lot of things you would not want to be in the water with.  You know the hard thing to get one's mind around here is that when we think of torrential rains and floods typically we think of homes along the water suddenly being inundated and engulfed with water. This is the reverse. This is because of the dam giving way and the lake emptying out the torrential rains and the floods result in homes being deprived of their water and looking at empty dry lakebed in front of them.  Yeah. In some respects we were flooded before the dam broke and I think our flooding could have been worst had it not broke too. So I have to look at it two different directions.  Well can you speak of Lake Delhi at this point? It is not there anymore. Do you still - do you think of that body of water out there is Lake Delhi still?  Lake Delhi is still Lake Delhi because of the community here. It is a big place but it is still a very personal place. So yes I think it is still Lake Delhi.  Well Dr. Kouba thank you very much for talking with us today.  Oh thanks. Thanks for thinking of us.  Jim Kouba a dentist whose vacation home was on the bank of what was Lake Delhi in Iowa. 