 In New Mexico halfway between Amarillo and Albuquerque five minutes from Interstate 40 in the town of Santa Rosa is a place called the Blue Hole. It is a natural sinkhole that is filled with cold crystal-clear spring water and it is popular with scuba divers swimmers and our correspondent John Burnett.  This is the bluest water I have ever seen in my life. It is a deeper blue than the Caribbean. It is a rippling sapphire in the Llano Estacado of Eastern New Mexico. The Blue Hole is part of a vast network of artesian springs connected to the Pecos River that gives this town on historic Highway 66 its moniker - City of Natural Lakes.  My name is Walter Harris. I am a lifeguard at the Blue Hole. The water's 61 degrees and it is 81 feet deep. Yeah - some people have never even seen the natural spring before and we get it is an oasis in the desert all the time.  My name is Stella Salazar and I am the owner-operator of Santa Rosa Dive Center. I have had my business for 29 years. And people come from Colorado New Mexico Texas Oklahoma and they all come here to get certified.  My name is Denise Boyd and we live in Clovis N.M. right now. And this actually our second time in about a week that we came out to dive here at the Blue Hole. We have done a lot of ocean diving but not any landlocked diving like the Hole is here. Today I am wearing a half-mil wetsuit and then I have a 3-mil wetsuit over it. I have boots. I had gloves. I had things to go over my ears. It is definitely chilly down there.  The springs flow at 3000 gallons a minute year round so the pool is constantly renewing itself. For 50 years this exquisite water was used for a federal trout hatchery. Then in 1973 the government gave the Blue Hole to the city of Santa Rosa and people finally got to enjoy it. M.E. Sprengelmeyer is the publisher of the local paper the Guadalupe County Communicator. He swims here every day all year round. M.E.  I moved here in August of 2009 after the Rocky Mountain News closed up in Denver. I was the last Washington correspondent. And I said that is it. I am going to go find myself a newspaper. I heard this paper was for sale and I actually drove down here to scout out the paper. I liked the paper. I liked the town. I liked the business model. But the thing that sealed the deal was actually the Blue Hole and the possibility that I could spend every afternoon here floating in the Blue Hole.  Divers say there are some big goldfish on the bottom along with a couple of mannequin heads and a memorial to two divers who tried to explore the extensive underwater cavern system and never came back up. Now there is a steal grate across the opening. Above the water there is a sandstone outcropping 10 feet high perfect for cannonballs. Ray Merrick is a contractor at Kirtland Air Force Base in Albuquerque. He emerges from the water his skulls tattoos dripping.    Actually we rolled into town a couple days ago to do some camping and we saw the signs and just came out to check it out. And yeah this is a surprise. I mean you know we travel all over the Southwest and some of these sites - you will get to them and you are going to be disappointed 'ecause there'ill be graffiti or there is going to be trash. This is just clean. You know it is nice. It is refreshing. You are going to enjoy it in there.  John Burnett NPR News Santa Rosa N.M.   . 