 If you have ever ridden a subway in New York you know the stations are not exactly spotless but lately public transit advocates say conditions has gotten even worse. Riders had a chance this week to vote for the foulest smelling station. NPR's Joel Rose reveals the winner of New York's stankiest stop.  Tina West catches the A train to work at the Grand Avenue Station in East New York Brooklyn. She says today is actually a good day.  Well it does not smell as bad as some days.   So if it is hot down here you will usually smell it.  West says the other end of the platform is basically a bathroom with no door which the maintenance crew does its best to keep clean. Karen Towns uses the station a lot too. She thinks the Metropolitan Transportation Authority or MTA is doing a decent job.  Is it ideal? No. It could definitely be cleaner. And hopefully this will bring it to the attention of the MTA.  Grand Ave. is one of four finalists in a poll to name the smelliest subway station in New York City or as Noah Budnick puts it to rank the stank.  This is New York and there might be things that are malodorous and things that smell bad but there is nothing worse than stank. There is nothing that is more putrefying or smellier than something that is stanking.  Budnick is the deputy director for Transportation Alternatives a nonprofit that advocates for better public transportation. He met me at the 34th Street-Herald Square Station in Manhattan which is also one of the finalists.  It is a big station. There is a lot of crevices a lot of nooks and crannies for stank to creep up and a lot of people moving through it. So I think between the combination of a lot of surface area and a lot of noses it rose to the top of nominees.  Starting earlier this week Transportation Alternatives asked subway riders to nominate the smelliest stations on Facebook. The staff chose four finalists and then asked riders to vote by text message for the stankiest station. Budnick says the idea is not just to pick on the MTA which operates more than 460 subway stations in New York City and by the way declined to comment. Budnick wants to call attention to what happens when state lawmakers cut funding for public transit.  Not only do fares go up and service gets cut but the conditions in the station get worse because the MTA has fewer resources to maintain the stations.  Melanie Knox and Asia Briggs are waiting for a D train to the Bronx. They are divided over whether it is in fact the stankiest station in New York City.  Well I do not think it is the worst but it is one of the worst.  They do have a numerous amount of rodents and insects on the platform which I have never really seen in a station.  .. 00.00 