 The people who are brought to the U.S. illegally as children wear uncertainty like a second skin. As kids they wonder if their parents will be deported and what will become of them if that happens. And as high school winds to a close will they be able to attend college without papers? Will they be able to work?  And even after President Obama created a program to protect them the uncertainty persisted because in the U.S. presidential elections happen every four years.   I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration - immediately.  That is then-candidate Trump in the very speech where he announced he would run for president. He followed through on that promise. In 2017 he rescinded the DACA order.  But today in a 5-4 decision the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that President Trump did not have a good enough reason to wipe away the Obama-era policy. I spoke with one of the plaintiffs in the case earlier today a DACA recipient named Antonio Alarcon just a few hours after he had learned of the decision. And I asked him to take me back to that moment when he learned which way the court had landed.   So I think my routine every Monday and Thursday has become like opening my computer and just refreshing the website for SCOTUS and...  To see if the Supreme Court had ruled?  Yeah. And today actually it was not like refreshing. I was like what is going on? And then certainly  one of my closest friends she is like - oh my God. It is up. It is up. And I was like what is up? And then she kind of break the news for me. And I was like oh my God. So it was great. It was great to see. Right away we FaceTimed each other. And you know we cried together because we would been fighting for this for a couple of years now. And seeing that you know actually the Supreme Court realized the contributions of us DREAMers and our parents I think it is just a great moment to celebrate.  Can you just describe for me like what is going through your mind at this moment? I know you are still processing the decision. But tell me where your mind has gone just in the last several hours.  Well I think it is just like what is next? Right? Like we won but we know that President Trump is super upset. He thinks that the world is against him. But I think for us it is like OK we won. We will celebrate today but tomorrow we will fight for a better solution right? And I think for us right now it is like help those people who will actually be able to qualify for DACA - for the DACA program who did not qualify before. Now that the Supreme Court actually is telling Trump and DHS - right? - like you need to reopen those applications and let other people apply I think for us it is going to be work. And I think the view is it is going to be able to help those students or those DREAMers who will actually change their lives.  Yeah. Well I want to go back to the beginning of your story. Your family is from Mexico. Can you tell me when did you come to the U.S.?  Yes. I came to the U.S. when I was 10 years old. As many other DREAMers I migrated with my parents. As many others as well like crossed the border you know walking for three days and three nights. And then eventually I went through the school system in here. Since then I have been living here in New York. I went to middle school. I went to high school and eventually college.  Well you know to return to your school years eventually you ended up becoming a top student at your high school in Queens. But then it was time to start thinking about college. Can you just tell us what that was like? What happened when you wanted to apply to college at first?  So I remember it was my junior year in high school. And as you mentioned I was kind of like the top student in my school. And I remember like one day one of my guidance counselors reached out to me. And she was like congratulations you can actually apply - you got selected to apply for these private institutions. The only requirement that we need from you is your Social Security number. And at the time DACA was not implemented yet so I did not have a Social. I just told her like I am sorry like I do not have one. And she was like OK. I am sorry but I - like this is only for people who have a Social Security number. Right away you know like I knew that I was undocumented and this could happen. But I did not realize how hard it was going to be until like that moment. And I think it is the moment for many other DREAMers when we realize that - how hard it is going to be to be undocumented after high school right?  Mmm hmm.  So for me it was hard. But I knew that that was not the ending. And eventually I was able to apply for college and graduate from it.  Well this was a big win for DACA recipients and all the advocates who work with DACA recipients. But you know DACA was an Obama-era order. Congress still has not passed a law. So what is next for you as you continue this fight?  We need - exactly as you mentioned before this is not a law. This is something that could be taken away either by Trump by any other president. And we know that - I think after today we know that we can win anything. And we need to fight for our parents. Elections are coming up. And we need to ensure that people who are eligible to vote they vote for someone who will understand the immigrant community who will understand that the contributions of our parents are the same as anyone else. So our fight is to continue to fight for a path to citizenship. We will not stop until that day happens. And after that we will still ensure that you know we get the respect and dignity that our parents and the community deserves because that is the ultimate goal.  Is there anything you want to say to the thousands of other DACA recipients today? I mean they have had a lot of their lives in limbo since President Trump rescinded DACA in 2017. What would you like to say to them today?  Yeah. Well I think - do not get comfy right? Today we celebrate. Today we acknowledge that this win or this victory as a movement it was made by the movement. But tomorrow we need to continue to fight for those who do not have anything at the moment. And you know just because we won today does not mean that tomorrow our beloved ones will not get deported. So today we celebrate tomorrow we fight.  Antonio Alarcon is a DACA recipient and now a census coordinator at Make the Road New York. Thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you.  