 Tennessee has launched a campaign to help counties recruit new people to work the polls. That is because right now a lot of longtime poll workers do not feel safe spending hours in a public place on Election Day. And now teenagers are heeding the call. Sergio Martinez-Beltran of member station WPLN reports.  16-year-old Alayna Fuson is one of the newest poll officials in Tennessee. Yes you heard right. She is not old enough to vote but she is helping run the elections in Henry County.  I just thought it would be a good opportunity to learn about it because I really did not know anything about it so I thought that would be a good opportunity.  Fuson can be a poll worker thanks to a new law that lowered the minimum age to serve in Tennessee joining other states that allow 16-year-olds work the elections. According to Tennessee election officials at least 596 poll workers across the state are 21 or younger. DeLaina Green is the elections administrator in Henry the rural county northwest of Nashville. She says planning for this year's events has not been easy.  Oh you cannot even imagine. With  been a very challenging election.  But Green says that recruiting younger people has made it better.  Not only am I getting them involved but I am actually seeing these kids - most of them since they were kindergarten up to this point.  In fact 32 of the poll workers in Henry County are under 18 which at times makes it complicated. First it is not that easy to get ahold of teenagers during the summer break. And when Green finds those interested she has to convince them to attend the training.  You know a mindset of a 16-year-old even though they take school very serious they are dedicated to their sports - I need them to understand the importance of when you attend training that means you are making a commitment.  Green says the fact that they get paid has helped but having a connection has also been important. Many of the poll workers are in the same class as her daughter Callie. The 17-year-old has been working during early voting and has already learned a valuable lesson applicable to most situations in life.  To have patience yes definitely. It is basically just like a patience game.  She says this experience has motivated her to vote when she turns 18. For NPR News I am Sergio Martinez-Beltran. 