 President Obama will go to Louisiana on Tuesday. It will be his first trip to see communities that have been devastated by historic rainstorms and flooding. In areas south of Baton Rouge waters continue to rise. But in and around the capital neighborhoods are drying out. Relief organizations are on the ground trying to help flood victims. In a moment we will hear from the state's insurance commissioner about why so few people have flood insurance. But first here's Louisiana Public Broadcasting's Paul Boger. He is in Baton Rouge.  In a residential neighborhood in East Baton Rouge a bright red American Red Cross emergency response vehicle pulls up to the curb. A loudspeaker on top announces it is here to hand out supplies.   .  Rod Hamer is the truck's driver.  One of the major things we are doing today is we are just getting started. And we are trying to identify the bad pockets so that we can establish routes and so forth so that we can go ahead and provide meals and other kinds of supplies.  Hamer's wearing a bright red vest and a ball cap. The retiree drove down from Iowa to volunteer.  When there is such a situation as they have lost so much something as simple as a bottle of water or...  Anybody else need something?  ...Somebody that comes from Iowa to help them out kind of helps a little bit.  The Red Cross has brought in about 1000 volunteers from around the country. Large charities like United Way The Salvation Army and local organizations like Together Baton Rouge are also trying to aid. These groups are distributing supplies running shelters and going door to door lending a hand in the cleanup. Azayla Miles is here salvaging what is left of her house when the American Red Cross truck drove up. On the exterior of her house a water line at about 4 feet shows just how high the water rose. She is piling wet carpet couches chairs clothes and even appliances on the curb. Her car which was completely submerged sits in the driveway. Miles has been living with an aunt about 45 minutes away along with her young son.  And he is been wanting to come home. He does not have a home to come to.  Her friend helps explain.  Breathe. But she is going - 'ecause he just had a birthday. He just turned 3. And all he knows is that he lost all his toys. That is all he can ask for. But pretty much their one-story - everything was gone. Like everything that is for Hunter is gone.  Red Cross volunteer Rod Hamer gives Miles a case of water four or five military MREs and some hygiene products. She says these items have been a blessing.  It is more than what we have now.  It is more than what we have. Just like yesterday we were cleaning our homes and a guy just stopped and gave us Raising Cane's.  And it...  And that was touching because...  You know but we are appreciate everything that everyone's doing for us.  Yeah.  What you need right now?  Prayers...  And a home.  Yeah and a home.  Miles says she is applied for federal disaster assistance but does not know if she will be able to wait for the money. She is considering packing up the few belongings she has left and leaving the state for higher ground perhaps in Jackson Miss. or Memphis Tenn. For NPR News I am Paul Boger in Baton Rouge. 