 In Providence Rhode Island Peter Gaynor who runs the city's Emergency Management Agency has launched something called Operation Karat. That is K A R A T as opposed to carrot - C A R R O T. The obvious confusion is what Operation Karat is all about - Providence street names that sound so much alike or that actually are the same. Mr. Gaynor what is the problem with there being an Abbott Street say and an Abbott Park Place within Providence?  Well our problem is that we want to make sure that we can dispatch our emergency response assets without any confusion with police and fire to the correct address. And it seems like a simple proposition and it should be. But we have some local problems.  How common is it for you to have a problem? - that you live on a street that has a name that is very similar to another residential street let us say?  We have about 1980 streets and of those there is probably 75 streets in total that have some sort of conflict. And so there may be that there are some streets that have five names - five different streets across the city that have a similar name. And then there are others that there are two streets that have the similar name. So it is wide-ranging. We have not looked in detail about how we resolved every single one.  Let us say you have two streets both called Brown Street and residents or shopkeepers may have years worth of documents or even advertising saying number 11 Brown Street - who gets to decide which group gets to keep their address and who has to tell the entire world I now live at number 11 Tan Street but I actually have not moved.  It is a great problem and I do not think we have resolved it yet but I think our concept is to have the least amount of impact on the least amount of people with the least amount of money or inconvenience that we can provide.  You mentioned some place that might have five different streets using the same name in a variety of ways. What is the champion name in Providence?  The champion name seems to be Grand. So we have Grand Broadway Grand Street - we have Grant Street. And we have Grand Street. That seems to be the champion. And again we have a host of Park View Park Lane Park Row Park Row West - so there is a few that are challenging problems.  So right now - what stage are you at right now in Operation Karat?  Well we just finished one-on-one service with the 20 largest institutions in the city. And next we are going to go through all the streets and see really which ones are problematic. We are going to make some recommendations I think throughout the next year to make sure that we have a clear process in City Hall so that when someone changes the name of a business that it actually is done through all departments to include the public safety department.  Who came up with the name Operation Karat by the way?  I have got to say it was my...  That is your idea.  Right I wanted to be vague and confusing. And we actually have a little slideshow that we gave and I have the word Karat with a K A R A T and a picture of a carrot that you eat and I got a lot of quizzical looks from around the room when I first did it. But once you spell it out for everyone then it all makes sense.  Well Mr. Gaynor good luck with Operation Karat and congratulations on the naming.  Thank you very much.  That is Peter Gaynor who is the director of the Emergency Management Agency of Providence Rhode Island. 