 In Baton Rouge professional work crews are stretched thin - tearing out drywall carpeting and hardwood floors from tens of thousands of flooded houses. So anyone who has experience gutting a house is in high demand. Lots of people who have been through this before live a couple hours away in New Orleans. Monday is the 11th anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. And as my colleague Ari Shapiro found people who lived through that storm are now helping victims of the one that hit central Louisiana.  A car full of people has just arrived outside this flooded house in Baton Rouge. They drove up from New Orleans as part of an organization called Lowernine.org. This is a group of volunteers that has been rebuilding flooded homes over the last decade in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward. And now they are applying their skills to the same kinds of flooded houses in Baton Rouge.  OK let us divide up in like crews of two maybe. And we will get a couple of men on the saw.  Sixty-five year old Errol Joseph is directing a team of young volunteers from France Taiwan and New Orleans. In 2005 Joseph's house flooded to the roof during Katrina. Now this team is at his niece's house in Baton Rouge trying to help her recover from the storms that dumped more than 30 inches of rain on the city. Joseph says the construction is one challenge - the bureaucracy is another.  And that is what I am stressing to people now. Be aware because you will get promised the world but you will get nothing. They put me on hold for over four years when my house rotted from looking like this in the inside...  Just bare bone studs yeah.  ...To rotting out. And we had to pretty much tear it down. And they did not compensate us one penny.  As you drive around these neighborhoods and you see piles of debris on the street in these flooded-out homes what is the same as Katrina and what is different?  The stench.  The stench.  We are here now maybe a week or two later. I came back to New Orleans about the same time maybe a week or two later. And just you know to look at your house flooded and I cannot even get in it.  You know we are 11 years out from Katrina. Does seeing this put you back in there in a way that you have not felt in a while?  I thought it would. Sunday I came up here and it kind of made me cry a little bit. I cry quick. I am a big baby.  .  And as I traveled down Prescott there is a church around here and I could see all of the new furniture and everything out. And I said man this is the same old thing - deja vu.  Tell me about the moment that your niece called you and said you are never going to believe what happened to me...  Well she called crying.  ...Something similar happened to you. Yeah.  Uncle Errol I do not know what to do. My house flooded. I said do not worry. Pray. All you can do is pray. So she is working two jobs more or less. She is running herself crazy.  And so how do you tell your niece everything's going to be OK when your own life still has so many challenges...  What can you do?  ...From what happened in 2005?  What can you do back up? Turn around and stop? Where can you go? If you go to California you have got the fires. You go to the Midwest you have got tornadoes. You cannot run. Do not run. There is an old saying - you are afraid? Go to church. You are scared? Get your lawyer. You are a man? Put on your big drawers and let us go.  Who are these volunteers that you have brought up here?  OK these volunteers are from Lowernine.org. Lowernine.org is a volunteer organization that started after Katrina in the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans.  So you told the founder of Lowernine.org that you wanted to come up here and help your niece with her flooded home in Baton Rouge and she said I have got a team of volunteers for you and then these people just showed up?  No problem.  So how does that make you feel to have this group of basically strangers showing up and saying put us to work we will help?  Well I have learned through Lowernine helping me - they become your family. The first day you get to the job they are apprehensive. The next day they are starting to buddy in with you. Wednesday they are starting to be your children. Thursday you are loving them they are hugging you and everything. And then tear-jerking time comes. We start crying.  So they come and they spend a week working and then they fly back to wherever in the country they are from? And they may come in for another...  ...They may spend two months three months. Their school - they do this for a part of their schooling the Frenchmans do.  So you have got people not just from all over the U.S. but all over the world.  All over the world. I have had people from Russia Korea South Korea Germany France the Netherlands Mexico Honduras. Kids still call back to see how we are doing.  Well Mr. Joseph thank you very much.  I appreciate you guys.  That was Errol Joseph of New Orleans talking to our co-host Ari Shapiro in Baton Rouge. 