 As you drive into the city of Aberdeen Washington the welcome sign reads Come as you are. That slogan traces back to the city's most famous son. Mr.   Come as you are as you were  That song from the late Kurt Cobain the lead singer of Nirvana and an Aberdeen native. Recently in Aberdeen one of Cobain's words has stirred up controversy as Vanessa Romo reports.  Even Aberdeen mayor Bill Simpson pillar of the community that he is says it.  My life anyway I have said it you know the F-word. And I always feel sorry that I have said it.  But it is another thing when the F-word is literally written in stone. And that is why the small desolate city of Aberdeen has been at the center of a minor media blitz recently. The F-bomb was included in a quote attributed to Kurt Cobain on a new granite stone honoring him in his hometown.  Basically stay away from drugs it   yup.  Actually the exact line is drugs are bad for you. They will  you up and it really  some people off. The idea for the quote came from Tori Kovach. He is the founder of the unofficial Kurt Cobain Park on the banks of the Wishkah River. It was here that Cobain is said to have written lyrics to many of his early songs. Sixty-six-year-old Kovach though is not much of a Nirvana fan. But he is something of a contrarian and he was not about to let the man tell him what to do. That would be very un-Rock and Roll. Mr.  I saw nothing wrong with quoting that verbatim because that was Kurt. And if I am going to quote somebody if you are going to quote somebody  But almost immediately articles appeared in the local paper TV station KOMO showed up and the pressure was on. It took about a week before Kovach gave in and the city called Jason Duval.  Mr.  I am going to use a sandblaster air compressor and just get rid of the U-C-K part of it.  Duval has been assigned the job of blasting out the expletive. But before he does he makes a rubbing of the original marker. Duval says he can play every Nirvana song on guitar. The whole thing takes about 15 minutes. Mr.  There it is.  Thank you. Mr.  Everybody's happy.  Well not everybody. It is no surprise that there is a generational divide on the issue. In fact Mayor Simpson and his 21-year-old daughter Jillian do not see eye-to-eye. Before the blasting she was hoping the F-word would stay. Ms.  I mean if anyone gets offended by it then they obviously do not like Kurt Cobain that much.   Those that do know that throughout his short life Cobain struggles with drug addiction received almost as much attention as his musical career. And profane or not there is no arguing that an anti-drug message is more than just a platitude in this region. The Pacific Northwest continues to grapple with some of the highest levels of substance abuse in the country. For NPR News I am Vanessa Romo. 