 Union leaders are calling for Jody Weis to resign but the former FBI agent says his work is not finished yet. Chicago Public Radio's Robert Wildeboer reports.  About 300 officers and their supporters marched in a protest line this morning that snaked back and forth in front of police headquarters on the city's South Side. Detective Ed King had his arms full of signs for protestors to carry.  More Police no Weis. Assaults on police officers are up 20 percent. Resign. We have several others too.  The union has lots of complaints about the police boss but there is one tying them all together. Detective Frank Roman says he and the other officers do not like Weis because the former FBI agent was never a cop and he is not from Chicago.  I am not a fan of hiring outside the department when you got plenty of people that have doctorates and master's degree in law enforcement and they have got 20 30 40 years and you go out of the department to hire. That does not make any sense to me.    It is time for him to hit the road. Richie Daley cannot you see? A change of sup is what we need.  That the union is still talking about Weis's response to that incident gives you some idea of how deeply some officers dislike him. Mark Donahue is the president of the Fraternal Order of Police.  We did not have any sway at all in picking this superintendent.   Alderman thank you for coming out.  Thank you. Thank you.    It is essential to begin looking inside the department for the next superintendent.  You have got to be realistic. Some people are going to complain. You could give them a gold brick and they are going to complain how heavy it is.  Superintendent Jody Weis says the officers are free to march but says he will not resign.  I came here with a job to do. I have still got more work to be done and I am certainly not going to leave until I get that work done.  He has to stay focused on the reason he was brought here.  Gerald Frazier is the president of Citizens Alert a police accountability group. He says there are lots of headlines now about cops who think Weis is doing a bad job but he says they are much better than the headlines just a few years ago.  You know I see a big difference just in terms of the conversation that I am hearing now about how do we fight crime as opposed to how do we get rid of all these bad police officers.  For NPR news I am Robert Wildeboer in Chicago. 