 For the first time the Pentagon has outlined how it plans to fight in cyberspace. The Defense Department's new cyber strategy assumes the next war will include attacks on U.S. computer networks. And if those attacks lead to death and destruction the U.S. could retaliate with force. William Lynn the deputy secretary of defense spoke about that today.  The United States reserves the right under the laws of armed conflict to respond to serious cyber attacks with the proportional and justified military response at the time and place of its choosing.  For more on this we are joined now by NPR's Tom Gjelten. And Tom the Pentagon says it might respond to a serious cyber attack with military force. What does serious mean in this case?  Well Robert that cyber attack would actually have to be considered an act of war and that is a judgment call a judgment call that ultimately would have to made by the president or by Congress. And General James Cartwright the vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff pointed out that it is judgment that would be made in the eyes of the beholder. Now having said that they did lay out some guidelines and the key thing is that a cyber attack would be judged by what effect it had what results it had. If it produced damage equivalent to what would come from a physical attack it could prompt a military response. That could be a missile strike or a bombing or something like that. Now having said that there are two quick points to emphasize. One is that the Pentagon says that a cyber attack on this scale at this point would be highly unlikely. Second it is not the first time we have heard this. The White House has basically hinted at that before. This is however the plainest language that we have heard in that regard.  But by saying effect you are saying that also as opposed to intent that somebody who tried to take out a huge computer network but failed that would not provoke a response?  Military officials are emphasizing it would be judged by the effect that attack had.  Is there any concern here that the language out of the Pentagon today might appear to militarize cyberspace in a way that it might not be militarized now?  That is a big concern Robert. And it is a concern shared by other governments obviously but even within the U.S. government cyberspace is seen differently in different sectors of the government. The Commerce Department for example sees it as an arena where commercial transactions where trade takes place. The State Department looks at it as a place - kind of a political arena where we have seen for example how important social media were in the Middle East. So they are very concerned about internet freedom. And they see it as a civilian space. And this is one reason - disagreements about the meaning of cyberspace is one reason the Pentagon cyber-strategy was actually quite slow in coming out.  And the Pentagon has evidence of its concerns about what the threat is in cyberspace?  Well yeah the Pentagon is sensitive to these concerns that cyberspace should be kept civilian but it does say that there is reason to fear a cyber war or a cyber attack. And they pointed out today for the first time very specific information about some of the military systems that have been attacked - aircraft avionics surveillance technologies missile tracking systems. They also mentioned a defense contractor that was penetrated in March by a foreign intelligence service. Twenty-four thousand files were stolen.  Is that war though or is that espionage?  That could be considered preparing the battlefield in military terms sort of reconnaissance kind of a pre-war stage. It just means that the military feels it needs to be prepared for war.  Okay. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Tom Gjelten. 