 Now a visit to the oldest summer camp for Muslim children in the country. Fifty-five years ago an Indo-Pakistani man and his Caucasian wife opened the camp in the California woods. They modeled it on Methodist summer camps. Kids hike swim and roast s'mores. They also get some lessons on how to cope in a country where anti-Muslim sentiment is on the rise. NPR's Leila Fadel joined the campers this year.  Why did the cow cross the road?  Why?  Because the chicken was on vacation.  The sun has set. The hiking swimming and prayers are over. And the kids are goofing off taking turns telling jokes. Moments like these are some of Jasmine Wadalawala and Manar Soliman's favorite memories of being campers at Muslim Youth Camp. This year the two college students who came to camp as children are volunteer counselors. They are setting up tents in the middle of towering pine trees in the northern California woods. For Soliman it is a family tradition that dates back to her grandfather.  I have like six cousins that are here right now.  Most of her friends back home in Texas she says had never met a Muslim before her. They have a lot of stereotypes of what a Muslim looks like and it is not her. She has blue hair and goals to be a professional wrestler.  It is a lot of explaining - you know why people wear hijab why I do not wear hijab you know why I do not drink alcohol and all of these things.  But at camp there is none of that.  I do not have any like responsibility. I am not like the only Muslim. I am not the spokesperson for all of Islam here.  This year she and Wadalawala are a little worried. Days before the week-long camp began someone threw a bomb into a Minnesota mosque.  Who gets the address to this place?  I was thinking Muslim Youth Camp. I was like that sounds like - that would be kind of scary.  It - yeah.  I actually thinking that last night in my bunk. I was like what if somebody comes like and busts through the door like with a gun?  Maybe we should change the name.  It is something other American summer campers probably do not think about. But at this camp the address is only given to people once they register to keep it safe. And there are sessions with campers on how to deal with anti-Islamic rhetoric which is rising sharply. After a day of swimming...  Mom take these.  You can use them if you want.  ...Skits about good and bad character traits...  Hey can I read your book?  The half-blood - yeah. You can read my book.   ...And after learning a prayer at dawn sitting on mats outside surrounded by trees...  .  ...Asifa Quraishi-Landes the daughter of the founders of this camp gives a seminar on how to answer hostile questions about being Muslims like do Muslims lie and want to change American law? She is a scholar of law.  Here's the thing that is really important for us to know and to say that Islam itself says I have to follow the laws of the land that I live in. That is actually part of sharia.  Sharia is Islamic jurisprudence. And it has many forms of interpretation that guide the way that Muslims live including what they eat. It is a lot like Catholic canon law or halacha Jewish law. But anti-Muslim groups tell people it is a threat to the American way of life. It is a pretty heavy topic for summer camp but that is what being Muslim in America is today Asifa Quraishi-Landes says. She and her sisters grew up in this camp and now their children learn about Islam here too.  It comes out of fun. Like you know it is fun. It is fun to be a kid.  It should be fun to be Muslim kid too.  The kids have classes that explore the Islamic saying love for your brother what you love for yourself. Bullying comes up. Zareena Grewal a historical anthropologist at Yale leads a class of middle schoolers at camp. She asks if people think Muslims are weird.  No. They just call me a terrorist.  They call you a terrorist?  They are like guys he has a bomb on his watch. Run he is going to bomb the school.  The boy shrugs says he does not care. Other kids nod. Almost all of them have been called ISIS or terrorist. Camp teachers asked me not to use children's names when they were sharing sensitive stories in class about being bullied. Grewal asks a question.  If you imagine those people at your school were able to see us here at camp playing basketball or just being ordinary campers do you think that would change their views?  No they would not care.  But one child disagrees.  I think if they saw us doing the classes and like learning about all this stuff then they would know that we are humans not just animals.  Humans not just animals. The class ends. The boys and girls start teasing each other and run outside for free time. Leila Fadel NPR News.  