 Now let us turn to Wes Bellamy. He is the vice-mayor of Charlottesville. He joins me now by phone. Hi Wes.  Hi. Dr. Wes Bellamy.  Dr. Bellamy.  I just got my doctoral degree yesterday so I am still basking in the glow.  Congratulations. And thank you for taking the time.  Thank you. In all seriousness thank you.  So we have one person dead in Charlottesville a reported 19 injured. What is your reaction...  Yes.  ...To what is going on in your city?  Disappointed to say the least. Honestly I am heartbroken at the fact that someone has lost their life over the foolish tactics of - let us just call it what it is - white supremacists and white nationalists who do not want to see people have equity do not want the people to be treated as equals. They do not want equality. They just want to show everybody that they are the superior race as they say in their minds. And they feel as if they can do whatever they want to do whenever they want to do it. And honestly speaking if this does not bring us together - people from different nationalities people from different ethnicities different races different ages different denominations in church and racial beliefs and socioeconomic status - if this does not bring all of those groups together to stand up and stand united against hate I honestly do not know what will. Someone has lost their life. Thirteen people were ran over and hit. These individuals have literally come here and said that they wanted to invoke terror over all of us. And while again I am disappointed and heartbroken that someone has lost their life I firmly do believe that this will be the opportunity that we need for us to stand up and stand together.  What do you plan to do now? Are there more demonstrations planned for tonight? Are there police watching for more trouble?  We are working with our law enforcement and they are actively trying to get a handle on the situation. I have - we have been having some meetings and will be releasing more information in the very near future.  Do you have a message for people right now coming from Charlottesville?  Yes. Yes. The images that you see on television and that you are hearing do not reflect the people of the city of Charlottesville. Now yes we are a community and a city that has a lot of issues. As many of you are aware we are entrenched in a battle to remove a statue of Robert E. Lee. But what you are seeing is bigger than a statue. What you are seeing are outside groups and people - some who live here but most of them do not live here - believe that they can come take over our town. And our city our community our area is better than that. The Charlottesville that I know the Charlottesville that I have been at since I was 21 years old and has literally helped me raise and grow from a young man to a 30-year-old father husband community  leader the Charlottesville that I know is better than what you see on television. And we will stand together.  Now all of...  So if you want to help us if you want to help us pray for us or send positive energy or make a difference and decide to stand up with us and stand together. Sorry.  No no I was wondering - this was all sparked by the statue of Robert E. Lee. What is the...  No no it was not. This is not all sparked by the statue of Robert E. Lee. We have to keep in mind that this is a city and a area that literally shut down schools during the massive resistance of the 1950s instead of integrating them. This is a cityarea that literally tore down an entire African-American community that was called Vinegar Hills. This is also a city in which  - just a few years ago African-American males were being stopped and their mouths were being swabbed by police officers looking for DNA. No this does not just start with the statue. The statue was what some individuals are using as a mask to hide and utilize and push out their hateful agenda. This is not a...  We...  ...Statue issue. This is white supremacy.  We have to...  Let us call it what it is.  ...Leave it right there. But that was Wes Bellamy vice-mayor of Charlottesville. Wes thank you.  Thank you. 