 The death of Freddie Gray still has people thinking about their relationship to the police. We are going to hear now from Jared Marcelle. He is a 27-year-old New Yorker and for him that relationship is complicated. His story comes to us from WNYC's Radio Rookies.  Tuck your shirt in and wear your pants on your waist. Try to frown less and smile more. Be respectful. I heard those things a million times from my parents.  There was just raising kids properly. There was a way I wanted my boys to be raised black or not.  My mom was also trying to protect us. By the time I was 15 I had grown bigger and looked a lot older than I was. Cops did not see the good black boy my mom raised because 6'3 290-pound black guys who are not playing football are always up to no good. I had to deal with harassment name-calling and on several occasions use of unjustified force. One time when I was 18 a cop punched me in the face. What are your thoughts on the interactions between me and the police?  I am very saddened definitely angry at how you have been treated.  You know people have no idea like how that could affect you when you know I have had so many run-ins with the cops mom that it did not just affect my relationship with the cops. It affected how I viewed society maybe how I even treated you know white people. You know what I am saying? I do not hate anybody but I begin to resent them in a sense that I felt like the cops were targeting me because they were trying to protect them. The thought that you are a problem can really change you. It is even affected my confidence walking down the street wondering if people see me as a suspect. The cops are public servants so if they are profiling me the public must be afraid of me. Just last summer I was hanging out with my boys outside my house.  And we like chill - hanging out in front of - you know what I mean? - your crib like.  That is Tyrone. Suddenly an unmarked car pulled up and rolled down its windows. I knew what time it was. I waved at the passengers. What is up officers? How is everything going? But that was not what they wanted to hear. So they hopped out on us.  Asking if we have guns drugs.  They asked Tyrone if they could search his car. I was stunned by that because we were just minding our own business in front of my house.  So they then started to provoke us trying to get us to react.  Everybody started cursing each other out face-to-face man-to-man. Eventually I was able to turn things around because I have a golden ticket. My sister Liana is a cop. I pulled out a badge she would given me just to let them know my sister was internal affairs. That is the department where the police police themselves. The whole mood changed. Now they wanted to reason with me instead of being aggressive. How did you feel when I told you about the incident when the cops were messing with me outside?  It bothered me because you know here I am 30-feet from it not knowing what is going on and knowing that that interaction could have gone either way. It could have gone south very easily. It bothered me very much.  OK. Well how about this - do you remember telling me - breaking news that you were taking the police test?  I do not really remember the exact moment that I told you.  Even though it was six years ago I remember it. I was watching TV in your room and you said - you said it in passing.  I seem to remember that when I told you I think I made a excuse as to why. Well you know it is a good job. And you know I was trying to soften the blow that I knew it would be to you.  Did you ever like feel like you were switching sides?  Switching sides?  Well I mean I am sure you know how I feel - you know some of the - my feelings towards the cops in the past.  I never really felt that I was on a side to switch. I mean I do not feel like there is a side of cop versus civilian or us versus them. I think there is right and wrong.  Not too long after Liana became a police officer word on the street was she was actually patrolling our neighborhood. Apparently she intervened when a couple of my boys got stopped by other cops. Yo Jared your sister is all right. When some real street cats confirmed what she was doing I could no longer deny it. Liana was different. If only the NYPD had more officers like her.  Jared Marcelle is with Radio Rookies out of WNYC. 