 As American schools struggle to reopen many rural districts are worried that their students will fall even further behind than their city peers. The federal government estimates that more than a third of rural America has little or no Internet. But as NPR's Kirk Siegler reports some see opportunity even in this moment of crisis.  These past seven months have been a big strain on families like Mandi Boren's. The Borens are cattle ranchers on a remote slice of land near Idaho's Owyhee Mountains. They have four kids in school.  When COVID hit and we went online I thought oh that is great. I will be able to get my kids' schooling done in a few hours. And then they will be able to work with dad. And no problem. It will be great. It did not turn out so great.  She had set up an improvised classroom on a big table inside their house.  We have this little port here that we can plug in everyone's devices.  Everyone plugs into their satellite Internet the only way to get online out here. It is spotty and that is on a good day. Forget trying to Zoom or use Google Classroom.  I soon found out that our Internet speeds are so slow and having four kids trying to do schooling at the same time did not work so well. So we had to spread it out - all week long actually. We were doing schooling on Saturdays and Sundays as well.  Her kids started back in person for now but this pandemic has shined a glaring light on a lot of inequalities. And educators worry the rural-urban divide will only worsen if kids here cannot get online to learn. Last spring many districts resorted to delivering paper schoolwork to students who did not have Internet or cell service at home.  I do not know why anybody would rationally think we can just hand you a packet and here you are going to go teach yourself. Like that is basically what was going on .  Nearby in Nevada Leslie Molina is the principal at McDermitt Combined on the Fort McDermitt Reservation. All 105 of her students qualify for free or reduced lunch and about 75 have no Internet at home.  Plus we are also so extremely rural. I mean we are 80 miles from a Walmart.  When a fifth of tribal members tested positive for coronavirus the school decided to start back virtually at least for the first couple weeks. But they have had time to plan. Nevada was already trying to get every student outfitted with tablets and cellular hotspots. And due to the pandemic CARES Act money is fast-tracking that. So when McDermitt schools reopened September 8 Molina ditched those dreaded paper packets.  So we spent that week troubleshooting a lot of technology and calling and hounding parents and students if they were not on that hey remember - this is a required piece. Like it is not optional. You do not get to turn in whatever you want. It is just like coming to school. You have to come to your class.  But you cannot rely on hotspots forever especially since cell service here is spotty. Rural leaders have been lobbying Congress for a big public works project to build out broadband much like when the government paid to bring electricity to rural areas during another crisis - the Great Depression.  Honestly the challenge is bringing about some good it really is.  Jojo Myers Campos is Nevada's broadband development manager. She hopes the pandemic makes people realize that fast Internet should be a right not a privilege.  I wish that every single time a big project was done you had to put in conduit and fiber in the ground just like you do water and sewer just like you do gas just like you do electricity.  Reliable Internet or not parents like Mandi Boren in Idaho are worried this pandemic is causing a big setback for learning.  Makes you appreciate your teachers a whole lot more. Always appreciated them but just you know to have to do four grades as one person - that is tough.  Idaho is also using CARES Act money to build out broadband but Boren recently learned the fiber will not reach her ranch by a year-end deadline. So for now she is depending on her kids' school staying in person so long as it is safe. Kirk Siegler NPR News Boise. 