 Every day certain rules and habits are broken because of COVID-19. Sarah Gonzalez with our Planet Money podcast reports that there are a few rules some restaurants hope will stay broken.  OK there is this restaurant in San Diego that makes this drink called a michelada.  So the michelada comes from Mexico - a salted rim lime ice kind of like a Mexican soy sauce we like to call it and the beer.  We rim it with - it is not spicy but it is like sweet...  Chili powder.  ...Chili powder.  That is Monica and Yvan Jazo.  We are brother and sister yeah. TJ Oyster Bar is our restaurant name and it is really just because we are from TJ.  TJ is basically short for Tijuana.  And it is like street food kind of style.  Basically it is street food yes.  It is a seafood spot.  And Sarah for you would you like a tamarindo michelada?  But we are doing this to go.  OK. Yes of course. You can take your drinks to go - your micheladas your wine to go.  Drinks to go.  We put it in a plastic cup and we seal it so you can take it. We recommend that you do not open it until you get home.  For years taking cocktails off the premises was not allowed in most of the U.S. with a few exceptions - New Orleans Las Vegas. But recently California and a lot of states have told restaurants never mind with the old pre-COVID rules about cocktails. We know you need to make money so now selling a cup of wine to go is allowed.  I remember that I was like afraid at first because it is been like such a - like you cannot do that. You cannot sell alcohol to go. People cannot be outside of the like door drinking a beer because we can get in trouble. But then like all of these restrictions that we had start like loosening.  And at first they thought this is great until they had to start handing off cocktails to food delivery drivers.  What made me nervous was that they looked very very young and we were giving them like micheladas Clamatos wine to go. And we started carding them.  You were asking the DoorDash drivers for their ID?  Yes.  . Monica and Yvan Jazo just had to send in their alcohol license. The delivery apps take care of the rest. They were making just 20 of their normal sales doing food to go only when the pandemic first hit. But now because customers can order a few beers with their takeout tacos their sales are up a little. They are 60 what they used to be.  It is a lot easier to open a beer and serve it to a customer than to make a taco. You have to peel the shrimp do the tortillas...  There is another suspended rule too - drinking outdoors. In normal times there was this rule that if a restaurant in California wanted to serve a beer on a sidewalk they had to build some kind of barrier.  You need this - it is like another special permit. And it is hard on businesses too because you have to spend more money to do that stuff.  Now everything is outside though - nail salons barbershops. You do not need a special permit. You do not need to build a special fake fence out of flower pots or something like that. And Monica and Yvan Jazo think customers might not want to go back to the days where everything can only happen indoors and you cannot walk out of a restaurant with a michelada beer in your hand. Oh my gosh. The little salty sweet chili rim - no matter how much you try to make these at home they just do not taste the same. Sarah Gonzalez NPR News. 