 After the fence jumper managed to make his way into the White House one of the first things the Secret Service did was to put up another fence sort of. It is actually a line of bike racks strung together. It keeps the public a few feet farther back and in theory it gives agents more time to respond to would-be intruders. Critics say the new barrier is an eyesore that intrudes on the public space while doing little to improve security. Here's NPR's Scott Horsley.  The bike rack barrier is marked with bright yellow sign warning police line do not cross. It creates a sort of no-man's land between the public sidewalk and the ornate wrought iron fence that is long surrounded the White House. Steven Brown who is visiting from Australia was a little put off but not surprised.  It is a bit obtrusive but that is the world we live in is not it?  Several tourists say they understand the push for additional protection though no one described the new barrier as attractive.  No it does not look good.  Amy Miller and her husband David traveled to Washington from China Grove North Carolina to celebrate their anniversary. A year ago David remembers getting good pictures through the White House fence. But today he could not get close enough. The bike racks kept him away.  Now it looks like you are looking through jail bars or something. I do not know.  And several tourists wondered what is the point? Rudy Vega of Santa Ana California asked if an intruder was able to scale the much higher permanent fence is a waist-high bike rack really a deterrent?  That fence does not seem to be that effective to me. Unless there is somebody standing between me and that fence I can get over that fence. Just for show is what it is.  An architect who served on the U.S Commission of Fine Arts agrees. The commission oversees the design of all federal buildings in Washington. Architect Witold Rybczynski says just like the Jersey barriers that were slapped up after the Oklahoma City bombing and 911 the White House of bike racks are a showpiece not a solution.  It is just to alert the public that you know we know that something happened and we screwed up but we are going to do something about it and this is what we are doing.  The Secret Service insists the bike rack buffer is a temporary measure while it reviews the fence jumping incident. Rybczynski argues that even if it is temporary the barrier's appearance still matters.  Most people do not visit Washington very often and for those coming today that is what they are going to see - an ugly eyesore - and not even really solving any particular problem.  The Millers from North Carolina say the bike rack barrier certainty did not make them feel welcomed standing outside the seat of their own government. D.  You know if you come all this way it kind of... A.  It is not welcoming. D.  Yeah it is not a good feel - I do not like it at all. If they did their job the guy would not have gotten all the way in there. That is just the crazy part.  Congressman Darrell Issa echoed that point today suggesting rather than taking away more public space outside the White House the Secret Service should address its own failings inside the fence. Scott Horsley NPR News Washington. 