 The acting head of Customs and Border Protection is resigning effective early next month. Now this comes after reports that unaccompanied migrant children were living in horrifying conditions at a CBP holding facility in Clint Texas. Visiting lawyers describe the kids being sick dirty hungry and scared. Older children were taking care of younger ones they would just met. CBP disputes this characterization but it did move some of the children out of the facility over the past few days. We are joined now by one of the attorneys who visited that facility Clara Long of Human Rights Watch. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  Help us understand how basically kids who are toddlers right are unaccompanied minors. What happened there?  A lot of kids especially very small kids who are traveling to the U.S. are traveling with relatives - an aunt a grandmother an uncle - and a lot of times these relatives are the primary caretakers of the child back in their home country. But U.S. policy is to separate those kinds of families at the border through the immigration system.  As we mentioned you were one of the attorneys who actually visited the facility in Clint Texas. Tell us what you saw.  Right. We do not have access to the actual cells under the terms of the settlement but what we can do is speak with the children. So they brought us you know a roster list of kids and we just started pulling the youngest kids the kids we believed to have been there for a very long time the kids who were there with small babies of their own. And what they told us was really disturbing. They said you know they were being held in overcrowded cells. Some kids did not have beds. Some kids did not have mattresses. They were getting the same you know bland and unhealthy food every day. They were not allowed to bathe regularly or brush their teeth. Even young kids who really needed active care like diaper changes were being taken care of by older kids in the same cell.  We have talked about some of these kids being moved out of the facility in Clint Texas. But we know the number of them was upwards of 300. So where are they now? Are you hopeful that immigration authorities will be able to place them in a shelter where their needs can be met?  Well I think it is been positive to see some movement on this but I want to make sure that people understand that Clint is not even probably the worst of Border Patrol stations that I visited. Border Patrol custody is inappropriate for children. And as far as we understand from the agency right now there are still up to a thousand kids in Border Patrol custody awaiting placement in Office of Refugee Resettlement. And so whether they are in Clint or whether they are in somewhere else that is an enormous problem.  What has it been like doing this work I mean trying to talk to kids about what they are going through right? They are in an adult situation.  Yeah.  Like do they even know really how to describe it?  It is been heart-wrenching. You know I am a parent. I have a have an almost 3-year-old and I you know had to try to interview some kids about that age over the last week and even kids a little bit older. One in particular who sticks out of my mind was a 7-year-old who you know I asked one question - who would you come to the U.S. with? She said my aunt and then she just broke down in tears and could not really say anything else.  The government is basically making the argument that they want to make sure that they connect kids with their proper legal guardians. I mean is that in conflict with trying to protect them?  It is absolutely the government's responsibility above all to reunify kids with parents where that is appropriate and where that is in their best interest. What really worried me about speaking with kids on the border who had been held for as I said weeks in the Clint detention facility was that there has no evidence that anyone was making any efforts to reunify these kids with parents. I personally started tracking down parents where I could to connect them with their children. And in every case they had had no idea where their child was and no one had contacted them.  That is Clara Long senior researcher at Human Rights Watch. Thank you for speaking with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you very much. 