 You say coyotes. I say coyotes. We can argue over how you pronounce the word but what is not in doubt is the federal government is trying to stop them from preying on livestock. In fact the government is killing thousands of them every year. Critics of that approach have challenged it in court and won. Wyoming Public Radio's Melodie Edwards reports.   In a rugged canyon in southern Wyoming a helicopter drops nets over a pair of coyotes. They are bound and blindfolded and flown to a landing station.   There University of Wyoming researchers place them on a mat.  It is OK.  Is 104.3 OK?  The animals stay calm and still while people figure out their weight age sex.  Hey. Can I get just a little bit of water on him please?  Katey what are we calling this place?  Grad student Katey Huggler is fitting these coyotes with tracking collars.  What is most important to us is that GPS data.  And what that data has been showing is boy do these coyotes roam. Huggler is amazed at one young female that is wandered long distances.  It is like 110 miles as the crow flies - turned around and came back like three days later. And they are moving fast but they are also moving really far.  But Huggler says all that roaming changes during the short window when mule deer fawns are born. Mule deer populations around the West are way down and some people blame coyotes. One solution is to kill the coyotes. But UW wildlife professor Kevin Monteith points out if you wipe out a pack of coyotes...  The next day you just have an exchange of animals that come right back in and fill that place.  In fact some studies show that if you kill off a lot of coyotes they breed even more.  Oftentimes coyote control programs have been implemented. In some or many instances it seems like the effects were negligible.  Yet these conclusions have not affected the high number of coyotes killed by Wildlife Services run by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In 2018 the agency killed over 68000 coyotes in the U.S. But some wildlife advocacy groups question that approach when the science does not necessarily show it works.  This is something that we have been working on at a national scale really trying to transform Wildlife Services.  Collette Adkins is with the Center for Biological Diversity a wildlife advocacy group that is filed numerous lawsuits to force Wildlife Services to include the most recent science on predator control in their plans.  Like in Wyoming which is relying on science primarily from you know '70s the '80s maybe the early '90s but that just is not OK.  And more and more judges agree. California Arizona and Idaho all are now required to change their plans to include more nonlethal approaches. And Adkins hopes Wyoming will be next.  In this last decade we really have seen this growing body of literature that points to the effectiveness of nonlethal methods - for example using guard dogs or fencing or frightening devices.  We have used noisemakers and sirens and they work for a period of time. And then the coyotes realize that they are not going to get hurt.  That is Rod Merrell with Wildlife Services in Wyoming. He says killing coyotes still works best.   But the researchers in the canyon say they are trying something new - studying coyotes alive. After the two coyotes are weighed and collared it is time to release them into the wild. Researcher Tayler LaSharr is teaching a classmate how to do that.  When I am ready and you say you are ready to go then you will take your hands back really fast and I will kind of push them. They run really fast like...  Yeah.  You ready?  Yeah.  OK.  The coyote springs away from their hands looks back confused at his freedom. Then he is gone. For NPR News I am Melodie Edwards outside Rock Springs Wyo. 