 And as we heard Texas Governor Rick Perry chose not to attend today's forum in South Carolina because more than 60 wildfires have exploded across Central and East Texas. They have created a hellish Labor Day for thousands of Texans. Two people have died so far. The worst fire is in Bastrop County just southeast of Austin where NPR's John Burnett reports the blaze has been burning out of control for more than a day.  No one in Bastrop has ever seen anything like it. The tall pine forests that were a favorite getaway for campers and city commuters have erupted into an inferno. Driven by a relentless north wind the blaze has jumped a broad four-lane highway and the Colorado River - twice - as it keeps getting bigger. Carolyn and Devan Laird are mother-daughter firefighters with the Bastrop Fire Department.  When it first started we were out there and we got overran we had to get out. We had to evacuate and it just burned everything in its path. Forest houses everything cars anything that was there was burned. Yeah.  With this wind and these dry conditions can you actually fight this fire?  No the only thing you can do is get people out. At this point all you can do is let the fire take its course and hopefully that everybody is out in time.  A group of evacuees gathers in the parking lot of a Shell station on Highway 95 at a police roadblock about seven miles from the fire.  00 30 for good. And we called the power company I went outside to get a better signal looked up huge smoke clouds and I knew it was not normal.  Nancy Allen and her husband a construction foreman grabbed their 4-year-old daughter Minnie along with three dogs and three roosters packing them into two vehicles and racing away from the approaching flames. They have been here at the gas station ever since.  We slept here last night in the parking lot I did not sleep a lot. Woke up praying crying go back to sleep for a minute pray cry. I mean we got a lot of people helping and everything for us.  Allen and her neighbor Evelyn Sanky comfort one another.  I was at state park. When I got there literally three minutes after I arrived I was evacuated. It is something that you have to live it to know what we are going through.  Firefighters are streaming here from all over the state and beyond its borders. Mike Simmons from Lake Tahoe California sits in a U.S. Forest Service water truck idling beside the highway waiting for a bulldozer to arrive so they can go join the fight.  Mother Nature has the upper hand and we will try our best. Safety for firefighters and public first.  The fire is so fast and so hot devouring dried-out loblolly pine forests that it is still largely being fought from aircraft. The ground battle will follow. John Burnett NPR News Bastrop Texas. 