 A lot of teenagers spend the summer trying to earn a few extra dollars. In Minneapolis 13-year-old Jaequan Faulkner runs a hot dog stand that has gotten a lot of attention. We learned about him from a story in The Star Tribune. And when I gave him a call Faulkner was at his stand just setting up for business. I asked him to describe what I would see if I visited.  Well you would see a green tent with chips hot dogs a cash register and a crock pot on it with some buns napkins. And you would just see me with a smile on my face ready to serve you.  Faulkner has been selling hot dogs at his stand for a couple of summers now and this year someone called the city health department to complain. Faulkner did not have a permit. The health department did not make him shut the stand down. Instead they linked Faulkner with a local business development group and they said they wanted to help him succeed.  They had said you do not even got to worry about it. We are going to help you get your license. And we are just going to help you actually grow.  The health inspectors helped Faulkner get certified to operate the hot dog stand. They even paid the 87 for a permit. I asked Faulkner to explain how that happened.  Well actually Ryan and Huff...  Huff - that is Minneapolis environmental health director Dan Huff.  But they work with the health department and they - when we had - when we went to go meet Ryan he was a nice guy. He showed us around the place and took me to get my license. But then what I did not know was to get - when I go there I did not - I did not have to you know pay no money. When I was there Huff already paid it. He just said when you get here do not worry about it. It is already paid for him. He just get his permit.  Wow.  And I had figured out when it was on the news that he had said he paid it.  Oh it was only when you were on the news that you found out that somebody else had paid the fee for you.  Yes.  How did that make you feel?  It had made me feel kind of excited and like I was just like wow. I had people on my side that I did not even know.  What kind of changes did you have to make to be an official business? Were there things that they made you add to the hot dog stand?  They made me add a washing station where I can wash my hands. It is where if I drop my tongs I can wash those off.  What else?  They made me take away tomatoes. They made me take away cheese because it was a violation.  Are you going to have to give this up when you go back to school in the fall?  Actually I am hoping not. What I am going to do is the first two weeks of school I am going to see how - like what time I get off and I am going to have my uncle set up around that time. And when he set up I will be off school by now and I am ready to - we are ready to open.  So you are going to try to keep doing this during the school year.  Yes.  What grade are you going to be?  I am going into eighth grade.  Do you know anybody else in your eighth grade class who has a business like this?  Actually no.  What do you love about doing this?  Me - the reason why I started it is because I love building. Like building's just my favorite. So I love building and I like having my own things. So this goes together perfect. So when I get older I was hoping I can be an architect and design my own buildings and like design my own hot dog buildings and be having people - some people managing those.  Last question - what do you put on your hot dogs when you are going to eat one yourself?  I actually make a Chicago-style hot dog.  Describe what goes on a Chicago-style hot dog. It is what I ate growing up. My mom is from Chicago. But what do you put on a Chicago-style hot dog?  What I put on it is I put some onions I put a little relish - it depends - I put a little jalapenos I put some mustard on it. I do not really like ketchup so I cannot put that on it.  Never ever ketchup. No ketchup on the hot dog.  Yeah no ketchup.  Jaequan thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  Jaequan Faulkner is the 13-year-old owner and operator of Mr. Faulkner's Old-Fashioned Hot Dogs in Minneapolis.  