 A day and a half after Florence made landfall some people in the path of the storm are still holed up in their homes and shelters waiting for the storm to pass. At least another foot of rain is expected over the next couple of days. NPR's Greg Allen has the latest.  Castle Hayne is a low-lying community on the Cape Fear River. Throughout the area streams swollen from the rain are outside of their banks and the Cape Fear River is expected soon to be a flood stage.   To get to Michelle Mullins' home you have to wade through water shin-deep. She says it flooded last night after hours of rain.  When the rain started coming in we knew right away. And we have sump pumps around our house but they could not stay up with them.  You have got sandbags all around too I see.  Yeah all the way around. Yeah. We put extra and we put plywood in the doors. And then it just - we could not stop it. When it came in it came in full-force.  Castle Hayne is just ten miles outside of Wilmington a rural community of modest homes many of them older. This is the third time since the Mullinses have owned a home that they would been flooded out. Mullins says they had flood insurance but dropped it last year after Hurricane Matthew when their rates soared. Now after Hurricane Florence she says they are leaving.  My husband was born and raised in this house. His parents have lived here since the late '50s. And they were flooded years ago but believe it or not we built up the property. This has all been built up. And to - but it did not save it. So - but we will not do it again.  Not far away in Castle Hayne the Northside Mobile Home Park so far has largely escaped flooding but it is in bad shape.  One of the neighbors - the tree went right through the front of their house. It is smashed.  Kelly Floyd evacuated with her kids before the storm. She was back there today to check on her trailer and the neighborhood. She says her home's OK but others were not as lucky.  The owner of this property just put a new trailer in up there. There is a tree laying on it. There is trees down everywhere. Nobody has power. There is power lines down all in the front. The front entrance to this is flooded and covered with trees and power lines so you cannot even get in the front entrance. So we are all stuck. Half the people cannot get out. Other people cannot get in. It is going to be a long road.  Juan Diaz  lives in a home that now looks like it is sitting in the middle of a lake. Although the water has risen so far the inside of his house has stayed dry.  So it goes in the ground pretty fast. But you know it went like another probably six inches higher. So it was close - really close to the house.  Diaz is there with his extended family including several children. For the kids playing outside splashing in puddles with their cousins it is a party. Diaz says they have plenty of food and drinking water. Like everyone now he is just waiting and hoping for the power to come back. When the hurricane hit it was scary. But he says everyone's safe which is the important thing.  We lost that tree there and we lost another one over there so we have got a lot of trees that are lost. But we are in a landscape business so we are going to clean up pretty quick soon as it dries up. We are going to get the chainsaws going and clean it up.  County officials here say teams are already out clearing roads of downed trees. That workforce redoubled they say when power restoration crews arrived. They would been pre-positioned throughout the area but are waiting for the winds to die down before they can get to work and put the lights back on. Greg Allen NPR News Wilmington N.C. 