 Detroit has a lot of abandoned homes - more than 20000. The city government is trying to do something about that by offering new financing incentives. And as we are about to hear there are deals to be had. But repairing the houses can add tens of thousands of dollars to the cost. NPR's Jason Margolis has our story.  Craig Fahle works for the Detroit Land Bank Authority a quasi-governmental agency. Ask him exactly what a land bank is and he will tell you they are the property owner of last resort. He shows me around a 1300 square-foot Tudor-style home on Detroit is far east side.  Properties come to us only after nobody else wants them anymore. They have gone through foreclosures and they come to us when they are in this kind of condition.  It is a mess.  Let us take a look behind here. Yeah. See the radiator's gone.  Windows are missing so are kitchen cupboards and the boiler. But the floors and the moldings look salvageable. It is one of his better properties. Fahle is hoping to get 25000 for this place but he will take whatever he can to get it off the rolls.  We have to cut the grass on the properties. We cannot do it every week or anything. We will do it a couple of times a summer because you know we own 88000 parcels of land in the city as a land bank. We own one-quarter of all the property in the city of Detroit.  Eighty-eight thousand properties?  Eighty-eight thousand.  Is that the largest of any city in the United States?  It might be the largest in the world.  Three-quarters of those lots are vacant. Those sell for 100 bucks. Neighbors are snatching them up to double their land. The Detroit Land Bank is now auctioning off three houses a day online eBay-style. They have closed on just over 300 in a year since the auction site got going 21000 more to go. Mayor Mike Duggan says that is just not fast enough. He spoke last week at City Hall.   So three months ago we kicked-off a program where city employees or their families if they bid on a house on the land bank could get a 50 percent discount.  That puts bidders who do not work for the city at a deep disadvantage. But the city says there is so much inventory they have to do something to build demand. Besides only 44 employees have a won those auctions. Duggan says the main problem is that whether you work for the city or not it is hard to get a loan on a dilapidated property.   It is a typical house on the auction that you will buy it for 10000 you have to put 20000 in to fix up. It is almost impossible to get a mortgage in that circumstance.  But now the city has a partner. Flagstar Bank is offering mortgages to city employees loans that will cover the purchase price and necessary improvements. Flagstar is also offering 15000 grants paid out over five years. Carolyn Abney was lured back to Detroit from the suburbs. I asked her about the home she is leaving...  I have one bathroom and I have to fight over the bathroom.  ...And her new one in Detroit.  Twenty-two hundred square feet there are three bathrooms there is a circular staircase. It is just cute.  She bid 56000. She could end up getting it for less than a quarter of that and she can get a loan to fix the place up. Still Craig Fahle with Detroit is land bank wants people to know what they are getting into. We stopped by another home about to go up for auction.  Gutters are missing. The neighbor's so generously parking his car on the lawn.  And the garage door is detached from the hinges. Still it is an attractive colonial brick house. If nobody fixes it up though the neighbors' property values will likely keep declining and the spiral will continue.  It is just a matter of time before somebody says enough and they just do what a lot of other people have done and they leave.  Fahle says he is thrilled to get a thousand dollars for his worst houses. If not it costs him 15000 to tear them down. Jason Margolis NPR News Detroit. 