 In military speak the fifth domain of warfare is cyberspace. Unlike the others - land air sea and outer space - it is made by humans and can be altered by them too.  Former White House counterterrorism adviser Richard Clarke's new book is called The Fifth Domain. It raises a lot of terrifying scenarios. Some of them have already happened in the U.S. and other countries. There is election hacking taking down the power grid holding a city hostage with ransomware. I asked Richard Clarke to describe the scenario that keeps him awake at night.  Well what I fear is that somehow the U.S. is dragged into a war - and perhaps again in the Middle East. But we are up against somebody who has a cyber army and they are able to attack our conventional weapons. So we spend all of this money on the fancy F-35 or the fancy new Freedom class Navy ships and they are hackable. So we go to war and the enemy pushes the button and none of our weapons work.  You are saying the U.S. which has the biggest and most expensive military in the world might have piles of worthless metal if a war starts because there is malware embedded in these high-tech machines.  I am not saying that. The Pentagon's own Defense Science Board is saying that. The Government Accountability Office is saying that. Year after year they report a long list of weapons systems that have not been built with security in mind.  And there could already be lurking inside of these high-tech military machines the thing that will disable them if the U.S. tries to deploy them.  Just as there are already according to the director of national intelligence such things in our power grid and our gas pipelines.  Already there.  The director of national intelligence testified publicly this year that the Russians could affect the controls of our electric power grid that the Chinese could affect the controls of our natural gas pipelines. And then a few months later the White House leaked a story that we are also in the Russians' electric power grid.  So everyone has the power to disable everyone.  Well so that creates what we call in the book crisis instability risks. Who goes first? - because there is a first-mover advantage. And so if you are in a crisis and it pays to go first that is a very unstable situation.  Is the U.S. already engaged in cyber war with Russia or Iran or China or North Korea?  The United States has attacked Russia twice that we know of. The most recent attack was against the Internet Research Agency. We feared that they would be interfering with our congressional election last November.  The Internet Research Agency was the Russian sort of troll farm.  It is a Russian front organization for their intelligence agencies. So Cyber Command attacked it recently when the Iranians shot down one of our drones. The president decided not to bomb them but to engage in the cyberattack against them. So U.S. Cyber Command is engaged in offensive activity against places like Russia and Iran and they admit it.  Why is it so hard to say whether we are then engaged in cyber war with these countries?  Well what is the definition of cyber war? That gets into a very interesting legal question involving insurance companies because insurance companies are now saying well if you were attacked by the Russian military and your entire network was destroyed and your company lost hundreds of millions of dollars we are not going to pay up on your cyber insurance policy because we do not pay for war coverage.  So according to the insurance companies there is already a cyber war raging.  According to some of them there is.  But according to the U.S. military the Russian military the Chinese military...  They do not call it war. In fact in the recent National Defense Authorization Act they used the phrase typical military activities in the preparation of the battlefield.  Is this typical now?  Apparently it is.  One line in the book stood out to me from somebody who was talking about election security but could just as easily have been talking about other aspects of cybersecurity. And the line is our house was robbed so let us at least lock the door. The problem is there are so many doors in the United States - 50 states thousands of counties who knows how many private businesses. Each one of them is a target. So is it naive to think that anyone could prevent the house from being robbed again?  There are major American corporations that have achieved security - cybersecurity. They do not like to attract attention to themselves. They do not like me using their names so I will not. But there are big American companies that have done it. Ten years ago when we wrote the book Cyber War we said no company is safe. If the Russians or the Chinese want to get into your network they can. Now we are saying that is no longer true.  That is interesting 'ecause all we ever hear about on the news is the companies that get hacked. You are saying there is a much quieter phenomenon of companies that do not get hacked.  There are the dogs that do not bark. The largest attack in history which was something called NotPetya which was done by the Russian military - and we have a long list of companies that were destroyed by that. Their - all of their software was wiped. They stopped operating as companies for weeks on end.  It started in Ukraine and spread across Europe.  Yeah as collateral damage across Europe and the United States. But there is also a long list of American companies that were hit by that attack and nothing happened.  What do the companies that have not been successfully hacked have in common? What are they doing right?  The companies that are resilient spend more money on it and have a better governance model so that the guy in charge or the gal in charge reports to a much higher-level official. They are not buried in the bureaucracy of the company. And in terms of just a raw metric the good companies - the companies that are successful at this - are spending 8 to 10 of their IT budget securing their networks. There are banks in New York that are employing thousands of people and spending hundreds of millions of dollars each year.  But could Palm Beach County in Florida...  No.  ...Ever mount the kind of defense that Goldman Sachs can mount?  No not by itself. There are 4000 counties in the United States all of whom insist on running their own election machinery. No they cannot. That is why the federal elections should be federalized. And Mitch McConnell the Senate Republican majority leader is standing in the way of a bill that has passed the House to give hundreds of millions of dollars' assistance to the counties and to the states so that we can improve their cybersecurity. Right now it is impossible to have all of these counties and all these state governments even know when they are under attack. Many of them say they have never been attacked. Well they have no capability of knowing.  You have said the government has acknowledged that it is hackable and that companies have figured out how to get the upper hand and prevent themselves from being hacked. Why cannot the government learn the lessons that these companies have learned?  Well I think part of the problem is the federal government which has maybe 40 or 50 major departments and agencies insists that they all defend themselves. I do not think that should be the job of every federal agency. What we propose in the book is that the government create one single cybersecurity office for all the little agencies and departments that cannot do it. This is what is done in the private sector. A lot of companies do not do it themselves.  They outsource it. They hire a contractor.  They outsource it and you pay them by the month. And you get the - you get them handling all of your security. That is the way the federal government should do it.  Right now the U.S. is at a time of heightened tension with Iran. We know that Russia is trying to hack U.S. systems. Are you more or less optimistic today about the risk of cyber war than you were when you wrote Cyber War 10 years ago?  I am more optimistic about the ability of major American companies to defend themselves. I am less optimistic about the ability of the United States and the other major cyber powers to avoid a cyber war. We have had shots fired. We have had shots fired several times including by the United States. We have lowered the barrier. It is easier to imagine cyber war initiating and once it initiates getting out of control.  Richard Clarke's new book with Robert Knake is  Defending Our Country Our Companies And Ourselves In The Age Of Cyber Threats. Thank you very much.  Thank you Ari. 