 People talk about Harvey flooding South Texas on a biblical scale so it makes sense that there would be a kind of Noah's Ark in this story. Brian Mann found it in Beaumont Texas - a massive animal rescue center that is been created by volunteers out of thin air.  Beaumont still lacks safe drinking water but on the outskirts of town two huge county fair pavilions the size of baseball diamonds have been transformed into a livestock yard and animal shelter.   It is a bedlam of animals and people and supply trucks. Nick Moore a veterinarian from Georgetown Texas volunteered to help heal the large animals being rescued.  A lot of really critical horses that are in shock dehydrated wounds lacerations...  There are geese and dogs cats and pigs all hit by the storm separated from their owners. Amy Walters from Copperas Cove Texas spent the last couple days on horseback rounding up lost cattle bringing them here.  It is quite the adventure. It is adrenaline rush for sure. Alligators were chewing on cows. There is alligators everywhere so - and there is snakes and stuff. So it is - like I said it is quite the adrenaline rush.  .  Leopoldo Gonzalez turns up. He is a rancher who says he is been searching for days for lost livestock.  One cow and one bull.  The cow is pregnant he says. He is eager to find her.   Most of the animals being carried in are cats and dogs. There are hundreds of them in wire cages that stretch far as I can see - small scruffy dogs big scared-looking dogs. For some reason there are a lot of Chihuahuas. On this afternoon volunteers and soldiers are caring for the animals - walking them comforting them also trying to comfort pet owners who turn up looking frightened.  What animal did you lose track of?  I have lost a solid black Great Dane about 4 or 5 years old.  Judy Reed says her house outside Beaumont is still completely underwater but what she worries about most is her dog Shadow. She is elderly all alone and says Shadow is her family. Rescuers left him behind when they carried her away in a boat during the storm.  I got to have somebody to talk to because the TV will not answer. Well he does not really answer but he gives me these looks like he understands.  On this day there is no sign of Shadow. He is not here. Judy says she will keep checking back as more and more animals arrive. Lost pets are being held here for 30 days to give owners time to claim them. After that the people running the shelter say the animals will be put up for adoption. Brian Mann NPR News Beaumont Texas. 