 NPR's David Schaper checked in with locals who do not want the games coming to their city.  The Olympics are the talk of Chicago whether it is on talk radio or blogs at downtown restaurants or neighborhood saloons almost everyone seems to have an opinion on hosting the games and whether Chicago can even be trusted to pull it off cleanly.  I think the Olympics are wonderful I just do not think they are good to be in Chicago.  Jack Malone is an accountant from the city's north side and joined about 250 other Chicagoans and suburbanites protesting Chicago's bid for the 2016 Olympic Games outside of city hall last night.  I mean you can only showcase the city once all the problems in the city are done in my opinion. We have a lot of problems in the city that are not being taken care of.  The Olympic Games will not improve the quality of life for most Chicagoans.  Bill Schandelmeier argues that few city residents would benefit from the games but all would end up paying for them.  The mayor has consistently said that this will not cost the taxpayers additional revenue but that is a lie. We know that there has been cost overruns on project after project.  And Schandelmeier says Chicago's rogue brand of politics and occasional penchant for corrupt contracting would certainly worm its way into the multibillion dollar Olympic budget. Barbara Chadwick a retiree from the city's northwest side worries not only about the cost and possible corruption but about transit and traffic headaches too.  Ugh I cannot even imagine. I mean as it is the expressways in Chicago are a nightmare much of the day.  And it is not just those protesting the games who have a problem with Chicago's bid.  I mean it is gonna be opportunity for Chicago but I do not want to pay for it.  At the Golden Nugget restaurant and pancake house on the city's northwest side waitress Annette Olsen says every day she sees other priorities the city needs to be spending its money on.  Streets potholes crime drugs schools.  David Schaper NPR News Chicago. 