 We are now going to turn to Myron Ebell. He led Donald Trump's EPA transition team and he is on the line with us now. Thank you for joining us.  Thank you Ailsa.  So you gave recommendations to the Trump transition personnel team for who should lead the EPA and Scott Pruitt was on that list. Do you still stand by that recommendation?  I think he was a good choice. To just be frank he was not my very top choice but he was certainly in my short list. I think he is done a good job. And I think he is gotten caught up in a really orchestrated campaign which took a very few careless missteps and then added on a whole lot of very trivial accusations to try to make it look like he is somehow personally corrupt. And I just - I do not buy any of that.  I want to read to you from Pruitt's resignation letter. He said quote the unrelenting attacks on me personally my family are unprecedented and have taken a sizable toll on all of us end quote. He does not really apologize for the long list of controversies during his tenure - the accusations about the secret phone booth the first-class flights the sirens to his restaurant reservations. What do you make of that choice to not apologize for any of those scandals those controversies?  Oh it just seems to me that that is what is usually done. And I think he has some good reasons to feel somewhat bitter about this campaign that is been waged against him. You know similar charges have been brought against previous officials in previous administrations and they have just died after one or two days.  With Scott Pruitt there was sort of a drip-drip-drip of scandal after scandal for months and months. It was not just one or two discrete things that happened.  Yes but I think many of the accusations and charges were really trivial. So you know this is all water under the bridge now. I think - you know I think he is done an outstanding job. I think he made some careless missteps which I think - you know he should have been better prepared to handle some of the aspects of the job. I do not think it was appropriate to fly first class. That is - you know business executives do it all the time but government officials are expected to fly economy. So you know I think he made some mistakes but I think he is done an outstanding job. And now the question is what happens to the - you know President Trump's agenda. And I think it will - it is in good hands with Andrew Wheeler. And we will move on.  Well do you worry though that all this controversy Pruitt's departure will in some way hurt the president's agenda when it comes to environmental regulations? I mean Pruitt's replacement will surely face a very very tough fight in the Senate because Democrats have been pretty fed up with Pruitt for quite some time now.  Yes I think it does endanger the president's agenda. But I think the good news is President Trump is very determined to achieve his agenda. He is very clear for EPA what it is. And the person he is named as acting administrator Andrew Wheeler who is currently the No. 2 person at EPA is someone who is fully on board and engaged with his agenda and supports it I believe right down the line.  Well what legacy do you think Pruitt leaves behind at the EPA? I mean he basically did what he came to do right?  Yes. His job was to implement President Trump's agenda and I think he is done an outstanding job of doing that. I think his legacy is unfortunately the same as the last person and the only other EPA administrator who ever tried to reform the EPA. And that was Anne Gorsuch President Reagan's choice way back in 1981 when the EPA was only 11 years old. She was run out of town by the Democrats in Congress. And now Scott Pruitt has been run out of town under somewhat different circumstances.  That is Myron Ebell. He is the director of the Center for Energy and Environment at the Competitive Enterprise Institute. Thank you.  Thank you Ailsa. 