 Elvis left the building 37 years ago this weekend. Thousands gathered at Graceland in Memphis to mark anniversary of the singer's death. Earlier in the week a small Mississippi town held a candlelight vigil at another Elvis shrine to honor the self-proclaimed world's number one Elvis fan. From member station WKNO Christopher Blank has the story.  Holly Springs a postcard antebellum southern town. The official motto is - all kinds of character. Newspaper reporter Sue Watson says locals put it differently.  We say - Holly Springs all kinds of characters. And I think Mr. MacLeod probably could fit in there pretty easily.  She is talking about Paul MacLeod. He stuck out from the moment he arrived from Detroit in the 1980's driving a Cadillac and dressed like Elvis. He even named his son Elvis Aaron Presley MacLeod. In 1990 he opened his house to visitors to show off his enormous hoard of Elvis memorabilia. But it soon became clear that the real attraction was Paul MacLeod.   My mother's 100 years old. My grandfather's 107 - never been to a doctor. They would not because they will drive you nuts.  YouTube videos show MacLeod guiding visitors through his house like a deranged carnival barker. He never stops talking.  Elvis had an affair with Marilyn Monroe and Frank Sinatra walked in. If Marilyn Monroe was alive today shed be 88 years old. Elvis could change his voice - youd think you were listening to Humphrey Bogart  MacLeod's devotion to the king of rock 'n roll drove off his second wife and alienated his son but it also transformed him from a mere fan into what Elvis scholar Vernon Chadwick calls an outsider artist.  Elvis for him was a kind of gateway to make contact with the rest of the world or to bring the world to him which was really the way most outsiders do it.  MacLeod's masterpiece was his house which he called Graceland Too - spelled t-o-o. It was a billboard for his eccentricities.  I would not be scared to say that that house has probably got - I am going to say probably 30 40 coats of paint on it.  Neighbor Clifford Yon says at different times the antebellum house was Jailhouse Rock gray Cadillac pink.  It is been white. Part of it is been green. It is been brown blue...  And for years it was also casually overlooked by local code enforcement even when MacLeod built a wall around it and added a guard house - just like Graceland in Memphis. And it did attract tourists - some Elvis fans but mostly drunk college kids from local universities. Amery Ewing Moore is an attorney in Holly Springs.  It was like a rite of passage. They get the cold beer and then come here - and he would get up at midnight and the neighbors were really really frustrated.  Neighbors like Charlie Shaw.  I was not nothing pretty at 3 or 4 oclock in the morning when they were out there peeing in my yard and stuff.  One night last month Paul MacLeod got a different sort of visitor - a local homeless man named Dwight Taylor who had worked for him in the past reportedly barged into Graceland Too.  MacLeod's lawyer Philip Knecht says Taylor demanded money. MacLeod grabbed a gun.  But it ended up with Mr. Taylor being shot and killed.  MacLeod was not charged. He cleaned up the blood and gave a tour the next day. But on the day after that MacLeod age 71 and in the frail state of health sat down in a rocking chair on his front porch and died of natural causes. Now the town of Holly Springs is debating what to do with Graceland Too. Mayor Kelvin Buck says that many locals thought it was bad for the town's pristine Civil War-era image.  But they also understood all their antebellum homes together could not match the kind of notoriety and attention that Paul received with the Graceland Too.  In fact it became the town's number one attraction. It also needs extensive repairs. Local business owners like Annie Moffitt who benefit from tourism want Graceland Too converted into a museum.  I will say reconvert it into a museum of Paul MacLeod.  But they also realize that the museum's most valuable artifact has already - as they say - left the building. For NPR News I am Christopher Blank. 