 And we go now to Northern California where the massive Rocky Fire has burned some 68000 acres and destroyed nearly 100 structures. It is also displaced hundreds of people. It is been almost a week now since those in and around the town of Clear Lake had to flee their properties. Some have been staying at a large improvised shelter not far from the wildfire's path. NPR's Kirk Siegler stopped by.  The Loyal Order of the Moose Lodge 2284 has emerged as the gathering place for wildfire evacuees in this largely rural pocket of Northern California. Each night up to a hundred people are camping here in tents RVs and cars. All are grateful for the showers and facilities.  This is totally amazing. Have you been through inside? I asked for a little help and it is like holy cow.  The manager here Eric Austin says his lodge has been transformed into a bustling shelter.  I am looking for a lady named Pam.  Pam - is there a Pam in the building?  Inside there are boxes of donated clothes food bottled water and medicine. In one corner volunteers tend to the elderly and a group of veterans displaced by the Rocky Fire. In another a free dinner of chicken and mashed potatoes is being prepped. Now Austin says most are here from an evacuated neighborhood just to the east along Highway 20.  This is Spring Valleys home away from home. They do not want to deal with Red Cross. That is why they come here.  The nearest official Red Cross shelters are at least a 40-minute drive from here so some are staying here out of pure convenience. But for others it is clear that there is a deep mistrust of government aid and official relief organizations.  Me personally yes it is stressful because of the situation. But thanks to the community and not the government the community of this city of - this area has come together here and...  Out on the gravel parking lot James Logan and his wife had to have their recently purchased RV towed down here. They were staying up at his mom's place when the evacuation orders came down. They are stressed out. His wife is worried she will miss her waitress shifts.  We have been hearing so many different rumors about Red Cross trying to shut us down and all kinds of  but none of us care. We are here as a - as like a united family.  Now The Red Cross says those rumors are not true but the agency along with local law enforcement authorities has been urging people to evacuate to official shelters instead where they can be accounted for. But so far that is not really happening. By contrast with the Moose Lodge the Red Cross shelters have seemed like ghost towns often with more volunteers than evacuees.  Good luck guys.  All right. Stay safe out there.  Only four checked into this one yesterday. Jeff Baumgartner is executive director of the Northwest California chapter of the Red Cross.  And so our volunteers are trained. They are background checked. We know who they are. And that is where we want folks to come because we know who they are working with.  This tension highlights a perpetual challenge faced by first responders especially during rural natural disasters like this. Baumgartner says he sympathizes with people who would rather take shelter with their neighbors. But a lot of times there are safety concerns and the Moose Lodge for instance is still under notice for possible evacuation. In a field adjacent to the property a backhoe is digging a 10-foot-wide firebreak. Manager Eric Austin thinks it is pretty doubtful the Lodge will get evacuated at this point. Cooler weather has slowed the progress of the Rocky Fire and Austin is even planning a little party for this evening.  They can feel relaxed not stressed out like everybody's been doing the last couple days you know what?  There will be a barbeque and even a karaoke machine. Kirk Siegler NPR News Clear Lake Calif. 