 The fatal shooting last weekend of a right-wing demonstrator in Portland Ore. set off a chain of events that last night led to more bloodshed. The suspect in last weekend's shooting 48-year-old Antifa activist named Michael Forest Reinoehl seemed to confess to the killing in an interview with Vice News. Moments after that interview aired word came that Reinoehl himself was dead in neighboring Washington state. It is a shocking development for Portland a city that is seen some of the most tumultuous scenes of protests in recent weeks. To understand what is going on we have two people Conrad Wilson of Oregon Public Broadcasting and also NPR's Hannah Allam. She covers extremism. And Conrad I want to start with you in Portland. What more do we know about the circumstances of Reinoehl's death?  Well this whole sequence of events started last Saturday in downtown Portland after this massive caravan of vehicles called a Trump cruise rally drove through the city. A man who attended the rally named Aaron J. Danielson was shot and killed. He was 39 years old and a supporter of this far-right regional group called Patriot Prayer. And then yesterday a judge here in Portland issued an arrest warrant for Reinoehl who - you know who called himself an antifa activist. The warrant was for a murder charge. The U.S. Marshal Service said around 7 oclock last evening they tried to arrest him near Olympia Wash. It is about two hours north of Portland. And according to the marshals they attempted to peacefully arrest him but he had a gun. Officers on the scene opened fire. Reinoehl was shot and died at the scene. All of this happened on the same night that Vice News aired an interview with him. And in the interview he basically acknowledges that he shot someone in what he called self-defense. He says a friend of his was threatened by someone holding a knife. We have not been able to confirm that. Reinoehl says his actions that night were part of something bigger. Here's a little of what Reinoehl told Vice.   I hate to say it but I see a civil war right around the corner. That shot felt like the beginning of a war.   Hannah let us put these comments in context because on Instagram and in this Vice interview Reinoehl says he supports militant anti-fascism. These are activists that President Trump and his supporters portray as domestic terrorists. What is going on?  Well the American left is not known for fatal violence. And so in fact this shooting is quite a milestone because it is the first U.S. homicide linked to the militant left in decades. Now the White House and right-wing media are portraying it as proof that they were right to warn about what they called radical leftist mobs. But we should remember that attack data show that the extreme right is still by far the deadlier and more active threat in the U.S. That being said we are seeing the left respond to the increase in right-wing violence across the country. Guns are more visible among protesters now. We have seen militia-style groups forming on the left more calls for physical confrontation instead of the usual you know doxxing this tactic of expose and expel. And Reinoehl's Instagram account suggests he was on the most militant fringe of the protest movement. He wrote that he is 100 antifa depicted himself as a foot soldier in a revolution wrote that casualties are to be expected. And he called anti-fascists his quote brothers in arms. So I asked Brian Levin about this. He leads an extremism research center at California State University San Bernardino. He is been tracking the left's evolving response to right-wing violence in recent years. And I asked him what went through his head when he heard that the shooter was an anti-fascist and this was his reply.  Here it is. For us it was not a question of if it was a question of when and here it is.  Conrad can you help me understand how Reinoehl fit into the ecosystem of protesters in Portland right? I mean people have been in the streets for nearly 100 days now.  Right. His social media postings go from photos of nature - I mean pictures of him snowboarding his kids and dog. And really from late May shortly after police killed George Floyd in Minneapolis and on his posts are almost exclusively about the Portland protests. The fallout from his death is still very much unfolding. Among racial justice protesters there is a sense of shock that police killed him I mean even some emerging conspiracies brewing about why they could not just bring him in and whether they ever intended to arrest him. And I think that just shows the level of mistrust after these months of protests in Portland. So this is an already very tense situation. And then the Justice Department weighed in with a pretty inflammatory statement. Attorney General Bill Barr called out Reinoehl as a dangerous fugitive and said quote the streets of our cities are safer with this violent agitator removed.  Days before the Portland shooting we saw the 17-year-old who is aligned with pro-police right-wing causes charged in the fatal shootings of two civil rights protesters. He shot three actually. Two died in Kenosha Wis. Then we have this similar case in Portland but with the ideologies of the apparent shooter and victim flipped. Hannah how concerned are watchers of this of escalation?  Well they note that these shootings of the past week or so did not come out of nowhere. The tensions have been building steadily over the summer. At protests now like we said you see more guns you see more agitators vigilantes operating openly. And we have seen other kinds of violence - brawls and car-rammings and beatings. And so there was a sense of something building of you know something coming to a head. And we have got the election we have got the pandemic and deep polarization. So yeah researchers say they are most concerned about the far right but they are definitely keeping an eye on escalations from the left as well.  What are you both going to be watching in the days ahead? Conrad let me start with you.  Well tomorrow marks the hundredth day of protests here and there is a number of events in the coming days that could yield more political violence. I mean there is a memorial for Aaron Danielson the Patriot Prayer supporter who was killed last weekend. There is a similar caravan rally of Trump supporters scheduled for Monday. Leaders and law enforcement here are deeply concerned that these two deaths will just further exacerbate a very tense environment. And while many here call for calm and an end to the violence there just does not seem to be a strategy to de-escalate.  And it is not just in Portland. I mean looking across the country analysts say the threat level is the highest they have seen in recent memory. And they are worried about the spread of violence especially with the rhetoric coming from leaders all the way up to President Trump.  That is NPR's Hannah Allam and Oregon Public Broadcasting's Conrad Wilson. Thanks to you both. 