 That is one view on Pantaleo's firing. As for how some police officers are viewing this case we are joined now by Patrick Yoes. He is the president of the National Fraternal Order of Police a group that advocates on behalf of police officers across the nation. Welcome.  Well thank you.  I assume you heard NYPD Commissioner James O'Neill's statement yesterday when he was explaining why he decided to fire Pantaleo. He found that Pantaleo maintained the hold too long even after less deadly alternatives were available. What is your reaction to O'Neill's rationale for his decision?  Well I think even he recognizes that the decision that was made for the firing is one that would not sit well with the officers and rightly so. Officers all across this country respond to situations and they rely on the training that they receive. And when they rely on that training and after review process if they are determined to have followed procedures that were in the guidelines set for their agency then there is an expectation that their agency would support them.  O'Neill was saying that actually Pantaleo was not relying on his training that he maintained the hold too long. The chokehold is banned by the NYPD and that is why he found Pantaleo's conduct improper.  Well a thorough review process through a number of different agencies reviewed it. And you know of course this is subjective. I think what we have is - clearly is a tragedy here. We know the outcome. And it is hard to separate ourselves between the outcome and a particular incident - the training and the actions that were taken. But officers across this country are forced to - put in a situation where they have to restrain individuals as part of their responsibilities their job.  Am I understanding you correctly that you believe Pantaleo acted properly?  What I am saying is that there was a number of actions that occurred that escalated to a point where he took action that he felt was necessary. I do not know the particulars of his case. I did not review them. What I do know is that when officers do - when they react and they used and rely on the training and the standards that are set by the agency then there is - there is the expectation that the agencies would support them in that decision as well.  So you do not support the fact that he was fired. You issued a statement saying that that firing will have a quote chilling effect on how officers do their job. What do you mean by that - chilling?  I think what you - obviously when you look at officers not just within - just not with NYPD but across the country we are at a crisis in law enforcement trying to attract the best and brightest into a very noble profession that is so vitally important. It is a cornerstone of a free society. And to try and attract people - you know qualified people into this field - well there is an expectation that when you act and you based off of training and you base off of a number of factors that that is reasonable in an escalation - that the agency will recognize it.  I am sorry. Maybe I am misunderstanding you. Are you saying that you do not believe Pantaleo should have suffered any penalties at all for what happened?  No madam. I am not saying that. What I am saying is that a situation arose.  Yes.  A number of officers were involved in it. Pantaleo was one person involved in this situation that escalated - escalated from the actions of multiple people...  Right.  ...On the scene. And we know the outcome...  And upon analysis of what happened...  Right. And we know the outcome...  ...He maintained a hold too long. That hold became deadly force...  Right.  ...That his commissioner decided was not necessary at the point that it was being used.  However there was a long review of not just the commissioner...  An administrative judge with the NYPD also recommended that Pantaleo be fired.  Well I - what I - I am not so much here to talk about the particulars of that case. I am talking about the law enforcement community itself responding to these very difficult situations.  Patrick Yoes is president of the National Fraternal Order of Police. Thank you very much for coming into the studio today.  Thank you. 