 A private contractor has been providing the U.S. military in Afghanistan with reports on media coverage and profiles of individual journalists. The contractor has also been giving commanders a daily briefing that rates news stories as positive negative or neutral. NPR's J.J. Sutherland reports. J.J.  One of the journalist profiles obtained by NPR starts with a statement of purpose.  To gauge the expected sentiment of her coverage while on an embed mission in Afghanistan. I called up Lieutenant Commander Christine Sidenstricker to get her take on the language. She is a spokesperson for the U.S. forces in Afghanistan. Can you see why someone - you know reading that as a journalist I would be concerned and why people would be concerned about that kind of language?  Again unfortunately that particular sentence does create the wrong impression on how they are being used. All I can do is tell you that that is not how they are used.  How they are used she says  some of their stories what their interests are not for determining access. The reports are compiled by the Rendon Group. It has a contract to provide these profiles among other things. It also writes press releases speeches talking points - oh  positive negative or neutral. On a recent day  Canadian Helps Afghans Create First National Park.  Three NATO Troops Killed in Southern Afghanistan. Commander Sidenstricker says she does not know why stories are categorized that way - before her time. She does say though she does not pay any attention to it. Lt. Cmdr.  I can safely say it has never been the Department of Defense's intent to use any of that sort of information to deny or grant access as a decision point in embedding or in granting interviews.  Then why collecting information at all? Lt. Cmdr.  It is entirely - again I cannot tell you why it was started. I can just tell you how we use it and how - or more importantly how we do not use it.  Sidenstricker says they did not start the contract and says to contact the unit there before hers the 101st Airborne Division. So I called up Major Patrick Seiber. He is the press officer for the 101st. He says during his time in Afghanistan he dealt with 62 different news agencies and 143 different reporters and he had to rely on the Rendon reports.  Well you know you got to have something because we just do not have enough public affairs guys that can go through and do it you know our own self to figure - you know to - you got to know what you are dealing with. You know our soldiers are at risk each day. There are dangers with fires . Information is also a risk.  And Seiber says that unlike Sidenstricker he did pay some attention to negative ratings. If someone had a bunch of them he would want to know why. Maj.  This did not happen very often. I mean out of all those news agencies I can only remember maybe a couple of times where there was somebody that we would not take from you know that journalist because of their bent.  Both times he says the news agencies sent a different reporter. A statement from the Rendon Group says they are very proud of the work they have done for the U.S. military. J.J. Sutherland NPR News. 