 Imagine walking into your backyard shed to grab some tools and seeing a giant yellow jacket nest.  It was obvious it was not a normal situation.  That is essentially what happened to Laurie and James Barron. They live in Brantley Ala. where they recently discovered a 7-foot-long nest on their property.  It is in my husband James' smokehouse. It is a very active hive. There are yellow jackets swarming all on the outside of it.  Now the Barrons had not used the smokehouse for two months when they found this massive nest. It extends along the length of one wall.  People ask us well are you blind? Did not you see it? No because it was not there. And then it was there. We do not go out there every day.  Nests like the ones in the Barrons' smokehouse can be home to as many as 15000 yellow jackets possibly even more. And it is not the only super nest in the state.  There is at least 18 more of those out there. And all of these - I have asked the people to at least wait until I have come out and have a look.  That is Charles Ray. He is an entomologist with the Alabama Cooperative Extension System. Usually he gets one or two reports about super nests a year. But this year has been different.  I got two calls very early back in mid-May - had never seen a nest that early.  This is not the first time Ray has seen unusually large yellow jacket nests in Alabama. He recorded nearly a hundred in 2006 after a warm winter. Yellow jackets usually freeze to death in the cold leaving the surviving queens to start colonies from scratch. Ray speculates that now warmer temperatures have allowed these colonies to grow perennially just like in 2006.  We think we know but we would like to determine what environmental factors are allowing these nests to occur.  Ray says these larger nests are actually much more docile than smaller nests you might find in the ground. However if you see one do not touch it.  We are seeing these nests very early. It is very possible we will see a lot of them. If you see one please call us. And do not try to take care of it yourself.  Laurie and James Barron say they are perfectly happy to leave those thousands of wasps alone.  One is too many for me.   Since Charles Ray has seen their 7-foot super nest the Barrons are now in the process of contracting professionals to remove it. 