 So just who is Irene and how bad is she? We are going to get a character profile of this storm now. Bill Read is the director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami. Welcome to the program.  My pleasure. How are you?  Fine. And just how big a storm is this?  As far as area goes this is a very large storm. The tropical storm force winds now go out about - I think we are talking over 300 miles out to the northeast. The hurricane force winds are out about 80 miles out on the eastern half of the storm. So in area it is very large. As far as wind speeds go it is at a category 2 level which is down some from yesterday and that is a good thing.  Now when a hurricane is downgraded from one category - from 3 to 2 - that does not preclude its going back up to 3 or 4 does it?  Not usually especially if it is coming across the Caribbean. But at this stage in its life moving north it is approaching land in North Carolina. It will start to have cooler water under it. The chance of it intensifying from where it is right now is becoming more and more remote. There is a brief window of opportunity but after that it will be a steady downhill trend on the intensity.  So comparing this to say I think the most notorious hurricane in recent years Katrina in terms of strength of winds size how does it compare?  Maybe roughly in size but other than that there is no comparison. Katrina was a far more intense hurricane.  I have seen different possible tracks that this storm might take from here. What is the most likely scenario and what are some other possibilities?  Well it is most likely gonna make direct landfall on Cape Lookout to Cape Hatteras aspect on the North Carolina coast and cross eastern North Carolina. Most likely come back out to sea along the Delmarva Peninsula and run parallel to the Jersey shore. There is still enough uncertainty as to whether it will stay over land say over Jersey and across New York into southern New England middle of Long Island or maybe even out to eastern New England. There is still an opportunity for that much deviation in the track up at that end but that is about it.  And at the National Hurricane Center has the computer model gotten a lot more sophisticated in recent years? Are you any better in predicting where the hurricanes go?  It is great story about the track forecasting with the improvement in models our confidence in our hurricane track forecast is such that a similar track was followed by Hurricane Floyd just 12 years ago in 1999 which triggered evacuations from parts of Florida all the way up through the Carolinas precisely due to the uncertainty. This time it was never even considered for Florida and Georgia because of the confidence in the track.  So we are that much better nowadays at figuring out where these storms are headed?  That is correct. It is all - we cut it about in half over the last 10 to 15 years. Not so on the intensity. For example there is nothing in our tool kit that forecast the weakening that we have seen today. Other that the fact that general features will hold back the development of a hurricane there is nothing I have that would let me be real confident in the forecast of how strong the storm will be when it is off of New Jersey and New York.  Well Mr. Reid I guess you are preparing for a very busy weekend.  Yeah. I do not plan on any golf or relaxing this weekend.   Okay. Well thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  Bill Reid who is the director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami. 