 A group of immigrants became the newest American citizens today in Fairfax Va. They wore masks and maintained the appropriate social distance. One of them was Janis Shinwari an Afghan interpreter who began working with the U.S. military in his homeland back in 2004.  Today is a very special day in my life.  He shared his long winding journey with NPR's Greg Myre.  Many immigrants have inspiring stories. Then there is Janis Shinwari.   I want to recognize Mr. Janis Shinwari who served for eight years as a translator alongside American troops in Afghanistan.  Ken Cuccinelli the acting director of Citizenship and Immigration Services presided over the naturalization ceremony.   During his service he saved the lives of five American soldiers. That is not something many people can say.  As an interpreter Shinwari was not supposed to fight. But in 2008 an American unit was ambushed by the Taliban. He grabbed a rifle and rushed to the scene where he found Army Captain Matt Zeller.  I saw Matt Zeller that he was alive in a ditch. And there were Taliban behind him to kill him.  Zeller told NPR about the episode in 2013.   Somebody yelled Zeller. And I turned and I saw Janis shoot a guy. There was a guy rushing up to attack me and Janis shot him saving my life.  They have been close friends ever since. The U.S. government has had programs to bring Afghan and Iraqi interpreters to the U.S. after their service in those wars but those programs have never worked smoothly. Shinwari had to wait nearly three years for his visa. He was on a Taliban kill list and spent most of that time on a U.S. military base near Kabul. Only rarely could he travel a few miles to his home for brief visits with his wife and two young children.  That was really hard for me that I could not see my kids for a while. And the saddest part was that my kids could not go outside to play with the other kids because of some security reasons. They were home all the time.  When Shinwari and his family reached the U.S. in 2013 Matt Zeller set up a GoFundMe campaign. Within days it raised 35000 but Shinwari declined the money. Instead he and Zeller used it to set up No One Left Behind a nonprofit that works to bring interpreters to the U.S.  This is our responsibility that we should keep our promise - that we promised these gentlemens  in Afghanistan that if you serve for two years you are eligible for U.S. visa.  More than 18000 are still awaiting those visas. A similar number have come already. The transition can be difficult. Many struggle to get by with low-paying jobs. But Shinwari age 42 says he is been fortunate. He says he is still saving lives by working at a company that makes rescue beacons for sailors. The U.S. military is a client. And what is the best part of his new life?  The best part is you are safe. You do not have to be worrying. You can sleep well. Once you are here you are free.  And with that Janis Shinwari headed off to work. Greg Myre NPR News Fairfax Va.  