 Seven million Americans are now behind on their rent due to the pandemic. Both the national and California eviction moratoriums have been extended. They both prevent people from being evicted and they provide financial help for renters. But many people who have taken advantage of the moratorium say the system is complicated and getting the money takes too long. From member station KPBS in San Diego Claire Trageser reports.  How old are you?  I am 2 years old.  Ramon Toscano sits with his toddler son in his lap. He has five kids and another on the way. He is a day laborer but during the pandemic work dried up. In January he could not pay rent on his two-bedroom apartment outside San Diego.   We could eat or we could pay rent. I mean that is a really hard decision no?  Toscano decided on food and has not paid any rent this year. In March as soon as funds became available he applied and waited for relief to come. And when it did arrive in June it was not for the whole six months he needed but only for three months. He still owes 5000 and is worried about what will happen to his family.   Maybe we are one more homeless statistic because if I do not have enough money for my rent what is going to happen? I am going to take my family onto the street or in the car to live?  The new agreement here in California extends aid through September and provides for paying 100 of back rent so he is resting a little easier. There are 17 million renters in California and about 1.5 million of them could not pay at least some of their rent during the pandemic. Rene Moya an organizer with the tenants rights group ACCE says they risk losing their homes and damaging their credit.  A lot of folks are going to end up in a worse financial situation than they were before. We often forget that evictions are not a symptom of poverty they are also a creator of poverty.  So far the state and local governments have only reimbursed a portion of what tenants owe and they have been slow to get the money out. In San Diego only a quarter of the funds have been dispersed. Moya says the whole application process is confusing and has not been publicized well.  We keep on meeting tenants who did not know that this assistance was available and that is a fundamental issue unlike let us say with the vaccination program which has had billboards and TV ads and radio ads and the like.  In the beginning I did not realize that we as the property owner were eligible to apply at the same time as the renters.  Ginger Hitzke owns several rental properties in San Diego. After months of not getting rent she applied to the program on behalf of her renters. But she points out some landlords want their tenants out so they can raise rents. Some even pay tenants to leave.  You give someone cash and you ask for their keys. If you can increase rents so that in the next 12 months you could make an additional 4000 it is worth it to you to give someone 2500 or 3000.  The eviction moratorium is also meant to protect people from losing their homes but that has not always happened. Take Marine veteran Gabriel Guzman. He lost his job could not pay rent and at the end of his lease his landlord told him to leave. That should not have happened but it did.  I felt that I had let my kids down as a man being able to support them.  For renters like Guzman who want to fight these evictions they have to go to court. But that requires navigating a whole other complicated process. For NPR News I am Claire Trageser in San Diego.  And Cristina Kim of KPBS also contributed to this story.  