 Now it is time for the Barbershop where we gather a group of interesting people to talk about what is in the news and what is on their minds. Today we want to talk about some of the issues bubbling up around technology and culture that might tell us about something bigger going on in the country. And joining us are April Glaser. She covers tech for Slate. She joins us from San Francisco. And with her in the studio is Washington Post contributor Steven Petrow. Hi guys.  Hi.  Hey.  Also with us is Tonya Mosley senior Silicon Valley correspondent for member station KQED. She joins us from San Jose. Hi Tanya.  Hello.  So the big topic in the tech world this week is this leaked 10-page Google memo from now-former employee James Damore. In the memo more lays out why he thinks there are fewer women in tech. And he suggests that part of the reason is due to biological differences between men and women. Damore was fired because of the memo. Google said he was perpetuating harmful gender stereotypes caused a huge uproar. Google was going to hold a town hall meeting about it but they canceled it because employees who were agreeing with Damore were being harassed online. So OK Tonya how is Silicon Valley reacting to this?  It is really interesting because from the view of women in tech that I have known and talked to they are feeling fatigued you can imagine. Over time any woman who has worked in tech or in a tech field or around it has heard this argument before or has dealt with constantly feeling like they were having to prove themselves. And so from that vantage point there is just this idea of we are still having this discussion. And now we are elevating this discussion to the point of really taking a look at some of those diversity measures in places like Google to bring more women into the fold and minorities into the fold.  I mean Damore has said that he was just trying to have a conversation about an important issue and he was just shut down. I mean what do you think about that?  It is really interesting because I like to look at this from the vantage point of the civil rights era. Particularly when African-Americans were fighting for equal rights there were actual discussions on the merit of whether or not black people deserved that. And so when you think about that to be able to at this point talk about biologically whether or not women can have a place at the table or whether or not there should be programs aimed at bringing them into the fold it really speaks to whether or not we are beyond this discussion. And so I think that that is where the contention point is.  I mean Steven is it possible to talk about women in tech in a respectful way?  You know I am really kind of persuaded by something that Tonya just said which was the analogy to the civil rights movement. And if you would substituted racial diversity in his memo you know there would have been no debate about the fact that it was right to fire him. And I do think that the company had legal right to fire him just as I think he has the legal right to speak his mind. But as an employee you know you are subject to the terms and conditions of your employment. But what we have seen this week is that this is a tinderbox. It is real. These are issues that are really hard to talk about. And here I am speaking as a white male I do not think it is for the white guys to be leading this conversation.  April you had a very strong opinion about. This you applauded Google's firing of Damore. Tell us about that.  So I would say that you know unfortunately this memo is illustrative of an organization that would allow someone like him with such hardline prejudices to work at Google for four years. I think that there are different ways of addressing the fact that you think that the diversity efforts at a company are not working. And there are ways to do that without pointing to the biological inferiority of the people that work alongside of you. So if I am working on a team with someone who thinks that I am actually not capable because of who I am biologically to do the work that he is capable of doing it is going to be really hard for me to actually sit next to him because I know that I am working with somebody that thinks I am just actually less than that person is.  But if there are these unspoken prejudices around Is it the best decision by Google not to have their town hall and to basically shut this guy down and maybe scare people away from the subject entirely? Is it better to just bring these out in the open where they can actually be addressed?  I think the kind of shutting down of the town hall meeting was I think a safety issue not just about people who agreed with Damore who were being threatened but also people who are outspoken feminists at Google whose full names were being put onto alt-right websites. And so Google from my understanding wants to probably have a company-wide meeting but is probably trying to figure out the safest way to do that.  You know Stacey this is also something we have seen over and over again with the right and the alt-right that when there are conversations like this they make it unsafe and then things have to be shut down. And it appears as though it is censorship rather than than you know a legitimate safety issue which has been provoked oftentimes. And we will see that you know in the Charlottesville situation too.  Well yeah. I mean speaking of that there was another really interesting free speech issue that came up in the tech world this week with Airbnb. That is of course the website where people can rent out their homes. And Airbnb made this decision to deny business to some people who had booked places in Charlottesville Va. Airbnb looked into customers' online profiles and they canceled the bookings of people they thought were going to Charlottesville Va. to take part in the white nationalist rally that we talked about earlier in the show. Tonya what do you think of Airbnb's decision here?  It is really interesting because just recently they changed their terms and conditions basically saying that they would not really support hosts who were discriminatory towards African-Americans or Asians say. And then with that taking a look at the types of folks that they allow to be a part of their network. The challenge I think will be in the long term because it was so easy. There were folks on message boards from the alt-right who were saying we are going to look at this location and this location. It was easy for Airbnb to say no you cannot. But in the long term it will be very hard for them I think to take that stance because they are run by software. So really it will be a person on the other end who will have to say after a person has booked a space to say no you cannot.  Can I jump in here Stacey?  Yeah please.  You know I applaud Airbnb for the diversity efforts that they have taken in the last year because they have had some real issues and they have made some great strides but I am deeply troubled by this decision. We have been saying that you know it is not right for Christian innkeepers or Christian bakers to refuse service to same-sex couples or to gay people.  Right. This is the case going before the Supreme Court. There was the Colorado bakery who refused to bake a cake for a gay wedding.  Exactly. Those bakers those innkeepers have said you know this is part of their beliefs and so on and so forth.  Right. They are citing their First Amendment right.  You know it is kind of flipped. It is a different group. It is a group that I absolutely do not support but I think that the principle is the same. And you know and for us to be fair you know you have to extend that even in the most odious cases and perhaps especially in the most odious cases.  You know and I would say though that Airbnb does have community terms here. And their community terms do say that they are not going to be a platform for discriminatory acts. And this seemed like a clear violation of their rules there.  But it makes me really uncomfortable that Airbnb undertook these investigations. And you know it reminds me of the blacklisting in the 1950s where it was flipped. You know it was the leftists who were being investigated. And for a private company to be doing that sort of in secret that troubles me.  I do not think they did it in secret. They - as a journalist when I asked them how they came to these conclusions they said that the users pointed to message boards that - on the Daily Stormer which is a neo-Nazi website that had said they were booking Airbnb's for their alt-right parties. And Airbnb looked into it and said this is a violation of our terms.  All right. Well we are going to move on to our final topic which is much lighter. But it has been getting some buzz this week about a man here in D.C. who scheduled six dates back to back in the same bar. Like he did not schedule enough time for the dates clearly because the women kept running into each other. They eventually figured out what was going on. And all six of them got together and confronted him. I wanted to get a woman's take on this first. April what did - what do you think about this story?  I think it illustrates how dating has become really an exercise in data. And even the idea that like a company's algorithm is an acceptable matchmaking tool or the idea that you can scroll through a library of potential candidates until you land on your Mr. or Mrs. Right you know kind of all lends to this behavior. And you know dating apps are totally legitimate. But when you reduce a person to a profile or a matchmaker to software the you know the people involved may feel less humanized in a way. And what this demanded is rude and hurtful. And actions like this make women feel dispensable.  What a jerk is all I can say.   And I agree.  So Lisette Pylant who was date number one was actually in our studio this morning. And this is what she had to say about her date.  I do not think that there is anything wrong with trying to be efficient with your time but I think there is also a baseline level of respect for other people you should have and respect for their time. And he clearly did not have that for any of us.  So Steven you write about manners and civilities for the Washington Post. What do you think about what this guy did?  I think we really have to look at ourselves. He is a person and he made these decisions. And that is not about technology. That is about someone who you know he is a project manager. He wants to be time efficient. And...  Project manager being like dating is the project?  Yes.  He is in IT.  You know he is stacking - you know he is stacking them up. You know he did not - he does not know the rules of speed-dating which is the problem you know. You need a greater window of time. You need an hour or two. You need to buddy up with that bartender so the bartender is going to protect you. In this particular case the bartender was feeding information to those women saying you know get out of here he is a jerk. And I think these days everything is so time-crunched. You know we need to kind of sit back take a breath you know and be in the moment be with the person you are with.  Would the situation have been different if the genders had been reversed if it had been a woman scheduling six dates with men?  I do think that the tables would have been turned if it was different. But really even if it were a woman and she had like just 45 minutes between each date I think a guy would feel miffed. They might have not all gotten together and rallied against her but I do not think it would have worked out for her.  That was Tonya Mosley KQED Silicon Valley correspondent Washington Post contributing columnist Steven Petrow and Slate tech writer April Glaser. Thanks everyone.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 