 Two giant wildfires in eastern Oregon have killed hundreds of cattle and jeopardized ranchers' livelihoods. The fires have burned more than 1000 square miles of sagebrush and juniper and that leaves ranchers with nowhere to graze the cattle they managed to save. That is a problem in a town called Burns as we hear from Amelia Templeton of Oregon Public Broadcasting.  The night the fires started a thunderstorm passed over the Trout Creek Mountains. Lightning ignited the dry grass. Richard and Jeanette Yturriondobeitia own a ranch at the foot of the mountain.  We could see smoke so we went that direction and the fire came to meet us. It looked like hell or what you would imagine hell would look like.  Swift winds from the thunderstorm blew the fire west toward the ranch so Richard his wife and daughter and a few close friends saddled their horses and began rounding up cattle as the fire raced toward them.  Cows are not afraid of fire. They just go where they normally go and so you have to get them to move.  The wind kept switching directions. The fire trapped the animals and killed more than 130 cows and calves and one bull.  They are my cows. I just could not help them. That is the part that gets me.  We have never experienced anything like this. I have never seen this.  That is Richard's wife Jeanette.  And people say to us that we will lose more if their feet are burned or their bags are burned their udders. They do not have a chance.  This ranch is a cow calf operation. It has a permanent herd of mother cows and sells calves every year for beef. The family estimates it has lost a third of the herd.  Eighty-five of the mothers have died. That is - you know that is like our bank account.  Worth about 200000. Today the focus is on bringing water and food to the cows and calves that remain.  Come on Hannah. Come on Ruby.  Jeanette fills a trough with grain for the older calves and feeds two younger calves formula from a bottle.   Jeanette and Richard are one of dozens of ranch families that have experienced losses from the fires in eastern Oregon. Ranchers were counting on the land that burned to feed tens of thousands of cattle until winter. Now it is blackened. In this arid landscape it can take 30 acres of sagebrush and grasses to feed a single cow for a month.  The ranchers will probably be looking pretty hard to find places where they can graze.  That is Don Gonzales. He is with the Bureau of Land Management. Most of the land in Eastern Oregon is federally owned. Ranchers lease from the BLM. Gonzales says it will take two years to recover from the fire for the grasses to grow back. Grazing is off limits during that whole time.  There are some areas that is got sage which is good to regenerate it but then there is some areas where there is not even a thumb sticking up out of the ground where it cooked it pretty hot.  The governor of Oregon has declared a state of emergency for the region which opens the door for federal aid but rancher Richard Yturriondobeitia is not waiting for that money. He is searching for a new piece of grasslands to lease south of where the fire burned. He wants to keep his herd together.  We will find something. I think we have enough feed for this year so we do not have to just panic and sell but I do not know.  It is still early in the summer he says and the forecast calls for more dry lightning. Soon that land to the south could be on fire too. For NPR News I am Amelia Templeton in Burns Oregon. 