 After months in lockdown and nearly 22000 deaths from COVID-19 New York City moved to phase one of its reopening today. Construction manufacturing and limited retail can start up again. Of course not everything is back to normal. In Manhattan's Chinatown normal would be the narrow streets packed with food vendors fruit and seafood stands filling the sidewalks and pedestrians jostling at crowded subways. For a firsthand glimpse of how that bustling neighborhood has transformed and what is happening there now as the city slowly opens up we have reached Grace Young. She is a cookbook writer who is been fighting for the small business owners who fill New York's Chinatown. And she joins us on FaceTime video so we can have a look too. And Grace it looks like you are in one of the restaurants that you have been following since this lockdown started. Tell us about where you are.  So here I am. And this is Mei Chau the owner and chef of Aux Epices. This is her little Malaysian French restaurant. So she actually reopened one month ago for takeout. And I thought it would be interesting for you to see the restaurant right now because she is struggling. She may not make it.  It is a very narrow shop where there is a banquette running along one wall. And it looks like if it were full of customers it would be really hard to do social distancing. But right now there are no customers in it at all.  Exactly. I mean that is one of the concerns that when we finally reopen and there is limited seating if it is - it only seats about 20 to 25 people. Mei would probably be allowed to seat two tables.  And I guess that is true of so much of Chinatown because - I mean I have been there. It is packed with these very small mom-and-pop stores and restaurants that do not have a lot of elbow room and that is part of the charm.  Exactly.  So as you step outside of the restaurant and you look down the streets that when I have been there in the past have been crowded with vendors and customers and locals and tourists what does it look like now?  I was surprised that when I came into Chinatown today that there are more people more cars more activity. And some stores that had not been open before have opened up.  How does the sidewalk traffic right now compare to what you would expect mid-afternoon on a typical Monday?  It does not compare at all. Look at here. So here is one of my favorite fruit stands on Mulberry and Canal Street. And you can see they are doing a pretty robust business.  Yeah. And is this the first day that they have been back open?  No. They have been open for at least a month. So this is...  Oh wow.  ...Pretty - yeah yeah. They have been very gutsy. But now I am coming down to - oh my God.  What? What is it?  One of my favorite stores in Chinatown is reopen.  Oh that is so great. What is the store?  It is called K. K. Discount. And I call it the Chinese mom-and-pop Target store.  So like what do you buy there?  You can buy everything. I am approaching right now.  Oh. Right in front they have hung all of these housewares and bright colorful items.  Mrs. Lee .  .  So as Manhattan's Chinatown inches towards reopening tell me one specific thing that you just cannot wait to have again.  Well there is a great restaurant on Mott Street called Wo Hop and it is been around since 1938. When you go down there it is old school. The waiters are all sort of middle-aged guys. They are all wearing these cotton tops. And a lot of people put Wo Hop down as Chinese American food but it represents a certain period of time in Chinese American cuisine. And they make this amazing flounder. And you love them for this taste of Old World Chinatown that can never ever exist once they go.  Grace Young thank you so much for taking us on this tour.  Oh thank you Ari. I am so glad that you are so interested in what is happening to Chinatown.  She is author of the cookbook Stir-Frying To The Sky's Edge and she is producing a video series with Poster House museum documenting what is happening to Chinatown in the pandemic. It is called  Chinatown Stories. 