 Today Hurricane Irene with winds of 115 miles per hour swept through the Bahamas. It is on course to make landfall in North Carolina on Saturday and will race up the Eastern Seaboard from there. Irene is expected to be one of the worst storms to hit the East Coast in years which means it could present a major challenge for emergency management as we hear from NPR's Brian Naylor.  Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator Craig Fugate says his agency has not been wasting any time.  We are busy and we have teams as far south and have deployed into the state emergency operations center in North Carolina supporting their teams. We have teams that are either there or en route all the way up the East Coast including Maine.  Those teams will help state and local officials respond to the storms with damage assessments evacuations and supplying emergency shelters. FEMA has set up supply depots in North Carolina New Jersey and Massachusetts with stores of everything from baby formula to generators.  These are not the little ones you get at the hardware store. These are big generators designed for public safety and critical infrastructure.  Irene's track is still not entirely clear. It is likely to make landfall on North Carolina's Outer Banks early Saturday bypassing Florida. From there it is predicted to head up the East Coast but how far inland remains to be seen. But officials stress it is a big storm and its effects will be widely felt along the Eastern Seaboard no matter its exact path. National Hurricane Center director Bill Read.  At a very minimum we are going to get five to 10 inches of rain and a wide swath of winds that are blowing in the tropical storm gust to hurricane force even inland. You are going to have a lot of tree-fall out of that and you are going to get a lot of flooding out of that - it is almost a given. So I think flooding and power outages and damage caused by trees is going to be a big story as the storm moves inland over the Northeast.  Already officials along the Atlantic are preparing. North Carolina's coastal areas are under an evacuation order and President Obama has declared an emergency for that state. In Virginia and Maryland the governors have declared states of emergency. The Navy sent its ships out to sea from bases on the Chesapeake. In the nation's capital this weekend's dedication of the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial has been postponed indefinitely. New Jersey prepared to open emergency shelters. And in New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg urged residents of the city's low-lying areas to prepare to move out when the storm reaches there later this weekend.  If you live in one of these areas why do not you spend a little bit of time today with some precautions and see if that long-lost cousin is willing to put you up overnight.  The debacle of Katrina sensitized federal emergency officials to their role in disaster assistance. Administration officials say they are committed to bringing all the resources of what they label the federal family to bear in preparing for Irene. The president himself vacationing on Martha's Vineyard has been briefed about storm preparations. Fugate stresses though it is state and local governments that have the lead role in preparing for and responding to the storm.  We are doing things to get ready but we are not getting in front of the governors' teams we are there to support them.  Irene is already causing travel disruptions as airlines cancel flights to the East and Amtrak has ended service south of Washington as officials prepare for a very difficult weekend on the East Coast. Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 