 Earlier this summer some financial firms downgraded their stock rating for the food company General Mills. One of the main reasons was stiff competition in the yogurt business specifically a craze for Greek yogurt. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang explains.  The dairy product is growing in popularity and changing consumer tastes and the yogurt industry. Hamdi Ulukaya comes from a long line of dairy farmers in Turkey and he says the first time he tried yogurt in America he did not approve.  I was just surprised that there is so much sugar in there. It was so much preservatives and colors.  The yogurt Ulukaya grew up eating was made in the so-called Greek style popular in the Mediterranean and Middle East where yogurt is strained. The process gives it a tangy taste and a thick texture almost like sour cream. Ulukaya says the soupy sweet yogurt found in most American grocery stores threw him for a loop.   Why is this so sweet? The answer was well Americans would not eat unless it is absolutely you know very sweet.  But Ulukaya did not buy that argument. And in 2005 he bought instead an old Kraft Foods plant in upstate New York where he created Chobani now the best-selling Greek-style yogurt brand in the U.S.   In a world of secrets one woman hides her Chobani in a secret hiding place.  Five years ago annual sales of Greek-style yogurt totaled just 60 million in the U.S. But this year food industry analysts predict the dairy product will almost double last year's sales to 1.5 billion. So far Chobani and the Greek dairy company Fage lead the pack of best-selling Greek-style yogurt brands. But conventional yogurt giants like Dannon are now trying to play catch-up with a little help from Greek-American actor John Stamos.   Oikos Greek Yogurt from Dannon.  Really?  Wait until you try it.  Not everyone who is tried Greek-style yogurt is making the switch. After all a cup of Greek yogurt can cost double the price of the conventional kind. But the majority of those who have gone Greek represent a highly desirable consumer group says David Palmer a packaged food industry analyst with UBS.  You know it is sort of what I would envision to be the Starbucks crowd. It is a higher educated higher income user that resides in the Northeast.  And Palmer says more often than not the Greek yogurt consumer is female.  Oh I love Greek yogurt. I am addicted to it. I buy it all the time.  Kathy Smith recently stopped by a fresh yogurt shop in Washington D.C. where she ordered a low-fat Greek yogurt parfait. The yogurt shop's owner David Smith says there is a devoted Greek yogurt following amongst his customers.  It is the one type of yogurt that when we run out unexpectedly they get very upset.  David Palmer of UBS says protein-rich Greek yogurt may have the staying power that outlasts other food fads.  When you think about it it is not easy to get protein in a convenient form. And then if you raise the bar further and say high-protein low-fat convenient and tastes great wow that might make this a perfect food.  .. 00.00 