 Just a couple of blocks off the busy 210 freeway in San Bernardino Calif. about an hour east of LA there is a whole row of cheap rundown motels. Some people stay here for a night or two others just by the hour. But some are families with kids. And they are not just there for a night or two. This is home at least for now. California ranks third behind Kentucky and New York in the percentage of children who do not have a home - that is according to the National Center on Family Homelessness. The evidence is clear here in San Bernardino.  Huge abandoned blocks. In the middle - I mean this is Central San Bernardino.  Really?  You just see it everywhere.  We went on a drive through its dilapidated neighborhoods with Joe Mozingo. He' Broken City.  The main kid I focused on was this 14 year old named Eddie who just - I could barely get him to talk actually. At least at first he was really really shy. His cousin had died and he was crying in class and some kids tried to bully him. And his mom was strung out so she did not really get on his case about it. So he was just kind of drifting around the motel. And then his mom got arrested. So he was just totally left alone with his mom's boyfriend who is also a meth user. And he just did not know what to do. He just looked - I just never seen a kid look so lost and in need of guidance.  Budget motels really have become this last refuge for people with nowhere else to go. What sorts of conditions are these kids exposed to?  Drug addicts and prostitutes and people with severe mental illness. It is just kind of a crazy place for a child to grow up in.  So we are at this kind of juncture in San Bernardino and there is numerous motels right here.  There is the All Star Lodge there - that is one of them. And then the Roadway Inn - we got the Golden Star.  That is where we pull in - the Golden Star Inn.   Hi come on in.  Hey Karen.  That is Karen. She is asked that we not use her last name to protect her and her son Ian. Just that morning she would filed a restraining order against her husband. She says he is addicted to meth. Karen and Ian have lived in this shabby dimly-lit room for nearly three months. But there are stuffed animals and Disney pillows on the bed and laundry hanging out to dry on a closet wall - signs of an effort to create something resembling a home. Karen works as a phone psychic. She pays 300 a week to live here.  Normally it is not a problem to pay rent here every week. The last couple of weeks because the situation with my husband I have been at court so much and running around so much trying to take care of stuff I have not been able to work a lot the last couple weeks. Last week was really pinchy-tight. We think we have got this week covered and I have no idea what the hell I am going to do next week.  Before the motel they had their own apartment. But when she did not get enough work she says they missed a month of rent and got kicked out the day before New Year's. They stayed with a friend for a while then got a room at a motel a few miles down the road from this one. That place she says was a nightmare.  It was like summer camp for meth addicts you know because everybody was bouncing between rooms and chit-chatting. And it was this social drama that was going on all the time - all day and all night. And our place sort of became a social hub too because my husband was using at the time. And we just got too much in the drama. And it was too much for the little one. And so my husband just started hitting all the motels and this one had a space so...  And how old is your son?  He is five. He will be six in October.  What kind of community is this for him?  Oh gosh. You know what? I do not - I honestly - I do not let him interact with any of the people that are around here for the most part. He is gotten used to it - some of the weirder aspects of living here.  Like what?  You will have probation come through because they are doing probation sweeps - you know four or five cop cars roll up with lights and sirens on you know pulling in. Or you will have random naked people screaming running through the - it gets bizarre.  And how do you explain that to a five-year-old? San Bernardino is the second-poorest city of its size in the nation. Detroit is first. And in San Bernardino County just shy of 10 percent of public school students have been identified as homeless. That is twice the rate of nearby Los Angeles County. Kennon Mitchell is the assistant superintendent of student services at San Bernardino City Unified School District.  The recession hit this community especially hard. Close to 50 percent of our residents receive some sort of public assistance. And close to 97 percent of our students are eligible for free and reduced lunch. Which means that they are below the poverty line.  One prime example is Juanita Blakely Jones Elementary School just a block away from the Golden Star Inn. Mitchell says 1 in 5 of the school's students live in motels.  And of course it causes that school to have a high turnover. They are close to a 55 percent turnover rate over there. So sometimes we will have kids drop and re-enroll two or three times in the same school year.  The district provides outreach. There is a homeless student program counseling health services donated clothing and school supplies and transportation to and from school. But the school system can only do so much.  We cannot eliminate some of those real life circumstances that families are going through as it relates to the economy and jobs. So what we just try to do is just try to mitigate the impact on kid's education because we believe that the better we can educate the youth the youth can provide a pathway for their families to success.  Yeah that is your school stuff huh?  And this is a tambourine.  Yeah can you play that for us?  I do not know how to play any of these.  As for five-year-old Ian back at the Golden Star Inn he is enrolled in an online charter school with a mix of home schooling and one-on-one lessons with a teacher. Karen says with his behavioral problems that is exactly what he needs.  And they are real supportive of what we are going through. And they do not have a problem with the fact that we are technically homeless and all that kind of stuff. And his teacher is awesome so...  I am curious why you say technically homeless. Are you not just homeless?  No because I am not living on the streets. I am not you know - I am not bouncing...  You have a roof over your head?  I have a roof over my head that is consistent and stable because I make it so. You know we do not say we are going to the motel room or - you know it is like come on buddy let us go home you know because right now this is home for him.  What are your main concerns for your son at this point?  Getting him back into a home where he has a room of his own a space of his own and then getting him through the stuff with my husband because that is the worst part right now for him. Since my husband left it is just gotten crazy again you know and he is really struggling. And he is going to have to do therapy. He is going to have to do therapy because he saw way too much in the last few weeks.  She tries to protect him by keeping him inside the room which holds two beds a desk a TV and a makeshift kitchen that is just a toaster oven on top of a mini fridge. And they go to the park. But it is not home. And they have no idea when they might finally get a real one. 