 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And joining us now is Kristy Pilgrim who is the laboratory supervisor for the Rocky Mountain Research Station in Missoula Montana. She and her team used DNA testing to piece together the mountain lion's path. How do you know the mountain lion came from South Dakota?  Well we have a genetic database comprised of over 800 individual mountain lions or cougars from various locations all over the west. So we have samples from population from South Dakota North Dakota Nebraska Wyoming Colorado et cetera. And first of all when we received those tissue samples from the mountain lion killed by the vehicle in Milford Connecticut we were able to perform DNA analysis to obtain a unique genetic profile for the animal.  So first you identified the mountain lion that was hit by the car in Connecticut as coming from South Dakota from the Black Hills and then it also matched with the traces of a mountain lion in other states between South Dakota and Connecticut.  And when we compared the data to that we found a match. We found that this male cougar that was killed in Connecticut was a match to a male cougar that was detected in Minnesota and Wisconsin in December 2009 and into the spring of 2010.  So somehow between the spring of 2010 and the late spring early summer of 2011 a year later it would seem that this particular cougar made it from Wisconsin to Greenwich.  Yep. That seems correct.  I mean obviously this is not your field but one would have to challenge any such results by saying is it possible?  Well you know I am not the expert field biologist. But certainly young male animals and carnivores in particular are known to make long-distance treks.  Have you had a result like this before a match from such disparate places?  No I - not quite like this. Our laboratory was involved in genetic analysis of a different cougar that was actually shot in a suburban neighborhood of Chicago but that was not nearly as far the distances as this particular case with Connecticut.  Well that is commuter distance compared to what this mountain lion did. Well Kristy Pilgrim thank you very much for talking with us today.  Thank you Robert.  All right. Kristy Pilgrim is the laboratory supervisor for the Rocky Mountain Research Station in Missoula Montana. They identified the mountain lion that was hit by a car and killed in Connecticut last month. 