 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. President Obama has announced a new plan for missile defense in Europe. He is shelving designs the U.S. had planned to base in Poland and the Czech Republic. That is a reversal of the Bush administration's approach and it is a move that is been welcomed in Russia which bitterly opposed the old plan. Here's NPR's Mary Louise Kelly.  Let us start with what has not changed - the goal of a missile defense shield in Europe. President Obama said today it is still all about Iran.  President Bush was right that Iran's ballistic missile program poses a significant threat.  But Mr. Obama said the new system he signed off on will do a better job countering a threat that continues to evolve. Pres.  To put it simply our new missile defense architecture in Europe will provide stronger smarter and swifter defenses of American forces and America's allies.  So what does this new architecture look like? It scraps plans for ground-based interceptors in Poland and a radar system in the Czech Republic. Instead the new approach relies on more mobile radar to detect missiles launched from Iran. And it would deploy sea-based interceptors on Aegis ships capable of tracking more than 100 targets at a time. Later phases include upgraded land-based interceptors. At a Pentagon news conference Defense Secretary Robert Gates said two key things have changed since 2006. That is when as President Bush's defense secretary he signed off on the plans for Poland and the Czech Republic. The first thing that is changed  the intelligence. Secretary ROBERT GATES  The intelligence community now assesses that the threat from Iran's short and medium-range ballistic missiles such as the Shahab 3 is developing more rapidly than previously projected.  Meanwhile Iran has been slower to develop long-range missiles then the U.S. had expected. As the nature of the threat shifts so should the U.S. strategy to counter it Gates says.  U.S. technology has improved. Secretary Gates. Sec.  Over the last few years we have made great strides with missile defense particularly in our ability to counter short and medium-range missiles.  Meaning the U.S. now has more options to counter any potential Iranian threat. But even as the Obama administration talked up the new plan critics accused the White House of going soft on defense. Republican Senator John McCain slammed the move as seriously misguided. And here's John Boehner the leader of the House Republicans.  This ill-advised decision does little more than empower Russia and Iran at the expense of our European allies.   Russia. The Russians hated the old plan. They saw U.S. missile defense facilities in old Warsaw Pact countries as a threat to Russia's national security. The issue had poisoned U.S.-Russian relations at a time when the U.S. wants Russia's help in among other things curbing Iran's nuclear weapons ambitions. White House spokesman Robert Gibbs denied that today's announcement was intended in any way to appease Russia. Mr.  This is not about Russia. This is about protecting our homeland.  And protecting U.S. allies and U.S. forces deployed overseas. But President Obama himself in his brief five minutes speech today on missile defense managed to work in a reference to Russia and as he put it Pres.  Our shared efforts to end Iran's illicit nuclear program.  So how will scraping the plans for facilities in the Czech Republic and Poland play out in terms of securing Russian cooperation on Iran? The answer is not clear yet. Today Russian President Dmitry Medvedev praised the U.S. decision as quote a responsible move. And he said he will continue the dialogue on missile defense when he meets with President Obama in New York next week. Mary Louise Kelly NPR News Washington. 