 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  Move over Toddlers and Tiaras. Take a seat Miss Universe. Meet the newest beauty queen on the scene.  And our new 2011 Miss Alabama Nursing Home is Ms. Andalusia Manor.   Yesterday in Birmingham 75 contestants from the retirement set went wheelchair to walker for the title of Miss Alabama Nursing Home and reporter Brigid Elsken Galloway explains how they are redefining what it means to be a beauty queen.  Word is Felma Schrimshire is the one to beat. She is worldly wise and poised. From her appearance and sharp wit you would never guess she is 100 years old. Dressed in a creamy gold trim suit she looks like a Southern queen mom. So what is her secret to aging gracefully?  The Lord has blessed me with good health. I come through cancer and he just blessed me.  So you are just not going to tell us what your beauty secrets are is that it?  Well I do not have any.   I do not even have time to primp.   Alabama is one of a handful of states that hosts these annual elder pageants. They acknowledge the contributions both past and present of the residents.   From the laughter and smiles it is clear that win or lose this pageant is a unique experience that participants and their friends and family members look forward to.   In the greenroom 90-year-old Bess Smitherman holds court. You can tell she means business because her tiara is a good two inches higher than anyone else's. Already she is become accustomed to the prima donna lifestyle of a beauty queen.  I had prayed by day and night I am going to gain 20 pounds.   Yeah. You got to keep your girlish figure if you are in the pageant.  Oh yeah of course. I might as well keep it. Nobody else wants it.   Smitherman's sassy style helped her capture first runner-up. Felma Schrimshire indeed wins the crown. The pageant's oldest contestant Mary Lois Shannon placed fourth. The 101-year-old does not seem a bit disappointed about not winning.  Oh I would go for the top next year.   We are going to get the top next year.   Ever the optimist she rejoins her proud family to plot her strategy for taking the crown next year. For NPR News I am Brigid Elsken Galloway in Birmingham. 