 There is a place where older people can go to upgrade their computer skills make art and play games. You are probably thinking senior centers. You could also think the library. NPR's Ina Jaffe covers aging and she went to Brooklyn for this report. As the population in New York ages the library system there is finding new ways to serve seniors.  On a Wednesday morning the Brooklyn Central Library's lobby cafe is crowded with young mothers and kids in strollers friends meeting for coffee singles poring over a book. But upstairs there is some serious work underway.  What I would like you to do as you tell the story I want you to also use simile and metaphor. I mean you might say yeah he is a little bit like a porcupine right? Or...  That is poet Dave Johnson leading an eight-week workshop in memoir writing. Everyone in the class is at least 50 though most are much older than that. For this day's class they are supposed to write something about the differences between members of their families.  Of course you can make it up. Right? People are not going to know the difference.  But 77-year-old Laurence James a retired New York Transit bus mechanic does not make anything up.  My mother very religious God-fearing good provider but distant like Africa.  James says he comes to the library a lot. He prefers the mix of people here to the traditional senior center though he concedes he does not go to any senior centers and probably has an unfair image of what they are.  I have this stereotype in my head because sometimes some centers limit the activities of seniors to like bingo yoga and some things that I am just not interested in.  The memoir class is sponsored by an organization called Lifetime Arts which develops arts classes for older adults. Contrary to Laurence James' image Lifetime Arts also works with senior centers but the organization is best known for their work with more than 80 public libraries in 13 states. Maura O'Malley is the CEO and co-founder. She says that whether the classes are writing or painting or choral singing or salsa dancing all of them are taught by professional artists and structured to result in a final project or performance. MAURA O' And that is I think the exciting thing about this work. It is about rebuilding connections as you age and about finding new ways of living and expressing yourself. It is not about entertainment.  Not that there is anything wrong with that.   At the Macon branch library in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood about a dozen older adults seem pretty darned entertained by bowling.  I need strikes. Come on.  Virtual bowling that is using Xbox. They face a large screen that shows the alley and pins and go through the moves as if they had a ball. There is a lot of team spirit here. They even have matching bowling shirts. And there are tournaments with teams from other libraries. Seventy-four-year-old Alice Baker has been coming to virtual bowling since it started three years ago but she is not at the library just for that.  I learned to quilt at the library and now I quilt a lot. They also have exercise. They have classes for kids - brings everybody in. You can bring your family with you.  If you question what Xbox bowling has to do with the mission of a library well Nick Higgins has heard those questions before. He is the director of outreach for the Brooklyn Public Library system.  I would say a good library really reflects the needs of their particular community. And so for instance as some of our patrons are aging they are starting to exhibit some mobility issues. And they are looking for opportunities other than you know movie night - something active and social. And the public library is a perfect space for that to happen.  In fact all of the programs for older adults are growing. The number of older people involved in arts programs is up more than 50 percent since last year. And the number of branch libraries with bowling teams has doubled.   Get that spare. Get that spare.  Which just goes to show that older people want a chance to write new chapters in their life stories one way or another.   Ina Jaffe NPR News.  