 August brings some of the hottest days of summer so let us jump in the water. This month on ALL touring some of the best swimming holes in the country. Our first stop is Dorset Vt. Vermont Public Radio's Nina Keck takes us to the nation's oldest commercial marble quarry that is now a mecca for cliff jumping and cooling-off.  As swimming holes go the Dorset Quarry is spacious - about 120 yards long and 30 yards across with plenty of smooth rock terraces to lounge on and jump off. Stone carved from this site was used to build the New York Public Library and Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. But today the quarry is more famous for its cold deep water than its vein of pearly marble.  It is pretty great. I have been to a lot of swimming holes and this is one of the only ones where there is actually places to sit besides in the water.  Kat Chenail and her friend Celia Bote drove up from Williamstown Mass. Like nearly everyone they are drawn to the stone ledges. The one they stand on is about 10 feet above the water.  Yeah we are trying to get up the courage to jump off of this one which is like half as high as the ones over there. But we are making our way. We might not ever make it that far.  Or that far.  But it is fun watching people.  Cannonball cannonball.  Seth Losure of Bethlehem Conn. and Erik Worden of Averill N.Y. watch as a steady stream of thrill-seekers leap and somersault off the tallest ledge some 30 feet off the water.  I am over here thinking like if they mess up once they are done like they are hurt. Like one back flop one belly flop and I doubt any of those people are ever going to jump again.  Sometimes they mess up and a huge splash - the whole quarry just goes silent. You hear ooh. And they come up and they are always fine.   It is pretty scary to watch but I definitely give them props when they actually do it.  Meanwhile there is a bunch of people floating around on tubes and floats. The water's great. It is really pretty. It is just very fun. It is a fun environment.  On hot sunny days like today you will see hundreds of people at the quarry. And while it may feel like a park it is actually private property owned by Kirsten and Dick McDonough who live next door.  It gets really crazy. You hear a lot of whooping and hollering and you can hear the cheers sometimes  when people are cheering each other on to jump in.  When they bought the property in 1997 they say it was overgrown and dangerous so they cleared out trees and brush to open it up. They created a grassy picnic area and a parking lot all at their own expense. K.  The thing is it is really a community resource. And it is just so beautiful it is kind of meant to be shared. And people feel like they are kind of entitled to swim there because they have been doing it for so long.  The couple who are both attorneys say Vermont law has also played a crucial role in allowing them to keep the quarry open by protecting them from liability. YouTube videos and Facebook posts have made the swimming hole even more popular in recent years as have some prominent mentions in USA Today The New York Times and several travel guides. This NPR story will probably boost visits even more says Dick McDonough so he asks that I remind people that if they come to swim in Dorset to pick up their trash. For NPR News I am Nina Keck in Vermont. 