 Los Angeles canceled its red-light camera program this week. It turns out L.A. courts were not following up on citations for running red lights. Many Southern Californians are questioning why a city would issue a fine it did not plan to collect. And as NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports drivers who got tickets are wondering if they still have to pay up.  Twenty-nine-year-old Nelson Moran says his trouble began last December after making a right turn at a red light something that is legal in California unless the driver fails to make a complete stop first.  I looked there were no cars coming so I figured I had my right of way. I made a right turn and that was it. A couple of months later I received a ticket through the mail.  Moran says the ticket included a photo of him at the wheel along with a shot of this license plate.  They are asking for close to 500 which you know is a lot considering how tough times are right now with the economy. And unfortunately I do not have the money that they are asking for.  It turns out that paying this kind of red light ticket in L.A. is essentially voluntary.  If people want to pay God bless them let them pay. But if you do not pay there is no consequence.  City Councilmember Dennis Zine a former LAPD officer says he always thought the fine was excessive.  We are not telling you to disobey the law. But in reality if people do not pay that citation of 400-plus almost 500 there is no issue of a warrant for your arrest. It does not impact your driver's license your insurance - nothing. The courts decided we send a letter out through a collection agency. If you do not pay it nothing happens.  LAPD Commander Blake Chow says other moving violations are issued directly by a police officer to a driver. But the red-light camera tickets are different.  The court has taken a position that the individual driving is not necessarily the registered owner of the vehicle. The only thing that ever would happen is that citation would go into a file or database in the court but never reported to the DMV not going on a credit record.  City auditor Wendy Greuel found L.A.'s program was costing the city a million and a half dollars a year to operate but only 61 percent of the citations got paid. She says the program did not necessarily reduce traffic collisions and that the 32 red-light cameras were not even at the most dangerous intersections - just politically placed in each councilmember's district. After her report came out the police commission the LAPD and the city council finally voted to scrap the program. But 50000 citations to register car owners in L.A. are still outstanding. TONY C So now people are thinking do I have to pay the ticket or not?  Los Angeles city council member Tony Crdenas pushed hard to keep the red-light camera program which he thinks made the streets safer. He is advising ticketed drivers to pay their fines. C The courts are still keeping it on the record which means if you get a ticket later on and go to court it is going to pop up on the screen. You are going to have to deal with it.  But some drivers are gambling that the overstressed L.A. traffic courts will not bother following up in the future. Councilman Zine says there are now a lot of frustrated Angelinos who already paid their red-light camera tickets.  Five hundred dollars later.  There you go.  Ugh.  That is a lot of money. I heard a lot of people want refunds. We are not giving refunds. It is like once you plead guilty you pled guilty. You cannot say oh by the way I do not want to plead guilty.  Nelson Moran has not accepted guilt or paid his ticket yet and just heard the news he may not have to.  Wow. Really? I am definitely going to have to look into this. Because if that is the case this definitely calls for celebration for me because God knows I have no way to pay this ticket.  Mandalit Del Barco NPR News. 