 Goya Foods is one of the nation's largest Latino food companies. Goya products are staples in millions of Latino homes. But now thousands of its customers are boycotting the company after its CEO lavished praise on President Trump. NPR's Adrian Florido reports.  It is hard to overstate how ubiquitous the Goya brand is in Latino households especially on the East Coast. So when CEO Robert Unanue appeared at the White House as part of a Hispanic roundtable on Thursday many of his customers were surprised to hear him say this.   We are all truly blessed at the same time to have a leader like President Trump who is a builder. And that is what my grandfather did. He came to this country to build to grow to prosper.  Advin Illa is a Puerto Rican actor living in New York City. He saw the video online.  I was honestly like enraged. I was like I am not going to support this company if the CEO is supporting someone who has been horrible towards Latinos. So I just got - grabbed all my products and you know tossed them.  Cans of black beans and gandules adobo seasoning recaito. He posted a picture of his trash can on Twitter before realizing he would rather donate the food. He said it hurt because there is a lifelong connection to Goya.  But for me I am done with the brand forever.  Illa is one of thousands of people who swiftly made the same pledge on social media under the BoycottGoya. Ian Bautista did too. He is Mexican American. His wife is Puerto Rican. They live in Milwaukee.  You know basically pandering to a president who has made it a point to vilify Latinos specifically Mexicans but Central Americans and others as well. And then he did not make any friends in the Puerto Rican island when he went down post-Maria either so...  The backlash though did not seem to faze Bob Unanue whose grandfather an immigrant from Spain founded Goya in New York a century ago. On Friday morning he appeared on Fox News and defended his praise of the president.   I am not apologizing for saying - and especially if you are called by the president of the United States you are going to say no I am sorry. I am busy.  Polls show that about 30 of the nation's Latinos support President Trump. Still the overwhelming majority do not see things the way Goya's CEO does. Arlene Davila is a professor at NYU who wrote a history about how companies market to Latinos.  In the case of Goya it has taken decades of really selling and trafficking in Latino-ness  this kind of connection with home countries in a can of beans let us say.  She said that kind of relationship comes with responsibility. She said that at a time of great anger over the separation of immigrant families detention centers and growing calls for racial justice...  For a CEO of a company that is so identified with Latino culture to not advocate for their well-being and the rights of a community that you are profiting from for decades that I think really hits at the core of why people are so angry but also highly disappointed.  Davila said the boycott is no surprise. Latinos have a long history of boycotting. Ian Bautista from Milwaukee said cutting ties with Goya will be inconvenient but not impossible.  I hold a much longer grudge than Elsa my wife does. I have not eaten a grape since I met Cesar Chavez in like 1990 so .  He said they will rely on other brands and homemade recipes. Adrian Florido NPR News.  