 Just as cities vie with each other internationally to host the Olympic Games here in the U.S. they compete for jobs. And it is not unusual for them to try and poach from each other. Weddings and honeymoons can generate tourist dollars. So this week the mayor of Minneapolis hit the road with a new campaign urging gays and lesbians who live where it is illegal for them to marry to come to his city to hold their weddings. The first stop on the mayor's list was the city of Chicago. NPR's Cheryl Corley reports.  With the skyline of Chicago behind him Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak stood on a rooftop plaza in the heart of a predominantly gay community. He hoisted one of the campaign ads that features wedding professionals. On the sign a florist holds flowers and a tagline begins Hey Chicago and the mayor reads the rest. MAYOR R.T.  I want to marry you in Minneapolis.  It is been legal for gays and lesbian couples to get married in Minnesota for just over a month now. Illinois' same-sex measures stalled in the Illinois legislature last spring even though the state allows civil unions. So now the mayor of Minneapolis is drumming up business for his city setting his site on money that could come from Illinois. A UCLA think tank says if marriage for gays and lesbians was legal in Illinois it could spur more than 100 million in new spending.  But how about this Illinois? Why do not you give Minnesota the first 11 million off of that and then you take the next 100 million once you figure this thing out?  Anthony Martinez executive director of The Civil Rights Agenda an LGBT organization advises gays and lesbians who want to get hitched to do so in a state where it is legal. He says that will allow them to access federal benefits regardless of a state's position due to the recent Supreme Court decision rejecting the Defense of Marriage Act.  For tax purposes you can file jointly. You know if you want to be able to sponsor someone for immigration or if you are a veteran you can access benefits. So there are many rights and responsibilities already that they are recognizing at the federal level if you are married in a different state.  Judy Popovich and Jean Fishbeck have been together for...  Seventeen years.  And a half.   They say since 13 states and Washington D.C. have legalized marriage for couples like them they have considered it.  Well yes we were in San Francisco two weeks ago. We thought about it then. But it seemed more practical to do it - to get Illinois to get it so that we would get the same state benefits and...  And to have it recognized in the state in which we live.  But they expect some couples will indeed travel to Minneapolis just as more than 500 Illinoisans have traveled to Iowa since same-gender marriage became legal there in 2009. And high-profile Illinois politicians know this. Both Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Illinois Governor Pat Quinn issued statements noting the economic costs and urging Illinois lawmakers to pass a same-sex marriage bill. Rick Garcia the policy director of The Civil Rights Agenda has lobbied the statehouse for years.  We are only a handful of votes away. We have been working all summer to secure those votes. And you know there is a chance we can do it before the end of the year but who knows. But we are still here and we are still fighting and we are not going away and some of us are not going to go to Minnesota.  Even so Mayor Rybak's push is on to bring wedding business tourism and even new residents to his city even though he admits he really likes Chicago.  I am here hoping that Illinois and Chicago take the competitive advantage away from Minnesota. But until you do we are happy to have your money.  Minneapolis' Convention and Visitors Association which sponsored the ads is also offering free wedding planning service to the LGBT community. And Mayor Rybak plans to take his city's get married in Minneapolis campaign next to Denver and to Milwaukee and Madison Wisconsin. Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 