 Now to a victory tour that kicked off today in Los Angeles. The U.S. women's soccer team is back from Canada gold trophy in hand after dominating Japan in the World Cup final on Sunday. NPR's Nathan Rott took in the scene at the LA rally.  Welcome to the U.S. Women's National Team World Cup champions.   Waving flags red white and blue face paint Taylor Swift songs USA chants and thousands of soccer jersey-wearing fans some who had arrived as early as 7 in the morning to get a front row spot. And loud loud cheers as each of the 23 women on the U.S. team were introduced to the gathered including a hometown hero Alex Morgan.  Any Alex Morgan fans?   She is a SoCal girl and we want to bring her up here right now.  Go Alex. We love you Alex.  Fifteen-year-old Alexia Maciel was one of the many screaming fans.  She is my favorite player and everything and I just want to be like her when I grow up.  You want to be just like Alex Morgan?  Yeah.  Maciel plays soccer too. She is a forward.  Same as Alex Morgan.  Are you number 13 too?  Yes. I am lucky. I got number 13 this year. I was like what the heck?  Away from the crowd and farther from the screaming a group of younger soccer players dressed in their West Coast football club uniforms are walking with their moms. Eight-year-old Maddie Heineki is their unofficial spokeswoman.  It is just cool to have your own country win. You just have all that spirit and it inspires you.  Do you want to be a professional soccer player someday?  Yeah I want to make it to the World Cup.  Do you think you could score three goals in a game?  Probably.  You are not lacking for confidence.  I do not know.  Kelley de la Fuente from Long Beach brought her daughter Giada de la Fuente to the rally to introduce her to some potential role models. She says that the assembled crowd and the fact that the final was the most-watched soccer game in U.S. history is inspiring.  I think it is amazing. I think - go girls. Yeah. It is not women's soccer it is soccer.  It is soccer. And as the women's team is happy to remind everyone they are World Cup champions.   I believe that we - I believe that we just won. I believe that we just won.  Nathan Rott NPR News Los Angeles.   I believe that we - I believe that we just won. I believe that we just won. 