 Floyd Mayweather may be the best boxer in the world. He is 34 years old undefeated at 41 and 0 and he is held title belts in five different weight divisions. And unlike any other boxer really any other sports star he is in total control of his career both athletically and financially. Mayweather returns to the ring tonight for the first time in 16 months and he stands to make 40 million. He gets a piece of every T-shirt sold every hot dog consumed every pay per view purchase on cable even hired his opponent Victor Ortiz who will get paid 2 million. No wonder he changed his name from Pretty Boy to Money Mayweather. NPR's Mike Pesca is with me now to explain how this happened. Mike 40 million bucks just tonight.  Yeah. The sport of boxing is one of the few sports that would allow this to happen because even in other individual sports think golf or tennis the course is very important the venue is very important. Boxing they could do it anywhere. And they have you know in the Philippines in Africa and it does not matter. He is doing it in Las Vegas. So Floyd Mayweather has looked at the situation used to box for Top Rank like a lot of these guys did and he said why do I need any of this? Everyone's coming to see me anyway. I am like Siegfried and Roy or I am like Lance Burton. I am just a draw in Vegas. I will pay my guy who I am going to box. Sure he will try hard - and by the way Victor Ortiz is a tough boxer but Floyd Mayweather is an excellent boxer. And Mayweather just looked at the scope of boxing realized there are not that many matches. The only match people are clamoring to see is actually him versus Manny Pacquiao and unfortunately that has not happened. So he will fight guys like Victor Ortiz and take his 30 to 40 million thank you very much.  And he actually does everything from like pay for the promotions the billboards to the newspaper ads for his own fights right?  Right. And boxing is this weird niche sport. It has a few fans not very many fans but they love it and they will pay through the nose to watch a pay per view event that might end in you know the third round. And a million and a half people do it and if they charge over 50 you know do the math.  Is not it a little weird though that he is actually paying the guy that he is pummeling?  Yeah except that normally when you hook up with a promoter the promoter will pay both. But it is pretty well-known when there is one really strong fighter that the promoter works for that guy the strong fighter and then the other guy is just you know someone to beat up on. Every once in a while the someone to beat up on guy does win. But it is not so different and it is not - let us put it this way - it is not any less ethical than what boxing has always been like.  Fair enough. I want to ask you one other quick sports-related question before I let you go. Ron Artest...  I am sorry. This Ron Artest person - who...  Sorry. So Metta World Peace.  Ah there you go Metta World Peace.  Metta World Peace the - formerly known as Ron Artest that is his new name. Interesting name reminds me of a player from the '70s World B. Free back in the day. Remember him?  Yeah I remember him. And he was - he had an interesting balding pattern and end game. But it is not unusual. Of course Muhammad Ali and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and player Bison Dele was once Brian Williams. But the weird thing about Ron Artest aside from everything is for years he is the least peaceful man on Earth. You know he was right in the middle of that malice in the palace the big riot in Detroit. But he has since kind of calmed down a little and he credits his psychiatrist. And he is kind of gotten a little perspective but he is also really weird and quirky. So last year he had his uniform number named for the number of weeks that Michael Jackson's Thriller stayed on the charts. This year he wants to have a different world name and that is the name he is going with. The only thing I fear is that fans across the NBA are going to be chanting you know we hate peace.   That is NPR sports correspondent Mike Pesca. Mike thanks.  You are welcome. 