 The World Cup begins on Thursday in Russia. The month-long tournament will not include the U.S. men's team which was knocked out in the qualifying round. Jim O'Grady from member station WNYC has been asking fans of the 32 teams that are playing why should Americans root for your country? JIM O' First we asked listeners to call in with their suggestions.  Hey my name is John Flack. I am from Manhattan. O' Which ranged from the weirdly geostrategic...  I am rooting for Costa Rica because they do not have an army. O' ...To the status nearly everyone claimed for their country of choice.  I am Rob from the Bronx. O' The scrappy underdog.  Iceland 'ecause of their plucky passion and their overachieving enthusiasm. O' We also got some serious soccer savvy.  Hi this is Kelly in Brooklyn. O' Who is rooting for Costa Rica because it has two players from her favorite Major League Soccer team.  Rodney Wallace and Ronald Matarrita. O' And then there was Maryanne from New Jersey who tried to make the whole thing moot.  Well it does not really matter who you root for because Putin will make sure that his team defeats Germany in the final. O' But in came one last call from Papa Tall.  Hi my name is Papa Tall. O' Papa Tall - his real name - is from...  The beautiful country of Senegal. O' And he said listen we all know that on the global stage Senegal is a pinprick an afterthought. But on a World Cup soccer field it has what matters - 11 men who can create a ruthless beauty and win.  Military power economic power and all those powers have nothing to do with sports where we inherently just perform as human beings pushing ourselves to do better always and higher. Thank you. O' Papa Tall teaches French at Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem. He had me pull up a chair in his classroom to talk about why America should drop everything and adopt his team starting Tuesday when Senegal plays Poland.  Whenever the playing field is leveled little people like us can have their chances. I think the Americans should root for the underdog so that they can show the world that we are not always about power. O' Papa Tall was joined by his student Yusef Bamba a soccer fan from Ivory Coast. The two clearly like each other despite their nonstop bickering.  They are a good team OK? But...  Give credit young man.  No. I like Mane.  This is what they do. People from Ivory Coast they cannot stand us. O' The nickname of the Senegalese men's soccer team is the Lions of Teranga. In French...  Les Lions de la Teranga. O' And you told me earlier that that roughly translates to...  Yes. O' ...The apex predators of hospitality.  Yes. O' Which is a very evocative contradiction. Can you explain that?  Absolutely. When it comes to confronting us you would better know where we are coming from. And that is where the teranga ends. O' Papa Tall said his team will play like lions...  Until we raise the trophy. O' ...And reminded Bamba of their World Cup bet.  What are you going to do if we win?  Strip naked around the school.  He is going to strip naked around the school. And I will hold you to your engagement.  OK.  O' Note to worried people - that is not going to happen. They are kidding I think. For NPR News in New York I am Jim O'Grady.  