 The debate over same-sex marriage has collided with the world of professional football in a loud and public way. Let us roll back. It started with Baltimore Ravens linebacker Brendon Ayanbadejo who is a vocal supporter of legalizing same-sex marriage an issue on the Maryland ballot this November. Well that drew the ire of Maryland state delegate Emmett C. Burns Jr. a Democrat who wrote a letter to the Ravens' owner. He said he was appalled and aghast that a Ravens player would in his words step into this controversial divide. Burns called on the Ravens to order Ayanbadejo to cease and desist. Well that in turn drew a lengthy extremely colorful response from another NFL player Chris Kluwe punter for the Minnesota Vikings. Writing on the sports website Deadspin Kluwe defended his fellow player and called Burns out for what he called his vitriolic hatred and bigotry. And that according to sportswriter Dave Zirin is arguably the greatest political statement by any athlete ever. Zirin is sports editor for The Nation magazine. He joins me here in the studio. Welcome.  Oh great to be here.  And there is a lot in this letter that we cannot quote because it is extremely profane but I wonder if you can pick out a section that you thought was especially meaningful or powerful.  No absolutely. First of all what made the letter so amazing is that it hit on three critical points that I thought just gave it an incredible flavor. I mean the first point is just the whole idea of an elected official ordering an owner basically putting out a directive to an owner of a sports franchise to silence one of his players. And as Chris Kluwe someone who is an outspoken athlete says that is ridiculous the idea that we should just shut up and play. So he takes on that argument that you hear very often in sports. The second part is that Chris Kluwe draws upon the history of struggle in the NFL particularly against racism and how courageous people were in the '50s and '60s to desegregate the National Football League. But then the heart of it is how unabashedly unashamed Chris Kluwe spells out why he is for marriage equality. And the part that was very striking to me and I know has been striking to other folks as well both inside and outside the NFL  You know what having these rights will make gays? Full-fledged American citizens just like everyone else with the freedom to pursue happiness and all that entails. Do the civil right struggles of the past 200 years mean absolutely nothing to you?  And what is important to note here is that Emmett Burns the delegate is a black pastor. And Kluwe is making that point that as an African-American and as a religious man you should value the First Amendment.  Absolutely. And that is another part of this story which is I think really interesting is that first of all Delegate Burns is a Democrat. People would think that Democrats would be less vitriolic and also that he is African-American. And I will tell you something I talked to one person who made the point that it bothered them that Delegate Burns went straight to the owner of the Ravens instead of trying to talk to Brendon Ayanbadejo himself.  The latest development on this is that delegate Emmett Burns has now walked back on his demand that the Ravens silence Ayandadejo. He says he has his First Amendment rights. Put this in some context for us. How unusual is it for NFL players to be so vocal in support of same-sex marriage?  It is changed so much in recent years. You never would have heard of an NFL player doing this as recently as five years ago. But really since 2009 2010 you have a whole layer of players who have come forward and spoken out. Players like Scott Fujita of the Cleveland Browns. Michael Irvin who is in the NFL Hall of Fame did a big interview where he talked about gay members of his own family and why he supports gay rights. Even Rob Gronkowski who is the all-pro tight end for the Patriots the man known as Gronk has come out publicly saying he would have no problem whatsoever with having a gay teammate. And the latest development is that the San Francisco 49ers became the first team in the NFL to do one of those it-gets-better anti-bullying public service announcements.  Dave Zirin thanks so much for coming in.  My privilege thank you.  Dave Zirin is sports editor for The Nation.   This is NPR News. 