 The Michael Vick story may be dominating the sports news today but it is also a busy weekend for actual competition. And that includes a showdown in Berlin between the world's two fastest men. Our regular sports commentator Stefan Fatsis joins us now as he does most Fridays. Hi Stefan.  Hey.  Okay. So before we get to those really really fast guys let us talk a little bit more about Michael Vick. And you actually spent some time inside the NFL. How big a risk do you think the Eagles are taking here?  Well  on the field off the field and money. That 1.6 million salary that we just heard about may seem excessive for a convicted felon who has not played in two years but it is below the NFL average and Vick likely will not get that much because players are paid on a pro-rated weekly basis in the NFL. But it is much more than the minimum salary for a player with Vick's experience which is 620000. So clearly there was competition for his services. Now on the football side Philly already has a veteran starting quarterback. So if the team plays well there will not be calls for Vick to start. And the belief is he will be used in some sort of hybrid runningpassing role. But Philadelphia did not even give Vick a workout before it signed him. His body needs to acclimate again to the constant physical pounding and regain the timing you need to play this sport well.  And we just heard in Mike's piece that fan who wants to burn her Eagles gear. Is the risk then that the Eagles are just taking too big a risk off the field?  Yeah will all of this become a distraction? Are fans going to buy less or burn more merchandise? Will sponsors cancel contracts? How loud will the absolutely appropriate debate on the moral and ethical implications of allowing Michael Vick to play football again grow? We are in uncharted territory here. There are arguably no other examples of a high-profile team sport athlete returning after a long prison stay. And teams and star players represent cities and Philadelphia is not known for its quiet and tolerant fan base.  Right. So could this then be a disaster?  Well you know the NFL is pretty adept at crises management and control and I am sure that NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell carefully screened Vick's possible destinations. The Eagles have a stable and respected front office a veteran head coach a competitive team. Vick will not have to be the star here. The Eagles roll him out slowly insist that he stay quiet and humble and hope that the focus fades away. And if it does not go well it is the NFL. Contracts are not guaranteed. Players can be released at any moment.  Okay. Let' the track and field championships begin tomorrow in Berlin and the event we have talking about is the 100-meter dash. It is on Sunday. Tell us about it.  Well you have got fun-loving word-record-holder Usain Bolt of Jamaica and you have got the quieter workman-like Tyson Gay of the United States. Gay is the defending world champion but he failed to make the finals at the Beijing Olympics last year and Bolt stole the show with a record run of 9.69 seconds. This year Gay has been the faster man. He said he expects it will take a new world record to win on Sunday perhaps breaking 9.6 seconds.  Breaking 9.6 seconds. Put that in some context. How much faster is the fastest human running these days?  Well the 10-second barrier was first broken in 1968. And since 1983 the record has been equaled or broken a total of 18 times. That is way more than in other events. There have been advances in training track surfaces shoes the composition of running outfits and you can run this race frequently. So there are more times to break the record. So how much faster can a human go? Well you might remember that Bolt celebrating before hitting the finish line in Beijing. And afterward a physicist calculated that if Bolt had kept churning all the way to the end he would have run 9.55. So if we accept that it is taken 40 years to shave half a second off of the record. Right now it does not seem possible that the unenhanced human body could shave off another half second. But maybe we should talk again in another 40 years Madeleine.   If we are still talking then. Okay. Stefan Fatsis is the author of  A Sportswriter Plays in the NFL. He joins us on Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. Thanks Stefan.  Thanks Madeleine. 