 The Phoenix Suns beat the Milwaukee Bucks last night in the first game of the NBA Finals but the spotlight is being pulled from those who play basketball to those who talk about basketball due to a scandal brewing at ESPN. The network replaced sideline reporter Rachel Nichols who is white after comments she made came to light about her African American colleague Maria Taylor. NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman joins us. Hey Tom.  Hi Mary Louise.  OK. So let us start with what happened here. What happened with Rachel Nichols?  Well last summer during the NBA's bubble in Florida she was having a phone conversation with someone in her hotel room after finding out she would not be getting the host job for ESPN's marquee program NBA Countdown during the NBA Finals. And she suggested the woman who was getting the job Maria Taylor who is African American as you mentioned got it because of her race.  Oh. And we know exactly what she said 'ecause it turns out there was a hot mic on in her hotel room.  Yes. Always be aware of the hot mic.  Yeah.  And it recorded her saying this - and I am quoting - I wish Maria Taylor all the success in the world. She covers football she covers basketball. And Nichols continues If you need to give her more things to do because you are feeling pressure about your crappy longtime record on diversity which by the way I know personally from the female side of it go for it. Just find it somewhere else. You are not going to find it from me or taking my thing away. Now also in the phone conversation the person Nichols was talking to a white male said this - I am exhausted. Between MeToo and Black Lives Matter I got nothing left. And Nichols laughed. Now Mary Louise this all has become a scandal now because part of the tape recently leaked. The New York Times had the full story this past weekend and it blew up of course on social media. ESPN announced it was replacing Nichols as a sideline reporter during these finals games with Malika Andrews who is African American. But the network said Nichols would  hosting her NBA show The Jump.  And what is Nichols saying now about all this?  Well she apologized on The Jump and here is a bit of what she said.   But I also do not want to let this moment pass without saying how much I respect how much I value our colleagues here at ESPN how deeply deeply sorry I am for disappointing those I hurt particularly Maria Taylor.  I am thinking Tom this is all coming during the finals. The NBA wants everybody to focus on the basketball on the game especially after this you know really tough season during the pandemic. What is the NBA saying about all this?  Well yesterday in his pre-finals press conference Commissioner Adam Silver said it is disheartening and he echoed what many have said - it is unfortunate two women are being pitted against each other here when having competent female broadcasters in such a male-dominated world as the NBA that should be celebrated. He also raised the question - delicately because the NBA and ESPN are partners - about why the network has taken so long to deal with this issue since this was known about at ESPN headquarters soon after it happened a year ago. Here's Commissioner Silver.   I would have thought that in the past year maybe through some incredibly difficult conversations that ESPN would have found a way to be able to work through it - obviously not.  Speaking of incredibly difficult conversations Tom do we know if those are happening inside ESPN?  They reportedly have and those conversations have been sometimes heated sometimes acrimonious. The New York Times article quotes Maria Taylor as saying about ESPN being a front-facing Black woman at this company has taken its toll physically and mentally. The network through a spokesman said ESPN emphasizes diversity inclusion and equity. But you know this is a story that resonates beyond one open mic in ESPN. All aspects of society obviously are dealing with diversity and inclusion rightfully so. One hopes Nichols' words are being talked about in discussions everywhere.  That is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome.  