 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. The most promising young talent to play major league ball in over a decade needs surgery. Pitchers get hurt all the time in baseball but Steven Strasburg's torn elbow ligament is an exceptionally tough injury and not just for him. The city of Washington D.C. and its luckless Nationals had an incredible amount of hope tied up in this 22-year-old right-hander. He was the number one overall pick in the 2009 draft. Now he is on the disabled list probably for a very long time. Here's NPR's Mike Pesca.  Great baseball minds know you do not take a big lead off Andy Pettitte you play David Ortiz to pull and you do not get into a dance-off with the Philly fanatic. But the one piece of baseball information that eludes everyone is how to keep a pitcher healthy. A quarter of a billion dollars worth of pitching talent was lost to injury in 2008 in baseball. And in most cases the injuries were unpredictable and seemingly unavoidable.  15 million to their young pitcher Steven Strasburg and now he is out for the season probably out for next season too. Will Carroll writes the Under the Knife column for Baseball Prospectus. He says the Nats really did not do anything wrong. Mr.  I mean they did everything but wrap him in bubble wrap.  You would think as author of a book called   Preventing Injuries in Modern Baseball Will Carroll might have some insights on how to prevent injuries. But Carroll says bad luck or what we understand as luck is mostly to blame. Mr.  The problem is that we do not know what kind of forces Steven Strasburg or any other pitcher is putting on his arm with every single pitch.  There is a burgeoning field of biomechanical analysis that can offer some insight as to what pitching motions may cause trouble. But this analysis which is relatively inexpensive has not really caught on inside baseball. The Nationals did what most teams these days try to do to protect their young arms they limit the number of pitches thrown. The Nats started Strasburg off in AA where the phemon was predictably phenomenal. They moved him up to AAA where he was statistically even better. And his major league debut was unquestionably the greatest moment in Washington Nationals history as their TV broadcast MASN documented Strasburg 14 strikeouts.    They do not need a seventh-inning stretch. They have been on their feet almost every top of the inning...  The 15 million spent to sign Strasburg seemed warranted his future seemed limitless. And it still may be. But that future most likely will not include any games this year or next because recovery from Tommy John surgery takes 12 to 18 months. Nationals general manager Mike Rizzo said on a conference call that the 22-year-old pitcher knows what he is facing. Mr.  He is determined to get after this get the surgery done and begin the process of rehabilitation. You know he is been informed of what the process is going to entail and he is ready to attack it.  The good news or less bad news is that with major leaguers Tommy John surgery has a better-than-90-percent success rate. Three of the National League pitchers on this year's All-Star Game have rebounded from the injury. And of course Tommy John himself went under the knife as a trailblazer rehabbed for a year and pitched well for another 13 seasons. But in Washington it was clear that more than an ulnar collateral ligament was torn. The team in its sixth year of existence has never had a winning record and is on its way to another last place finish.  How is that hopey-changy thing workin' out for 'ya?  Wait until the year after next year. Mike Pesca NPR News. 