 Welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. Nine times in the last 10 years there is been a Williams sister in the Wimbledon final. And this year Venus and Serena once again fended off the rest of the field to face each other. But only one could prevail.   And then it is hers.   Serena Williams claimed her third Wimbledon championship. All three have come against her older sister. Jon Wertheim was there covering the match for Sports Illustrated and he is on the line with us. Hi Jon. Mr.  Hi there.  Now Jon in the first set these two women were pretty evenly matched. But then Serena really pulled away during the tiebreak. Venus fought back three championship points before she finally succumbed. She did not go quietly. Mr.  No she put up a good fight there in the end but Serena was really on her game. And it seemed like Venus was a little awkward off the ground.  And Venus had a brace on her knee. Why was that? Mr.  Yeah. I mean she said it was protective but she also - it was clear she was not a hundred percent in terms of mobility and especially on grass. That makes a big difference.  Now they have played each other so many times now. Has their attitude towards playing one another changed over the years? I mean do they attack each other more now for example? Mr.  The tension between them it is so strange. Their father and coach Richard Williams actually said he was going back to the United States. He always mows the yard when they play. And I figured they played so often his yard must look like the Wimbledon court.  But I think everybody - from the fans to their parents to themselves - it is all gotten a little more familiar. But it is such a strange dynamic. He just do not have the tension that you have with other players.  Is not it disappointing in a sort of strange way when these two women make the finals I mean for sort of organizers and sponsors? Mr.  No. I think that what you lack in tension you make up for storyline. I mean this is Tiger Woods having a brother who is every bit as good a golfer. I mean it is a remarkable story. So while the Williams-Williams match has tend to lack tension I think you know in the long run it is good for the sport good for the sponsors because it is just such a remarkable story.  And we should also point out that Venus and Serena are doubles partners too and they have to play as a team for the doubles championship tomorrow. Have the same two people who played each other you know for the championship ever partnered up for the doubles title before? Mr.  Not in this era and certainly not as siblings. In a way it is nice because you know we will see what happens. But odds are pretty good that they will win the title and Venus will get to leave with the trophy.  Now Jon tomorrow Roger Federer goes for his 15th grand slam title which would be the most in men's tennis history. A lot of people rode him off as all washed up just a year ago. What is he been doing since then to regain his status? Mr.  Well he - you know the good fortune of not having to face Rafael Nadal his nemesis you know the French Open which Federer won last month and Rafael Nadal not here the number one player the guy who beat Federer at Wimbledon in 2008. So he is had some good fortune. But also you know I think it is somewhat - well this is the sport that these careers are not perfect straight lines they are not necessarily linier. And Federer had a bit of a rough patch and now he seems to be the Roger Federer evolved.  And standing in Roger Federer's way of course is the American Andy Roddick. He has the world record a hundred and fifty five mile-an-hour serve. What does Andy Roddick have to do to pull off an upset here? Mr.  Well essentially he is got to play the perfect match. And he came close to doing it yesterday when he beat Andy Murray you know the Scottish player who is - they are sort of counting him as British. So this was the great hope to homegrown champion in the Andy Roddick . He played a terrific match to beat Murray. If he can sustain that level against Federer he is got a real chance. If he cannot I think Federer's looking at title number 15.  And Andy Roddick has only won one single grand slam title the U.S. Open in 2003. But I understand he is been working on his conditioning quite a bit recently. Mr.  Yeah. And his conditioning and also his variety - he is sort of like the baseball pitcher who had a great fastball and now maybe the fastball slowed a bit but he is added some more variety of pitches. And you know Andy Roddick is a fine player. He just had the misfortune of coming along the same time as Roger Federer.  Jon Wertheim writes about tennis for Sports Illustrated. His new book is all about last year's epic men's final at Wimbledon. It is called Strokes of Genius. Jon Wertheim thanks. Mr.  Thanks Guy. 