 His T-shirt read Donald Pellmann established 1915. At the Senior Olympics in San Diego the 100-year-old athlete stepped up to the high jump and cleared it setting a new world record for his age group. And that is not all. Donald Pellmann broke records for centenarians in the 100 meter dash the shot put discus and long jump. This senior athlete is now on the line with us from the assisted living home where he lives in Santa Clara Calif. Hello and congratulations.  Well OK. It was a kind of a rough day both because of the weather. It was quite warm and also I had a kind of a bad day. At my age you get some good days and bad days and this was not one of my better days. But it was good enough to compete and set some records. And all and all it was pretty good weekend.  Well Mr. Pellmann if you set five world records on a bad day I can only imagine what a good day would have looked like.  Well when I was my 90th year I competed in a national at Fort Collins Colo. And I had a good day that day and set seven world records on that day.  .  And I never got very much recognition for that. I did not - it was written up in the local papers but that was my best day ever. So now at age 100 where there is less competition it is a little more difficult to keep in condition but I try to do some exercise every week a couple times a week and hope for the best.  Well is that your secret to success - exercising a couple times a week? I understand you do not stretch. You do not take vitamins.  . Well no. I just try to eat sensibly and I try to do some exercise every day whether it is a long walk or - I try to jog a couple times a week. I sort of shot put discus locally but high jump and pole vault and that kind of stuff is very difficult - got to have special facilities to that sort of thing.  You set five world records and I understand the one that was most important to you was the 100-meter dash which you finished in under 27 seconds on a day when it was about 100 degrees out. How did that feel?  Well that was pretty difficult but that was a record that was held by a Japanese fellow. And now I hear in the news that he is 105 years old and he is still running. So we will see what goes in the next five years for me if I can do it.  Mr. Pellmann will you tell us a little bit about your history as an athlete? Is it true that you really only got serious about this after retirement?  Yeah that is right. I was about 70 years old when my eldest son Ned  said why do not you try the Senior Olympics? I did not know - I did not think about it but there was a Senior Olympics meet in this little town in Arkansas where I live. And then I entered and happened to compete against the state champion in my first meet ever. And I beat him in five events. From then on I went to 22 other states and 127 meets and almost 900 events and I got a medal in every one of them. Most of them are gold.  Well I know that since your big win you have been doing a lot of interviews. How does it feel to have reached the height of your celebrity at age 100?  Well it is a little bit late in coming. And it is a - I am surprised because I heard from London Times and The New York Times. I was amazed to see that New York paper sent a reporter and a photographer all the way out to San Diego to cover the events so it was unusual and unexpected. But it worked out fine and everybody was very kind and helpful. And it was a very successful meet and a very successful weekend.  Well Don Pellmann we are very happy that you can take some time and talk with us here at NPR. Thank you very much.  Well OK. Thanks for calling.  That is Don Pellmann the world's fastest 100-year-old man. 