 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  Joining us to discuss this year's lackluster pennant races is sportswriter Stefan Fatsis. Hi Stefan.  Hey Robert.  There are eight playoff races in Major League Baseball every year the six divisions and the two wildcard spots. And this year all but one of those races is pretty much resolved already. Bring us up to date.  Otherwise no team is closer than six and a half games from the playoffs which means barring an epic collapse or two your 2011 playoff teams are all but certain to be the New York Yankees Boston Red Sox Detroit Tigers and either the Angels or Rangers in the American League. And the Philadelphia Phillies Atlanta Braves Milwaukee Brewers and Arizona Diamond Backs in the National League.  Now while the presence of the Milwaukee Brewers on this makes this good news I...  For you.  For me. I guess a dearth of pennant races really cannot be all that good for baseball.  You have got the revenue and talent giants in New York Boston and Philly who were virtually certain playoff teams before the season even started. And also maybe the sport needs to tinker with its system to reduce the risk of this sort of finish.  Stefan earlier in the season we talked about the possibility of adding another playoff team. Is Major League Baseball any closer to taking that step?  But the playoff plan is going to be tied up with another plan to even the size of the two leagues at 15 teams apiece. That is tied up with the proposed sale of the Houston Astros who would move to the American league and that deal is reportedly taking longer than expected in part because of questions about the business background of the proposed owner.  Now while this might be a predictable and uneventful September on the field September would be quickly forgotten with a scintillating October. Is there a likelihood of great baseball to look forward to in the World Series Stefan?  The Yankees and Red Sox are actually the teams with the pitching issues in the American League. Meanwhile in the National League the Phillies have the big three Roy Halladay Cliff Lee Cole Hamels. They will be tough to beat and I know you are pulling for the Brewers with their MVP candidate Ryan Braun and T-Plush Tony Plush the alter ego of the fun-loving outfielder Nyjer Morgan. I am sure you are a big follower of his Tweets.  And Prince Fielder. Thank you Stefan. Have a great weekend.  You too Robert.  Stefan Fatsis joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. 