 And we end this hour with sports and talk of tennis' final grand slam tournament of the year. The U.S. Open begins on Monday weather permitting in New York. And sportswriter Stefan Fatsis joins us now for a preview. Hello Stefan.  Hey Robert.  And Stefan in tennis the focus always seems to cycle between the women side of the game and the men side. Right now we are in a period when the men are the dominant interest and at the open that is not about to change I gather.  No. If anything it is going to solidify. For the last half decade we have enjoyed this fantastic rivalry of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal but now the balance is shifting there as these things do. Federer had won 16 out of 27 grand slam titles since Wimbledon in 2003 but he is O for his last six. And now he is ranked third with Nadal second behind the new number one Novak Djokovic. Djokovic has had one of the greatest seasons in tennis history. He is won 59 out of 61 matches two of the three grand slams played so far - talk about group dominance. These three guys have won 25 of the last 26 grand slams.  Wow. In some sports that kind of dominance might not be viewed as a good thing but in tennis it seems to be a good thing yes?  Yeah. I think historically it always has been. Tennis has thrived on these rivalries. You go back you think about Evert and Navratilova Borg and McEnroe Sampras and Agassi. There is an interesting cover story in this Sunday's New York Times Magazine about the importance of rivalries in tennis both for the fans and for the players themselves. And the author of the piece Gerald Marzorati writes that the best players have only one another to coax them to greatness on the court to potentially complete them in the minds of fans and to help players apprehend and countenance the aloneness that is at the heart of professional singles tennis. To be a great tennis player is to need a rival. Men's tennis has that.  So the men have that. Now what does the women side of the sport look like?  Well wide open and unsettled are the two most used descriptors for women's tennis. The women's game lacks a dominant player or players or a compelling on-court story right now. The top seed at the U.S. Open is Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark. She is never won a grand slam and she just demoted her coach her father. The number two ranked player Vera Zvonareva of Russia has not won a slam either. And the defending champion Kim Clijsters had to withdraw from the event last week because of an injury. Finally you have got the Williams sisters Venus and Serena. They have won the U.S. Open a combined five times but they have had injury-filled years and have not played very much. So because of the U.S. Open seedings are based according to player rankings Serena is seeded 28th and Venus is unseeded. You would not ever expect them unseeded.  Unseeded. So who might actually win the women's tournament?  Well Serena actually she has had this year of injuries and other health problems including a pulmonary embolism but she did come back at Wimbledon in June. She is won two of the last four tournaments that she is played in. And the number three seed is Maria Sharapova and she is had a resurgent year herself seeming determined to win another major before she retires. And it is odd to think of someone who is 24 retiring...  At 24.  ...but that is tennis.  You mentioned Serena Williams' injuries. Injuries are a big deal in tennis right now.  Yeah. The tennis writer Matt Cronin tweeted the other day that 11 of the top 20 men have been hurt since Wimbledon. That was seven weeks ago. And the women side is not much different. As Sports Illustrated's Jon Wertheim wrote this week maybe it is time for the sport to look at whether the speed and the power of the modern game which have accelerated so much the equipment the scheduling demands on the players play a role here and injuries and maybe it is time to sort of pull back and give players a bit more of a break. Rafael Nadal's uncle and coach Toni Nadal actually brought this up today. He said the men's tour is not brave enough to look into the issue of injuries. They do not care about health. They care about the show and the money. It sounds like he was talking about the NFL before...   ...all of its injury...  OK.  ...not tennis.  Have a good weekend and stay dry Stefan.  Thanks Robert. You too.  That is sportswriter Stefan Fatsis who joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. 