 The Major League Baseball playoffs begin next week. And here's something that I have rarely if ever had the chance to say on the air - the Chicago Cubs have the best record in the major leagues. The Cubs have not been to the World Series since 1945. They have not won the championship since 1908. So after almost 11 decades of saying wait till next year fans are both excited and wary. From Chicago here's NPR's David Schaper.  I am standing outside of Wrigley Field where a big white flag with a big blue W flaps in the wind over the scoreboard signaling for fans riding the nearby L trains another Cubs win. Being a Cubs fan used to be considered a kind of a sickness. But now it is playoff fever that is infecting people all across Chicago's North Side.  This the year it is a big year you know?  Thirty-four-year-old Dion Newberry is a lifelong Cub fan.  They going to win the whole thing. They the best team in baseball hands down.  What makes Newberry so sure?  You can see it all in they swagger. It is all in they swagger.  The Cubs have had decent teams in the past making the playoffs four times in the last dozen seasons including last year. But they always collapsed. The Cubs do have outstanding pitching stellar defense and solid hitting. Two players are legitimate MVP contenders. Three pitchers are in the running for the Cy Young Award. Fan Fred Selby  says this team is so good that not even a supposed curse put on the team in 1945 by the owner of the Billy Goat Tavern will get in the way.  I think the curse of the goat's over.  The Cubs are at or near the top of the league in most statistical categories. They have won more than 100 games their most since 1935.  They have so many good things positive things going for them.  That is Cheryl Raye-Stout a longtime baseball reporter and sports contributor from member station WBEZ. She says beyond talented stats the key to this team is Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon.  He is a different cat there is no doubt about it.  Maddon is quirky and unconventional. He will sometimes cancel batting practice or use a pitcher in the outfield so he can come back in later to pitch. He will have players dress up in costume zany suits or pajamas on a road trip. And he has T-shirts highlighting his managerial philosophy like try not to suck. Stout says Maddon talks about music and books as easily as he does baseball and he creates a hippie-like vibe in the clubhouse.  You know I am expecting to have the incense burning sometime when we go in there. Or you know maybe you know wearing your shades and things like that.  Maddon's positive nature keeps players loose. At the top of every lineup card he writes do not ever permit the pressure to exceed the pleasure. But even he cannot yet convince some skeptical fans like 77-year-old Ray Hefertepe who says younger fans who are quick to say this is the year have not been through all of his pain.  Well I you know being a fan for 70 years I am waiting for the roof to fall.  Hafertepe hopes the Cubs win it all. It is on his bucket list after all.  What happens if they win? It is all over 108 years. What do we got to look forward to? .  Season-ticket holder Ned Colleran is cautiously optimistic too but then convinces himself that just maybe the Cubs will go all the way. As for the curse?  You know what like the Red Sox had a curse too. They broke that curse. And I think we have the tools this year to get it done. And I seriously think this team is poised to do it.  You are not setting yourself up for disappointment?  I mean we have set ourself up for disappointment 108 years. So I mean why not us right now? Like why not now?  And after a century of futility that is hard to argue with. Or is it? David Schaper NPR News Chicago.   They are singing go Cubs go. Go Cubs go. Hey Chicago what do you say? The Cubs are going to win today. Go Cubs go. Go Cubs go. Hey Chicago what do you say? 