 Major League Baseball has a new substance abuse problem. No we are not talking about steroids that roiled the sport a few years back. It is not enhanced players this time. It is sticky baseballs. And unless you like watching batters strike out a bunch it is becoming a real issue. Joining us now to talk all about it via Skype is Stephanie Apstein who reported on this for Sports Illustrated. Welcome.  Thanks so much for having me.  Well thanks for being with us. So can you just explain how a stickier baseball makes a pitcher better?  Any time you change the way the baseball behaves it will behave differently. And so batters have watched hundreds of thousands sometimes millions of pitches over their career. And they have all behaved a certain way. If you see it at a certain point doing something it will likely end up in the place you expect it to end up. In this case baseball is ending up in a different place. So the more complicated answer is that it makes the ball spin faster which makes it move more. And that makes it much harder to hit.  OK. And the balls that you are describing in your reporting - I mean some of them have so much sticky stuff that you could see a pitcher's fingerprints on them. Sometimes you can hear the actual rip when the pitcher releases the ball. What is this sticky stuff exactly?  Yeah. People are telling me crazy stories about - you can touch your palm to a baseball and lift it just without gripping it. It is like so sticky.  It is like Velcro.  Exactly. There are a number of different kind of concoctions the players use. Some of them even brew their own. There is some that are sort of semi-legal. Everybody - they want - when the baseball comes out of the package it is very slick and so it is hard to get a grip. And so the league wants you to have some grip or else you might hit a batter in the head 'ecause you do not know where the baseball's going. So there is a little bit of a sticky substance behind the mound called rosin and they are allowed to use that. It starts - you know it is a slippery slope right? First they realize that if you use spray-on sunscreen - a lot of it - on your arms you can mix that with rosin and it gets even stickier.  Wow.  So that is a little bit stickier than what is allowed but it is not a huge deal. And then on the other end of that would be a substance called Spider Tack which is basically glue that is supposed to help iron men lift stones hold stones together.  Whoa.  And it is so - that stuff is so sticky that usually you cannot even - if you touch your fingers together when you have it on your hand your fingers get glued together.  Yeah.  You have to remove it with rubbing alcohol. It is crazy. It is really sticky stuff.  But the thing is pitchers have been doctoring balls almost as long as baseball itself right? Like how is this problem different now than say the spitball which I think has been around for - what? - more than a century?  Yeah. Well basically the whole history of baseball is pitchers trying to doctor the baseball. The reason it is different now is that they have technology. And so they set up this device called a TrackMan that tracks what the baseball is doing. And you can apply sunscreen and rosin and you can throw and you can look at the TrackMan and see how many times the baseball spun while it was on its way to the plate. And then you can apply something like Spider Tack the stickier stuff. And you can look at the TrackMan and you can see just how much of a difference that made. And so guys can be much more scientific and much more efficient in the way they are using it whereas in the past you would kind of apply something and guess. And you were not sure if it was helping. It was all based on the eye test. Now they can look at it and they have the data to tell them this is working.  Which leaves the question what is Major League Baseball going to do to stop the spread of ball doctoring?  They intend they say to start cracking down on this soon. They have been actually collecting baseballs from every pitcher all season and looking at them to see how sticky they are. They have decided it is quite a lot. And so they say that in the next couple of weeks they are going to start cracking down. They are going to empower umpires to go out there and say hey I think I see something under your hat. Get the hat out of here. And if you do it again we are going to eject not just the hat but also the player. Part of the problem right now is that usually they rely on the opposing manager to say hey could you go check that pitcher? But all the managers know that their players are doing it too.  Yeah.  So you do not really want to call out the other team because you know that they will come and get you next.  Stephanie Apstein from Sports Illustrated thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you so much for having me. 