 All right baseball fans - no peanuts no Cracker Jacks and possibly no baseball at all in 2020. The coronavirus has delayed the start of the season and now baseball players cannot agree with owners over pay. Even MLB's commissioner sounds worried. Rob Manfred was asked last night on ESPN if he is confident there even will be a season.   I am not confident. I think there is real risk. And as long as there is no dialogue that real risk is going to continue.  All right. Joining me now to talk about all this is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman. Hey Tom.  Hi Ailsa.  OK. So the commissioner was just talking there about dialogue between owners and players which was going on - right? - but then what happened?  Yeah that is right. They had been trading proposals on how many games to play in a pandemic-shortened season and how much money players should be paid. But Saturday players said they are done. They are through trading proposals. They are angry and they say owners just are trying to chip away and chip away and pay players less. So the players' union said to owners set a date and a place for the resumption of the season and they will be there.  Can Major League Baseball actually do that?  It can and it can do so without player approval. But it would be a very short regular season - around 50 games. Players do not like that. They want more games which translates to more money. Now owners worry that if they impose this very short season players will file a grievance that might force owners to pay up to a billion dollars in back pay to players. So Manfred in that ESPN interview last night sounded a very gloomy tone saying he no longer was 100 certain there would be a season which he had said publicly last week.  And what did the players' union say in response to that?  It said its players are disgusted by what Manfred said that he has quote gone back on his word and is threatening to cancel the season. So the situation as you can tell appears dire. And player-owner relations are as bad as they have been since 1994 when the World Series was canceled because of labor strife.  Well I mean all of this is happening in the middle of a pandemic in the middle of huge nationwide unemployment also in the middle of social upheaval and protests against police brutality and racial inequality. Are baseball players at all worried that this may not be a good look for them right now to be arguing about money?  They certainly are. And you know there is also the fact that golf the WNBA the NBA women's and men's pro hockey - pro soccer hockey - they are either back or firming up plans to return to play. And yes the players know this is not a good look. One example Toronto Blue Jays infielder Travis Shaw tweeted MLB should be embarrassed. I am embarrassed. This is a joke. And Rob Manfred knows it. In the ESPN interview he said it is a disaster for the game and it should not be happening.  So what do you think? I mean do you think the two sides can get past their differences and get the game back on the field at some point this year?  People with a lot more knowledge than me say yes they can get past their differences. But they have to talk. They have to be able to compromise. One of the key sticking points about pay - players understand they are not going to make as much money in a shorter season. Their salaries will be prorated based on how many games are played. Players are adamant about getting 100 of the prorated salaries. Owners have proposed lower percentages because they say fans will not be at the games at least at first and that is a big loss in revenue. So the owners might have to give on the players' 100 demand. Athletes might have to agree to fewer games. Other compromise needed as well - and oh yeah they have to agree on health and safety protocols too. And they have got to get all this done real soon.  All right. That is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome.  