 In less than two months the International Olympic Committee will select a city to host the Summer Olympic Games in 2016. Chicago is one of four finalists. And while the Americans try to convince the IOC to bring the games back to the U.S. in Chicago organizers of the city's bid have been out in neighborhoods trying to drum up support from locals. NPR's Cheryl Corley listened in.  The 49th ward on Chicago's far North Side will not be a site for any of Chicago's planned Olympic venues. But on this day the neighborhood library is packed with residents who have come to hear more about the city's plan to host the Olympic and Paralympic Games of the 2016. Ms.  You all know we' Madrid Rio de Janeiro Brazil and Tokyo.  That is Lori Healey the president of Chicago's 2016 Committee. For the past month she and other officials have conducted an Olympics tour road show answering questions and presenting details about the city's Olympics plan. Much of the talk centers around the economic benefits Chicago can expect if it wins the Olympic Games. Ms.  Other cities that have hosted the games have seen sevenfold increases in international tourism.  As an example Healey points to Atlanta the last city in the U.S. to host the Summer Olympic Games in 1996. The presentation includes a clip from current Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin who says the games increased Atlanta's international visibility and  It increased employment. People got education. Educational institutions got stronger. And people got jobs and they expanded their businesses. There is no lose.  And then of course there is the clip from the supporter who is probably Chicago' President Barack Obama.  Bringing the Olympics to Chicago will be a capstone of the success that we have had over the last couple of decades in transforming Chicago to become not just a great American city but a great world city.   Here' the governments of Madrid Rio De Janeiro and Tokyo have promised to back billions of dollars in Olympic cost. Chicago and the state of Illinois have offered contingency guarantees of less than a billion. The 2016 Committee says the city's bid will be covered by private funds and is a no-risk opportunity. Even so there is been strong opposition from critics who say taxpayers could end up being liable. Mr.  I am Seth Mayer. I am from Rogers Park. First of all I do not really find the Atlanta mayor's comments particularly convincing because you would expect that someone who decides to get the Olympics would say it was a good idea. I would be more curious what community members had to say after the fact.  Another resident Mike Faymus told 2016 member Arnold Randall that instead of focusing on the Olympics the city should be paying attention to other issues like improving Chicago's public transit system. Mr.  I think a lot of the objection is the money's being whisked away from what we feel like should be in our city. Mr.  Well it is important to note this is - the money we are spending is not public money. It is Mr.  We do not believe that. Mr.  Okay. Well we can show you.   That is not to say there are not supporters of the games in Chicago. There are plenty. And public support is an important factor in the International Committee's decision-making process. Ed Hula editor of AroundTheRings.com - a Web site that covers the Olympic Games says that is why Chicago's community meeting strategy to drum up support is both an unusual and risky step since the IOC wants the Olympics to be held in communities where they are welcome. Mr.  You never know what kind of opposition to the bid might develop from this. But at the same time you are building public confidence. If you answer the questions in the right way do not try to confuse and bamboozle people I think they will generally go along with the plans.  Exactly what Chicago's 2016 Committee is hoping. The committee will wrap up its Olympic bid community meetings at the end of the month. Cheryl Corley NPR News Chicago. 