 And now for what we suspect was the greatest moment in the history of sports for Iceland. Iceland is the smallest nation ever to play in the European soccer championships and yesterday in Euro 2016 in a shocking 2-1 win Iceland beat and eliminated England home to the world's richest soccer league. Earlier I spoke with Kristinn Kjrnested president of KR Reykjavik. That is a football club in Iceland. And I asked him how exciting this is historic win was for him. KRISTINN KJ Well it was massive. You did not see anyone on the streets nobody around except at pubs or bars or watching the game at home. So it was a huge achievement by a great group of players.  Did you think they had a prayer of getting this far in the tournament? KJ No. I have to be honest. I think that nobody expected it.  We have some sound of Icelandic fans in France and their Viking chant.   Boy you are a scary lot. KJ Yeah and singing you know - from one and half hour they all just started singing you know inside the stadium before the players go out to warm up and they do not stop until maybe 45 minutes after the final whistle. It felt up there we were the only one at the stadium.  But you know I had to wonder listening to an Icelandic player after the game talking about how the English are good at leaving Europe - that is what they did you know in the soccer game too - I was wondering is there some hostility left over from 2008 from the great terrible banking collapse? Is there some resentment toward England that we are hearing in this? KJ  We obviously you know - we are not happy when Gordon Brown who was the prime minister of U.K. you know put us on a terrorist list. We could not believe it but that was the case. And now you know we beat them so there is a lot of happy people here in Iceland now.  Little bit of payback there. Iceland advances to play France on Sunday. Do you think they can keep this momentum up? KJ I have got to be honest. I think that they are much better team than the English ones and it is going to be a very difficult game.  Kristinn Kjrnested president of the Icelandic football club KR Reykjavik thanks for speaking with us. KJ Thank you very much Robert. 