 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. The country's obsession with professional football resumes tonight. Defending Super Bowl champs the Baltimore Ravens are in Denver to play the Broncos in the NFL's season opener. It is a match-up of two great teams a drama fraught with revenge and insult. As NPR's Tom Goldman reports tonight's storyline should carry fans away from the sport's ongoing concussion controversy though not too far.  The thin air in Denver is thick with revenge. It was eight months ago - it seems like yesterday - that the Ravens and Broncos played a memorable playoff game in Denver. It featured a late game-tying touchdown pass by Baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco that left an unidentified fan videoing the moment wailing for Broncos nation.  No no. Are you  kidding me?  Baltimore won 38-35 in double overtime. For Flacco it was part of his postseason coming out party that earned him a whopping 120 million contract that he is had to defend in interviews like this one on ESPN.  I feel like I am worth what I am worth. And I feel like I am the same guy whether we won it or whether we did not.  Flacco still cannot catch a break. Denver fans have been angry about the big Joe Flacco banner the NFL put up at the Broncos stadium before tonight's game right next to the banner of Denver's beloved quarterback Peyton Manning the Peyton Manning who is supposed to take the Broncos to this season's Super Bowl. As defending Super Bowl champs the Ravens should be bathing in the love of a season-opening home game. But they are in Denver due to a scheduling conflict with baseball's Baltimore Orioles. Still the NFL made an appearance in Baltimore yesterday as Commissioner Roger Goodell continued his campaign to make health and safety a priority in the dangerous violent sport of pro football. A week after settling a massive concussion lawsuit with former players Goodell was on hand for an event titled Head Health Challenge II. It is a callout to researchers and a promise of up to 10 million to submit innovative ideas on how to protect the brain in sport. Meanwhile the new NFL season begins with the latest concussion-related rule change. The so-called crown of the helmet rule essentially prohibits players beyond the line of scrimmage from lowering their heads and using their helmets as a weapon. DR.  It is going to be an interesting rule. I am concerned a little bit that there is too much subjectivity to this.  Kevin Guskiewicz is a concussion researcher at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill.  How do you know a player's not sort of recoiling as I call it to sort of help protect themselves from either fumbling or from injuring themselves as they are about to be hit?  Guskiewicz thinks it will be an interesting first half of the season to see how game officials call the new rule. Football fans everywhere from fantasy players to face-painters in the stands think it will be an interesting first half of the season simply because it is the first half of the season finally. Tom Goldman NPR news. 