 When John McKissick first started coaching football Harry Truman was president. Well after 63 years as head football coach at Summerville High School in South Carolina John McKissick has decided to retire. Sixty-three years - in that time he won 621 games - that is more than any high school football coach ever - and 10 state championships. Here's what coach McKissick said when he announced his retirement yesterday.   What did the old Satchel Paige say? He said how old would you be if you did not know how old you were? Well if I did not know how old I was I would probably be in the 40s but I know I am approaching 89 pretty soon yet.  And Coach McKissick joins us now from his office at Summerville High School. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  And you feel like a young man at heart still?  Yeah I still feel good. I have been out in the sun so much. I got a little skin cancer popping up every now and then but the insides to be holding up pretty good.   Was this a hard decision to come to Coach?  Yes it was real hard and it is emotional. And when you have been getting up every morning and coming to a place that you enjoy coming to - and well as I can remember now - I think I am telling the truth - I have never gotten up one morning in my life and dreaded going to work.  How many players do you figure you have coached in all that time?  My wife has kept a record of every year that I have coached. She is got big scrapbooks - every year.  Oh yeah?  And I think maybe about 5500.  No kidding.  That is a lot.  That is a whole lot . And some of them have gone on to great things in football I think right?  Yeah they have had great things in football. Some of them are great community workers doctors lawyers. I got a lot of them I am proud of.  What is your style been as coach?  Be fair. Treat all the kids the same whether they are super athlete or whether they got on the team just not a good athlete. Be truthful to the parents when they ask you why are not you doing this? Or why is not my son doing that? Let them know that you might make a mistake but the cream generally comes to the top and it will work itself .  I would think it is going to be a hard thing for you Coach McKissick when it comes to a fall Friday night and you know you are not going to be there on the sidelines during a game.  Well I guess I will be sitting in the stands somewhere by myself getting away 'ecause I do not want to interfere with anything.  You will still be going to the games.   But I will still go to the games.  Would you be tempted to get down there and start coaching again?  No I will not criticize. Athletics is just like life. It is a blame game. And if they would throw pass and it is complete boy that was a nice play that the coach just took care of. And then you throw the pass and it is intercepted and - why the devil did he throw that pass?  .  So I am going to stay away from all that stuff.  Well have you given much thought to what you will fill your time with now that you are retired?  Not really. I made a deal with my wife. I will be 89 in September and she is 84. And I told her - I said I am going to give you a week and I am going to take a week and we are going to alternate weeks. The first week if you want it you got the last word. The next week I got the last word and that way we will not have a fuss.   And you will see how that works out?  Yeah that ought to work out.  How does she feel about that?  She laughs . I do not know whether she cannot have the last word .  Well Coach McKissick thanks for talking with us and all of the best in your retirement. Appreciate it.  Thank you and it was nice talking to you.  That is John McKissick. He is announced he is retiring as football coach of Summerville High School in South Carolina after 63 years. 