 Timing is everything. Baseball fans know from the swing of a bat to the catch of a ball each second each centimeter matter.  Well timing was key for some Red Sox fans this week driving down the road in Massachusetts. We are going to let Louie Iacuzzi and his friend James Amaral pick it up from here.  We have our coffee. We are on - we are driving on McGrath Highway in Somerville. And I noticed a couple cars swinging like moving to the right. And we seen something in the street.  What they saw as they told The Boston Globe was a banner proclaiming the Red Sox the 2018 American League East champs.  First thing I said - this belongs to the Red Sox.  Yeah.  This is for Fenway Park.  Yeah.  Like how do we have this? Like nobody made this. This belongs to the park. I am thinking that they are hanging it off the Green Monster.  The Green Monster is the beloved wall that towers over left field in Fenway Park. So before we tell you what happened to the banner we need to point out that while the Red Sox are very close to becoming the American League East champs they have not actually won the title yet.  Not yet. Nevertheless the pair of friends knew they had a gem on their hands and they saw an opportunity.  We want to give it back to them because it belongs to them.  Yeah.  And it does not belong to us. But in reciprocation we would like you know maybe to go...  Yeah.  ...To a nice playoff game or...  Yes.  We were looking for something. We just do not want to hand it over.  Because hey when you think about it retrieving a giant banner from the middle of a highway is not that easy.  Right no no.  I mean handing it off...  We need to negotiate here.  Yeah.  We want - we are looking for like you know...  We are working too.  Yeah.  I mean my man had to run across three lanes of traffic.  Well in the end they did hand it over. But it seems they have not been promised tickets to the playoffs. And speaking of making it to the playoffs yes the Red Sox will be there. But they cannot wave the flag yet. Tonight could be the night.  Left-hander Eduardo Rodriguez will face the Yankees' Masahiro Tanaka when the Red Sox play in the Bronx. If the Sox win they will be champs as that banner proclaims.  Either way Yankees fans have other ideas about where the Red Sox can stick that banner. 