 We are indebted to the New York Times sports section for news of a 25th anniversary that we mark today. Something happened during a women's tennis match in Richmond Virginia on September 24 1984 or to be more evocative something happened and happened some more and kept happening and happening. Vicki Nelson-Dunbar and Jean Hepner were playing tennis. It was set point for Hepner deep into a tiebreaker and then it began. The next point took 29 minutes a rally that entailed 643 shots the longest rally in the history of professional tennis and probably in the history of any kind of competitive tennis. Vicki Nelson-Dunbar joins us from Medina Ohio. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Hello.  And how could the two of you go on for so long hitting the tennis ball? Ms.  Well my coach had told me at the time because I had played her previously that I just had to be steadier and more patient than her because I knew she lobbed a lot. So I thought I was going to stay out there forever and I figured I would be more patient than her.  It sounds like she was pretty patient too. Ms.  Yeah yes obviously. Yes she is very patient.  Well once you would you know once you were a couple of hundred shots into this what were you thinking? Ms.  I really was not thinking anything. I was just you know trying to get the ball back again kept thinking you know she cannot keep hitting it back. But obviously I just did not want to give in. I guess I was too stubborn. I do not know.  I read that there were - obviously there were a lot of lobs. So you were not running back and forth around the court for Ms.  Oh no there were tons of lobs.  Lots of lobs. Ms.  Yes.  The New York Times story also said that a local Virginia sportswriter for some reason started keeping count. That is how we know how many strokes there were in this point. But normally is there somebody who is counting the shots in every rally in a tennis match? Ms.  Oh no normally I do not think that happens. I think he just was sitting there and probably was curious that I think most points were going very long. There might have been others that were longer but  Really? Ms.  There were a lot of them. It was six and a half hours for two sets.  The whole match took six and a half hours. Ms.  Yeah and it was only two sets. So there had to have been a lot of points that were pretty long and I have no idea if they were longer or not.  So for all you know you might have played the longest rally in the history of tennis and also the second or the third longest rally you know. Ms.  Right.  It could be a clean sweep for all we know.  Ms.  Right.  Now I read in the Times the New York Times story about this that you called up your then-boyfriend now-husband and told him this was the worst day of your life. Ms.  Yes I did.  Why? You would won the match. Ms.  Well because I was out there forever and it seemed ridiculous afterwards. I did not realize it was that long six and a half hours. But it just seemed ridiculous that I had to go through all that to win a tennis match.  And you were exhausted. Ms.  Yes I was. I was very tired.  Did people at the tournament did they remain in their seats and watch it? Ms.  Oh no they basically left.   They could have gone for lunch and come back. Ms.  Yeah. There were not very many people left.  And after all of this what did you tell your coach who had urged you to show great patience in playing this match? Ms.  Oh that I would never do that again. It was not worth it.   I have read that you have three kids and they play tennis. Have you told them the story of your incredibly long point back in 1984? Ms.  Yes because they have the Guinness Book and they always take it in for show and tell like when they were in kindergarten. And so they have always taken it different times for school to show the teacher or something. So they know it is there because we have the Guinness book here.   And you have verified it to them that indeed it is true. Ms.  Yes I was not making it up.  Well Vicki Nelson-Dunbar thank you very much for remembering that match I gather not the most pleasant memory of your tennis career some 25 years ago today. Ms.  Thank you.  Twenty-five years ago today Vicki Nelson-Dunbar played Jean Hepner in a tennis rally that lasted 29 minute and took 643 shots.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 