 If you like sports you might have seen those world champion boxers heading to the arenas in their Bentleys bragging about their millions in prize money and the size of their pay-per-view audiences. But there is another world champion we want to tell you about who does not like to brag still drives a school bus and is a grandmother of five. Cathy Merrill is a world champion arm wrestler. She is gunning for another world title next month in Turkey. And she is with us now from Newport N.H. Cathy Merrill thanks so much for joining us.  Oh you are welcome. Thank you for reaching out. It is great to be able to talk to you.  Do I have this right that you actually got started on a dare for some French fries?  Yes it was. It just - it happened at a small 4-H fair in Cornish N.H. and friend of mine and I were walking around. And he said oh come on. Let us go do the arm wrestling. And I said I do not know if I really want to. And he said well tell you what. I will pay the entry fee. And if you win I will buy you some fries. Well you are not going to say no to that. So - and that is how this whole thing got started. And I beat the Vermont state champion and she was not exactly happy about it. It was like dead silence when I - you know? I just - I beat her and nobody said anything. And I said did I do something wrong? And Mike  the guy that was reffing who is now my coach tapped me on the shoulder and said Cathy Merrill - winner.  So you got the bug basically.  I did get the bug yes...  Yeah? How come? What do you like about it?  You do not have to be in any shape. You do not have to be of any specific size. You do not have to be - you know everything is revolving around fitness these days which is good. And I am not taking anything against that. But some of us have a hard time with the weight factor and keeping fit and doing you know everything. And some of us just do not have that metabolism. So for me it was - and what I also liked about it was that it is a family sport. We have got little kids in our group that are 4 years old that go to meets that have - the pulling  for kids. And the whole family can do it.  You are a celeb - right? - in town right? And people...  Well yeah. They say I am. I do not feel that I am but they say that I am .  Well your kids are grown right? So they are too old to be embarrassed by your antics right? Doing whatever you know . Yeah...  Oh yeah - no. I have - my daughter's 32 and I have twin boys that are 27 so...  And what about the grands? Do they - are they excited about it?  Oh yeah. My daughter's oldest Kayla . And she - I just saw this morning in fact. And she says Gammy  when do you leave to go to worlds? And I said October 11. OK. I want you to bring me back an orange dress to match one that my mother has and I need more gold medals.  Oh OK. Well yes. Of course. Absolutely.  So that was kind of very matter-factly  from the 8-year-old .  To that point just a couple of weeks from now you are going to Turkey to compete again to defend your title...  Yup.  ...Right? And what are you doing to get ready?  Other than practicing with the guys I do not do a bunch of weightlifting - but I just my normal everyday stuff - throwing hay cleaning horses out lugging wood stuff like that. It keeps me mobile. And I get enough exercise and work that I do not really - I do not know. Maybe the gym might benefit me a little bit more if I went to the gym. But I work - the stuff that I do I work muscles that you do not get worked in the gym.  That was Cathy Merrill. She is a world champion arm wrestler and she was with us from Newport N.H. Cathy Merrill thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you.  