 Brazil and the World Cup now and the final match up is set. Argentina will face Germany for the title on Sunday having defeated the Netherlands today on penalty kicks 4-2. The Germans absolutely dismantled Brazil yesterday and the reverberations of that game are still rattling around Brazil and the world. NPR's Tom Goldman is no doubt feeling them where he is in Rio de Janeiro. And Tom let us start with today's game. No goals after 120 minutes so penalty kicks and Argentina came out on top. Describe the action for us.  Yeah. First ever World Cup semifinal game Robert to end up scoreless through extra time not a lot of shots on goal it was a defensive struggle. The starters for both teams were pretty much bottled up - Lionel Messi for Argentina Arjen Robben and Robin van Persie for the Netherlands. And in the shootout after extra time Argentina's goalkeeper Sergio Romero was the hero. He saved two penalty kicks and helped Argentina win 4-2 on penalty kicks. And there will be those who say as always that it is unfortunate to have this critical hard-fought game come down to penalty kicks but them's the rules.  It beats a coin toss for example. So the finals will feature Argentina and Germany. How do those two teams match up?  Well this is a replay of 1990 if you can remember back that far when Argentina played - it was West Germany then - and West Germany with Jurgen Klinsmann the current U.S. coach as a player then. Of course you know today in 2014 Germany is coming off the unbelievable showing against Brazil the 7-1 massacre. The Germans have evolved over the course of this World Cup into the best team in the field on offense and defense. They can play the meticulous ball possession game they are famous for. And as they showed yesterday they can play the all-out counterattacking team on offense as well. They are always good on defense. So Germany definitely has to be favored. Argentina has Messi the man who is trying to add a World Cup trophy to his already sizable trophy case with Barcelona. But - and the Germans will obviously be keying on him. But yeah we have got to give the nod to Germany going in.  Brazil of course has one more game on Saturday. That is for third place and they will play today's loser the Netherlands. Can that game and being in that game do anything to make Brazilians feel any better?  Yeah you know third place is not really the thing you want to be playing for especially when you wanted to win this thing on your home soil. It potentially could heal some of the hurt in the short term with a win over the Netherlands. And you know it is going to be a tough match up for Brazil. The Netherlands is an extremely talented team. And the Dutch have shown they can score in bushels not the kind of thing Brazil wants to hear after the Germany debacle. But if Brazil can pull itself together and it will have Tiago Silva back to help on defense there is the opportunity to end the World Cup on more of an up-note. Regardless of what happens Saturday though Robert the Germany loss is a once in a generation thing. Kids in this country today will be remembering last night when they are adults.  OK. Thanks Tom. That is NPR's Tom Goldman speaking to us from Rio de Janeiro. 