 You can count me among the many millions who cannot wait for the Women's World Cup to get underway this weekend. Over the next month 24 national teams will be playing in six cities across Canada. Japan is the defending champion. The U.S. women will be trying to end a long drought. They have not won the World Cup since 1999 and they won that championship in large part thanks to goalie Briana Scurry. She is retired now from soccer and joins me here in the studio to talk about what is in store for this World Cup. Welcome. Thanks for coming in.  Thanks for having me I appreciate it.  And let us start with the U.S. team. You have been watching them play in friendlies leading up to the World Cup. How do they look to you? What are the strengths what are the weaknesses?  The U.S. team looks incredible strong. One of the reasons is because they have a great mixture of players who have incredible experience like Abby Wambach Christie Rampone Shannon Boxx and then some young players that are coming into the team that are really making a difference like Sydney Leroux and Alex Morgan. And so it is very encouraging to see this great team coming in. They did not have the greatest result on their friendly game that they played last week against South Korea but I am not really concerned about that because I know that there is different things that go on with a lead-up game that may not be a factor for the actual finals.  What other teams - what other countries are you looking at that look like really strong threats to you?  I feel honestly five teams have a very good chance of winning. The USA of course is always a favorite. You have Germany who won in 2007 did not do that well in 2011. They have a score to settle. France is looking very good as well. They are not a team that the U.S. is playing until later in the round. And Japan who is the defending champion they are always a contender. And one dark horse that I do want people to pay notice to is Canada. They are having the World Cup in their home country. There is a intangible element to being the home team that can lift them up and maybe help them rise further in the tournament than you think they would go otherwise.  This World Cup is opening of course in the shadow of the FIFA scandals - the corruption scandals the arrests the announced resignation of FIFA's president Sepp Blatter. What is your take on FIFA and what is going on there?  Last Wednesday when I heard the allegations the one thing that made the biggest impact on me was oh no look at these horrible allegations that are coming out 10 days before the Women's World Cup begins. As a soccer player as somebody who loves the game I wanted the focus to be on the 24 teams especially the USA. That was my initial feeling. And now that this has ruled-out a little bit now I feel like you know what? It is better that FIFA gets this handled and that this gets taken care of and that we get the bad elements that were clearly in FIFA out of FIFA so that we can really do a transformation.  I want to take you back Briana to the 1999 World Cup final against China. It was a scoreless game so it went to a shootout - to penalty kicks to determine the winner. You are in goal for the United States. China and the U.S. both score on their first two shots and then - let us listen to what happened next.   Ying will go next the first starter for China to take a penalty kick   The shot. Save - Scurry.    Briana you just did a fist pump in the studio. You are still re-living that moment 16 years later...  It never gets old. It never gets old.  ...When you made that save.  It is awesome. It is awesome. I still - I mean hearing that for me it just brought me right back there which is really cool.  After you make that save you are ferocious on the field. You are pumping your fist and I do not know what you are saying. Are you saying yes or...  Yes that is exactly what I was saying.  Shouting.  Yes. For me in focusing for huge moments like that I consider myself someone who is like a coil. So I was coiled-up ready to spring for every penalty kick and so I was a coil. And then once I sprung to make that save all the emotion all the training all the years of waiting to be able to have this moment and planning for it in my mind and doing the mental work it takes for the mentality of it in that moment I was living what I had envisioned for so long. And so emotions were just flowing out of me and that is what you saw.  Briana Scurry thanks so much for coming in.  Thank you for having me appreciate it.  And enjoy the World Cup.  I will. You too.  Briana Scurry goalie for the world champion 1999 U.S. Women's National Soccer Team also a two- time Olympic gold medalist. 