 Joining me now is Alan Milstein. He is a lawyer who is been following this story closely. He is actually litigated in front of Judge Berman in another case against the NFL. Welcome to the program.  My pleasure.  The National Football League intends to appeal Judge Berman's decision to the Second Circuit. Do you think the league has a chance of overturning today's result?  No I do not think they have any chance whatsoever. The judge was very careful to write what we call a bulletproof opinion. I mean he could have decided that Goodell was a partial arbitrator which would have given the NFL a good chance to appeal. But instead he just held that - the hearing that was held was fundamentally unfair because Brady was not allowed to call the witness that he needed to call and did not have access to the important documents.  Yeah who by the way was the witness that Brady was not allowed to call?  Jeff Pash who is the person who edited down the supposed independent investigation report.  Now you have said on the record before today that Brady would win the four-game suspension would be vacated by the judge. Why were you so confident of that?  Well for one Goodell does not have a very good record in having his arbitrations upheld. And two it just seemed that this was an arbitration that just was not fair that the findings did not comport to the evidence and that certainly the penalty did not comport to what the findings were.  Does this result weaken Goodell as commissioner so much so that other players might see they have a better chance of circumventing punishments by taking their cases to court?  That is certainly possible but really what happened here is that the NFL was told if you are going to have these kinds of arbitrations then hold them in a fair manner. So if in the future the NFL does just that players may not be able to so easily overturn those awards.  Judge also said that even if Tom Brady had had general knowledge of other people who were deflating the football even if that knowledge came from phone calls or texts on a phone that he then destroyed none of that would have nailed him none of that would have justified the punishment that he received. Is that how you read it?  I do not read it quite like that. I mean when a judge looks at an arbitration decision he or she is not supposed to essentially substitute his conclusion as to the facts for that of the arbitrator. So the judge more or less accepted the factual findings of the arbitrator who in this case was Roger Goodell but he said those facts were based on an arbitration that was fundamentally unfair so I am going to vacate the award. And you know it is an important decision well beyond a few deflated footballs. You know all of us have signed contracts probably once we did not even read that has arbitration clauses in them. And really what this decision says is even if you have to submit to an arbitration as opposed to going to court you are entitled to a fair hearing.  Mr. Milstein thanks for talking with us today.  My pleasure.  That is lawyer Alan Milstein a litigator who spoke to us from Mount Holly N.J. 