 Now we are going to check in with the bruised and battered fan bases of Atlanta and Boston. Joining me with a New England perspective it is Howard Bryant of espn.com. Howard welcome.  How are you Melissa?  OK. And also on the line is Mark Bradley a sports columnist with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Mark welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  All right. I am going to set you two up for this. Which team do you think had the most epic collapse last night?  I think the Braves probably are very grateful for the Boston Red Sox today because if you are going to concoct the second biggest collapse in the history of September it is always nice to do it on the night that somebody else concocts the biggest...   ...September collapse in the history of baseball.  This is the misery-loves-company theory I guess.  This would be the company deflects misery. I was driving home from the Braves game very late last night and I was listening to the XM baseball channel. And it was 25 minutes before they mentioned the Braves so I think the Braves will thank them.   Howard Bryant what do think? Does it also take the sting out for Red Sox fans a bit to know that well Atlanta had a terrible end of the season too?  And the reason why I say it is the biggest collapse I have ever seen is because normally when a team comes back the challenger plays great baseball. And the St. Louis Cardinals played really good baseball. They went down the stretch. They won games they had to win. But the Tampa Bay Rays really were not very good. It was a singular self-imposed collapse by the Boston Red Sox. They just gave it away. And at 170 million on payroll as well this was a colossal well-deserved collapse.  Well speaking as an Atlantan I have to say that hearing the New England perspective on this has done wonders for my mindset.   You know I really do think that you know what the Braves did was not so horrible after all.  And at 170 million the expectations are very different that this team was built for one thing.  Oh yeah. The Braves' payroll is only half that so they got really good value for their fall.   So you only need to feel half as bad Mark.  Yeah. That is true. I think that the Braves can look in the mirror and feel only half as terrible about themselves tomorrow.  Well Mark Bradley what happened to the Braves? How do you explain it?  And I ducked into a room and I saw Frank Wren the Braves' general manager watching TV. And he was watching the Braves win just as the Red Sox had lost. And he said you know Boston and our team we were two of the four best teams coming into the month. And now neither one of them is going to October.  How does that leave a fan base do you think? Mark Bradley are they just numb - that they thought this was in the bag and then it is just yanked out from under them?  Well we in Atlanta - usually these things happen in the month of October. This just happened a month earlier.   The Braves have had a long history. This is - this would have been the 16th time they have been to the postseason since 1991. And they would only won the World Series one of those years. So we have gotten a little bit jaded here as to the failings of this team. But this one was pretty remarkable in that they came from so far ahead to have it end on the - in the 13th inning of the 162nd game.  The Boston Red Sox were built this year to win a championship - nothing else. They have a 170 million payroll second only to the Yankees. And for them to go in September and lose 20 games and to blow a nine-game lead and not even make the playoffs at all is one of the greatest most significant collapses in baseball history.  Mark make you feel any better?  I am Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm.   Well gentlemen it is been great to talk to you. Thank you and appreciate it.  Yes Melissa.  Thank you.  We heard from Mark Bradley a sports columnist for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution and Howard Bryant of espn.com. He also talks sports on WEEKEND EDITION SATURDAY. 