 U.S. Olympians including gymnast Simone Biles and Serena and Venus Williams are the latest victims of Russian hackers. A group calling itself Fancy Bear broke into the computer systems of the World Anti-Doping Agency. Then they published several American athlete's confidential medical data including drug test results and documents showing which banned drugs they had been cleared to take for medical reasons. And the group says this is just the first batch of records it will publish. For more on this we have Christie Aschwanden. She is the lead science writer for the news website FiveThirtyEight. Hi there.  Hi nice to be here.  So on their website these hackers accuse the U.S. Olympic team of using quote dirty methods to win. In the case of Simone Biles for example the documents show she tested positive for a banned substance while she was in Rio. But they also show that she had something called a therapeutic use exemption. What is that?  Yeah so a therapeutic use exemption or TUE is basically a note from your doctor saying that the athlete is taking the drug for legitimate medical reasons and not to enhance performance. So it is really you know a document saying that it is medically necessary.  How rigorous is the process for getting approval to take a prohibited substance?  Well you know it sort of varies. I think as we have seen in the recent doping scandals different national anti-doping agencies handled things differently. But basically the doctor has to fill out some paperwork submit it to the anti-doping agency. And so it is really up to the doctor's discretion I would say to make the decision of whether medical necessity is met here.  From your reporting do you have a sense that there is overuse or abuse of the system?  Well you know it is really hard to say because we do not know how many TUEs there are out there. Back in May I examined some data that WADA had released from 2014. They released all the testing results from that year. And what I found there was that only about 1 percent of all the tests that were done came up positive. And of those positive tests about 10 percent of the athletes had these TUEs. So that means that about 10 percent of people that are testing positive have this sort of note from their doctor but what we do not know is how many people have these notes who you know are not being tested positive.  Right. In response to this hack Simone Biles wrote on Twitter that she has ADHD and that she is taken medicine for it since she was a kid. I mean athletes hand over a lot of medical information to the anti-doping agency. Have there been concerns about hacks or leaks before this?  Absolutely and this has actually been a concern among a lot of athletes. If you are participating in the anti-doping program you know if you are an Olympic athlete or in some professional sports as well - they take part - you basically have to enter into a database your whereabouts at all times your contact information. You know in these cases the TUEs you know - if you are taking a drug that that is banned there have been cases you know of people taking drugs that they - might be embarrassing to them might not want to be you know let out. So yeah this has been a concern among athletes that it is really you know - they are giving up a lot of privacy in this attempt to you know support clean sport.  Many Russian athletes of course were banned from the Olympics for doping. Does that have anything to do with this hack?  Potentially. You know there is - there is sort of the question of you know what was the motive here? And we do not know that. We really do not.  Right.  You know there was some sort of alluding to this idea that the anti-doping rules are not applied universally. I think that that is something that really did come out of these doping scandals that we have had over the last year. So perhaps they are trying to bring attention to that. Although in this case with the TUEs I do not think that what we are seeing you know - what the hackers have released so far is really not showing that. You know I was talking to my colleague T.J. Quinn at ESPN and you know we have been looking over these releases. And really what you are seeing with the Williams sisters is that everything seems to be on the up and up. These were drugs that had legitimate purposes. They were used in timing that you know would be legitimate.  OK. That is Christie Aschwanden. She writes about sports and science for FiveThirtyEight and other publications. Thank you. 