 From NPR News this is All Things Considered. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel.   Chants of O-V for Ocean View last night as Southern California welcomed home its newest celebrities. The young men of Ocean View Little League were greeted with cheers and the pops of flashbulbs in their hometown of Huntington Beach. Ocean View defeated Japan on Sunday to win the Little League World Series and NPR's Amy Walters was there for the celebration.  They literally rolled out the red carpet in the parking lot of Ocean View's home field.   Friends former teammates and more than 100 fans called out to second baseman Justin Cianca. The team was greeted with flower leis and a swarm of television cameras. When an exhausted Cianca finally made it to the microphone the crowd had one more reason to celebrate.   The best birthday ever.  Complete with fireworks.   After the ceremony the players entertained questions from the press while signing baseball hats and even shoes. Eric Anderson signed his share and for good reason - he scored the team's winning run. It was the sixth and final inning 1-1 and the bases were loaded. Nick Pratto was at bat and the speedy Anderson ran on field to replace the runner on third.  I was not really thinking. I just like okay gotta score here. Just go.   It is over. California wins it. And Huntington Beach California captures the Little League World Series championship.  ESPN announcers had the call. What did it feel like to cross home plate?  I just thinking we won this game. Like we won the Little World Series. Dream come true.  Nick Pratto who hit the ball that brought Anderson home is still on the East Coast playing more baseball. He was missed last night especially by these young ladies. You guys have crushes on any of them?   Yes. Nick Pratto.  You should  him if you can. Yeah  Taylor love you. Yeah.  Got that Nick? Pitcher Braydon Salzman is getting plenty of love as well. He struggled to count the number of girls who wanted to get his picture.  It is hard. It is hard to say. Like 50 probably.  Did that used to happen last week?  Yeah actually yeah.  Did that used to happen last month?  I do not think so.  Amy Walters NPR News. 