 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michel Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. National Football League training camps are opening around the country this week. Our own Stefan Fatsis played in one of them a few years back and he is with us to discuss what is happening as preparations begin for the 2010 NFL season. Hi Stefan.  Hey Robert.  And let us start with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell who is making the rounds of training camps. Yesterday I gather he was in Green Bay Wisconsin.  He was. He attended the shareholders meeting of the Green Bay Packers -the Packers of course the rare community-owned team in professional sports. And this was a favorable audience. The shareholders are fans and fans are loyal. They like Roger Goodell. The league  and Goodell used it as an opportunity to take the Packers as an example of what we are going to be hearing a lot about in the next year  labor negotiations. The message is that the NFL is in rocky financial shape needs radical changes to its agreement with the players its labor agreement. Because it is publicly owned the Green Bay team releases its financials and what they showed for the past year - declining operating profit rising player costs which are not necessarily surprising because of the way teams do accounting in the NFL. And the team did still show a net profit but these player-cost issues are going to be a big part of the NFL strategy as they press for significant reductions in how much overall league revenue goes to the players.  Now one big issue that the owners want is to add games to the regular season and they do that by shortening the exhibition season. What do the players say about that?  Players do not like this idea. The NFL wants to add two regular season games and swap it out for two preseason games. The owners are calling this an enhanced schedule which it would be for the fans because almost everyone I have ever talked to in the NFL thinks that four preseason games which is what they play now is too many. Training camp used to be about getting into shape scraping off the rust from the off-season. Now it is about getting into football shape readjusting to the sharp movements and the hitting of real games. But you do not need four games to do that. The starting players the guys that we watch and follow do not play in much in the preseason anyway. The issue for the players becomes increased injuries and increased risk in the regular season when the best players play. They would be trading that for a boost in their prorated pay. But the players right now are not willing to make that trade.  Stefan during the off-season there was much attention paid to concussions and their long-term effects on football players. Has the league responded to that in training camp this year?  It has. This week it was announced the league is going to be putting up a poster in all NFL training facilities. And it uses absolutely stark language for the first time to really bring home the message to players of the risks to their brains. I' Repetitive brain injury when not treated promptly and properly may cause permanent damage to your brain. Alan Schwartz of The New York Times has done some groundbreaking reporting on this issue over the last couple of years called it the most definitive statement of the cognitive risks of football. It uses words like depression and dementia. The NFL is acknowledging that this is as a byproduct of their dangerous game.  But Stefan let us say I am an NFL lineman and I am making a million dollars to bang heads and bodies with the other team. I have been doing this in one way or another since I was a little kid. Is that announcement on the locker room wall going to you know lead me to say coach you know I think I would really rather take it a little easy out there this year?  No they cannot. And this is the inherent dichotomy in the NFL you know. Your job is at risk every second you set foot on the field and the coaches are constantly telling you that you have got to play harder and be perfect or else you could be looking for work. When I spent that summer with the Denver Broncos as a kicker to write a book about the NFL you know I learned this. The players are conscious of these risks especially the ones to their head. But they have to suppress those feelings in order to go out there and do their jobs. That is not going to change because of a poster. But at least now the players have some information. They are more conscious of the risks so that they can step back and think about their long-term futures if they sustained the kind of injury that in the past they may have tried to shrug off and get back on the field. And they can take the proper medical steps to insure that you minimize further damage.  Okay Stefan any thought to coming out of retirement this season by the way?   Not after that poster that is hanging in the locker room I will tell you that.  Okay that is Stefan Fatsis author of  A Sports Writer Plays in the NFL which is out in paperback. He joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. 