 And finally today you may know JJ Redick from his standout college basketball days at Duke or as an accomplished 14-year NBA veteran now with the New Orleans Pelicans. But he is also been an avid podcaster over the years hosting shows for Yahoo! Sports and The Ringer. Now he is launching his own podcast with co-host Tommy Alter where he speaks with everyone from politicians to fellow players. Here he is talking to Damian Lillard about life inside the NBA bubble an isolated environment at Disney World where the NBA is playing all its games.   What are your early impressions of playing in the bubble?  I was like man I do not know how this is going to work. I do not know if dudes going to show up interested who going to be in shape. Like what is it going to be like?  So what is it like inside the NBA bubble? JJ Redick joins us now to talk about that and his new podcast The Old Man And The Three. JJ Redick welcome.  Hi. How are you?  I am doing well. So the first two episodes of your podcast featured fellow NBA player Damian Lillard who we just heard and former gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams. Obviously there is a lot going on in the country. Why did you choose these two voices in your launch?  Well Dame is one of my favorite players. And he is someone that I have tried to have on previous iterations of my podcast and the timing just has not worked out. When I was with the LA Clippers he told me he did not want to come on the podcast because we were rivals which I respected. Stacey has such an amazing ability to break down complex issues like voter suppression like the importance of the census. And as we move closer to the election having someone like her on the podcast is really important.  So you launched this podcast during the NBA restart at Disney World. What has the bubble experience been like?  The bubble has been so far really great. I was very cautious about coming down here. Florida is obviously a COVID hot spot right now.  Right.  And we were not sure what the protocols would be and whether or not we feel safe. But in talking to numerous NBA players and numerous staff members down here we might be in the safest place in America right now. We have daily testing. Everything from food delivery to protocols at the game all involve social distancing and proper hygiene. And one of the reasons it is worked so well is because across the board everyone here has completely bought in. And that is one of the issues I think we are dealing with in this country is that we have not had nationwide protocols in place. We have not had complete buy-in on wearing masks. We have had all sorts of confusion on testing. And look. I am not naive. We are - the NBA is paying a lot of money to get test results back quickly. We have invested a lot in that. It is the only way to make this entire thing feasible. And so I understand that that is probably not realistic to do right now for 350 million people in our country. But we have certainly given the rest of the country some sort of template for how this could work.  So we have heard a lot about players fishing playing video games things to stave off boredom in the bubble. What are you doing to pass the time?   Before we started playing games I golfed a little bit. And then once the game started you know it is basically rest treatment podcast and hoop. And that is really it. I do want to say one thing though.  Yeah.  The ponds or the lakes whatever you want to call them that these guys are fishing on are clearly stocked with an abundance of fish. I think it is a completely unfair battle between these NBA guys and the fish in this lake.  Right. Right. What is it like to play without an audience?  Playing without fans has been surreal. There is an energy that they bring. You feed off that energy And it creates these amazing moments and this amazing atmosphere. And that to me is what we are missing the most. They pumped in crowd noise. We have all seen the virtual fans that they have put up on the boards. Yesterday in our game there was a goat.  There was a goat?  There was a goat. One of the fans was an actual goat. We have had celebrities pop in like Shaq and Lil Wayne. That is been fun. But we obviously miss having real fans in the stands.  Right. You described it as being on a movie set.  Yes. That is correct. It almost feels like you are on stage like you are on a Broadway stage or you are part of some big production. All the locker rooms are these makeshift locker rooms. Some of the arenas you are out in the hallway and you walk to the court and there is these giant curtains. And you open the curtain and then you walk on stage. And they have built scaffolding and put these lights up. It definitely feels like you are on a movie set or on a Broadway stage. It does not have the same feel as playing in an arena. And I know for a lot of people that have watched on television they said oh this viewing experience is great. It feels pretty normal. But as a player it is completely foreign to us.  That was JJ Redick co-host of The Old Man And The Three podcast. JJ Redick thank you so much.  Thank you. 