 The long ball is back. Major League Baseball players have hit just shy of 6000 home runs this year and that is a record. Miami's Giancarlo Stanton and the Yankees' Aaron Judge are the star sluggers of this season going into tonight's games with 57 and 50 home runs respectively. But more than a hundred major leaguers have hit more than 20 home runs this year. That is a record number. And 20 home runs used to be a respectable sum. We should note this is also a record-breaking season for strikeouts. And joining me to talk about this is Jonah Keri of CBS Sports. Welcome back to the program.  Thank you for having me Robert.  How did we get here? Has it been a gradual climb up in the number of home runs each season?  It has but it is accelerated over the last couple years. And there is nothing too mysterious about it. There have been studies done by Ben Lindbergh at The Ringer as well as Rob Arthur at FiveThirtyEight that determined the ball is juiced. You have got an ability to manipulate how lively the ball can be. And right now those tests have shown that the ball is flying about seven feet further on average than in the past. Now it is seven you say to yourself. Well 400 hit the ball out into centerfield and so forth. But seven could make a difference. A lot of what you call wall-scraper home runs are going out this season in addition to some colossal blasts. So now you are in a situation where a lot of people are hitting home runs. Not just the big strong sluggers that you would expect but some fellows who have never hit home runs before in their lives are suddenly hitting 15 20 25 home runs.  And you are saying that it is because of say how tightly wound or stitched the baseball is?  So there is two things going on. Number one is what you would call the center of restitution which is referred to as core. So that basically is how lively the ball is one. And then two the seams are lower - so as you said more tightly stitched. And that creates a couple of issues. There is less drag on the ball as it goes through the air. And even more so - and in my mind maybe even more nefarious honestly - is that some pitchers have complained that they are getting blister problems for the first time in their career as a result of these lower seams because the grip is very different. Now that part has not been proven but if it is true that is a pretty big turn in terms of baseball.  But given the number of strikeouts and given all the talk about the launch angle of the baseball as it leaves the bat it seems that more baseball players are going up to the plate trying to hit a home run.  Well that is certainly true. But it has to do with incentives. You know if you hit a bunch of home runs and you strike out there is nothing that is going to get you fired from your job for that. And Aaron Judge is a classic example of this. Aaron Judge has more than 50 home runs. He is going to win the AL Rookie of the Year maybe MVP. He struck out more than 200 times this year. Only six players ever in the history of baseball including Judge have done that. And we do not say Aaron Judge tisk-tisk  all those strikeouts. We say Aaron Judge what an exciting player.  The idea that this is caused by baseballs that are juiced is a less disturbing explanation than that it is caused by players who are juiced. Is there any suggestion that perhaps performance-enhancing drugs are back in the game?  One thing I try to do is deal in evidence. We know based on these studies that the baseball is juiced so we can say that with confidence. Whether or not players are taking performance-enhancing drugs is just difficult to ascertain. We do not have recent failed tests or anything like that to prove it. It does not necessarily mean that an absence of evidence suggests that nothing is going on. It is just that we do not know. And so for me to cast aspersions in that way would just be irresponsible.  Is all of the interest in the long ball unfair to a player like Jose Altuve of Houston who is going to win a batting title? He is all of 5'6. He is hit over 20 home runs this year. But he is a great player but not a player who is ever going to hit 50 home runs.  Well I think Altuve's going to get attention. He might win the AL MVP award despite him not hitting 50 home runs. That great-all-around game does play. And I will tell you something. This could show up in terms of contracts because you are going to get a bunch of power hitters who are going to go out on the open market this year and might not get as much money as they expected. A lot of these big strong sluggers who do not have a complete game necessarily - they are not fast they do not necessarily hit for a high average they are basically just sluggers - are not getting their just due. And I would submit to you that if Jose Altuve went out on the open market right now he would get an unbelievable amount of money because he is athletic he steals bases he plays good defense he hits for a high average and yes he has some power. Whereas if you look at some other sluggers that have gone out on the open market and will this offseason it is a supply and demand issue. If everybody's hitting home runs why bother spending a lot for home runs?  Jonah Keri of CBS Sports thanks for talking with us.  Thank you Robert. 