 But first for those of you have never seen the show American Ninja Warrior it is based on a long-running Japanese show Sasuke. Imagine an army obstacle course redesigned by Dr. Seuss and a team of rock-climbing acrobats.   And quickly onto the floating boards.  He went out on the body prop. Nice.  Having no problem here on the bolt rafter. Open sights on this jump. You are landing a two-inch ledge. Oh.   Since American Ninja Warrior first aired in 2009 no one has completed every single obstacle and won until last week.   This is Isaac Caldiero. He is a bus boy and he also happens to be one of the best climbers in America. He is been telling us since he started two years ago that if he can get to this point - stage three - that he could win it all.  On the finale Isaac Caldiero became the first of thousands to achieve what the show calls total victory - completing all four stages and winning the million-dollar grand prize. We caught up with him on the streets of New York.  Yeah we are just out running around checking out the town meeting my lady Laura just doing a little sightseeing. We have been doing a lot of work and interviews all week and so we are just trying to get a little - a relaxing day.  And enjoying your new celebrity.  .  So for people who have no idea what this thing is at all could you first explain briefly what American Ninja Warrior is?  Well it is known as the most impossible obstacle course in the entire world. And it is never once been beat here in America up until now and you are talking to the first American ninja warrior .  And what is been so difficult about it? For people who have not seen the course explain why it is taken so long for a competitor to get past stage three.  I do not know. There is just so much pressure behind it. There is so much build up and hype over it and no one can just beat this thing. I feel like that has kind of built this presence behind it where it is like this impossible feat. It is a very heartbreaking competition. I mean all it takes is one slip and you are done. You know it is one shot one kill. You do not get any rehearsal on any of these obstacles. You compile all of these things together and that is what makes it the world's hardest obstacle course.  Tell us what is going through your head when you are looking at that fourth stage - the final obstacle that 75-foot rope climb.   A 75-foot rope climb in under 30 seconds. Can he do it?  So even in my training I had never done anything like that. So all of a sudden when it is like all right you have to do this in 30 seconds I was very nervous. I was like oh my gosh like here we go.   And he is up.  My arms kind of slowed down for a second and all of a sudden I was just like oh no I am not giving up yet.   Locking those legs in. Oh man he is moving fast. Look at the time.  I just got this last little boost of adrenaline.   Isaac Caldiero is an American ninja warrior and he is a million dollars richer.  It still to this day is unreal. You know I am still kind of in disbelief .  In the profiles that we have seen about you you seem to lead a super frugal lifestyle. Now you have got a million bucks so how much do you think your life is going to change?  Yeah exactly. It is been very simple and frugal and the way me and Laura like to live our lives is based off of that. We considered ourselves to be rich and happy before all this so this is just a bonus. You definitely are not going to see us out driving around in fancy cars and living it up you know. We are going to keep down to our roots and we are going to go rock-climbing 'ecause that is what we love to do most.  Isaac Caldiero is the first-ever champion of American Ninja Warrior. He joined me from the streets of New York City. Isaac thanks for taking the time. Good luck.  Thank you man. It was a pleasure. 