 How did an American kid from Texas end up representing Japan on the global stage? It was a journey to an adopted home. NPR's Leila Fadel sent us this report about a native Texan playing 3-on-3 basketball under the Japanese flag at the Olympics.  In Japan they call him Downtown Ira Brown.   Ira Brown from downtown - Downtown Ira Brown.  You got it.  His 3-pointers got him the nickname. For years he is played professional basketball in Japan. But he never dreamed he would get to the Olympic stage...  Not in a million years . Not in a million years.  ...Let alone play for his chosen country in a sport that debuted at the Olympics for the first time in Tokyo - 10-minute basketball games with three players on each team competing to 21 a lot like the pickup games you would play in your driveway. Brown grew up in Corsicana Texas population just under 24000. He got his athletic prowess from his parents.  My dad was a football player and my mom was really really really good at softball. I mean my mom could have done anything.  But they struggled with addiction. His grandmother took care of him his siblings and many of his cousins.  It was about 15 to 17 people living in a three-bedroom home. We would have to like pretty much all try to sleep in one bed. And like eventually I made a little small closet my room had like a little lock a key that I would lock my stuff in.  She worked to give them all they needed.  She was an absolute warrior with what she had. But I mean she was just a one-woman wrecking crew.  To make ends meet he and his sister picked pecans to sell to local grocery stores when he was about 10. They would collect cans sometimes swipe candy from the local convenience store to hock at school.  It was just a struggle to live because often times we just did not have water. We did not have electricity.  So a thirst for stability safety bubbled inside him. As a child he did not have aspirations of basketball stardom. He dreamt of the wealth he did not have.  I always told myself like I want to be the first millionaire in my family. That was - always been my drive and my motivation.  And sports became his path. At first it was baseball a sport that brought him to his adoptive parents both baseball coaches. At 18 he got drafted into the minor leagues. Then he went on to play basketball at Gonzaga University in Spokane Wash. Basketball it showed him the world - Mexico Argentina the Philippines and finally Japan. It was here he says he felt like he would found the safety he would been searching for.  I did not want to go anywhere else in the world. And Japan was pretty much home for me so I have stayed over here since.  He married naturalized and later divorced.  It is an honor to be Japanese.  And this year the Japanese Olympic team including Brown is redefining what it means to be Japanese sparking conversations about race and identity. Among the Japanese Olympians is tennis star Naomi Osaka. She is a mixed-race Japanese icon and the face of the Tokyo Games who lit the cauldron during the opening ceremony. Her image graces posters across the capital with the word new in English and generation or world in Japanese. On the 5-on-5 basketball team is Washington Wizard player Rui Hachimura.  I feel like we are breaking barriers especially with how they treat mixed kids. Before it is like - especially when I first got over here they treated mixed kids very poorly. And then once Naomi Osaka and Rui started having a lot of success all the sudden the narrative started changing.  Today Latvia took the gold in 3-on-3 basketball. Japan's team assembled just three days before the Games did not make it past the quarterfinals.  I just enjoyed the experience. Knowing that I gave it my all and I came short I am OK with that.  Brown says he is still amazed he got to the Olympics. Leila Fadel NPR News Tokyo.  