 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. In Washington today an interesting team voiced its support for a bill in the House of Representatives. The bill is HR 2492. It cracks down on cockfights and dogfights. There already is a federal Animal Welfare Act which makes it illegal to knowingly sponsor or exhibit an animal in an animal-fighting venue. The new bill criminalizes attending or causing a minor to attend an animal fight. The interesting team I spoke of consists of Wayne Pacelle who is president of the Humane Society of the United States and Michael Vick the star quarterback of the Philadelphia Eagles who served a federal prison term for organizing dogfights at his Virginia home. And after holding a Washington news conference and calling on some members of Congress on Capitol Hill to support the tougher bill Wayne Pacelle and Michael Vick came to our studio. And welcome to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And first Wayne Pacelle the bill that you are advocating significantly mentions minors among spectators at animal fights. How big a problem is dogfighting among young people?  Well it is a broad problem in society. It is mainly adults who are involved in the enterprise but some of them bring children to the fights which I think just compounds the injury. I mean it is bad enough that the animals suffer but then to expose children to this and to numb their sensibilities cannot be a good thing. So that is why we are actively supporting HR 2492.  Michael Vick I have read that you got involved with this when you were 8 years old dogfighting.  Yes I was fairly young.  When you were 8 were you old enough to know that this was - that it was illegal that there were people who said you should not do this?  Well nobody ever told me that it was illegal it was the wrong thing to do. I figured it was not right because it just did not feel right but at the same time everybody was involved. So I was just kind of playing a follow-the- leader game and following the older guys.  You were following guys?  Yes.  I would like to ask both of you about this partnership of yours. Wayne Pacelle you visited Michael Vick when he was in prison where he - I guess he pitched you the idea of assisting the Humane Society's community-based programs that reach inner-city youth. You have talked about this before on this program and elsewhere. You were skeptical at first.  Well of course you know I was. Michael of course was involved in some stuff that the Humane Society detests. Our constituency was very very angered by what went on. So many people told me not to do it. They said it was just too radioactive. But I really felt that this was one of the ways that we were going to reach these young kids in urban communities where dogfighting has been growing. And we are a movement of sinners frankly. There are so many people who have done the wrong thing with animals and we want to get people moving in the right direction. I thought turning my back on that was the wrong thing.  Michael Vick what was your idea here when you were in prison? Why did you want to see Mr. Pacelle?  First I just thought about the things that I could do to enlighten kids and not have them end up in the situation that I ended up in. First and foremost was to come out and try to be the best ambassador in my community that I can be. And I know what takes place in my hometown and where I grew up and just started thinking about ways to try to be a difference-maker be an instrument of change. And I thought about things that I have done and if I would have had the proper guidance and used it correctly if I would have ever ended up in the situation that I was in. So I was thankful that Wayne took the meeting. It was not an easy meeting. You know I think he understood that you know I wanted to be a part of the movement and helping in eradicating dogfighting as a whole.  This was a meeting as you say in federal prison when you were an inmate doing I guess what turned out to be 19 months. You were there for organizing dogfights. You would kill dogs that did not perform well. In your - there is a moment when according to Wayne Pacelle's book you tell him look I love dogs.  Yeah.  And it seems a strange - a difference of what it means to love dogs.  That is absolutely correct which is why I am still confused now as to why my involvement was so detailed. But you know it is all hindsight and I cannot do anything about it but be part of the solution and not the problem.  But by loving dogs you meant I love to be with dogs. I love the strongest toughest greatest gladiator among dogs. I love to watch dogs go and do combat with each other and be brave. It is a different kind of loving dogs.  Yes it is a different kind of love. And you know I have always cherished and loved animals and loved dogs. And my mom always allowed me to keep one in the house and we always had a family pet. And to go down the path that I went down was really disheartening for my entire family because they knew the passion. So you know like I said it is something that I have to live with and the demons and you know just trying to move forward from it.  You know just going back to this issue of Michael telling me in - you know when we first met that he loved animals obviously people who are involved in dogfighting cockfighting they really do value the animals in certain ways. I mean they value the musculature the toughness the gameness of the animals. But as Michael and I have discussed I mean it is not complete. The empathy is missing. You have got to remember that these animals feel and they think and they suffer and that to cause them pain and misery just for our amusement is deeply wrong.  Michael Vick you have achieved one of the greatest comebacks of all time. I do not just mean in football. I mean it is hard to imagine other people who have done what you did. And I wonder what you say to a listener who questions your sincerity  Michael Vick has to talk about this he has to claim to have a change of heart in order to escape bankruptcy to get back into football after people you know thought he was too old to get back into the game to get endorsements once again. There is something in it for you. What do you say?  Well I would have to say - and Wayne and I have talked about this before - I did not have to do this or I could have done it for a year. And every time Wayne calls me or if there is something that I can do to help I am always there. And...  You are saying not just in Congress but you have gone to schools you have spoken to school groups.  I have spoken at numerous places and we have no contract. It is based on how we both feel and what I feel is right because my thing is I do not want this to go on. I do not want animals to continue to be hurt. I do not want kids to end up in prison behind pointless activity.  Do you look forward to a day when people will say  That is Michael Vick the - you know - the great quarterback first for the Falcons but then for the Eagles  That is Michael Vick who did 19 months in federal prison for dogfighting?  Yes  That is Michael Vick the great man and the guy who believed in himself and turned his life around.  Wayne Pacelle the Congress right now you know has this deficit to deal with. They still have to have some reconciliation of what they are doing about financial institution regulations and the Republicans want to change health care. Are they going to be able to find any time or energy to amend the laws on animal fighting?  Well the Congress always has some urgent national circumstance to deal with. And it has many committees that are continuing to do work on many many policy issues. We are not saying that this rises to the level of the debt-ceiling question or health care but we are saying it is important nonetheless and animal cruelty is a significant matter for our country.  Wayne Pacelle president of the Humane Society of the United States and author of  Our Kinship with Animals Our Call to Defend Them and Michael Vick of the Philadelphia Eagles. Thanks to both of you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 