 Sometimes on a Monday you just need to spend some internet time watching the World Dog Surfing Championships or at least hear about it. Laura Klivans of member station KQED takes us to Pacifica Calif. which hosted the event.  The competitors arrive early and find a spot on the sand. There is a too-cool Goldendoodle with a blue mohawk and sunglasses an older guy coming out of retirement for one final ride and last year's reigning champion Abbie Girl.   Michael Uy is here with his surf dog prodigy Abbie. She is an Australian Kelpie.  This is Abbie's board bag.  Her board is custom built for a dog. It is short and has a bright orange blaze down the bottom with her name on it. The 11-year-old has been doing this for most of her life. When Uy first rescued Abbie from a shelter she was an anxious dog. He would take her to the beach to mellow her out and socialize her and they would swim.  One time we put her on a surfboard to rest. And she stood up on the board and we thought well why do not we put it on a wave and see what happens? And she just rode it all the way into shore .   In a tent nearby Kihei gets into his wetsuit.   The Chihuahua-dachshund mix is 15 years old. He is come out of retirement for this contest. One of his humans is Tina Musto. So what is Kihei saying right now?  I need to go right? I need to get going.  Competitive dog surfing is growing quickly with contests in Hawaii Florida Texas and even Australia. Dogs compete solo - just dog and board - or tandem either with a human or with another dog. That last category - two dogs on one board - is particularly adorable. Sam Stahl is one of the judges who scores the rides.  Number one is stay on the board and number two is looking happy. No one wants to see a dog terrified at the end of a surf board.  That seems like not a good fit for that dog.   Exactly exactly.  It is just minutes before the competition starts and a huge crowd of people and their non-surfing animals have gathered on the foggy beach. Stahl has a guess why so many showed up.  There is a lot going on in the world and a lot of things that have people kind of riled up. And I think it is important for some people to have something like this to look at and smile at. And I mean nothing's more fun than watching dogs surf honestly . It is great.  Heat one report to the water. Heat one report to the water.  The solo category is broken out by dog size. On the water human owners paddle out their pooches and push. It is then up to the dog to ride the wave. Onlookers Paul Young and his son Kaleo spot old man Kihei in the small competition.  There is Kihei. Whoa he is hanging on.  He is going sideways.   In the medium size heat Marisa Plaice cheers on Abbie the Kelpie who is showing off.  She never falls off the board. It is amazing the other dogs usually seem to fall at some point but she just - she hangs on. It is that low center of gravity I think.   The crowd loses it when two solo surfing dogs collide and one hops onto the board of the other. Abbie the Australian Kelpie makes it to the championship round. The finalists head out on the water. And in the background - I am not kidding - a whale breaches. After a push from her owner Abbie surfs maybe 20 feet. She lifts a front leg to balance and lands on the beach. The judges notice Abbie's footwork.  Number one top dog - Abbie.   Abbie's prize is a trophy. Her human gets a bottle of wine. For NPR News I am Laura Klivans in Pacifica Calif.    Hey hot dog. 