 Over the past four baseball seasons the Los Angeles Dodgers have spent around a billion dollars on their players. That is more than any other team. And they have not had much to show for it. Their playoff appearances always seem to come up short. Well this year things look different. Just past the halfway point in the season the Dodgers have the best record in baseball and they are on a remarkable hot streak. I am joined once again by Jonah Keri of CBS Sports and Sports Illustrated to talk about this. Hi Jonah.  How are you Robert?  And first how good are the Dodgers this year?  Phenomenal. This is maybe my favorite stat I do not know maybe ever. I love this. Since June 7 - so that is a long time this is almost a month and a half - they have lost one game to a National League team. One loss against a National League team since June 7 - remarkable. They have been phenomenal this season.  It is not as though they have lacked expensive players before. What is different this year for the Dodgers?  You know ironically it is not the expensive players that are doing the job. Clayton Kershaw certainly makes a lot of money but he was a homegrown guy. It was not like he was some sort of you know gun for hire. But it is really their homegrown guys making basically nothing who are just doing great. You look at Corey Seager who is their terrific young shortstop. He is fantastic. He was the rookie of the year last season. You look at Cody Bellinger he is the odds-on favorite to win the rookie of the year this year. He might hit 45 home runs. He is been phenomenal. And then somebody who does not even get talked about that much in maybe broad circles but a guy named Alex Wood who was acquired in a three-way trade. And he is 11 and 0. He is gotten an ERA in the ones. By the advanced stats he is been phenomenal. A really great addition to the staff too. So those are three focal points. And combined they are making you know a couple million dollars next to nothing in baseball terms.  Now I should say this for people who do not know. Of course Clayton Kershaw the great left-handed starting pitcher for the Dodgers may be the best pitcher in baseball these days.  Better than Koufax in my opinion.  Hey let us watch it Jonah. No never mind. Will not be getting...  .  In the other league the American League the team with the best record are the Houston Astros. They have also been a remarkable club for the past couple years.  They sure have. And that is really just a total tear-down. There was such despair honestly in Houston for a while. Three seasons in a row with 100 or more losses. This one kills me. They had local television ratings multiple times - this is true - of 0.0 imperceptible television ratings. It was really a disaster for the Astros. And this was because instead of kind of easing into it and maybe we will trade this veteran I mean they went scorched earth on this thing. They got rid of anything that was not basically bolted to the floor. But now you are starting to see the fruits of it. It is all come together to create a magnificent team and frankly one that is built to last. The core is still very young. Whatever Houston does this year we could see them back in or near the winner's circle in 2018 2019 and so on.  Well it is only mid-July so how much does the success of the Dodgers in the National League or the Houston Astros in the American League - how well does that track with getting to the World Series and winning the World Series?  The thing about baseball you always have to remember is it is quite different than let us say basketball for example. At the beginning of the basketball season you can come into it and if you flew in from Mars you would say you know what? I think the Cavaliers and the Warriors are going in the NBA championship. And you are right. That is exactly what happened. Baseball does not work that way. 2016 was an aberration. The Chicago Cubs who were clearly the best team all year long ended up winning the World Series. Usually the team with the best record does not win the World Series for various and sundry reasons. Number one you have to go through multiple rounds. Number two baseball is a game that you see things even out over time but in small samples there can be kind of bumpy results. A ball hits a pebble. Clayton Kershaw who is a pitching god suddenly cannot pitch that well in the playoffs. These things happen. So yes the Dodgers and the Astros are clearly the two best teams. You would consider them the favorites to go to the World Series. But all kinds of stuff can happen between now and then.  Jonah Keri of CBS Sports and Sports Illustrated. Thanks.  Thank you Robert.  