 An Olympic victory today for female boxers. The International Olympic Committee gave the final okay to include women's boxing in the summer games in London in 2012. It was the only summer Olympic sport in which women could not compete. IOC president Jacques Rogge made the announcement in a press conference in Berlin today. Mr.  I think it is a great addition. The sport of women boxing has progressed a lot - a tremendous amount in the last five years and it was about time to include them in the games.  This was an especially big moment for Christy Halbert. Halbert is the chair of the USA Boxing Women's Task Force and secretary of the International Amateur Boxing Association Women's Commission. And she has been jabbing bobbing and weaving for years to try to get women's boxing included in the Olympics. Ms. Halbert welcome to the program and congratulations. Ms.  Thank you so much for having me.  What do you chalk this decision up to? Why do you think they agreed to allow women to box in the summer games? Ms.  Well I think it made sense to allow women. I think it is long overdue. We made our case for many many years. Women's boxing has exceeded all of the criteria for Olympic inclusion for events as well as new sports. In 1904 women and men boxing was - they were display events. And I guess you could say women boxers have been training for about a 105 years now for the right to get back to the Olympic podium. So we are very excited.  You know boxing is traditionally I think viewed as a male sport. I was reading the quote from a British former Olympic silver medalist Amir Khan who said deep down I think women should not fight. How much of that approach or how much of that bias do you think is out there? Ms.  We do hear bias. But I think women's boxing is good for the sport of boxing. Anyone that has trained as a boxer knows what it takes. And people who watch women's boxing I think they very quickly realize that they are witnessing elite athletes who are participating in one of the world's most difficult and challenging sports.  What would you tell people who would say I do not want to see a woman in the ring getting beat up bruised and bleeding? Ms.  Well when a parent comes to me as a coach I always tell them well you know defense is really important. So we always teach defending punches as well as the offensive side of the sport. In Olympic-style boxing because of the point system you see less of the kind of aspects you might see in professional fighting and more of the technical aspects. And I think fans will be able to see that when they tune in in 2012.  There will be - in 2012 three weight classes only three. And I understand there is some unhappiness about that. Ms.  There is some concern by boxers and coaches about what will happen to the boxers that do not fit into those three weight categories that were selected for the Olympics? And so what we are going to see worldwide is some movement by boxers to possibly squeeze themselves into one of the Olympic categories. Boxing currently has 11 weight categories to keep it safe. So if they start playing with their weight a little bit by adding unnecessary pounds or losing too much weight then that sometimes can compromise the safety of the boxer and that is something that I am sure the International Federation is going to be keeping or monitoring over the next couple of years.  Christy Halbert thanks very much. Ms.  Thank you.  Christy Halbert is a boxing coach and chair of the USA Boxing Women's Task Force. She is also author of the book The Ultimate Boxer. 