 Last night the Pittsburgh Steelers took the first step toward repeating as champions of the National Football League before a towel waving hometown crowd. The Steelers opened the 2009 NFL season by beating the Tennessee Titans in overtime by a score of 13 to 10. The other 30 NFL teams begin their quest for a Super Bowl title this weekend. And joining us now as he does most Fridays is sportswriter Stefan Fatsis. Hi Stefan.  Hey Robert.  Pretty exciting game last night. The Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger completed 33 passes for a whopping 363 yards. Can Pittsburg do you think repeat as champion?  You know  New England in the 2003 and 2004 seasons. Two teams did it in the '90 Denver and Dallas. One in the '80 San Francisco but they won four Super Bowls that decade. Three did in the '70s and Green Bay of course won the first two Super Bowls back in '60s. It is much harder to repeat now because of player movement via free agency salary cap rules a schedule that is designed to promote parity throughout the league. Pittsburg though certainly looks good enough to repeat. They are remarkably stable. They have 19 of 22 starters back from last season last night. But there is so much unpredictable about football especially injuries. And we saw it last night when the Steelers' great safety Troy Polamalu who had a terrific start to the game and to the season hurt a knee ligament and now might miss three to six weeks.  The back drop to this NFL season is labor unrest. The league and the players' union are already exchanging words about a new collective bargaining agreement. Does not look too good I gather?  No these are not good words. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and the new union boss DeMorris Smith traded digs in the media this week. We are still waiting for formal negotiations to begin.  The teams voted to opt out of the current labor deal on the grounds that it had proven too favorable financially for the players. And if the two sides cannot reach a new agreement by next March the 2010 season will be played without a salary cap restricting how much or how little teams can spend on players. Now that is going to be very interesting and possibly very lucrative for a few players but also very harmful for the vast majority I think in the league. And then you have got the possibility of a lockout or strike in 2011 becoming far more serious.  Why is it so hard for the NFL owners and the players to reach an agreement - it is not for a lack of money slashing around they can divide up?  No certainly not - I mean 8 billion or close to it in revenue in the NFL now. There is a basic disagreement on how that money should be divided. The owners in this most recent labor deal guaranteed the players around 60 percent of certain league revenue. They now claim that actual player costs are even higher than that. The union says this is perfectly equitable. We are the players we are the entertainment. And you have got this tug of war. What is going to complicate matters on the owners' side is that they have a big internal issue to address. And that is how much revenue teams should share with one another between the bigger market and smaller market or smaller revenue clubs. This I think is the elephant in the room for the owners as this labor issue gets going.  Now finally the NFL enacted restrictions on players coaches and other team personnel. They may not use social media like Twitter from 90 minutes before kick-off until after post-game media interviews are completed. Why are they anti-Twitter?  Part of the reasons was the Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chad Ochocinco formerly Chad Johnson of course. He promised over the summer to tweet during games. Now Ocho as many fans know is something of an attention lover. After these new rules came out he announced that he was going to close his Twitter account which has 159000 followers. Then he did not do that of course and said that he found loopholes in the NFL rule. And yesterday  You as not seen nothing yet poor No Fun League I am itching for Sunday so bad.   No Fun League is what NFL stands for for him.  Right.  Okay. Stefan thanks a lot have a good weekend.  Thanks Robert you too.  Stefan Fatsis is the author of  A Sportswriter Plays in the NFL. 