 Time to check in once more with an athlete who would been hoping to be at the Tokyo Olympics right about now. We have been seeking out aspiring members of Team USA to learn what it is like to push off such a big competition by a year. Today we hear from a player in the new Olympic discipline of three-on-three basketball.  My name is Kareem Maddox and I am a 3x3 basketball player. And I would have been playing for Team USA in the Olympic qualification tournament. And the goal is to make it to the Olympics. We still have to go to that tournament finish in the top three as USA and then we will be qualified for Tokyo. So when the Olympics got postponed I would not say I was devastated but it definitely threw a wrench into my plans. I actually quit my job on January 31 so that I could train full-time for the Olympics. And when it got postponed I realized that at some point I was going to have to make some decisions about how I was going to sustain for the next year. So there was never a doubt that I would still be going for it because you know it is a lifelong dream. But you know it will take some creativity to figure out what I am going to do for the next year. But I have seen it as an opportunity to become the best basketball player that I can possibly be. And you know one way to look at it is I have a whole extra year to do that because you know this is the first time 3x3 is in the Olympics. I want to do everything that I can to make sure that it is an enjoyable experience for the spectators and that you know I can leave my mark. And my teammates feel the same way about that.  And what is coursing through Maddox's headphones while he keeps driving toward Tokyo 2021? It is the soundtrack to the hit Broadway musical Hamilton which he watched for the first time during quarantine.  The song has been on repeat for me is Right Hand Man.    Embellishing my elegance and eloquence but the elephant is in the room. The truth is in your face when you hear the British cannons go boom.  It is just such a work of genius. And it is something that is like so powerful and so smart and poignant now because I think a lot of people are looking for ways to believe in the promise of America. Yeah. I mean you know pick any song off of it and I will sing a duet with you.    And boom goes the cannon. We are abandoning Kips Bay. And boom...  That is Kareem Maddox a three-on-three basketball player hoping to compete for Team USA at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo next year.    Guns and horses giddy-up. I decide to divvy up my forces. They are skittish as the British cut the city up. This close to giving up facing mad scrutiny. I scream in the face of this mass mutiny. 