 A baseball milestone was reached Tuesday night in Seattle. And if you are a Yankee fan it was a happily familiar scene.   Runner goes. Throw to second. In time. And Mo gets his 600th save. And the Yankees win the game 3-2. And now Mariano long considered the greatest closer in the history of the game has a number to go alongside with 600 saves only the second man in history to reach that level.  That call of Yankee closing pitcher Mariano Rivera's 600th save courtesy of the YES Network. Well that save put the man that fans call Mo just one shy of tying the all-time record held by Trevor Hoffman. While Rivera is on the brink of making the record his  What makes a great closer? How do those guys succeed in the most pressure-packed moments baseball has to offer? Well Dennis Eckersley knows all about that. The Hall of Famer began in 1975 as a starting pitcher. Then with his move to the Oakland A's in 1987 he became the most dominant closer in the game for a decade. Dennis Eckersley welcome to the program.  Yeah. Thank you for having me.  Well let us talk about the gifts of Mariano Rivera. He is almost 42 years old incredibly consistent over 16 seasons with the Yankees. Is he still performing at peak level? Have you seen any drop-off in his skill?  Not at all. I mean he probably had a little more velocity a few years ago but he has such impeccable control. You know the thing that they talk about Mariano is he has this one pitch this phenomenal cutter. He is just been absolutely automatic since he is been up and he is the greatest closer who ever lived.  When you say a cutter by the way we are talking about a cut fastball.  Yes.  And describe what that is exactly.  It looks like a fastball until it gets like 90 percent of the way there and the last fraction it moves from right to left. And it is so hard for the hitters to pick up. And they know it is coming. That is the crazy thing.  Right. Well you would think that if they know that he is just throwing one pitch and they know what to expect he would not be so dominant but he is.  But he has such great control with it. You know he puts it right where he wants to and he has such a beautiful delivery. He is just so automatic.  You know it is interesting. He is such a minimalist when you watch him. I mean his way of communicating with the catcher with those just tiny tiny little moves of his head and that intense stare but he is very calm. I mean does he - does Mariano Rivera fit the mold of a closer?  Yes. Absolutely. You know I was totally different. You could not - I could not be farther than he went about it. You know he is very like - he is like the iceman you know unemotional. For the long run that is probably what you want is someone to be less affected by it because I think emotionally it would wear you down after a while - well it wore me down.  There is one amazing statistic among many that Mariano Rivera has racked up over the years and that is just how incredible he is in the postseason when the pressure is even greater. Ninety-four postseason innings he is allowed only two home runs.  Yeah it is incredible. If you add up all of his postseasons it is almost two years worth of pitching. And his ERA is at 0.7...  Wow.  ...which is phenomenal because this is where the money is. That is what sets him apart from everybody else. You know I did it in Oakland. And the atmosphere in Oakland it does not even come close to matching the expectations and the pressure that goes along with pitching for the New York Yankees.  Have you talked to Mariano Rivera compared notes as closers?  You know something I sat him down last year for TBS and I talked about some of the few failures that he is had. And he has this inner peace. He is a very spiritual guy. I walked away from the interview wanting to have what he has.   Really?  Yeah. Beyond pitching. It is this inner peace about him that must go into the success that he is had over this long course of time.  Well Dennis Eckersley it is great to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Oh you are very welcome.  That is Hall of Fame pitcher Dennis Eckersley. He is now a studio analyst for the Boston Red Sox on the New England Sports Network. He is also a studio analyst for TBS. We were talking about Yankee closer Mariano Rivera closing in on breaking the record of 601 career saves. 