 -   Finally this hour to the World Cup and the results of today's match between the United States and Belgium. The U.S. is going home. They were eliminated by Belgium 2-1 with all three of those goals coming in the 30 heart-stopping minutes of extra-time. Here's U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann after the game. -    -   Obviously it is a bummer for us ending on the losing side after a game of 120 minutes that I think gave everything to the fans to the crowd a real drama a thriller. You know we had enough possibilities to equalize that game at the end or even to put it away earlier. We complement to Belgium and congratulations to them to move on to the quarter-finals. It was a game that you know it just went to the extreme.  -   Joining me from Salvador Brazil to talk about the match is NPR's Russell Lewis. Russell you were in the stands for this match. I can only imagine how electric the atmosphere must have been.  -   Oh absolutely. You really cannot imagine what it was like. It was so loud. And really those last 30 minutes of overtime that is when the game really got going. Of course that is when the goals were score. And it was just such an amazing atmosphere. Just going backwards and forwards counterattacks and attacks goals counter-goals - it was just an - amazing.  -   Well let us talk about those goals. Belgium scored once in extra-time and then scored again so it was 2-0. And low and behold who scores the one goal for the United States.  -   Yeah it is 19-year-old Julian Green. He is the youngest American ever to play in the World Cup for the United States and just a beautiful goal. Of course he was a late substitute in the game. And it was just you know it was just an amazing goal. The crowd went wild thinking of course that Belgium was a shoe-in now at 2-0. And when Julian Green just punched that ball into the goal I mean the stands just went nuts and the Americans in particular just went wild. And the Belgians just looked at themselves in stunned disbelieve by saying oh my gosh this game is not over yet.  -   And there were a lot of opportunities of the United States to equalize send this into a shootout - did not happen. Worth saying about Julian Green - he is one of the dual-national German-Americans that the German coach Jurgen Klinsmann has recruited and put on the roster. A lot of people thought he made a mistake but look at that.  -   Yeah absolutely. Well a lot of people have questioned Jurgen Klinsmann on some levels but you know he got the United States into the round of 16 for the second now - second straight World Cup. You know hard to question someone that when you are one of the last 16 teams standing and you know despite the U.S.'s schedule folks seem to think that you know they did pretty well for how it happened tonight.  -   Yeah we should say that if you watched the 90 minutes of regulation time - 90-plus - it would have appeared by the level of play that Belgium should have won the game. I mean Tim Howard the U.S. goalkeeper was unbelievable.  -   Absolutely let us talk about Tim in just a second. Clearly Belgium had so many more chances during regulation to score just time after time after time after time. But look at Tim Howard - what an amazing job he did in goal tonight. What an amazing goalkeeper. He saved the ball 16 times that is the most by a goalkeeper in the World Cup since 1966 1966. That is such a great job that he did tonight. Of course he let two balls get by him which is tough but you know the score could have easily been much higher. He was just amazing in goal tonight.  -   Well looking ahead now to the quarter-finals we have got four Latin American teams - Brazil Colombia tiny Costa Rica and Argentina - and four European teams - France Germany the Netherlands and now Belgium.  -   Absolutely. And it sets up for such a great series of quarter-finals of course Brazil taking on Colombia. You have got France taking on Germany the Netherlands and Costa Rica and of course this Belgium team going after Argentina. Many people think that Argentina may make it to the finals and perhaps it may make it into the finals against Brazil. We will just have to see of course but what an amazing series of matches coming here in the next couple of days in Brazil.  -   And you will be there to cover it for us. NPR's Russell Lewis talking with us from Salvador Brazil. The score again of today's match - Belgium 2 - U.S. 1. Russell thanks so much.  -   You are welcome. 