 Today is the first Sunday of the NFL season. Players start and end of their games in a sacred place a refuge for prayer and reflection and horseplay - the locker room. Now the off-the-field behavior of a number of football players has reinforced a pretty negative perception of locker room culture in recent years. But as Chris Kluwe a former punter for the Minnesota Vikings wrote in Rolling Stone recently stepping into an NFL locker room shattered his preconceptions.  Everyone has this idea of football players as kind of these troglodyte lumbering you know just mounds of muscle that do not ever think about anything or do anything other than football. But football is this mingling of so many different socioeconomic backgrounds and types of people that it is kind of this cross-section of America as a whole because the sure thing that brings us all together is football but outside of that we are completely different people.  Sounds like you just love that.  Yeah. No it was really cool. I mean - because there was always a conversation to be had. You could always meet new people and talk about new things and - especially with the turnover in the locker room because you see this constant new influx of new thoughts and new ideas coming in from kids fresh out of college.  But the turnover's when you also talk about the darker side of that 'ecause these bonds are super intense but they are fleeting at the same time because of that.  Yeah very much so. I mean we see each other more than we see our own families during the season. And you get to know these guys really well but then at the end of the year it is like well am I still going to be here? Is he still going to be here? Are any of us still going to be here? We do not know. We hope so .  Now a diverse cast of characters also means working with people that you might find offensive or that have offensive believes or do offensive things.  Yeah well and that is something that happens too. I mean if you are going to take a cross-section of American culture you are going to get the entire cross-section. So that means there are going to be guys who do not believe in certain things or there are going to be guys who make mistakes who commit crimes and you know just run afoul of the law. And you cannot really shake some sense into them  because everyone has to make their own choices. But at the same time there are also many parts of the NFL that I think are good for people. I mean football taught me teamwork. It taught me sacrifice. You know it taught me how to get along with this diverse cast of characters and accept different viewpoints. And that may not be the lesson that everyone takes from it but if anyone can take that lesson away then I think it is something that is worth valuing.  Are there any enduring friendships you have with people who you would never have been friends with these people if not for the NFL?  Probably Ryan Longwell the kicker who was there for a long time because he is fairly religious a golf pro does not really like video games. That was the guy who I probably never would have met him in my everyday life but because we were on the same team we got a chance to spend day after day talking to each other you know learning what makes each other tick.  So on Monday night maybe not when the Vikings are actually getting on the field in San Francisco but maybe like an hour before that do you feel sad? How much you miss him?   Not at all.   It is really like - the relationships are the only thing I miss out of it. Well I mean the paychecks were nice too but...   It was you now primarily the relationships - the people - because in the end that is really all we have is our connection to other human beings. And that holds true for any job. I mean you have people who work in an office that - maybe they hate their job maybe they hate everything around it but there are a couple people in that office where they are like I cannot think of a day where I will not be with these people. Yeah it is a slightly different job but in the end it is a job. And how you feel about the people around you - that is what defines it.  Chris Kluwe is a writer a former punter for the Minnesota Vikings. He was here with me at NPR West. Great speaking with you. Thank you.  Yeah no thank you for having me on. I really appreciate it. 