 The U.S. women's soccer team is back in action tomorrow at the Women's World Cup in France. The team is taking on its biggest opponent yet Sweden - a key match for the U.S. And there is plenty else going on at the tournament. Here to catch us up is NPR's Laurel Wamsley. She is been following the U.S. team in France and she joins us on the line from there now. Hey there.  Hi there.  Hi. So I want to get to the U.S. women in just a second but I gather it is a player from Brazil who is got everybody buzzing today.  Absolutely. That is Marta. She is the Brazilian superstar. You probably heard about her. And she scored on a penalty last night in their game - in Brazil's game against Italy. And with that goal she set the all-time scoring record for most World Cup goals men or women with 17. And in a press conference after the match Marta talked about how she is dedicating that goal to all the girls who believe in their dreams. And she said that the Brazilian team can be an example in their country and also to South America that women can do every kind of role. But she also pointed out that given the huge audience for this event that in a way each team is doing that in their own home country. And because of Marta's goal Brazil will now go through to the knockout round which had been in question.  OK all right so the U.S. team - we said they take on Sweden. That is going to be tomorrow. What are the stakes here?  Well this is a matchup with a lot of history. So the U.S. used to have a Swedish coach Pia Sundhage and she led them to Olympic gold in both 2008 and 2012. And then right after the 2012 Olympics she left the U.S. squad and went to coach Sweden. And then in the 2016 Olympics Sundhage was the coach of Sweden that knocked out the U.S. team in the quarterfinals. And no U.S. women's soccer team had ever left a major tournament that early so it was a huge blow. And it is been said that the coach who took over after Sundhage Jill Ellis who is the coach now has spent a lot of time watching the tape and spending time with that and figuring out how does this U.S. team face off against teams like Sweden that just bunker down defensively and will not let them through?  Wow - so quite a rivalry and it sounds like quite a game potentially tomorrow. This is not going to be like the opening match where we saw the U.S. just dominate against Thailand. It was 13-nil I think.  Yes it was. And no this will be nothing like that. So people are predicting maybe 2-0 2-1 against Sweden. This is going to be the first real test for the U.S. at this tournament especially for the defense and for goalkeeper - new goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher. They just have not had much come their way so far. Here's what coach Jill Ellis said earlier today about this game.  This is going to be great for us because we do need to sharpen that in terms of you know the first two games. We have not had a lot of balls to deal with in behind. And Alyssa has not had a lot to deal with. But you know I would also sort of remind the players that we have played one of the most competitive schedules and for that very purpose - to have as many of those moments before we came to this big stage.  And so the thing about this game is that both U.S. and Sweden are already through. And if the U.S. were to lose to Sweden tomorrow they would actually maybe have an easier path in this tournament because they may have to play France if they win in the quarterfinals. But that is just not how this team plays. This team plays to win and that is what they are going to go out there to do tomorrow.  Yeah. And before I let you go just a quick sense of the scene because you have been all over - you have been in Paris. You have been in Reims. Where are you exactly today?  Right now I am in Le Havre a couple miles from where the team is going to play tomorrow. And...  And is everybody just totally caught up in this?  Yes and no. In Paris you almost would not know it is happening. There is almost no signage no indication that it is happening. You see - still see more signs for the men's football games than the women's. But here in these smaller towns where the U.S. has been playing in Reims and in Le Havre you do see them a lot more and there is a palpable excitement here. And of course wherever the U.S. plays the U.S. fans go. So there is a lot of excitement.  All righty thank you Laurel.  Thank you.  NPR's Laurel Wamsley reporting. 