 If everything had gone according to schedule we would be well into Week 2 of the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo right about now. But because of the coronavirus pandemic the games have been postponed a year. We have been reaching out to some would-be Olympians to learn how they are coping with this change of plans and how they are managing to stay competition ready during the pandemic. Here's what we heard back from one Team USA member.  Hi. My name is Chari Hawkins. I am a Team USA heptathlete. A heptathlon is in the sport of track and field and it is seven different track and field events in two days. And I am training for next year's Tokyo 2021 Olympics.  For Hawkins that means plotting her course to the U.S. Olympic Trials now scheduled for June of next year and then on to Tokyo for what would be her first Olympics. Oh and if you are not familiar with the seven individual events that make up the heptathlon you are in luck. Hawkins is happy to explain.  So we start off Day 1 with the hurdles. And it is 100-meter hurdles. And after that we move on to the high jump then the shot put then the 200-meter dash. And that wraps up Day 1. And then we come back the next day and we get ready to do the long jump the javelin. And then we top the whole thing off by running an 800. So it is pretty intense but it is such a fun event.  Good thing she thinks it is fun because it sounds pretty grueling. Hawkins had been struggling with a serious ankle injury in recent months but she and her doctors had opted to forgo surgery because the Olympics were coming up. Now Hawkins says the postponement was a blessing in disguise.  And as soon as the Olympics were postponed you know we gave my ankle a little bit more time to recover. And when I went back to practice you know it started getting swelled up. I did like a really crazy workout. And my ankle just was not holding up so my doctors were like you know this is the perfect opportunity to get the stability back in your ankle that you would not have had if you would not have got - if you will not get the surgery. And there is no time like now because you actually have the time to recover. So I ended up getting the surgery. And now I am just on my road to recovery. I am going to be able to get that big wide base in that comes with physical therapy and getting back to it so that when I am back to the track I am going to be stronger than ever more stable than ever and ready to just get back to work get back to the grind.  Hawkins says she is excited to be embarking on the journey again and she has a go-to song to help her stay motivated.  There is this song called - Jeremih it is called Imma Star. And for some reason that song just gets me going. Like it makes me feel like the most confident human being in the world. And you know like when you are - even when you are like training you are - maybe you are not feeling good that day you are off or maybe when you are about to compete and you are not - you are feeling a little insecure or something like that like that is the song that reminds me like listen. No. You are a shining star. And you do not even have to worry about anything. So I mean it is been true in 2009 and it is still true 11 years later. I absolutely love that song.  That was Chari Hawkins Team USA track and field heptathlon. She is aiming for a spot at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021.    Getting money's the only thing on my resume. I thought I told you. I am a star. You see that ice? You see the cars? Flashy lights everywhere we are. Living life like there is no tomorrow. I thought I told you I am a star. You see the ice? You see the cars? 