 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audi Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Tomorrow the independent minor league baseball team the St. Paul Saints will undergo a kind of religious conversion. For one night they will become the Mr. Paul Aints. They are dropping the Saint and an S creating a secularized version of their name for a game that is sponsored by the Minnesota Atheists. The general manager of the Saints soon to be Aints Derek Sharrer joins me from Midway Stadium in St. Paul. Mr. Sharrer welcome to the program.  Thank you very much for having me Melissa. I appreciate it and we are looking forward to being an Aint for a day I suppose.  For one day - well let us talk about that. This is the second year in a row that you are doing this. It is being billed as a night of unbelievable fun the second coming. So what is the team going to do?  The events for the evening basically will be the usual fun that you get coming to a minor league ball game. Now the Saints very fortunately have been known for being promotionally aggressive I suppose and occasionally walking the line and sometimes being irreverent which I guess in this case is a term that really fits. There will be - hopefully - more runs scored by the Saints - or by the Aints in this case - than the other team. But we will have a different-looking jersey on.  Well tell me about that jersey. You are making entirely new jerseys for this game?  Sure. And this is something that we do on more than just one occasion every year. For example for a military appreciation night oftentimes we will wear a camouflage jersey. Earlier this season we did an event where we promoted the 75th anniversary of the Abbot and Costello Who is On First? bit. And our players actually - the first baseman wore Who and the second baseman wore What and so on and so forth. And the jersey...  Was I Do not Know on third?  I do not know. And they had question marks on their jerseys as opposed to numbers.  Any other atheist-related things that fans might notice at the game tomorrow night?  Actually the promotional activities throughout the night will not be focused on religion or faith or one's lack of faith. What the fun that will be had will be - more around things that people know as being unbelievable. The Loch Ness Monster Sasquatch the yeti. That is really where we - we tend to like to have things layered a bit when we do our promotions. And that will be the approach with the night's activities.  Well the Minnesota Atheists say the fans should not be surprised if they see a doubting Thomas at the stadium questioning calls from the umpires.  That is certainly possible.  Yeah?  Yeah no question there might be a doubting Thomas in the ballpark.  Could that extend to the players? Could they be the doubting Thomases themselves?  Well I think you can almost count on that.  Yeah that is every game right? Not just tomorrow night.  Right.  Well when you did this last year were there any players who were not happy about it who felt that maybe this partnership with the atheists undermines their faith in some way?  You know we addressed that early on. When we initially decided to do the event we went and sat down in the clubhouse with our team and explained what we were doing why we were doing it and how we would approach it. And certainly that this was not the organization taking a stand or making a judgment one way or the other. We are not in a position to do that. We are a baseball team we are an entertainment venue. And I think the players appreciated that. There certainly were players on our team - and there are this year - that faith means a great deal to and that their faith is very important to them. So we wanted to be sure that they were comfortable with what they were doing and what they felt like they would be representing by wearing that jersey. And after having that conversation our players were all onboard.  Well Mr. Sharrer I was just looking at your website  Saints Drop Season-High Fifth Straight Game. You are third out of four in your division. It sounds to me like you could use some inspiration tomorrow night divine inspiration or otherwise.  Yeah let us hope that the losing streak ends tonight on the road because certainly asking for divine intervention on a night of unbelievable fun - probably not the best approach.  Mr. Sharrer good to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Thanks so much for having me.  That is Derek Sharrer. He is general manager of the St. Paul Saints which will become the Mr. Paul Aints for one game tomorrow sponsored by the Minnesota Atheists. 