 Boy it is been an exciting World Cup so far. But I know a lot of Americans do not get that excited about the beautiful game. Often you have to wait a while for some scoring action. If you are one of those impatient types it is OK. For you we have a world-class sport that is fast - and loud.   If the sound of that nitro-methane supercharged engine makes you go all wobbly the National Hot Rod Association has the sport for you. Top fuel dragsters known as Funny Cars accelerate to over 300 miles per hour. Each race lasts just four seconds. This weekend race day is in Joliet Illinois. As NPR's Daniel Hajek reports the driver to beat has been competing for 40 years.  If you have ever wondered what it is like to fire up the engine of a 10000 horsepower Top Fuel Funny Car just ask John Force.  It will blow your ear sockets off.  He is 65 years old and still in the driver's seat. J.  When you hit that throttle you would think an H-bomb just went off. The motor just roars. When that car leaves you are talking 4 to 5 G's space shuttle. It can shake you so hard it can knock you out. You get to the lights foot off that gas shut that engine off parachutes are on.   There is a run.  Look at that. J.  And on a good day you blaze down through there. It is a good day win or lose - better if you win. But if you are alive at the the other end it is a good day.  For as long as John Force can remember he is had a love for cars. He would sneak out of his families cramped beat-up trailer home just to sit in his mom's red Buick Wildcat. J.  The car became your bedroom. You carried your girlfriend's picture on the dash you know your football helmet in the back seat your schoolbooks. At the end of the day cars were a way of life.  The only thing better than sitting in that Buick was racing it. J.  That was the first car I ever went down a racetrack in. And my dad was madder than hell.  But racing was in his blood. And by 1974 he made a career out of it working on his car out of his brother's garage. J.  There would be nights we slept on the shop floor all night long and get up in the morning and go right back to work to fix the car.  And they would use junk parts. That is all they could afford. On race day engines would blow and oil would spill.  The first race I saw him - his car was a ball of fire and his eyebrows were singed off.  That Laurie Force John's wife. L.  Even I looked at him and said maybe you should find something else to do . I did not really have faith in him. I mean he was truly that bad.  But Force convinced her to stick around. She even worked on his crew mixing fuel and packing the car's parachutes. She remembers for nine long seasons Force did not win a single event. L.  I do not think any of us knew what we were doing.  Then in 1986 Force signed a 5000 contract with Castro Oil and everything changed. He started winning. Old ESPN interviews show him climbing out of his car face covered in soot hugging his crew.  J.  Ah God we did it. Are you  me? I did not even think it. I did not - huh? Oh . . We did it. We did it. That is all that matters. I did not even believe it. About 1000 foot she started nosing over I thought what a hunk it as not going to happen. We did it.  From Montreal to Indianapolis Force was unstoppable.  J.  I said put her in the sand. But I never thought she had dug in. That baby dipped on me hooked the nose and what a ride.  John Force consistently the best interview in drag racing.  Force had a new crew chief started setting national records and went on to win an unprecedented 16 world championships. Even his rivals respected his tenacity. Drivers like Cruz Pedragon.  Oh absolutely we have been rivals.  Pedragon recalls his rookie year in 1992 when he actually beat Force.  He was like the boxer on the ropes bloody and one last gasp of hope. He just threw a flurry and was missing like crazy but he was giving it his all you know?  Pedragon says that was especially true the day Force rolled his car on its roof trying to get to the finish line. Post race ESPN interviews show Force's frustration.  J.  This damn thing as not over yet. But I am starting to wonder about it. I am starting to get plenty pissed but we are not down on this damn title.  It was a high-intensity rivalry but Force kept it lighthearted. He had a nickname for Pedragon's McDonald's sponsored car. J.  I called it the hamburger stand from hell.  Despite the jokes drag racing is dangerous. That is the nature of the sport. Force says you never forget the close calls. J.  Motor explodes body can fly. Fire can come up in the cockpit. I have been known to scream a time or two out of fear. Anything can go wrong.  But nothing could prepare him for the race against Kenny Bernstein in Dallas back in 2007. They hit the throttle and at 315 miles per hour Force's rear tire explodes.   And John - whoa whoa whoa big crash. John there is a problem with his car. He comes across. He hits Bernstein. Both cars continue on. John's car is torn well up.  You can hear it in the voices of Paul Paige and Mike Dunn on ESPN. This was the worst crash of Force's career. Laurie Force says doctors did not know if her husband would be able to walk again. L.  In all the years of his racing I do not recall him ever having to go to the hospital. I knew he would had concussion. I knew he would rolled over caught on fire you know all kinds of stuff. But he was always OK until that day.  Force broke all four limbs and burned his hands. After countless surgeries and months of intense rehab he miraculously returned to the track. J.  I was driving with casts on my arms and legs. When I got back in the car I wanted back in that bad. I should get out at my age people say. No reason for me to quit. This is what I do.  And he is made it into a family business. All three of his daughters race too. His youngest 26-year-old Courtney Force won her 100th race last month a first for a female in the sport. As for John Force he is faster than ever. Last month he shattered the national record in Topeka Kansas - 318.84 miles per hour in 4.021 seconds. Daniel Hajek NPR News.   This is NPR News. 