 It is only been two games so we cannot officially call the Miami Dolphins the worst NFL team ever - yet - but it is not too early to wonder. The Dolphins lost their opener 59-10 to the Baltimore Ravens last week. And somehow they looked even worse yesterday losing to the New England Patriots 43-0. Now those are the kind of blowouts you would find maybe in college football but not in the pros where parity is practically mandated. Helping us figure out how things got so bad in South Florida is Greg Cote. He is a longtime sports columnist for the Miami Herald. Hey there. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  So these scores are pretty grim. Do they tell the whole story? I mean we are just two weeks in.  I would say unfortunately they do tell the whole story. I would love to suggest this is an aberration and a blip and that the real Dolphins are going to stand up and start winning. But right now it is hard times.  I want to break down what is happening then because you write that the team owner warned that this would be a kind of rebuilding season. What has that turned out to be?  Well this is a team that really has not been relevant nationally for most of the past 20 years seldom being terrible enough to have the top draft pick but just classic wheel-spinning mediocrity. And I think the franchise finally decided look we need to break this down. We need to accrue a bunch of draft picks in order to get good fast.  So we have got to be really bad in order for us to get the kind of choice we want to be really good.  That is pretty much it. And they do have four first round draft picks over the next two drafts so they are in a position to get a franchise quarterback and to pretty much start being good again I think someday soon.  In the meantime every time the current team takes the field they could be injured - right? - or they could hurt their career in some way. And I gather from your writing some of them may be calling their agents to say get me out of here. What are they supposed to do while this is going on?  Well yeah there have been a couple instances of that. Minkah Fitzpatrick their young defensive back is an example of a guy who is trying to work a trade out of here. You know all they can be is professionals. And in an ideal world maybe some of them see what the club is seeing which is hey it is going to be really rough this season. But beginning next year we are going to start to get a lot better. But it is tough to sell that to players.  I want to ask about Brian Flores. He is the Dolphins first-year head coach who seems to be put in a no-win situation - right - like practically lame duck two games into his career. Is that fair to him especially as a person of color in a league that has a terrible reputation in terms of bringing in black and brown coaches?  No it is not fair to him. But it is his reality. And I think he is dealing with it pretty well. You know he - you know he is a guy who I think feels lucky to have 1 of 32 jobs in America that he wants to do. You know there is only 32...  But will he be blamed for this? You know what I mean. Like you have - your record is everything as a coach.  Yes. But you know the Dolphins are so obviously retooling and rebooting this whole organization that I do not think he is going to catch undue heat for what is happening. I have to think that Brian Flores at the very least would survive this season and be around next year for what they hope is the beginning of the beginning so to speak.  All right. So the word from Greg Cote is it is about to get worse before it gets better Miami.  .  Greg Cote longtime sports columnist for the Miami Herald. Thanks so much.  A pleasure. Thank you. 