 And now the historic moment for Major League Baseball. On Friday and again on Sunday Pat Venditte called up from the minor leagues by Oakland came into page as a major leaguer. Pat Venditte is a switch-picture - that is he can throw either right-handed or left-handed. A few years ago he explained how he became one.   I am a natural right-hander. My dad worked with me and developed my left side. And it took a while to develop but by the time I was in college I could finally see it coming to fruition. And it is what I need to do to pitch at this level because I do not have overpowering stuff from either side so that is an advantage that I need.  It is an advantage because right-handed pitchers do better against right-handed batters and left-handed pitchers do better against left-handed batters. That is why some batters become switch-hitters in baseball - but a switch-pitcher? Emma Span of Sports Illustrated joins us from New York. And Emma Span how unusual is this?  He is a - the first pitcher in you know in anyone's memory who does this on a regular basis.  This is so rare that baseball has to figure out what the rules are governing a pitcher who could conceivably throw left-handed one pitch and right-handed the next. What are the rules and how did they come about?  Well they had to make a rule just for him. It is the Pat Venditte Rule. When he was in A ball on the Staten Island Yankees he faced a switch-batter and they kept going back and forth changing sides. No one could agree on who got priority so the rule now is that the pitcher has to declare which hand he intends to use and then the better can make his decision accordingly. And they are both allowed to switch once during the course of an at-bat.  This actually happened in his first appearance on Friday night. He did face a switch-hitter and it was quite confusing.   He said he is going to throw left-handed.  He said - he just...  Yeah.  ...Gave a little - I am going to throw left-handed.  No he...  He changed. He initially said I am going to throw left-handed and then he said whoa time out. My bad. I am going to throw right-handed.  Well you know it is funny. You would think the umpires would have studied up on this but it is certainly an unusual situation for them or for any of us.  Well obviously being a switch-pitcher you do not go to the dugout and change gloves. He has one glove that he uses whether he is pitching right-handed or left-handed. What kind of a glove is it?  It is a specialty glove. I believe it is made just for him and I think if I am correct I believe that it is imported from Japan.  Yeah. And it has two webs and two thumbs and...  It has two thumbs. And he can you know just switch easily back and forth. It does not take him any longer.  Throwing a baseball seems like a very complicated athletic feat to do with both arms. I gather he is not really that ambidextrous that he does not do anything else with his left hand.  No he is mostly a righty as far as you know writing anything or eating or anything like that. But he is you know trained since he was a little kid as he said. And at this point there is very little difference between his pitching from either side.  You mean in quality he is about as good...  Yeah similar velocity similar control not a - similar motions. He throws the same kind of pitches from either side. It is remarkable.  Well I guess one challenge a player in this situation faces is is he just going to be a novelty or is it a real advantage to the bullpen to have a guy who can face that left-handed pinch-hitter from the left side need be?  Well in theory it is a big advantage not only because obviously he almost always has the advantage in the matchup but also because he can throw twice as many pitches as most pitchers. You know if his right arm is getting worn out you know he can go to his left arm.  That is a fascinating point. If he were a starter - starting pitchers you know usually get a hundred - maximum 120 pitches a game. But if actually 80 of those pitches are right-handed and 30 of them are left-handed you should not be as worn out from doing that.  Right. I mean pitching does involve your full body but it is - most pressure's on the arm. So he can you know throw an inning as a righty throw an inning as a lefty and come back the next day.  On the other hand he could be the first person ever to have two Tommy John surgeries.   Well it is funny he had a right-shoulder injury about three years ago but he was able to keep pitching even while he was rehabbing that right arm with his left arm so he just...  He just became a left-handed pitcher.  Yeah. He did not miss a year.  Emma Span senior editor at Sports Illustrated thanks for talking with us today.  Thanks for having me. 