 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block in Washington.  And I am Madeleine Brand in California. National Football League training camps are open for business and there have been a couple of interesting football stories recently. Quarterback Brett Favre retired again. Quarterback Michael Vick was released from prison. He is looking to play football again so far without much success but the top story well we are going with Twitter. Joining me now is our regular sports commentator Stefan Fatsis. Hi Stefan.  Hey Madeleine.  All right. So let us talk about this Twitter story. NFL teams I guess are having some issues with these tweets?  Yeah. One player's already been fined actually for tweeting from training camp. That is Antonio Cromartie of the San Diego Chargers. God bless him he tweeted that the food at the team' Man we have to have the most nasty food of any team. And he implied that might be why the Chargers have not been in the Super Bowl lately. The team fined him 2500.  1701. And then the Miami Dolphins coach Tony Sparano said he did not know much about Twitter but he banned players from using it at camp anyway.  Oh my gosh. Well it seems pretty innocent to just say oh I do not like the food. Why such a heavy hand here?  Well because this is how NFL teams operate. It is all about control. I saw it when I spent a summer on a national team the Denver Broncos writing a book about the sport. Coaches worry that players will divulge proprietary information about injuries or tactics or that they will give the media something to write about creating what teams hate the most - distractions. But that is not really what it is about. NFL teams are about control. Access to players is limited. Players are told to hold back with reporters. There is needless concern that players will look bad and as a result players come off looking blander than they need to. Many players just hate that. And social media like Twitter allow them to be themselves to humanize themselves and their sport and to portray the reality of life in the NFL in ways that the daily media just cannot do. And that is a good thing but teams instead see this loss of control which in turn is interpreted as a threat to the success of the team.  But you get to the point where you realize or you have to realize that it is really hard to exert total control over something like the Internet right?  It is and the NFL is a league. To its credit the headquarters in New York they have embraced Twitter. They are encouraging players to tweet. They have recommended that teams allow reporters to tweet from training-camp fields but about a dozen of the league's 32 teams have banned or restricted media from tweeting and that is absurd. Reporters yes can and do misinterpret what happens on the playing field but these practice are open to the public. And that some of them fans can tweet and blog but reporters cannot. The bottom line is that yes there are business and image reasons to try to control this information flow. Now though that control is being eroded and teams just do not know what to do.  Okay so let us actually talk about the game itself football and the NFL is thriving but what about the Arena Football League? I hear it is going out of business. What happened?  It is done. And most casual sports fans probably are not aware that the Arena League was around for 22 years. It was a pretty stable business. It had good attendance. It was on TV. It had marquis team owners including the rock star Jon Bon Jovi. But the league was undermined by the fragile economics of smaller sports leagues. The costs were too high. Revenue from TV and sponsorships was just too low. The economy obviously has not helped. The league had called off the 2009 season in hopes of restructuring and coming back in 2010. It could not pull it off.  Okay so that one dies  the United Football League.  Yeah they are going to start playing in October. And I think this league has a chance. It is outdoor football. The idea is to be a feeder league for the NFL. The UFL is being run by ex-NFL executives. The coaches are NFL veterans. They have got a modest business plan with just four teams in Las Vegas Orlando New York and San Francisco. They are just going to play six games this season. A lot of players in this league are going to have meaningful NFL experience. Player contracts are non-binding so if the NFL wants one of these guys they can take him and he will be in game condition because they are playing during the NFL season. Now does that mean this league is going to succeed? The odds are against it in the long run. A lot is going to depend on whether the NFL decides that it wants to have what would amount to a minor league.  Okay Stefan thank you very much.  Thanks Madeleine.  That is Stefan Fatsis. He is the author of the book  A Sportswriter Plays in the NFL. He joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. 