 Over the last 20 years New York Yankees fans have come to rely on one sure thing - the sight of Derek Jeter patrolling the gap between second and third base. Tonight the famous shortstop who is also captain of the team plays his last nine innings at Yankee Stadium. Jim O'Grady of member station WNYC has more on why Yankee fans are having such a tough time letting Jeter go. JIM O' There are three major life events for an acolyte of Jeter. The first comes at 2 years old when you are wearing pinstripe pajamas and watching a Yankee game on TV.   Who is that?  Derek Jeter. Derek Jeter. O' Then you grow up. And before you know it you are in the bleachers.   Derek Jeter. Derek Jeter.   Derek Jeter. Derek Jeter. O' Along the way there are moments of mature reflection. Is he a hero?  Yes he is. O' That is 12-year-old Sophie Hinds. What makes him a hero? He is just a baseball player.  Well he is kind of legendary in a way because he is made like 3000 hits. And it is also his personality because he is always so happy and he is so nice. And he is like such a good team player. And he is been around for so long and I am going to really miss him. And he is a hero. O' That is the problem with Jeter's retirement. It brings the gloomy news that he will not always be with us. Jane Leavy an author who is written biographies of Sandy Koufax and Mickey Mantle says the end was foreshadowed as far back as 2003 when Jeter landed on the disabled list after dislocating his shoulder in a collision at third base.  That was so shocking 'ecause Derek Jeter was never gone. And I think that will be the thing next year that will be so shocking is oh my God. He is not there. O' Jeter has been preparing the faithful. He announced his retirement seven months ahead of time. And in a recent Gatorade commercial he enacts a fantasy version of a last ride to the stadium where to the strains of Frank Sinatra he tells his chauffeur to stop the car on the way.   You know what? I will walk from here. O' The black and white ad shows him mingling with the people of the Bronx healing the sick raising the dead - not really but that is the feeling you get while watching fans approach and quaver in his presence. Baseball writer Leavy says do not underestimate Jeter's mastery of his own Olympian image.  That he is managed to control the conversation about him is as much of an accomplishment in this you know media-saturated world as anything he is ever done on a baseball field. O' On the baseball field he is shown a rare athletic quality.  Maybe he - it comes from God to seize the moment the clutch hit the home run when it is absolutely necessary the diving catch in the stands the crazy play in Oakland. O' The crazy play in Oakland is famous. New York Times sportswriter George Vecsey repeats a question a lot of fans had after watching it in 2001.  Did I just see that or you know - what is he doing there? O' It is late in a crucial playoff game and the Yankees have one run lead. Jeremy Giambi of the Oakland A's is on first with two outs. An A's hitter cracks a double down the right-field line and Giambi tries to reach him from first base. Vecsey recalls what happens next.  Single to right runner coming around third - here comes Giambi. He is going to score. Oh...   Derek Jeter with one of the most unbelievable plays you will ever see by a shortstop. O' It is almost dreamlike. Jeter materializes far from his normal shortstop position in first base foul territory.  What is he doing there? O' In one motion he grabs a bad throw from the outfield twists his body on the run and flips the ball to the catcher who tags out Giambi saving the game.   What an unbelievable play Jeter. O' Grizzled baseball guys say they have never seen anything like it before or since. But here's the thing for all the plays singularity the Yankees had practiced it in spring training. In other words Jeter was doing what he was supposed to be doing. And if Jeter's career has shown anything it is that utter reliability has a strangeness about it. And it has beauty. And among those who witness it it can breed devotion. And when Jeter retires that is what they will miss. For NPR News I am Jim O'Grady. 