 If you are a sports fan you might know about that dark cloud that is hanging over the NFL season. That would be the upcoming lockout that is a possibility. This NFL season has just gotten underway but next season the stadiums could all go dark due to a battle between owners and the players union. If you are a fan Sundays well you would suddenly have a lot of free time to fill. The issue as always is money. And so far things look pretty bad. Neither side will budge. Both are preparing for the first work stoppage in more than two decades. And joining us to talk about the looming labor apocalypse is Peter King. He is the senior football writer for Sports Illustrated. Peter welcome. Mr.  Glad to be here. Thank you.  So am I painting too gloomy a picture? How bad do things look going into next year? Mr.  Oh I dont think you are painting a gloomy enough picture.  Wow. Mr.  Because I think the odds are very good that next March the owners will lock the players out if there is indeed still a players union. The union right now is using an old trick that it used in a past labor beef with the owners. And that is they are voting team by team to decertify the union which means that there literally by the end of this season will not be a union for the owners to lock out. And so then that will supposedly force bargaining to accelerate. I mean as of right now the biggest problem is that I dont think there is going to be any true real progress until next summer because there is no danger of missing any games until then.  Give us the league's perspective. I mean why the threats that they might shut things down next year? Mr.  Well the league's perspective very simply is that you know over the last decade-plus the owners in this league have bore the brunt of about 21 new stadiums or hugely refurbished stadiums. What the owners want to do is they basically want a 1 billion credit from the players to say that in essence we have invested all of this money in these stadiums and you need to help us. You know we need to take some of the money that we put and we divide between players and owners and give it all to the owners just because you are benefiting from all these new stadiums too. And the players say hey in no sport in history has the rank and file had to pay for the stadiums. And we are not about to start doing it.  And I know one of the arguments of the players is you know maybe we will talk about this but we dont believe you unless you open the books and show us that you really need this money. Mr.  Right.  Why are the teams reluctant to actually just you know show them the books and say this is what we are facing? Mr.  I think thats a great question. And I think part of the reason is that some of the owners are hesitant to expose both their personal wealth and to expose how much money they might actually be making in money that isnt shared with the players.  Some of these rich owners who if things are exposed the players would say well there is some money there you could spend on your own to take care of this problem. Mr.  Absolutely and because theyve never had to before and they dont want to set the precedent of opening their books to the players.  Let me ask you this Peter. I mean both sides are planning for the possibility of a lockout to the dismay of some fans. Dont both sides have to see how angry fans were though in Major League Baseball the National Hockey league when those leagues lost a year to labor strife? I mean... Mr.  No question. I mean look I think it is beyond absurd that it may come to a lockout may come to a job action that some games may be missed when you consider that so far this year the television ratings are unprecedentedly high. People love this game. And not only that but at a time when the economy in the United States is suffering so much people need a cheap date. The NFL is as important - I have covered the NFL for 27 years it is always been hugely popular - but I think it is as important or more important that it ever has been. And I think you know a pox on both their houses if it gets to a job action that curtails the 2011 season.  Well Peter get your popcorn popping and enjoy the games this weekend. Mr.  Hey my pleasure. Thanks for having me.  Peter King he is the senior football writer for Sports Illustrated. 