 As we just heard the Americans were spectacular today on the vault. We are going to take some time to break down the fundamentals of that event and who better to explain it than gymnastics coaching legend Bela Karolyi who talked to us before the Olympics began.  What makes the vault so spectacular is because it is a very athletic type of event where it needs a lot of speed a lot of explosive action and of course great coordination.  So help walk me through the vault here. I know it starts with a run.  Well that is a major major element of the successful vault is the run. It is about 30 to 35 38 feet long distance. Some of them make it longer some of them make it shorter. That is up to the athletes. Next is the take off from the vaulting board which is extremely important and is different based on the different kind of vault. Next would be the repulsion followed with a big air phase the fly phase. Now that is the time that the athletes are performing the amazing skills with twisting motion in it and with flipping motion in it.  And this is in the post-flight part right?  That is called the post-flight yes. That is the second fly and actually the most important part of the vault. And finally obviously is the landing. So no movement no additional motion just a straight and solid landing.  And what is interesting about this landing is that you are taking a body that has been in full motion right? I mean you have really...  Right.  ...built up so much speed coming down that essentially runway launched yourself off of the table or the horse as people still call it and you are supposed to come to almost a full stop. What do you have to do to your body to make that happen?  You have to have a very very perfectly developed sense of the landing motion and you just point it out as perfectly right. The body is in a huge speed and you have to reduce that to zero that speed. This is not easy. This is probably the most difficult part. So it is a perfect alignment body alignment with the perfect takeoff with a perfect fly phase and a perfect landing would make a McKayla Maroney type of one.  And you mention McKayla but it is interesting Mary Lou Retton capped off a great 1984 Olympics with a vault performance and in 1996 you had Kerri Strug with her performance at the Atlanta Olympics also the vault being kind of the pivotal moment that people remember from it.  I think you are perfectly right. Mary Lou introduced the perfect landing into the vaulting event and of course you know she created the sensation of performance during the 1984 Olympic Games.   Oh boy.   Yes! She has  the best .  Winning not just the vaulting event but winning the all around Olympic medal gold medal.   There it is!  She did it!  There came the gold medal. The gold medal goes to Mary Lou Retton.  Oh!  Kerri also showed an amazing amazing performance.   She is the last to go and she is the only one who can do it.  Landing on one foot and making almost perfect landing.   Good! Good!   Kerri Strug is hurt. She is hurt badly.  With an injured foot situation.   We have got to find out if she - 9.792. She has done it!  And also anchoring the gold with it for the United States Olympic Team.   Tonight she was there for Bela for her team for her country and for herself.  And lastly Bela Karolyi I wonder about the mental element of this. How much of the vault is not physical?  Oh a good 80 percent of the vault is still physical and another percentage of it 20 25 percent is mental. Mental is always the mental strength the confidence building up to that contest or repetition practice practice and practice. But still - still a strong mind the athlete is always capable to even squeeze a more perfect vault out of the performance rather than a younger athlete who has not mastered yet the vault properly.  Coach Bela Karolyi thank you for explaining this to us.  You very welcome.  Bela Karolyi once the coach for Mary Lou Retton and Kerri Strug and many other celebrated gymnasts. He was breaking down the explosive Olympics event the vault. 