 So what are the rules on foot faults and when does a line judge call them? Jeff Ponder is a former line judge with the U.S. Tennis Association. And he joins us now. Mr. Ponder what is the rule? What is a foot fault exactly? Mr.  Well the rule is that you cannot in the motion serves step on the line. There is the base line that is in the back of the court and that you basically stand behind. And you cannot touch with any part of your foot.  It is not a matter of going over it you cannot even touch it. Mr.  You cannot even touch it.  While you are serving. Mr.  Right.  Well you have seen the footage of the match in question. Did Serena Williams commit a foot fault do you think? Mr.  You cannot tell from the angle on the TV if it is - she is stepping on the line you can possibly see it. But that angle that they shot there was just no way to tell.  And from where the line judge is sitting did she have a good view of it do you think? Mr.  Yes. And she would have known. Absolutely.  Well I guess there is a separate question beyond whether it was a foot fault.  Do you call it at that point of the match knowing that that would give the match to the other player? Mr.  Your thought from day one when you are - when you become a lines umpire - line umpire that you call foot faults and it is just part of your training.  You would have done the same thing. You would have called it. Mr.  I would have called it yes. You know the other thing is it is built into your psyche. It is part of the game. It is part of what you do. Sometimes you may forget where you are or the moment. But I still think that it is a rule. It has to be upheld and unfortunately it was called or you know it happened.  I gather foot faults are not reviewable under U.S. TA rules right? You cannot challenge that. Mr.  There is no camera. There is nothing on that they can review. No.  Do you think that might change now? Mr.  Absolutely. It probably could.  You know I did read this on a blog. Bruce Jenkins' blogging for the San Francisco Chronicles says the big story is a lineswoman who torched the U.S. Open and gets to skate without her name being revealed. He says Bruce Jenkins says she should be barred from working at all future U.S. Open events. Do you think that the lineswoman bears some responsibility here at least for that we should know who she is - what her name is? Mr.  No. She was doing her job. It does not make any difference who she is. No it does not. Anybody who is at that level who is at a semifinal match of the Women's U.S. Open is a very very qualified umpire and should be there.  What kind of training would she have had? Mr.  To be at that level you have to put in days and days and years and years of on-court training to be at that level.  You have been a line judge for the U.S. Open for a number of years I gather before you retired. You have been on the court with Serena Williams right? Mr.  Yes  And did her response over the weekend surprise you? Mr.  She is always been very even tempered to me. And - but she does have a tendency to foot fault and she knows it - I mean most of us know it. But it is part of her game. She should have changed it probably a few years ago or maybe just stepping back a little bit but I have never had any problems with Serena. She is always been - on the matches that I have done which has been several. She is always been very polite and like I said very even tempered. But like I said before it is a rule and you know if the line umpire sees it it is her job to call it.  Well Jeff Ponder thanks very much for talking with us. Mr.  You are welcome.  Jeff Ponder is a former line judge with the U.S. Tennis Association. He has officiated at seven U.S. Opens. 