 Tonight in Oakland Calif. the Golden State Warriors host game one of the NBA Finals against the defending champion Cleveland Cavaliers. The teams are meeting in the finals for a third straight year. That is a first for the NBA. And there is a unique situation on Golden State's bench. As NPR's Tom Goldman reports the Warriors are trying to avenge last year's loss to Cleveland without their ailing head coach.  Depending on how these finals shakeout two days last July will loom large. July 7 2016 - of course that is the day the Warriors signed 6-foot-11 all-star Kevin Durant. The day before with less fanfare Golden State announced the hiring of Mike Brown as an assistant coach. An important part of Brown's resume - significant head coaching experience. Ironically he coached Cleveland and a young LeBron James in the 2007 NBA Finals. The experience became essential a little over a month ago.   Tomorrow I will not coach. And you know hopefully we can find some things to help over the next few days and I will get back out there.  Golden State head coach Steve Kerr has not coached since that announcement in late April. Kerr still is battling symptoms from a spinal fluid leak that happened after routine back surgery in 2015. And now the ultimate frustration - his health will keep him off the bench against those dastardly Cavs who came back to win last year's title after falling in a three-games-to-one hole. Mike Brown took over early in these playoffs. Since then the Warriors have won 10 lost none and still are favored to beat Cleveland for the title.   He already got four of them.  I know.  Yesterday was a combined practice and media day at Oakland's Oracle Arena. The Cavs at least publicly were not counting Kerr's absence as an advantage.  I think that the foundation that he is laid on that team and the influence that he is had on that team stays with them.  Iman Shumpert is a guard for the Cavaliers.  We are not headed into this thinking that they are missing out on their X's and O's.  Golden State Guard Shaun Livingston confirmed - the Warriors with Mike Brown on the bench are not missing out when it comes to the nitty gritty of coaching.  Yeah. I think he is done a great job making play calls and substitutions. And you know I think we are getting more and more comfortable with him. And it helps to win right? It helps to win.  But Cleveland will be Golden State's toughest postseason competition by far. And as well as Mike Brown's done as respected as he is by players and coaches on both teams Steve Kerr would come in real handy on the bench in a close intense Finals. Golden State assistant coach Ron Adams calls Kerr a special leader.  Who is a very mindful person who has the ability to not overuse language get to his point and I think he is a very calming influence to our team. He always has been. This is his strength.  Kerr obviously knows how to win too. As a head coach in 2015 and as a great shooting reserve guard he collected five championship rings. Now he is in a weird situation where he is kind of a reserve head coach. But certainly it is nothing to dwell on. Kerr says he does not want to become a distraction during the Finals. He will try to mend and see if he can coach at some point during the series. Mike Brown says he is open to anything.   Hey at the end of the day this is his team. He is the head coach and I am just doing my job.  If Kerr does not coach he will still be in the locker room talking to players talking to Brown and doing everything he can without a suit a tie and a clipboard to make Golden State a champion again. Tom Goldman NPR News Oakland. 