 In Brazil it was illegal for women to play professional soccer until 1979. Perhaps that is why women's football as it is known in Brazil has never really caught on. That may have changed with these Olympics as NPR's Lulu Garcia-Navarro reports from Rio.   I am standing outside the famous Maracana Stadium and there are thousands and thousands of Brazilians here wearing their yellow and green jerseys. Now this is not an unusual sight. This is football's Mecca but there is something different about today.  It is good to see that people are seeing that women can also be good football players and it is amazing how we are valuing this right now.  That is Joao Paulo Goncalves and he is here to see Brazil's women's team in the semifinal. You know it is amazing. It is - we are here. It is absolutely packed. People are waiting in line. There is such a feeling of support and pride.  Society is evolving and I think they deserve this. They work as hard as men so why should not we cheer for them and be here for them? And Brazilians love football so why not love women's football too?  Why not indeed. But it has not been the case. There is still a strong stigma attached to playing the sport here. Young soccer-playing girls are often harassed.  .  But yesterday the Maracana was packed full of almost 70000 fans to watch the women's team play. Rosalia Araujo and her husband Jose Antonio were among the crowd. This was the first time they would ever seen a woman's match live.  .  I came to support our women's team she says because they are doing beautifully. I think things are changing. We never had the culture to watch women's sports on TV here but I think after these Olympics it will be more valued she says. The fact is one of Brazil's greatest footballers ever is a woman. Marta Vieira da Silva was named FIFA World Player of the Year a record five consecutive times. But she is really only gotten love outside Brazil. She was on the field yesterday.  .  The woman seated behind me could not stop shouting her name. Jose Trajano is a well-known Brazilian soccer commentator for ESPN Brazil. He is been covering the sport for decades but he was not swept away by the energy and the number of fans at the stadium. He says he thinks Brazilians will forget about female football once the Olympics are over.  .  Maybe because Brazilians are sexist he says. Most of the best female players are on teams outside Brazil so they can survive. If not they die of hunger he says. During these Olympics he tells me this team managed to win Brazilian hearts. But because you do not have championships here the press does not write much about female football and the TV does not show many matches the enthusiasm will wane he predicts. The match between Sweden and Brazil ended in a draw and was won on penalty kicks. The final score was 4-3 and Brazil lost. It will play for the bronze Friday. One of the top female strikers in the history of the Olympics Cristiane Rozeira Silva was interviewed on TV Globo after the defeat.   .  The presenter asks her what has to happen for women's soccer to get better in Brazil. Cristiane responds by making a face and then she says we lose and then people will think I am making an excuse because oh girls are saying that we need more support. But to make a difference she says it does have to start at the bottom in the schools. Win or lose female soccer has to be given follow up she says. She now goes back to play for her team in France but a lot of little girls have seen her on TV playing in these Olympics and that could make all the difference. Lulu Garcia-Navarro NPR News Rio de Janeiro. 