 The NBA Finals have shifted to Cleveland for tonight's Game 3 between the Cavaliers and the Golden State Warriors. Golden State leads two games to none. For Warriors reserve guard Quinn Cook it is a homecoming of sorts. He started his professional career in Ohio. It was a start he never imagined. He was a star in college. He had to grind through pro basketball's minor league. And now he is on the brink of winning an NBA title. NPR's Tom Goldman reports.  With a few minutes left in Game 2 of the finals the other night something unremarkable happened.   Golden State's Quinn Cook scored. The game already was decided. The bench players were on the court - unremarkable. Yet Quinn Cook wearing a Warrior's uniform playing and scoring in the NBA Finals - kind of amazing for those who would followed his story which we did two years ago on the NPR podcast Embedded.   So for the 2015 draft there is this player named Quinn Cook. And he is sure he is going to get called in the second round.  Embedded host Kelly McEvers described how Cook helped Duke win the NCAA title. And then a couple of months later he held a watch party for the NBA draft. But he did not get picked and the hope for celebration did not happen.   I thanked everybody who came - about 20 people that came. And my mom knew I was about to break down. I went outside broke down in my brother's car. And it was painful.  Three of his fellow Duke teammates were drafted in the first round. Cook headed for the Canton Charge a team in the NBA's minor league. It is where talented but not-ready-for-primetime players go hoping it is a step to the NBA. My NPR colleague Uri Berliner and I followed the Charge and Cook for an entire season. Early on Cook said he resented having to go this route. But he learned to embrace it and was named rookie of the year. In our final interview from that 2016 season Cook reflected on his success and the fact that it still did not lead to a coveted NBA call-up.   It is been the story of my whole life. It is just my size or - I do not know. I just always was overlooked growing up. You know that is what my agent was telling me. I mean you have had this happen before. You have just got to go to work and show everybody that you belong in the NBA.  After a second successful minor league season Cook stutter-stepped his way toward the NBA signed and cut by New Orleans Dallas New Orleans again Atlanta. Then last October he signed a contract with Golden State that tied him exclusively to the Warriors' minor league team while allowing a limited number of appearances with the NBA club. But when Golden State superstar guard Steph Curry was injured late in the regular season Cook's appearances became frequent.   Quinn Cook continues his fine play with a new career high - 30 for Quinn Cook.  Basketball underlings are told to make the most of their minutes when they get them. Cook scored in double figures 14 straight games right before the playoffs. It prompted this from head coach Steve Kerr.   He is a guy. He is an NBA guy. So we are lucky to have him.  The proof came in April when the Warriors signed Cook to a two-year contract.  What is up man?  Good to see you.  Good to see you as well.  Mr. Warrior .  Yeah man.  I meet with Cook for the first time since 2016 on NBA Finals Media Day where he is handling his duties like a veteran.  Come on just give me a on your Cartoon Network.  On your Cartoon Network.  Awesome. Thanks man.  Appreciate it.  As seasoned as he sounds Cook admits he is still having pinch-me moments.  You know I can tell you who is been in the NBA Finals since '89 probably '90. So to be here it is a dream come true. But you know I just do not want to be here. I want to win.  And despite the tearful draft night three years ago and the roller coaster ride since then Cook says actually he is glad it went the way it did.  I am happy you know I had to wait that long and really you know push myself even harder. You know I knew there would be a time like I told you you know back then that I just had to wait my turn. It was not my turn yet. And you know I finally got you know the right opportunity the right situation. I took full advantage. And just being here on this team just learning so much from these guys you can do nothing but get better.  The postseason learning curve has been steep at times. In the Western Conference Finals against Houston Cook missed a potential game-winning shot at a crucial moment in what turned out to be a Golden State loss. In the finals he is played a total of three minutes in two games. But you have a sense if there are more opportunities to play and to make an impact he will be prepared because Quinn Cook is nothing if not ready. Tom Goldman NPR News. 