 All right. During the World Cup most people are watching for goals dramatic saves maybe even a well-executed offside trap. But the fashion - that is Simon Doonan's obsession. For years Doonan has been following what soccer players have been doing with their hair their clothes their skin their shoes the fashion statements they make on and off the field. He is written a whole book about it. To Doonan watching the World Cup is about watching some of the most fashionable men in the world strut their stuff. And Simon Doonan joins us now to talk about what he is been noticing in this year's tournament. Hey there.  Thanks for having me.  All right. So forget about athletic ability. Let us just put that aside. I want to know who you are noticing in soccer now and why.  Well there are so many players who are obsessed with style and in my book I have divided them into different tribes. There are what I call the label kings like Cristiano Ronaldo who sleeps under an Hermes blanket on his plane. Then there is what I call the psychedelic ninjas.  What is that?  They are the most avant-garde crazy players like Neymar Dani Alves Firmino Pogba. They have outrageously complicated haircuts lots of ink. Third we have the hired assassins.  Whoa.  And they dress super tough lots of black a black hoodie skinny ripped jeans a perfectly white sneaker that is almost sinister it is so white. And they look like hitmen.  Because we always know hitmen wear bright white sneakers.  Exactly. And then there are the good taste ambassadors players who want to look pulled together and competent like they are ready to become a manager. This often is players later in their career. Lastly we have the bohemians and fauxhemians. It is a growing group of hipsters who have beards and we see it a lot in America at the MLS. The Portland Timbers - they are very crunchy and they have beards and they - you know they serve tofu sandwiches at the pitch and stuff like that.  Right . OK so a lot of those categories are based on what these guys wear off the field but what about style on the field? I mean because they have to wear uniforms during the game how do these guys show some of their flair anyway?  Well they find a way. Believe me. I mean their lives are very tightly controlled by managers and the managers do not like these bursts of flamboyance. And they try and inhibit it as much as they can. On one notable occasion Alex Ferguson made David Beckham go back to the changing room and shave off his Mohawk because he thought it was just not right for Wembley.  Wow - not because it would interfere with Beckham's ability to play.  No. These things become a distraction especially in the era of social media. So the managers try and inhibit it but the players find a way.  Have there been any looks that we are going to see selling out in stores because of this World Cup?  Well obviously the Nigeria shirt already sold out. That became the hip signifier of the 2018 World Cup. Around the world people snagged that Nigeria shirt. It is really colorful great brilliant. And then of course we have Gareth Southgate the manager of England the guy in the vest.  Oh like a button-down kind of vest.  Well you know a three-piece suit has a little vest under it and he is taken off the jacket and he is just wearing the vest and it is a very pulled together great look which has now in this tournament become completely iconic. And all over England there are tailors frantically stitching away at vests to produce enough because it is going to be the new look. But it is a risk too because if England were not doing well then everybody would say well the reason is him wearing that dopey vest. But now England is doing so well they are like oh...  It is got to be the vest.  ...That vest is a talisman.  .  You know it is funny. Soccer is a very superstitious sport.  All right. Simon Doonan is the author of the book  The Magic And Madness. He is also a creative ambassador for Barneys. Thank you very much.  Thank you so much for having me. 