 At the U.S. Open Tennis Tournament the widest smile these days belongs to a 17-year-old American player who seems to have come from nowhere Melanie Oudin. Oudin has vanquished four Russian players to advance to the quarterfinals. She is the youngest woman to do so since Serena Williams in 1999. Here she is after she knocked off the 12th seed Nadia Petrova yesterday. Ms.  You know it is kind of hard to explain how I have done it. It is - we play - there are no fears because I believed that I could do it and that is like now I know that I do belong here and this is what I want to do. And I can compete with these girls no matter who I am playing you know. I have a chance against anyone.  Melanie Oudin has been dazzling tennis fans at the U.S. Open with her grit and flair and speed across the court. Former tennis pro Mary Jo Fernandez has been watching and doing television commentary at the Open. She joins us from Arthur Ashe Stadium at Flushing Meadows. And Ms. Fernandez when you watch Melanie Oudin play what are you seeing in this 17-year-old girl? Ms.  Oh I am seeing so much grit so much tenacity a huge fighting spirit. It is just been outstanding and really she is become America's sweetheart overnight.  She is from Marietta Georgia. She is playing with a taped-up thigh. Her opponents - a lot of them are towering over her - she is only 5'6 - but that has not held her back in any way. Ms.  No it sure does not. I mean one of the things that stands out with Melanie is her attitude to me. She comes to play no matter who is on the other side of the court and she can do a lot of things out there you know. People who are watching her and they say wow she is really quick. Well she is got variety. She is got a one-handed backhand. She can slice sometimes the two-handed is very solid but the forehand is quite the powerful shot and the one that she looks to hit.  She also has a huge advantage. The crowd is so much behind her. She is getting standing ovations. She is clearly got them won over. Ms.  Yes. The crowd has totally embraced Melanie and it is hard not to. I mean she is quite the personality. She shows her emotions. She pumps her fists. And she is become an overnight sensation and they love her here.  It looks like every time she wins a point you can see her saying come on right after it when she is got it. Ms.  Yeah I know it is great because you like to see that. I mean as a fan and as a viewer you want to get involved in the match and she really allows you to do that because you almost feel like you are playing every point with her.  You know she now apparently has to have security guards with her as she moves around New York. Mary Joe Fernandez you know very well what it is like to be a young player on a very big stage. Do you have any advice for Melanie Oudin? Ms.  Well the most important thing is to keep every thing in perspective and I think she is got a really good head on her shoulders. She is got good family and friends around her. But you know it is tough in the beginning and she has gone from walking down the streets and no one recognizing her to now she does have to walk with security around the U.S. Open because everybody wants her autograph wants to take a picture with her so life has changed. But I think she is not going to change which is the most important thing.  Can you imagine an all-American Women's Finals Serena Williams against Melanie Oudin? Ms.  That would be outstanding and I can imagine it. She is got a long way to go but the matches in the top half of the draw are winnable matches. She plays another young teenager in Wozniacki from Denmark who is playing in her first quarterfinal match at a major. So it is going to be tough but you know Melanie has proven that nothing is impossible and we will just have to see but that would be a dream come true for sure.  And they have been playing the Beatle song I Saw Her Standing There  she was just 17 after her matches. Ms.  Yes very cute very appropriate. And you know nowadays it is funny you know we have gone from seeing so many young stars to really now it is more of the veterans doing well and to have a teenager getting through to the quarterfinals from our country really gives us a boost and I think hopefully it will inspire many more to come.  Mary Joe Fernandez thanks so much. Ms.  You are welcome.  Mary Joe Fernandez is a former professional tennis player and a TV commentator for the U.S. Open.  Mr.   Well she was just 17 you know what I mean and the way she looked was way beyond compare. So how could I dance with another? Ooh.   Your letters and a story about a word that is migrated from an insult to obscenity. That is ahead on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 