 This afternoon in the Bronx Yankees slugger Alex Rodriguez finally did it.  Swung on. A hit in the air to deep center. It is high. It is far. It is gone.   He is done it. Alex Rodriguez hits into Monument Park. He is...  Mike it was almost two weeks between numbers 599 and 600. Were Yankees fans getting a bit impatient?  Yankee fans impatient?   These daughters and sons of Steinbrenner?   I think Yankee fans are born impatient and those that are not have it thrust upon them. And yeah 12 games - this 12-game drought it is not really a drought if you go through the numbers. Rodriguez's best season in terms of home runs was 2002. In that season he went 14 homerless games. He won the MVP Award in 2003. He went 13 homerless games in that season.  I mean a home run is a difficult thing. I know A-Rod has 600 of them but you cannot call not hitting one a failure. Well I guess you can...  If you are the New York Post you can.   Well of course this is a big day but the reaction to this accomplishment is perhaps somewhat muted because A-Rod has admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs. Will this always carry an asterisk?  But there was never this time when the fans could somehow come to terms with what the steroid era means. And so it plays itself out I think subconsciously with a lot of fans. You just withhold your enthusiasm and it is kind of a sad thing because baseball is supposed to have this great connection to the past. And when someone hits 600 home runs and you know joins the names of Aaron and Ruth and Mays it is supposed to be an amazing thing but it is bittersweet in some ways.  As we said Rodriguez is the youngest man to join the 600 home run club. He is got a lot of years ahead of him. Will he hit 700 maybe 800 in his career?  I think Alex Rodriguez certainly will hit 700 home runs if he stays relatively healthy. It took him three years to the day between 500 and 600. So at that pace maybe when he is about 37 maybe 38 allowing for a slowdown he will get to 700. And then at that point he is got a lot to play for because there is Babe Ruth at 714 and Hank Aaron at 755 and the all-time home run title would be Barry Bonds holds it now at 762. So if he is healthy enough to do it he has every incentive to stick around try to become the home run king.  Mike I got to let you go but anyone else likely to join this elite club anytime soon?  Yes soon Jim Thome who plays for the Twins now should join it. And then right below him among active players with 554 home runs is Manny Ramirez. We are going to have the same kind of debates because Manny Ramirez was suspended for using illegal substances did not just admit it actually missed time. So that'ill be a fun occasion when he comes close to 600.  Mike always good to talk to you.  My pleasure.  That is NPR's Mike Pesca from New York. 