 And finally this hour joy in Pittsburgh as the Pirates have clinched a spot in the postseason for the first time in 21 years. The Pirates beat the Chicago Cubs last night 2-1 while the Washington Nationals lost to St. Louis in a bid for the wildcard slot. To check in on how the Steel City is celebrating I am joined by Jerry Micco. He is assistant managing editor for sports with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Jerry welcome to the program and congratulations.  Well thank you Melissa. Much appreciated. Glad to be here.  Well how much is Pittsburgh celebrating the first time you have a playoff berth was 1992?  You know there is not an open celebration kind of thing. I think there are two reasons for that. One the game was won last night late in Chicago. So what you have is kind of what I call a 2013 celebration. Social media just blew up with this.   This is the way we celebrate now. It is like you know in 140 characters I know because I was in the middle of it doing some stuff. So that is how we celebrate. But you know around town and just talking to people at work and driving uptown to come here to the studio there is a little more spring in the step. I think Pittsburgh people are very proud of not only where they are from but their sports teams. And about 10 days ago or so they clinched a winning season for the first time in 20 years. That was a big deal to a lot of people. They finally got over the hump. It is not just not making the playoffs for 21 years and they had not had a winning season in 20 years.  And that is really something to think about yeah.  Well when you think about it that is an exercise in futility to put you out of breath just thinking about it. And then they make the playoff I think they kind of knew at some point they would probably make the playoffs and last night was a big deal. And I think people are very proud. And I think you are feeling a lot of that in Pittsburgh today.  Well you mentioned social media and this is what is splashed all over the Pirates'  Welcome to Buctober meaning Buccos or Bucs the nickname for the Pirates. But what is the reality at check here? I mean if you think back to 1992 the last time the Pirates made the postseason what happened?  Well it was of course a disastrous play at home plate when the Braves scored three runs in the bottom of the ninth to eliminate the Pirates from postseason keeping them away from a World Series. And people always remember that. Of course the irony here is last night the Pirates clinched a playoff spot by getting a play at the plate and getting a Cubs runner John Schierholtz out. So that moment - and I always call it the curse of Barry Bonds because of course Barry Bonds after that '92 season left to go play in San Francisco and they have not won since Barry left. Now of course they have this year so that curse is broken. But that was devastating in '92. I know to a lot of Pirates fans. A lot of people I think including myself thought the Pirates would go to a World Series that year.  Well is it enough for fans to have made the postseason? I mean it could go one of two ways right? You either play in the one-game wildcard playoff or if the stars align in the next - in the remaining regular season games you could actually avoid the playoff and go right to the division series. So what do you think happens from here?  Well I think the latter is more of a Halley's Comet kind of thing. I think there is like a 2 percent chance they could win the division even though they are only a couple of games out. I think what is going to happen is a one-game playoff. It will probably be with the Cincinnati Reds who were bitter rivals of the Pirates back in the '70s when both teams were very good and they would both often play in the postseason. The Pirates have a bitter loss in a final game in a series to Cincinnati in the playoffs too. A wild pitch by the late Bob Moose a pitcher for the Pirates allowed the Reds to win that game. I think that is probably going to happen. I think now what they are playing for is to get that one game at PNC Park here in Pittsburgh because home field - you always want home field if you can get it.  Well Jerry enjoy the postseason for however long it lasts for the Pirates. Appreciate it. Thanks for talking with us.  My pleasure.  That is Jerry Micco of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. We were talking about the Pirates making the playoffs for the first time in 21 years.   You can follow all of us here at ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on Twitter. Our co-host Audie Cornish is npraudie. I am Robert Siegel rsiegel47.  And I am Melissa Block nprmelissablock. This is ALL in the Twitterverse as npratc.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 