 For football fans the wait is over. The NFL season gets underway tonight in Green Bay Wisconsin at Lambeau Field where the defending Super Bowl champion Packers are hosting the New Orleans Saints the previous Super Bowl champs. To talk about the first game of the year and the season ahead we are joined by NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman. And Tom the Green Bay Packers are entering the season as the reigning champs as we say. What are their chances of repeating?  Well I think pretty good. Everyone is afraid to pick the Packers because it is so hard to repeat as a Super Bowl winner. It is only happened once in the last dozen years. But Green Bay won the Super Bowl last season after losing two key offensive players to injury for much of the season.  running back Ryan Grant tight end Jermichael Finley. They are back. They are healthy. Aaron Rodgers is a great quarterback. They have a strong defense. What is not to like Melissa?   I do not know. Tom you mentioned injury to offensive players and that brings us to the Indianapolis Colts. They are starting their season without their superstar quarterback Peyton Manning. He went in today for neck surgery. How badly is he hurt?  Yeah. He did. That is kind of shocking late-breaking news today. He had surgery in late May to repair a bulging disc in his neck and as you say he went in today for his third surgery in the last 19 months. He had what is described as a single level anterior fusion which means they took out the damaged disc to relieve pressure on a nerve and then they filled in the space where the disc was with bone from another part of the body. Now the team says he should be able to fully resume his career but that rehab is typically an involved process. The Colts are not estimating when he will be back. They are going to keep him on the active roster until they have a clear picture of his recovery process. But really Melissa Peyton Manning is the Indianapolis Colts so suddenly 2011 looking like a very challenging year to say the least.  Tom there are going to be some changes to the game on the field this year including the kickoffs. What is happening?  Well yeah. The most visible change is moving the kickoffs up from the 30 to the 35 yard line. This means more kickoffs will go into the end zone preventing run-backs. And the NFL thinks running the ball back and teams covering those run-backs it is become too dangerous. Now this is part of the League's push since last year to make the game safer for players prompted of course in large part by the recent publicity about the effects of head injury in football. This off-season the League tightened rules even more to protect players. The NFL threatened to but did not suspend anyone last year. Officials vow to do that this season with guys who break the rules especially so-called repeat offenders.  But Tom if the changes that you are talking about are designed to make the game safer for players prevent head injury for example why are some players grumbling that they do not like these changes?  You know some of them think that Roger Goodell the NFL commissioner is legislating toughness out of football. The Pittsburgh Steelers' all pro defensive back Troy Polamalu summed up the anger this way in an article in Sports Illustrated. He said when you start conforming to these rules you take away the aspect of fear and overcoming fear is what makes us men. It is what challenges us. You take that away you kind of make the game for everybody.  Last question Tom has to do with fantasy football and a change at NFL stadiums this year. The League has ordered teams to post fantasy statistics at all home games. Why are they doing that?   I know. I am heading to the stadium because of that. As popular as it is the NFL realizes that football experience for more and more people involves watching at home on huge TVs high-def TVs with their laptop in hand checking fantasy stats and not paying a lot of money for tickets. This is a nod to fantasy's importance but it is also a way to keep the fans going to games. That is very important for the NFL.  Okay. NPR's Tom Goldman. Tom enjoy the game.  Thanks. 