 It only took 644 days and 19 losses on the football field. But the Detroit Lions have finally at long last won. They did it yesterday at Ford Field in Detroit against the Washington Redskins. The score was 19 to 14. After the final seconds ticked away the smallest crowd in Ford Field's history went wild. And among those savoring the moment was Theo Gridiron Spight. He leads the team's fight song Gridiron Heroes at every home game. He joins me now from Detroit. Mr. Spight pretty amazing day for you yesterday? Mr. THEO GRIDIRON  Yeah. It was incredible. You know it was exciting. It was emotional. It was football at its best.  Now you sing Gridiron Heroes after every touchdown right? Mr.  Right. After every score whether it is a touchdown or a field goal.  Okay. And then after every win. Mr.  Right.  And it would have been - I guess you would not have had to do that for quite some time. Mr.  Right. Right. And I actually - the funny thing about it - because I have not done it in a while I was caught up in all the madness that the song started playing and I had to run over to the mic because I was just caught up in the whole thing. That' I am a fan who happens to know how to sing.  Also you were not really prepared for the notion they won a game you would have to sing at the end of the game. Mr.  Right. It was - somebody came up to remind me you know 'ecause like I said it is been a while. So they came up and reminded me that I would be singing at the end of the game. And I was like you know okay cool I am ready for it. But to actually be ready for something that I have not seen in a while it just - I was just caught up in it. I wanted to run out on the field and just start tackling players or whatever but then I had to remember I got job to do.  You had a job to do. You had a song to sing. Mr.  Yeah.  And the last time I guess that someone would have had to sing Gridiron Heroes after a winning game was December 23rd 2007. Mr.  Wow I mean that seems like forever.  Well I am not sure I can stand the suspense anymore Mr. Spight. Would you do us the favor of singing the Gridiron Heroes song to take us out? Mr.  I can definitely do that. And I might be a little raspy here because I was doing a whole lot of hoopin' and hollerin' yesterday.   I bet you were. Mr.  But yes I was. But I am always ready to go. I love this song. This is number one favorite song number one on my playlist on iPod and everything.  Okay go for it.  Mr.   Forward down the field a charging team that will not yield. And when the blue and silver wave stand and cheer the brave. Rah Rah Rah. Go hard win the game. With honor you will keep your fame. Down the field again a Lions' victory. Go Lions. The crowd goes crazy. Picture 40000 plus but if you closed your eyes you could have swore it was like a million people in that stadium.  Is that right? That is what it sounded like? Mr.  Oh it was crazy. I swear if you could have put a blindfold on you would not have known that the stadium was not full to capacity.  Well I hope you get to sing that song again soon Mr. Spight. Mr.  I hope so too.  Thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Thank you. I appreciate it very much. And always remember never ever ever give up on the Detroit Lions.  Words to live by. Thanks. Mr.  Thank you.  That is Theo Gridiron Spight. He leads Detroit Lions fans in the team's fight song at home games. And he was at Ford Field yesterday when the Lions snapped the second longest losing streak in NFL history. 