 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Pat Summitt the legendary coach of the University of Tennessee women's basketball team has more wins than any coach in NCAA basketball history male or female. She is led the Lady Vols since 1974. Over the last year Pat Summitt noticed she was getting confused more forgetful. She felt like she was drawing blanks. Well now she is come forward to explain why. She recorded a video that is posted on the Lady Vols' website.  Earlier this year the doctors at the Mayo Clinic diagnosed me with an early onset dementia Alzheimer's type at the age of 59.  Pat Summitt decided to talk about that diagnosis with two reporters one of them her close friend Sally Jenkins The Washington Post sportswriter who co-authored Summitt's autobiography. Sally welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  How did Pat Summitt describe to you the signs that she noticed the things that signaled to her that something was wrong?  Well the main thing you notice is that she would ask two or three times now what time do I have to be there again? What time is my meeting? Or I mean even something as basic as practice you know what time is practice? Now nobody loves practice more than Pat Summitt. She is always said she prefers practice to games because it is her classroom and that is where she teaches. So that was a pretty profound sign that there was something you know off.  When you watched her coaching in games did you see at all a different Pat Summitt than you had seen before? Was it showing up at the games?  Just slightly. You know she was still so highly functional that it was a little confusing. But in the final game that the Lady Vols played they lost to Notre Dame. And I thought in that game you could see that her assistants were really getting in the huddle and drawing up plays. And I sort of watched that and thought you know that Pat was not as confident. She had lost her confidence in terms of directing the team in the heat of a high-pressure game. And that was another I think fairly profound sign for me that she just was not grabbing onto things with her usual mental sharpness.  Here' There is a faint sense of dimming as if a jar has been placed over a candle.  Well Pat is incandescent. I think that anyone who is ever been around her she radiates such energy. You know she is a throw-back-her-head laugher. And there was just in retrospect the slight sense of something withdrawn and suppressed. And I think a lot of that is not necessarily the dementia. I think a good deal of that I believe was Pat becoming withdrawn because she was so worried about what was going on with her. And one of the things that I have been so glad to see in the last few days is that now that she has clarity and now that she has an answer and she sees the opponent as her son says I feel like Pat is more of herself this past week than I have seen her in the past year to be perfectly honest.  Pat Summitt is famously tough and would not have gotten where she is if she were not intensely driven. How did she react at first to the Alzheimer's diagnosis?  Well as her son Tyler says nobody accepts this diagnosis. Denial is probably the normal reaction.  Well I am just going to go on about normal business. And she had a very busy schedule this summer and so I do not think it was really until the end of July that she was able to really sit down - and I think her son Tyler really forced her to sit down - and address this head on. You know she had a big decision to make. She had to decide whether or not to continue coaching with this. And I think that she just needed you know five or six weeks to the mull that over and internalize it and come to the realization that the quickest way to ruin her health would be to give up what she loves the most.  You write Sally that under Pat Summitt's contract the University of Tennessee could have removed her as head coach. But they have not. They have embraced her. Her role though is going to change. How is it going to change?  Well they do not really know yet. She is sitting down with her staff and her athletic director. They are going over what Pat does really really well. For instance you know Pat Summitt is one of the great rebounding coaches of all time. I mean that has not gone away that is still there. She still one of the great defensive-minded coaches who ever I think ever lived men or women. You know that is still there. What she has difficulty doing is tracking all 10 players and both benches in the heat of a game. The day that she feels like she is a liability as opposed to an advantage she will walk away tomorrow. I mean if she - she said it a hundred times  I do not want to hurt the program. You know I do not want to hurt the team. And you know if she thought for an instant that she would be some sort of liability she would not be in the building today.  I want to play a bit of tape. This is Pat Summitt telling you how she thought she was going to let her team know about this diagnosis. This is a video that is on The Washington Post website.  Just going to go in there and be myself and tell them what I have dealt with. And we are going to move on and that is what I want them to do. I do not want to be - I do not - there is no pity party. And I will make sure that.  That is my girl talking right there. That is Pat. You know that is - it is funny her players said that the meeting started out sort of subdued. And you know there was a gasp - a sharp intake of breath. But within about 15 minutes it became you know you could hear laughter coming out of the room. I was not in the meeting but there was this sudden turn towards a real upbeatness. And Pat used it as motivation and her kids are using it as motivation. You know they all came out of there with grins on their faces. You know it is funny but the people around Pat get real strength from her in this.  You know Pat Summitt is such a high-profile figure in the sports world. Does she see herself now as having a public role as sort of a face of Alzheimer's disease? I get the sense that she is also quite a private person.  First of all yes she does see herself as taking on a spokesperson role. If there is any way that anything she can do as a public figure might help stir up the tension towards funding for research or provide an example for people that you do not have to just go home and go into a dark room and do a crossword puzzle you can try to remain as highly functioning for as long as possible. You know I think that one of the things you learn from Pat is that your attitude is a choice. She says it is what it is but it will become what you make of it. Those are her battle cries. And it does not matter whether it is Alzheimer or cancer or an ACL injury she is prepared her whole professional life for this sort of battle. She has prepared her kids her whole professional life for this sort of battle. If this sort of thing is not what she has been teaching basketball to young women for then she is had no purpose at all these last 38 years.  Sally Jenkins thank you very much.  My pleasure.  That is Washington Post sportswriter Sally Jenkins talking about her friend the Tennessee women's basketball coach Pat Summitt who has been diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease at age 59. Summitt will be coaching her 38th season with the Lady Vols at the University of Tennessee. 