 Yesterday afternoon at New York's Citi Field a baseball rarity - not the fact that the New York Mets lost to the Philadelphia Phillies that is all too common this season. It is how they lost this time. Bottom of the ninth none out Philadelphia second baseman Eric Bruntlett had already made an error and then failed to get anyone out on a hard-hit grounder up the middle that was scored an infield single. So the Mets had runners on first and second down two runs. The potential winning run was at the plate in the person of Jeff Francoeur.  Two-two.  The runners go. Line drive caught by Bruntlett.   He makes the tag. It is a triple play and the ball game is over. An unassisted triple play to end the ball game. Unbelievable.  Or as the late Phil Rizzuto would have said holy cow. How unbelievable was this? Well joining us from Durham New Hampshire is baseball writer Jonah Keri who is co-author and editor of Baseball Between the Numbers. Jonah Keri how rare was that? Mr.  Extremely rare. People talk about things like hitting for the cycle and no-hitters - even a perfect game it is actually more rare than that. This was the 15th unassisted triple play in modern Major League history 16 perfect games in modern Major League history. So it is even more rare than perfection.  And then there is a subset of unassisted triple plays unassisted triple plays to end the game. Mr.  Only the second time that is happened. A gentleman named Johnny Neun way back in 1927 a Detroit Tigers first baseman - by the way very rare for a first baseman to do it only twice has that ever happened.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  He turned the trick. It was a one-nothing game same thing nobody out in the ninth inning made the play tagged the runner tagged the base had the triple play. This is only the second time that is happened first time in 82 years.  Now unlike other rarities in baseball a perfect game as you say or a 60 homerun season or a 60 homerun season without performance-enhancing drugs   this has a lot to do with luck because you have to have two runners on base nobody out. The runners have to be running the ball has to be hit hard as you say almost always to the shortstop or the second baseman. How significant is it if it depends so much on chance and coincidence? Mr.  Well that is part of what makes baseball beautiful is that a lot of it is chance and coincidence and things of that nature. And you know we have talked about what happened earlier in the inning. Bruntlett had made an error. He fielded a ball was unable to record an out. And then on the very next play he turns the triple play. This is not necessarily a gold-glove fielder. It is a guy who was in the right place at the right time. The ball was absolutely cranked. I mean it looked like it was going to drop into centerfield and be a hit and the Mets were going to rally but everything just happened to go perfectly right for the Phillies. So it truly was one of these cosmic coincidences just a masterstroke of luck for a really good team the Phillies. Sometimes I guess you have to be good to be lucky.  And of course on the other side for the Mets there is a tradition of a kind of a lachrymose history for the New York Mets and this would go down as yet another incredible thing that went against them. Mr.  And I am excited because it is the first time I ever get to field the term lachrymose in a baseball interview.  Mr.  And yes indeed. No it is been a real tough season for the Mets and they have struggled throughout. There have been people joking around. I was on Twitter and other places where people were talking about it. And they were saying that if any team would hit into a quadruple play it would be the New York Mets.   Baseball writer Jonah Keri in Durham New Hampshire thanks a lot for talking with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me. 