 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. Last night the Miami Heat came out on top of the biggest free-agent bonanza in NBA history. LeBron James King James announced that he was leaving the Cleveland Cavaliers and moving south. In a few minutes we will get reaction from people in Cleveland. But first from member station WLRN in Miami Kenny Malone brings us a letter for South Florida's new royalty.  Dear King  For most of us here in South Florida last night was fun. Mr.  In this fall - man this is very tough - in this fall I am going take my talents to South Beach.  Ms.  Oh my God. I love you King James. Yes. Thank you Jesus.  Thanking Jesus and loving the king was Denise Viram. Bringing your talents to South Beach as you say you should probably know that sometimes a fun night is followed by a rough morning. And for you your highness the rough word this morning is expectations. Just ask Heat fan Ruben Sybert. Mr.  I expect one to three championships would be very well. That is not going on the high end.  Or listen to my colleague Phil Latzman's weekly call-in show.  Could LeBron James and the Miami Heat save South Florida in a civic pride kind of way? Who wants to tackle that?  But it does not end there. Because of you we expect to host at least nine playoff games a year for our downtown restaurants to dish out hundreds more chicken wings and for Ross Tannenbaum to ship thousands more replica jerseys. He owns Dreams Incorporated one of the biggest online sports merchandise sellers. As a South Floridian he is excited you are coming. But as a businessman he could have sold a lot more of the King product if you switched into a bigger more loyal market like New York or Chicago. So he is hoping you can shatter this town's sports ennui. Mr.  Because now the pressure starts because if you do not win it is a disappointment. Coming in and losing in the finals you could also do just as much damage ultimately.  This moment is not so different than 2004. Shaquille O'Neal headed for the Heat the sports world was focused on Miami. He was paraded into town atop a giant diesel truck. He sprayed spectators with a water cannon and he helped win a championship. Your highness from you we expect more. Summer is our rainy season but it is been sunny since your announcement. Just remember South Florida is subtropical. The weather can change quickly just like the fans. With love - and for NPR News I am Kenny Malone in Miami. 