 For the 23 women representing the U.S. in the World Cup the pressure is enormous. NPR's Shereen Marisol Meraji wondered how their families feel sitting in the stands watching them play. She was able to ask a few this week as the U.S. team gears up for tomorrow night's game against Sweden in Winnipeg.  I am staying at the same hotel in Winnipeg with the players' families and you run into them a lot. Starting center back Julie Johnston's dad David Johnston can be found in the hotel gym pumping iron. Maybe that is why he is so chilled out before a game.  I am not even nervous. That is good for me .  Julie's mom Kristie on the other hand... D.  She gets a little nervous.  Kristie Johnston is a pacer so being cooped up in a stadium seat is rough. To combat the anxiety she says it is all about positive thinking and cheering as much as possible alongside Julie's older sister Melanie who was also a soccer star.  When they were real little we used to yell total world domination you know like Arnold Schwarzenegger . We do this on the sideline just to get the mentality but if I did that now she would probably kill me .  Defender Lori Chalupny's dad paces too and mutters running commentary throughout the game. That is according to Lori's grandparents Gary and Joyce Campbell.  So we try not to sit with him .  Chalupny's family wears specially made T-shirts to all the games with a graphic of the way she holds her left hand when she is on the attack.  Two on the left is how we say it . J.  Yeah two on the left so the pointer finger and the middle finger and the thumb up the other two fingers bent. G.  Like you are trying to shoot somebody.  Chalupny has not been on the starting lineup but her family's pretty certain she will get subbed in before the tournament ends. J.  And we are really looking forward to that.  Sometimes starter sometimes sub the woman who scored the most goals in international play 35-year-old Abby - now how do you say her last name? Is it Wamback  or Wambach?  It is wonderful that you are asking. It is Wambach. Anybody that knows Johann Sebastian Bach - B-A-C-H - you would think that they would get Wambach as well but obviously they do not .  That is Abby Wambach's mom Judy. She says she is a ball of nerves whether it is Abby on the field or one of her 10-year-old grandkids. But she is most anxious when Abby falls so they have an understanding - when she goes down she gives her mom a thumbs-up if she is OK.  That makes me feel a little bit more relaxed and whatever but I do hold my breath when she goes down .  None of the family members I spoke with have any strange rituals or superstitious things they do before a big game. But they all seem to have personalized T-shirts. The Wambachs wear one that has her last name her number 20 and USA on the front with a special message on the back.  LeaveALegacy and that is what we are hoping she is able to do with this World Cup - to leave a legacy to win the one thing that has evaded her so we will keep our fingers crossed.  Now there is that superstitious sports fan I was looking for. Tomorrow's game against Sweden will test all these families' nerves. Sweden's coach Pia Sundhage was the woman who led the U.S. to two Olympic gold medals and a second place in the last World Cup. She does not like to lose so team USA supporters keep those fingers crossed. Shereen Marisol Meraji NPR News Winnipeg. 