 The U.S. soccer team showed yet again why it is the best team at the Women's World Cup in a hard-fought quarterfinal victory over host France. For the Americans and their fans it was a thrilling win that lived up to the hype of the pregame buildup. And with today's 2-1 victory the U.S. moves on and the French team is done. Among those in Paris watching the game in the stadium was NPR's Melissa Block. She joins us now. Hey there Melissa.  Hey Audie.  Holy smokes this was a good game. What was it like to be in the stadium?  It was amazing. There were about 46000 people a sellout crowd. You know the U.S. flag - a lot of red white blue - but the French flag blue white and red. So the whole stadium was just a scene of the exact same colors in different configurations. And man the French were loud until the U.S. scored early in the game Megan Rapinoe on a free kick that went right into the net. And the energy from the French side just kind of got sucked out of the room out of the stadium. And then when she scored again later on boy they were defeated. They got a second wind late in the game with their defender Wendie Renard on a header. But final score - 2-1 U.S. France is out and their team was unconsolable - inconsolable on the field after the game in tears. I mean look. They are the host country. And this was a marquee lineup. And for them to lose this early is really really a shame. They are an excellent team.  You described this as a marquee lineup. And I know there were many who felt like this game actually should have been the final not the quarterfinal. Why?  Yeah absolutely. I mean this is - chalk this up to FIFA's way of determining the seeding and the brackets. And for these two top teams - I mean the U.S. first seed France number four - to be playing this early in the quarterfinals and for France to be done is just really a tragedy. I mean there is no reason these two teams should not be playing in the semis or the final. As it is now the U.S. goes on to play England in the semi. And we are still waiting for results in the next couple of days - and actually tomorrow - of Italy and the Netherlands and then Sweden and Germany.  Stepping back for a moment there were questions about the U.S. team after this somewhat shaky performance against Spain in the last game. Does this performance put that to rest?  Yeah. I mean it is interesting. There was a lot of second-guessing of coach Jill Ellis and her lineup that she had in the last game and some pretty shaky defense work front line that was just not getting on the attack as they should have been. It was the exact same lineup in this game and they performed so much better - the same second-guessing going in. I mean people were really concerned that she had not changed tactics but it paid off. And Megan Rapinoe - again two goals in this game two goals in the last game. She is the player of the game. And she is just outstanding to watch just a phenomenal performance in both of these last two games.  So France was obviously a tough competitor but now the U.S. is going to face third-ranked England in a match on Tuesday in the semifinals. So this tournament is not going to get any easier.  No and England looked super strong the other day when they were playing against Norway. They are a really powerful team. And the other four teams still to play in the quarterfinals are all you know top ranked. I mean this is no cakewalk for the U.S. And look. The U.S. has made it into the semifinals in the last seven World Cups. So if they had gone down today it would have been historic - did not happen. But boy - a tough fight from Spain the other day and from France today.  One more thing. There is been a lot of conversation about the pay inequity especially for the U.S. women's soccer team. Can you talk about just how big the Women's World Cup is this year?  Yeah. I mean it is fascinating to see Audie because there is this fight going on back home. The U.S. women are suing U.S. Soccer for gender discrimination. And you look at this tournament and - record TV audiences across Europe - in Italy in England in France - and big crowds at least here in Paris. There are going to be sellout crowds in Lyon for the semifinal and final. And you have to ask. I mean for countries that have not invested in women's soccer - and there are many of them - they have to be looking at this and seeing not just a great game but a really powerful audience that they could be tapping into. And if they are not they are crazy.  That is NPR's Melissa Block in Paris. Melissa thanks so much.  You bet. 