 People cannot stop talking about the epic failure that went down in Game 1 of the NBA finals.  Yeah. It had been an exciting game on ABC last night between the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers. And then - well I am going to let our colleagues pick it up from here. Our producer Becky Sullivan set out in the NPR newsroom with her microphone.  All right. Did you watch the game last night?  Yes.   Are you going to make me recall this?  Can you take me through just like the last you know 10 or so seconds of regulation? Like what happened?  OK.  OK yeah yeah.  OK so...  The Cavs were down by one point.  It is 107-106.  The Cavs had the ball. There was - what? - 4 seconds.  Four-point-seven seconds left on the clock.  It was the longest 4  seconds of my life.  Up until that point Lebron James had scored...  Forty-nine points.  Carried the team on his back singlehandedly Lebron and his band of merry misfits.   James passes aside and a foul call on Thompson.  Teammate gets fouled gets sent to the line.  George Hill was shooting free throws.  Two free throws to win the game.  So the Cavs hit one free throw miss the second.  Misses the second.  So then it was 107-107.  It is tied.  Then...  The Cavs got the rebound.  J.R. Smith gets the rebound.  And they are at the Cavaliers' basket so all he needs to do is to...  Shoot the ball take time-out do anything but just stand there and let the clock run out.  But then...  Inexplicably...  ...He dribbles away.  ...Runs away from the basket.  Why are not they shooting? And he is just dribbling the ball.  Which is what you would do if you were trying to run out the clock.  And then it hit me.  He thought that they were winning and he was just dribbling the time out. And they were not winning.  It was 107-107.  It is tied.  He did not realize that he had to take the shot.   You get the feeling J.R. Smith thought they had the lead. He did not know the score.  When the buzzer sounded they just looked so defeated.  And then LeBron James is just staring at him.  Just like an incredulous look on his face. He is like what is happening?  It is the face of the greatest basketball player of all time in my opinion who scored 51 points only to watch like a starting member of the Cavaliers lose the game for them.  I have scored 51 points here historical game and you guys cannot do anything right.  It was just like breaking my heart.  I cannot believe that that happened honestly.  How can you keep playing after that? That is what - you have to play a whole overtime period.  And anyone who was watching that game knew that when it went to overtime it was not going to work out for these guys.   They totally lost.  Oh yeah. It was not even close in overtime.  LeBron is carrying his team on his shoulders pushing these people to be a little better than mediocre. And they ruined it.  I am from Cleveland. I thought we had it. And then we did not. It was cruel Becky.   NPR's Renita Jablonski Brandon Carter Ahmad Omar Monika Evstatieva and Laura Roman speaking to our producer the very cruel Becky Sullivan.  J.R. Smith says he knew it was tied and did not shoot because he thought the Cavs were going to call a time-out. Game 2 is Sunday night. 