 So far this year has brought Antwan Owens a degree from Georgia Tech then a transfer to Jackson State University for his final season of college football and then several offers for endorsement deals. He is not sure why the brands asked him but he has some guesses.  I have not had any you know off-the-field issues. I guess you know I look like a very like clean-cut dude that could pull off a luxury grooming deal.  When he signed a deal to represent 3 Kings Grooming he became one of the first college athletes to benefit from a new policy. As of July 1 the NCAA now allows a student-athlete to earn money from their name image or likeness. For Antwan Owens that means making Instagram posts and stories about premium hair care products.  Which again I do not have any problem with because you know I love the brand and I love the product itself.  Which for an undisclosed sum he is happy to do.  If you could ask anybody to follow me and include my  name in there or whatever that would be very helpful for me.  It is theantwanowens by the way. He also got advice from his new head coach at Jackson State an NFL star with plenty of endorsements in his own time Deion Sanders.  Like make sure I read my contracts. If I do not agree with the product or if - you know what I am saying? If it is something to where you know I feel like I am being compromised in any position at all then it is probably not a good deal to take. So that is been the majority of it.  You mentioned your brand and your image. When you are thinking about yourself like that do you still view yourself as an amateur athlete?  Oh of course. You know what I mean? At the end of the day you are a human and we all are some type of conscious about how the world views us. Everyone's situation is vastly different. So to call us not amateurs in that aspect you know would kind of be a letdown only because a lot of these guys you know we are still living the everyday life of a college football player you know waking up - you know what I mean? - having to call home for 20 to get a pizza that night. You know it is the same struggle. It is just a little bit better now only because of the new law. But for the majority part you know it is the same struggle for a lot of players out there.  As you said college sports still far from pay-for-play where a student would literally be paid by a school to come and play at a university.  Right.  If the current movement is to get student-athletes compensated to you what needs to happen next? Like does this name image and likeness policy go far enough?  Me myself I feel like there is definitely still some clarifications that need to be made definitely some laws that need to be refined and made clear to some athletes or to some institutions - academic institutions that is - just so that I feel like everyone can profit equally.  So from the outside it feels like this is a game changer so to speak. But as students and from the inside you are saying it also feels like a very big shift.  Student-athletes are more financially free now. You know what I mean? So if you are one of the top guys on the field - you know what I mean? - of course you are going to get a lot of brand endorsements which is going to be life-changing for you. That is going to be gigantic. But also like I was saying earlier for those teams that have sponsored the whole team that have you know sponsored the whole specific position groups I feel like those teams are going to benefit drastically more only because not only the top guys are getting you know the recognition and love you know? I feel like it is a bigger driving force now for everyone.  Antwan Owens thank you so much for speaking with us.  Thank you guys for having me on today. I really appreciate it.  That is Antwan Owens defensive lineman at Jackson State.  