 The Olympics are winding down and for some nations they are already over. Among them the small Pacific island nation of Nauru. With roughly 9300 people it is the least populous country competing in these games. NPR's Mike Pesca says for the Nauruvians that is a point of pride.  Nauru is small. How small? Remember this song?    But I have seen it all in a small town. Had myself a ball in a small town.  Well the small town John Cougar Mellencamp is from - Seymour Indiana - has more than double the population of Nauru. After the weightlifting meet concluded lifter Itte Detenamo stood talking to his coach his delegation's president and another two Nauruvians. Those five constituted the same proportion of their homeland's population as do 150000 Americans. Picture in a small foyer tucked beside the Olympic weightlifting venue the entire population of Dayton Ohio. Come Olympic time interest in Nauru is disproportionate to its size says the head of Nauru's Olympic committee Marcus Stephen.  There is a lot of interest from everybody around the word. They like to know who the smallest country is and how many athletes they have and what is their place like and it is massive.  Stephen also happens to be the greatest weightlifter Nauru has ever produced. That is saying something probably saying even more than the fact that Stephen is also a former president of Nauru. Stephen competed in three Olympics and competed well. He never medaled but did win several golds in the Commonwealth Games and put Nauru on the map in some cases literally. Joanna Olsson is a member of the Nauruvian media actually she is the Nauruvian media covering these games.  When they started seeing the weightlifters coming out of Nauru it started to spread and it become big in the whole Pacific so everyone wanted to be a weightlifter.  These Olympics Detenamo did not win but he did beat competitors from such larger than a community college countries as Australia and Germany. Detenamo is a soft-spoken guy who was disappointed in his performance but proud of being Nauruvian.  I have been to a lot Europe Asia America. I have been everywhere. Them being larger is OK. Nauru it is my home.  One last fact about the weightlifter from Nauru - the small island whose population could not fill up the ballpark of the Milwaukee Brewers' AA affiliate - Detenamo lifted a combined 390 kilos. That is 860 pounds and it is more than any American lifted in Olympic trials this year. Mike Pesca NPR News London. 