 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  A baseball story now about a former National League Rookie of the Year. Earl Williams was the first Atlanta Braves player to win the award. He did it 40 years ago back in 1971 but by the end of that decade Williams was a baseball footnote though an interesting one as NPR's Mike Pesca reports.  At a glance the New York Times of June 12th 1978 does not seem like a collector's item. If anything stories of Jimmy Carter and the Soviets and a letter to the editor decrying skewers of uneaten beef from the Puerto Rican Day Parade seem utterly familiar.  Here was Earl Williams still a bright young man relying on the services of the old gray lady.  And at the top is a picture that was taken after I was Rookie of the Year in 1971 and Jackie Robinson was a guest speaker. Go and get close. There is nothing breakable down there.  Today Earl Williams is a retired business executive living in New Jersey. He is in his basement pointing out an impressive memorabilia collection made more notable that it is all of him.  The cover of Baseball Digest Cannot Miss Players of the '70s.  Williams an all-state player out of Montclair New Jersey was signed by the Braves after a brief stint in college. The northerner went south got over the culture shock and flourished.  I was very loved in that organization.  And the organization loved him or at least saw that it had in the athletic Williams a great hitter and versatile fielder so versatile in fact that when Williams was a late season call-up with the big league team in 1970 he was surprised when the manager said Williams go in and catch.  And the next day I was a catcher never having caught in the minor leagues or anyplace else.  The sport took notice and the irascible Oriole Earl Weaver was quoted as saying give me Earl Williams I will win the pennant. Baltimore's manager got his man after giving up four starters.  The pressure was on in a lot of places. I was naive enough to think that all I had to do in order to be successful was play baseball.  Baltimore Sun April 18 1973 10 games into the season quote bridled by an embarrassing 185 average and only two extra base hits Williams mused I guess everybody has been waiting for me to do something.  Williams still smarting from rebuke and suspension by manager Weaver. July 3 Williams Weaver clash again.  If certain words go out about you they stick. You can be labeled. I have even read about myself being described as militant controversial argumentative. I read that I was called into the office for cursing at the fans. That did happen but what I really took umbrage with was the fans that were calling me everything but a child of God N-word included were sitting right in front of the owner and the general manager yet - and still I was called into the office for harassing the fans. So it was basically a train wreck from the beginning.  Life is not a dress rehearsal and you do not get any curtain calls.  Delores Reilly Williams' 82 year old mother remembers the injustices like the time pitchers complained they could not see Earl's black fingers when he signaled for a pitch. That Earl one of the few African-American catchers of the time would point out that his uniform pants were white did not seem to matter. The mother was suffering through the son.  They were complaining because Weaver had said if you give me Earl Williams I will get the pennant you know. And Earl said Weaver said that. I did not say that. You know that is what Weaver said. And he was very unhappy down there.  The correct name of the pitcher is Phil Niekro.  It was clear that Baltimore could accommodate only a single Earl. Williams was dealt back to Atlanta where teammates like Hall of Fame pitcher Joe Niekro were glad to have him.  Earl was as good in the clubhouse and on the bench as I think any teammate I have had. He enjoyed the game. I think he had a lot of respect for being able to play the game. A good ball player he was strong like a bull that guy.  But Williams had a down year and was sent from Atlanta to Montreal and then onto Oakland where he was productive but battled injuries. And the next year nothing no calls no interest just a reputation. So with little to lose Williams placed the ad.  I did not think that this was going to get me a job. I just thought it would highlight the fact that - how could I possibly not have one?  Williams was right. No letters of interest arrived. If anything some clubs may have been scared away. Williams too was if not scared off then a little scarred.  It took me a long time to forgive myself. What if what if what if? You go through a period of adjustment with that.  Mike Pesca NPR News. 