 LeBron James and Steph Curry step aside. There is another series that is tied up 2-2 - the Stanley Cup final. Remember hockey played on ice with a puck? Well the Chicago Blackhawks and the Tampa Bay Lightning sure do. They will be playing game five tomorrow in Florida. And Helene Elliott sports columnist for the Los Angeles Times joins us from Tampa. Welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  Tied up 2-2 but you have written that it is even closer than that. Explain that.  It is just been remarkable. They have - every game has been decided by one goal. The teams have scored the identical number of goals. They have blocked the identical number of shots and they have had identical problems in getting goals from their top goal scorers. Steven Stamkos of Tampa Bay has not scored a goal in the final. Patrick Kane of the Chicago Blackhawks has not scored a goal in the final. So the big guns are having equal amounts of trouble on each side and some of the lesser players have stepped up and played big roles for each team.  And how do you describe the styles of these two teams?  It is interesting because throughout the regular season the Tampa Bay Lightning developed a reputation that is kind of a high-scoring fast-paced run-and-gun kind of team. I guess maybe you can make an analogy to the Golden State Warriors. It is just kind of you know up and back and lots of action lots of speed lot of skill. But in the playoffs Tampa Bay has shown a lot of defensive skill. They just won the last game in Chicago 2-1 in a very hostile Chicago stadium and it is been interesting to see how they have evolved and recognized what it takes to win in the playoffs and made the kind of sacrifices that winning in the Stanley Cup playoffs requires of hockey players.  What is the word on Tampa Bay Lightning goaltender Ben Bishop? Will he play tomorrow?  . The word is undisclosed injury and the other phrase is we do not know. The coach was very good today - Jon Cooper is his name - saying that he honestly does not know. And I tend to believe him in the sense that you know hockey players are known for their grit and playing through incredible amounts of pain. And for a player to kind of rule himself out of a game as Bishop did the other day in game four must mean he is in a lot of pain. The kid who came in a 20-year-old Russian kid named Andrei Vasilevskiy was very poised very calm played extremely well only his teammates did not score enough goals to support them in order for him to win. So at this point nobody knows and that is part of the intrigue of this Stanley Cup final.  Helene as Stanley Cup finals go how does this one rank?  It ranks pretty high. And I am - was curious to see that the television ratings have been good as well. I think a lot of people thought well you know Tampa Bay is not considered a traditional hockey market. The ratings will be low. But there is been a good amount of interest. The Chicago Blackhawks of course are one of the so-called original six NHL teams. They have a very large fan base. They are pursuing their third Stanley Cup in six seasons so they have a lot of fans all over the country and all over North America really. So having a large amount of viewership from the Chicago market was kind of a given. But the ratings have been good in a lot of different places and it is been a lot of fun to cover.  Well Helene Elliott of the LA Times thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  Sports columnist Helene Elliott who is in Tampa for game five of the Stanley Cup final tomorrow. 