 The stage is set for the men's Euro 2020 soccer final. Italy and England two countries with some of the most insatiable soccer fans in the world will face off on Sunday at Wembley Stadium in London. And England has not reached the final of a major tournament in 55 years - 55. Meanwhile the Italians seem pretty near invincible - a 33-game streak without a loss. Well we wanted to get a preview and hear how fired up fans are in both countries so I am joined now by writer Nels Abbey in London. Hey there Nels.  Hello.  And Jason Horowitz of The New York Times. He is in Rome. Hey Jason.  Hello. Thanks for having me.  Nels I am going to let you kick off. You all have home field advantage. What is the mood like in England?  It could not be more excited. It is ecstatic. It is such an achievement to even reach the final. But the feeling in the air right now is that we are coming home with the gold.  Jason how about in Rome?  Well I mean I would not ever think that - Romans or Italians thinking that they are invincible. They always think that something could go wrong. So I think that there is a little bit more trepidation here about - that they have made it this far and they cannot believe that they have made it this far. Something could always go wrong. But the excitement...  Thirty-three games without a loss is hard to argue with though even  for the Italian psyche no?  But those are not all wins right? Those are ties also. And you have to remember that the Italian side did not even qualify for the World Cup back in 2017. So this is all sort of unexpected. And everyone is beyond excited obviously. Every bar is packed. Every piazza is packed.  People walking around like with the Italian flag and all the rest of it.  Yeah everyone's wearing you know the Italian blue colors. When they won the semifinal match you know I couldn'00 in the morning not just from the excitement and going hoarse myself from screaming  from the rafters but because the tradition here is you honk your horn for hours. And so it was just - the entire city was just - it sounded like a giant traffic jam.  Total chaos. Nels back to you. The England team - it is - I mean they have not reached the final of a major tournament in 55 years. What is different about this team that they have made it so far?  The weight of expectation is not on them in the way that it was - what we once called the golden generation actually very very woefully underperformed. This is very very cutting-edge generation. These are truly truly truly truly world-class footballers. Additionally the other thing too is that the British Premier League is arguably the most dominant football league in the world today. So these are young people who are playing who are fighting for places in the best teams in the world against some of the best players in the world today. So it really - steel has sharpened steel. And it has made them very very good very very outstanding players and also too collectively an outstanding team.  For Americans watching who maybe do not know all the players do not know all the backdrop one thing you would point us to watch for in the match a particular moment a particular player - Jason how about you?  Sure. I mean the player in Italy who is sort of electrified the country is Federico Chiesa. And he is young. He is 23 years old. His dad played professional football even at the European and World Cup level. You know when he gets the ball he looks to score. And in Italy that is - you find a lot of passing. You find a lot of sort of - you know the cliche about Italians was that they played this catenaccio defense. It was always very contained and you were never pushing the ball. These guys push the ball. And when Federico Chiesa gets the ball he really has - I do not know. Do we even say eye of the tiger anymore? I do not know. But he is...  You just said it so yes.   Nels how about you?  I think the standout talents for us have been of course Raheem Sterling Harry Kane who is the Tottenham captain and Saka who is a young British Nigerian. He plays for Arsenal. He is brilliant. When you are watching them you are watching a team that is really truly spoiled for choice in terms of quality in terms of talent. You are going to see a very very exciting game on Sunday. This is it - 55 years or so since we have qualified for a final. We are not coming home without the gold.  That is writer Nels Abbey who will be watching in London and Jason Horowitz of The New York Times in Rome. Thanks you two. Good luck.  Thank you.  Thank you.  