 Colin Kaepernick is going to have his day in arbitration. The NFL quarterback is still out of a job. This is despite a resume that includes leading the San Francisco 49ers to within one play of a Super Bowl title. But he was also the first player to kneel during the national anthem to protest police brutality and systemic racism. Kaepernick says that is why NFL teams have colluded to keep him off their rosters. And now an arbitrator says there is enough evidence to move forward with a full hearing of Kaepernick's case. The decision was a big blow to the NFL and to talk about just how bad of a big blow it is we turn now to Michael McCann. He is a legal analyst for Sports Illustrated and joins us by Skype. Welcome.  Thank you for having me.  So what evidence does Kaepernick have that these team owners actually colluded against him to make sure he would not get signed by any of them?  Well we do not know what specific evidence he has because there is a protective order that bars his attorneys and also him from revealing what specific information he might have. But we do know there is something because we know that the arbitrator Stephen Burbank has rejected the NFL's request for summary judgment. So that means that there is a genuine issue of material fact.  What the arbitrator is saying is he is looked at the evidence at least preliminarily and there is enough there to actually move forward with the case that this should be heard. And what does Kaepernick have to prove? What evidence does he need to present to show that there was actually collusion among all these teams?  He has to have clear and convincing evidence that at least two teams or the league and at least one team conspired to deny him of a collectively bargained right. In this case that right is the right to sign with the team. So he would have to really establish with some kind of evidence. Maybe it is a witness statement. Maybe it is a text. Maybe it is an email. Maybe it is a recording - something. It has to be tangible.  All right so just to explain - this is an arbitration. I just want you to lay out what happens now. Is this going to unfold like a trial?  It will unfold like a trial but technically because it is arbitration it is not a trial per se. There is no jury. Stephen Burbank will not be robed as a judge. He will just be wearing a suit.  .  But assuming there is no settlement there will be a trial-like hearing.  Witnesses will be called.  Yes witnesses will be called. Evidence will be presented. The really important point there - Burbank has already signaled he thinks there is something there because he rejected the NFL's request for summary judgment. He is the decider. So it is not as if the NFL is going to have a jury that could maybe view this differently. It is the same person.  Right. They got to persuade Burbank the arbitrator. Now last year President Trump pounced on this entire controversy.   You know some owner's going to do that. He is going to say that guy that disrespects our flag he is fired.  Given how vocal President Trump was about this entire thing do you think Kaepernick is going to make some argument that these teams were scared of the president's tweets and that is why they did not ultimately want to sign with him?  I think President Trump's comments are meaningful in the sense that we know that owners are influenced by them because there was a leaked audio tape of a meeting that the owners and players and team executives had where the owners started talking about the president and the president's views. And the owners also know that the president is not only inherently powerful by virtue of the position but by affecting values of businesses and stock prices by things that he tweets and says. So if owners are conspiring because of their reaction to the president's comments the president becomes a relevant figure.  What happens if Kaepernick wins this case? Does that mean he will be on a team as soon as this year?  No. So if Kaepernick wins it does not restore him to an NFL roster. What it would do is provide him monetary compensation. There is no - there is no way any judge jury arbitrator can force an NFL team to sign Colin Kaepernick.  Michael McCann is a legal analyst for Sports Illustrated. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 