 On Stockton Street in Compton Calif. there is a small white stucco house with a chain-link fence and an old tree out front. There is no sign in the yard no plaque no tour groups taking photos - nothing to indicate that this house in this is quiet Compton neighborhood was the childhood home of two of the best female athletes of all time. NPR's Daniel Hajek has the story.  Before the U.S. Open this week before the Nike and Gatorade sponsorship and the stardom a young Venus and Serena Williams were given their first tennis racquets here. Just next door Maria Gomez is leaning up against her blue pickup truck. She is lived in this house since the '70s so she knew the Williams family. Her niece also named Maria was our interpreter.  .  Yeah.  .  She would see them run around the house and their dad would train them a little in the back of the yard.  From that tiny backyard next door to the U.S. Open.  .  She said it feels good and that every time they play that she always watches them.  The Williams sisters are a source of pride here. Richard Williams their dad was their coach back then. Known for being tough he pushed his daughters to perfection on the court hours practicing day in day out. Venus and Serena cut their teeth on courts around Compton.  To be able to say that they are from the town that you grow up in - who would not be inspired by them?  Janna Zurita is a council member in Compton. She used to watch the Williams sisters train.  A lot of the little kids here in the community they look up to them. And they think they are great. I mean they are two beautiful women that changed the whole life of tennis and they are straight out of Compton.  They would practice in rough neighborhoods like East Rancho Dominguez Park formerly known as East Compton Park. Today the courts are repaved and there is a new rec center but that is not how it used to be. The last time Andre Barbee stood on these courts he says gang members would hang out on park benches just outside the fence.  You see them - see them thugged out you know drinking smoking their weed. But they would never mess with us so I never had a problem with nobody here.  Barbee was a 21-year-old limo driver and part-time tennis coach when Richard Williams invited him to train with his daughters.  Tennis was a passion.  Barbee was a tennis prodigy himself. So with Venus and Serena he finally met his match.  Man it was unbelievable. I never seen nobody that good. It was something I would never seen before in my life.  And Venus was not even a teenager yet. Training meant hitting hundreds of balls with enough force to break strings on their racquets.  Every other day I was restringing my racquets - my shoes once a week. A hole right in my foot in my shoe used to tape them up.  They would run drills up and down the court honing their power at the baseline.  Venus and Serena you know they stay at the baseline and just dog you. Just back and forth back and forth back and forth back and forth - boom down the line. Here corner shot - boom back and forth back and forth - boom.   And she is done it.  Game set match.  Serena Williams is Wimbledon champion.  This year Serena has been unstoppable including this win at Wimbledon back in July. If she takes the U.S. Open she will be the first since Steffi Graf in 1988 to win all four grand slam titles in the same year. And Venus is on an upswing. On Friday she advanced in the U.S. Open when she beat Belinda Bencic who is 17 years younger than Venus. Playing in Compton is a distant memory now. The Williams family moved to Florida back in 1991. But this is where Venus and Serena learned the game's fundamentals.  I love them as like my little sisters. And Rich Williams I looked - I loved him like a father. You know he was like a dad. You know I miss training with them. At the time I did not have a high school diploma. And he told me promise me that you will get your high school diploma. Richard I kept my promise. I have my high school diploma.  Andre Barbee does not play much tennis these days. But on this court you can see it. He is reliving that year he spent training with Venus and Serena Williams. Oh and for the record the last time he played Serena they never finished their match.  She did not beat me yet. So Serena if you hear this you still owe me a match. I can still play. It is just I cannot play long. Yeah I can play a set. Come on Serena give me one set. .  There you have it - a challenge - Andre Barbee ready for a rematch on the tennis courts at the corner of Compton Boulevard and Atlantic Avenue where it all started. Daniel Hajek NPR News. 