 Tonight is game three of the NBA Finals. For the third year in a row the Golden State Warriors are battling the Cleveland Cavaliers for the NBA championship. But that is not the only annual battle for Golden State. For the last five years a team of Golden State players coaches and support staff have been going inside San Quentin the legendary California maximum-security prison to play the San Quentin Warriors the prison's notorious basketball team. The Kitchen Sisters producers Nikki Silva and Davia Nelson teamed up with reporter Nancy Mullane and the podcast Life Of The Law to bring us to the most recent showdown between these two Bay Area teams. Here's their story. They call it Warriors.   I hope we say we did not come here to lose. It is hard. This is a road game for us. We are going to prison. Nothing easy about prison.  Name on tape.  Bob Myers.   I am Draymond Green. I am a forward for the Golden State Warriors. We park in the parking lot and walk over right on the water. So it is a pretty good view.   A single-file line have your IDs ready.  Going in and only three people at a time can go in.  Sign your name.  You are having to show your ID.  You will get a stamp before you go in and out of here.  You know making sure you do not lose that ID to get out.  You want to go out.  Having to wear certain colors.  No cellphones no pocketknives no cigarette lighters.  One single-file line.   Sam Robinson public information officer at San Quentin State Prison. We house over 5000 people here at this facility. The guys you see walking around in blue - they are medium-custody inmates people who are serving life sentences.   Draymond Draymond.  Going in there and walking in and you know guys running up to you showing love and appreciation.  Draymond man.  You know I grew up in Saginaw Mich. Some of my friends are in prison that I grew up with. Just to have the opportunity to go in there and mingle and talk show those guys they matter.  Hey Draymond I have got the San Quentin Warriors...  Yeah.  ...And I am giving you two and a half for 20 pushups.  You are giving me two and a half for 20 pushups.  I am giving you two and a half. That is a bet.  I will take that bet for sure.  For sure.  I am Bill Epling. I run basketball for Prison Sports Ministries. We are up here first and third Saturdays of every month. I mean these guys are good. If you do not bring your A game they are going to beat us. But I like our chances.   Two minutes two minutes.  My name is Anthony Ammons and my position is guard-forward. I have been in prison for 15 years now since I was 16 years old. I am 31 now. I received 102 years to life for my crime of murder that I committed when I was 16. What basketball have helped me do - it helped me work on my anger management and my emotional instability. It helped me to trust people that I normally do not like. And these guys coming in giving us that human contact because we have to be patient with them - we do not want to hurt them.  Hey Kevin Durant. Come over here Kevin.  Uh oh Kevin.  Thanks for coming bro.  All right man. Thanks for having me here man. I am new to the town so this was a must I come here and show you guys some love. So I am looking forward to shooting some hoops. Let us get it going.   We have played four times. Golden State Warriors have won three. Two years ago they had their one loss. They play a lot at lunch. They have upgraded the squad. They are ready.  My name is Isaiah Caldwell inmate ref. A grown man refereeing in an institution like this dealing with other inmates it becomes important for them to know that you are doing this with integrity. Without that things can get out of control.  One two three.  Play.  Here we go you all.   We have got Big Money Myers .  We have got three going this way. We have got two going this way.  Bob Myers for three money. No good - rebound comes down.   Here comes Swaggy Swoop  with the paw. Goes down - he is going to Bob Myers. He is  with the deep shot. That is in.   You are going to get the slaps and you are going to get the pushes here and there. My name's Trevor Trevor Bird. I have been in here playing for like about 17 years. I got 25 to life. When you come to prison you better find a whole new respect for authority. A lot of men in here have grown up without that father figure. On the playground you call your own. That is how the conflicts arise. When they are organized it forces you to obey and submit to the game. Argue all you want but when the whistle blows...    Blow it.  I mean you keep playing.    Blow the whistle.  Hey that was in your face three times. One two three shoot it.  Who are you rooting for?  I am rooting for the green team.  You are rooting for the Golden State Warriors.  Yeah.  And you are inside.  Yeah. See everybody cannot root for the prisoners. I am the heckler so I have got to root for the opposite team. Yeah that is my job. That is my passion.  What is your name?  My name Michael Ware .  How long you been in?  Almost 28 years.  Wow life term?  Yes madam.  Gone to the board?  Well I go next week.  Good luck.  Thank you.  I want to give a shout-out one more time to Draymond Green still over here playing dominoes. Man he is really feeling like he is back home again.  He is getting beat bad.  .  Draymond we want a rematch.  Golden State Warriors and the San Quentin Warriors - they battle. Our guys go in there and play a game. I go and I sit at the domino table the entire time playing dominoes talking junk. They are talking junk. They are very good. The first time I went I got beat really bad. You know I have brushed my game up a little bit over the last five years.  My name is Karlee MacFarlane .  How long you been in?  Twenty-two years.  Life term?  Yeah. Hopefully I go home in another year and a half.  Hey fools you have got to score...  That is for sure. I am going to miss this.  Why a basketball game inside a prison?  Why not a basketball game inside a prison? I think it is educating both sides.  A foul by Willie Green .  Foul.  You all do not get to cussin' now Willie Green. That'ill get you 115 too.   My name is Aaron Showtime Taylor the play-by-play guy. And to my left is Damon Cooke. And we got this one today. This a good thing when they come up in here like this and get a up-close look about individuals that are about to go back into the community. One minute left in the game. Pookie  inbound the ball to Swaggy...  Hey man I am calling a timeout.  Fifty-five seconds on the clock.  Hey man you better call a timeout buddy. You better call something. Call the paramedics 911 anybody.  Thirteen comes up with it. Pookie was all over me. Hammer me. That is an assault case. That is his third strike. Fuji  with the ball feed the ball in today. But 13 steals it away from him. Swaggy goes by 13 all the way to the rim.  Four three two.   And that is the game. The Golden State Warriors gets another win. Appreciate everybody...   You know hearing the guys from death row yelling knowing that we are there...  Appreciate it man.  ...You take it for granted. And then you come in here and see this. It make you want to do everything right not mess up. At the end of the day you know whether you want to believe it or not everybody's one second away from here.  I grew up in Alamo Calif. San Quentin - those two words do not come up too much  where I grew up. I barely know anybody that is been to jail for two days or one day. I am lucky. A lot of these guys you know grew up in the wrong place make the wrong decision. I think when we come in it brightens it up a little bit. You know but we get to leave.  We lost but it was amazing the experience. For them to take the time out of their day and not spend with they family but spend with us - us it is like a visit. Some of the people do not get visits here. And them guys coming in to mingle with us is a blessing. And we want to send them back the same way they came in except with a different experience.   Warriors was produced by the Life Of The Law podcast and the Kitchen Sisters and mixed by Jim McKee. More of their stories can be heard on their podcast The Kitchen Sisters Present.  