 The best soccer leagues in the world are in Europe and even Americans want to be good enough to play in them. Clint Dempsey accomplished that playing in England's Premier League but now he is coming home. In a move that surprised a lot of people Dempsey has joined the Seattle Sounders. He is expected to debut for the team tomorrow night in Toronto. Sportswriter Stefan Fatsis joins us now as he does most Fridays. And Stefan just how big a deal is this Dempsey's return to the U.S. pro league Major League Soccer?  It is a huge deal. Dempsey's had the best career of any American abroad who is not a goalkeeper. He scored 57 goals in seven seasons in the Premier League by far the most by an American. Last season he played for Tottenham. He is a core player for the U.S. national team. At 30 he is still in or near his prime. And he is going to America's best soccer market. Seattle already averages 40000 fans a game. And for Dempsey's home debut which is in a couple of weeks on August 25th the Sounders have sold out the NFL stadium in which they play more than 60000 tickets.  Now Stefan I do not know if this is fair to ask but if Dempsey is still pretty good why did he leave England?  That is a fair question. And it is one that a lot of soccer fans myself included have been debating. There is this feeling of disappointment that our best player will not be showing the world how good Americans can be. But you know athletes are people. Dempsey's got kids. He said he had been feeling the itch to come home. Part of this also was reality. He was not a big part of Tottenham's plans for the new season. It did not look like other top clubs were interested in paying Tottenham the 9 million transfer fee that the team wanted. Major League Soccer though was willing to pay the fee and also pay Dempsey a record 32 million over four years.  All right. Meantime the World Cup is next year in Brazil. And of course you know Dempsey and his U.S. teammates are going to square off against some of the world's best talent. How does this move to Seattle affect his preparation?  Well he is not going to be facing the kind of competition in practice and games that he would have in Europe. The interesting twist here is that Dempsey did not consult with the U.S. national team coach Jurgen Klinsmann about the move. Klinsmann said a few months ago that he had told Dempsey he had not done bleep in his career. There is always another level Klinsmann said. MLS definitely is not that level. But with the World Cup coming up though I would venture that when the Major League Soccer season ends in the fall Dempsey and his fellow U.S.-based star Landon Donovan will go back to England on loan to play for a team and prepare for Brazil.  OK. Let us move on from Dempsey to his old league. It looks like it is getting heavy treatment on television here from NBC Sports. They actually tapped outgoing Saturday Night Live star Jason Sudeikis for a promo where he is like impersonating an American football coach hired to coach in the Premier League.    I watched it for about 10 times and I still laugh. Sudeikis is impersonating Ted Lasso. He is hired to coach Tottenham. He is got the tight football coach pants the '70s mustache. He screams at players. It is a great spoof by NBC. The network is paying 250 million over three years to show the Premier League. They are going to show every game 380 per season on several networks and online. It is another sign of the maturation of the sport here.  Stefan thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks Audie.  Stefan Fatsis impersonated an American football player for his book  A Sportswriter Plays in the NFL. He joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 