 We are joined from Flushing Meadows by Douglas Robson. He covers tennis for USA Today. He joins us at the filing center there in Queens. Welcome back to the program.  Thank you nice to be here.  So when will the day's games be played or will they even be played today?  No there is going to be no tennis today. They have canceled the day and night sessions so they are going to have to back up the schedule and try to get it going tomorrow. But the forecast is not very promising and this kind of thing can really wreak havoc at a tennis tournament.  So we have no choice but to talk about the games yesterday and let us start with the women. Serena Williams moved on to the quarterfinals and so did Caroline Wozniacki. On TV Serena seemed to play with a vengeance. And Wozniacki though it took her three sets seemed like a cat who was almost toying with her prey. That is what it looked like at least on television. Tell us what you saw there in Queens.  And by the end of the match you know Kuznetsova looked like she was slogging through mud. She was sweating. She could not keep the ball in the court and Wozniacki looked fresh as a daisy looked like she could go a couple more sets and she even said so afterwards.  And Serena even with all these injuries has come back extremely strong. I mean she just had two foot surgeries.  But she had these two foot surgeries. She had these medical setbacks a pulmonary embolism blood clots. She had a hematoma surgery in her stomach. Her third-round opponent Victoria Azarenka said it was painful to play her. And her next opponent in her last round Ana Ivanovic just talked about how intimidating it is to see her across the net.  So let us talk about the men's side. If you are interested in that play you had to stay up really late.  You did. Roger Federer took the court close to midnight last night. But he was completely unperturbed. You know he is the consummate pro. He went out there he took care of business. He completely dismantled his opponent. And afterwards he said you know no big deal. You know I know people pay a lot of money to sit in these seats. I am an entertainer. You know he gets it and he is looking sharp.  One of the things that really stands out here is the strength of the U.S. men. They are doing much better than expected.  They are indeed. We had four men reach the fourth round here for the first time since 2003 - Andy Roddick Mardy Fish who bowed out yesterday John Isner the 6-10 cannon fire server and Donald Young a young 22-year-old. He now seems to be sort of taking his talent to the next level. And it is really nice to see the U.S. men having a nice run here in New York.  Douglas Robson good to talk to you. Thanks so much.  Nice to be here.  Douglas Robson writes about tennis for USA Today. 