 And now we will go to a far happier place in Sao Paulo a neighborhood where NPR's Russell Lewis watched the first match on TV. He was in the company of euphoric fans at a samba club and they watched the host team Brazil soundly beat Croatia in the opening game 3 to 1. Russell joins me now. And Russell wow what a combination - World Cup soccer and Brazilian samba does not get much better than that. How many people were there in the club watching with you?  There were about a 100 people. And of course every single person was rooting for Brazil people wearing the famed yellow soccer jerseys of Brazil. There were people who had flags wrapped around their bodies people with Brazilian flags tattooed onto their cheeks. And they were watching their team willing their team to go further and further and you can hear the fireworks here in the background just continuing to go off. This has been happening now for at least the last half hour here in this neighborhood of Sao Paulo as people continue to celebrate. But inside the samba club during the game itself there was such an ebb and a flow of the emotions watching their team go down 1-0 by Croatia from an own goal that one of their players hit into their own goal but the people inside did not panic much like the players of Brazil did not panic. They knew that you know soccer is a very careful game that you play very very methodically that there is always ups and downs and twists and turns of the game. And like the players sort of keeping their cool they did not seem to have any concerns any worries that they would not end the game with anything but a victory and of course that is what happened tonight.  Well that first goal - the own goal that you described that gave Croatia the lead early on in the game - describe what happened in the club when that happened.  Well it was - it had been so full of festive screams and cheers. And then when that happened people just kind of groaned and it got completely quiet. They sort of looked around in awe not believing that - what had just happened. They figured - they assumed that a Brazil player would score the first goal of the World Cup it happened but unfortunately it happened into their own goal giving Croatia the lead. That was something that they just could not imagine under any scenario but you know as soon as it got quiet they began stomping their feets and cheering and willing their team to say that is OK let us pick ourselves up let us keep moving forward you should not worry about a setback like that because it is a long game and it is also going to be a long World Cup. It will not be easy for Brazil of course but something like this is what they were prepared for. And at the end of the day they got the victory that they wanted and the victory that they needed.  And I am sure pure jubilation and deafening shouts of joy when Brazil scored.  Especially. And as soon as Brazil continued to score goals the excitement the enthusiasm inside the club just got louder and louder with each turn and twist. It was shown on this huge television that was put up on a projector it was just an amazing kind of thing to sort of see it happen. And to see - again you can hear the fireworks in the background. It was amazing to sort of see - as each goal happened you could hear the excitement people got more and more exciting knowing that they would not have any problem to do so.  Now Russell we have been hearing about the protests on the streets - before the opening match a protest that took a violent turn today - were any of the fans where you were talking about that or is it all just pure soccer joy and fun now that the games have begun?  During the game it was all pure soccer fun pure joy focusing on the cup focusing on the team focusing on the game realizing how important it is to win the first game of the World Cup in group play. It was not until after the game ended that I began to talk to some of the people in attendance and asked them that very question - what do you think about the protests. And what I heard from one lady that I talked to she said yes the protests are important the protests were important to talk about what happened and why but she said the World Cup is important and now that the World Cup is underway it is time for us to focus on the World Cup do not worry so much about the protests. Yes the protests are still important and it is important to talk about the protests but really at this point she said what is important now is to focus on the World Cup to continue willing Brazil forward and hoping that they continue to win games.  OK Russell thanks so much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Russell Lewis outside of a samba club in Sao Paulo Brazil where the home team won its opening game in the World Cup. They defeated Croatia 3 to1. 