 Here's just a sampling of the issues that were on Jason Wright's desk when he began his job this week as the new president of Washington's NFL team.   The Washington franchise in the NFL is now going to have a new nickname and logo.  Former female employees of the Washington NFL franchise claiming they were sexually harassed during their time there. The culture...  We enter into this sports season without any planning. Like I think a lot of people hoped that the pandemic would be over by now.  And all that plus Jason Wright is making history as the first Black person ever to be an NFL team president. He is just the fourth former NFL player to hold such a title. Jason Wright welcome to ALL ank you for making time for us in this very busy first week you have been having.  It is my pleasure to be here.  Well any one of the issues that we just listed could occupy a team president full time - COVID-19 the team name change sexual harassment allegations against your boss team owner Dan Snyder athletes and other leagues refusing to play to show solidarity with racial justice protesters. And this is your first week on the job so how is it going?  Well it is been busy. I will tell you that much. I have not - I thought I was going to catch up on sleep leaving professional services. It has not happened this week. I think overall I am really enjoying being in this role not because it is easy or because it is been a slow ramp up but because our organization and many like ours are at the center of the things that matter most right now in society - the various discussions and dialogues that are changing our collective psyche the ways in which all organizations need to adapt and evolve to support women in the right ways and how we actually think about operating in what is rapidly becoming a new normal for all business operations and is particularly acute for us in sports in the context of COVID-19. For me I am in the middle of the arena and I am happy about that.  How do you begin to prioritize your to-do list? I mean like what is at the top of it right now?  The biggest thing on my mind right now - and always was but it is become more acute this week - is ensuring that our workforce feels confident that we are the leaders of people that can actually get our culture into a place where people feel trustworthy of leadership that they feel trusted to do their work that they can bring their full selves to work that they are not going to be marginalized in any way. But they need to know in a clear way that there is a new direction the things that we plan to do in tactical terms. And the best I can do is just talk to people to share that consistent message over and over again. And so the number one priority is the psychological and emotional well-being of our team.  And does the team include like the cheerleaders who are at the center of the stories about sexual harassment? I mean how are you defining team?  Yeah. They are very much - and when I say team I am actually talking about all our business folks.  When you have these accusations in The Washington Post that point to the team owner Dan Snyder as deeply involved in sexual harassment this is somebody who you answer to. How much can you really do to change the culture?  Yeah. So I think you know this is a question that most chief executives face. You know the corollary I give is you know I am the chief executive and this is the board of directors. And so yes you answer to them and they are going to set direction. But I have the ability to implement that in a way that is in line with my vision for the organization. Now that said if everything in The Washington Post article is true then there is - that is just not a tenable situation you know? And Dan and Tanya and I have had open conversations about that.  This is Tanya Snyder Dan's wife.  Yes sir. That is right. And you know we will let the investigations play out and we will have our true fact base on where we stand. And then if we have to revisit the conversation at that point we will. But in the meantime you know I have the leeway to set a new direction. And you know them as the board of directors have given me and Coach Rivera that trade space.  Why do you think it is taken until 2020 for a Black person to be the president of an NFL team especially when about 70 of NFL players are Black?  Well I mean you could ask that question about CEOs in corporate America. I mean take your pick - right? The systemic barriers to Black folks moving into higher education therefore having the credentials that signal you are able to move into these roles and then the historic bias both implicit and explicit that exists in keeping black folks from getting senior roles in organizations - they are well documented. We have not had a lot of clear pathways or even a lot of thinking about folks transitioning from the field to the business side of the operations you know? And I credit the fact that I had a Black head coach during my time a Black general manager during my time. I have had a subconscious level helping me believe at some level that there was a pathway for me in that direction. Though it was never an explicit goal. I have got to believe that I was bold enough to step into the opportunity because I saw those role models before.  Let us talk about the NFL's return to play. The team announced earlier this year that it would play home games without fans present because of the risks of COVID-19. If the team believes it is a risk for fans to attend games why is not it a risk for players to play them?  Well there is a difference between the testing protocols that players go through and what happens with fans. I actually think the approach taken which was what European soccer has done and what we are planning to do is one that actually gave athletes the right autonomy to make a decision - right? You could opt out. You can choose to play. They had input on what the proper protocols were. And as an athlete at the end of the day what I would have wanted and I think what many of these guys made a decision was I want to play this game the compensation is sufficient and I have made that grown-up risk-reward calculation in my mind and I am in for it. I think what we owe to the players at any given time is a clear plan a clear view of the risk.  OK. So when you were offered this job was there any part of you that looked at the pandemic the name change the sexual harassment allegations and everything else and did any part of you think this is just too much? No one human being could handle this many crises all at once.  If I think about the crises what I would consider a crises the sexual harassment allegations is the one that falls into that category for me. And that is the only one that I looked at as hey this is something that will be intense unique highly emotional. Maybe it is a bit exhausting day to day. But the others are opportunities for me that felt quite familiar. You know every single business that I would been advising for the last few months as a professional services consultant - it was all about navigating and doing business in the context of COVID. The opportunity to have a new identity as a club for me is a marvelous opportunity not a crisis by any means. We have a deeply passionate and engaged fan base and some of that passion is not as positive as it used to be. But for me it is an opportunity to establish an identity that is representative of the fan base that captures the real heart behind the culture change that we want to implement. And that is a once-in-a-generation type of thing. You know that name unless we - unless everybody thinks it is the worst thing ever created it will last a long time. And I do not know. As a leader those are the types of decisions I want to be in on.  OK. I know the naming process is going to be long and include many stakeholders but between you and me what is your favorite?   I - you know what? I know better now than to say anything.  .  Oh my goodness. It would be some smoke in the city...  Well if you want to break some news we are here for you - OK?  ...If I tip my hand. Yes I am sure you are.   Jason Wright is the newly appointed president of the Washington Football Team. Thank you for talking with us.  It is my pleasure. 