 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The Tenth Inning which airs on PBS at the end this month is Ken Burns' sequel to his PBS documentary series Baseball. It picks up in the 1990s where Baseball left off. Over the course of two two-hour programs The Tenth Inning touches on many developments in the game over the past couple of decades. But its most compelling thread running through the length of it is a plot of Shakespearian dimensions. It is the story of Barry Bonds. Mr.  Dodger Stadium is the best show I ever go to in all of my baseball. They say Barry talks louder than anybody out there. You got to have some serious talent to have 53000 people saying you suck.  Mr.  I am proud of that.  Ken Burns joins us from New York. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you once again.  Your take on Barry Bonds is here's the most gifted player of this time or maybe perhaps with Ken Griffey Jr. one of the two most gifted and midway through an already stellar career just eats away at him that sluggers with juiced bodies get more attention than he does. You are in the realm of motivation here. Are you confident that you got him right? Mr.  I think so. It is always I think the people closest to us - the ones we love and spend our lives with - remain to some extent inscrutable in the end which suggests that biography is always failure. But I think what we wanted to do is go beyond the sort of binary response of good or bad with regard to Barry Bonds - indeed the whole steroids era and all those caught up in it sort of horrific mix - and to try to show a complicated and nuanced portrait of him. To come to terms with why that Faustian bargain was made there at the end of the 1998 season.  The idea being that baseball is finally revived after the strike-shortened season of '94 by McGwire and Sosa vying for who would break Roger Maris' season home run record first. And here's this incredibly gifted all-around player who - someone whose accomplishments go virtually unnoticed. Mr.  He hits his 400th home run and steals his 400th base something no one's ever done that summer when we were all cheering McGwire and Sosa on despite the discovery of Andro in Mark McGwire's locker a form of steroids. And it is at that point that he realizes that if home runs is what they want you know his contribution was relegated to the back of the sports pages. McGwire and Sosa were almost daily on the front pages. He was going to balance the score. And boy does he spectacularly. But this is without a doubt the greatest player of the last several decades. And he may arguably be the greatest player who has ever played our national pastime. And yet because of these choices will drag around with him for his entire life and for the statistical life of his baseball records the ball and chain of this steroids scandal.  You do acknowledge in The Tenth Inning that the steroid era - while unique in its specifics - is part of a history frankly of cheating that is one of baseball's less noble attributes. Mr.  We steal bases in this game. That is actually stealing is legal in this game but you know we have always sought to find an edge. And we have sort of admired the folks who found that edge. And we have usually seen them as likable rogues. And what happens in steroids is that all of a sudden - the 50-home run season which was a rarity I think of George Foster in '77 then Cecil Fielder in '90 and then all of a sudden everybody - you and I could hit 50 home runs. And you know the good news is that it is back to being a rarity again. The genie if not is back in the bottle then it is close to being put back in the bottle. We feel some balance to the records. But it ought to be pointed out that the only thing that it really did is it seemed to extend pitchers' careers and add to the home run totals - both single season and lifetime. But there were not that many more 300 hitters. Nobody hit 406 as Ted Williams did in '41. Nobody had a 56-game hitting streak as Joe DiMaggio did also in '41. No pitcher won 30 games or 35 games or 40 games which would have been the statistical equivalent to 73 home runs in a season which Barry Bonds went on to do just three years later in 2001. So we started to take a deep breath and try to see it without that kind of initial binary good-bad response and try to come to terms with how to deal with this complexity the Shakespearian dimensions of this story.  Here is a very satisfying moment for me in your documentary The Tenth Inning this is from one of a few clips from an interview with the greatest pitcher of his day.  Mr.  First of all I am confident. And I love people misjudging that. People might say he is cocky. I am fearless intense. Some people might say he is mean. And sometimes I - since I am so intense I will strike you out. People looking at you  because baseball has a little bit of a psychology in it.  Pedro Martinez. It turns out to be a very good interview. Mr.  He is fantastic. Lynn conducted that interview and it is...  Lynn Novick your co-writer and co-director of The Tenth Inning as well as of the original Baseball. Mr.  Yes. And it is wonderful.  There is no crying in baseball. He talks about crying and missing his mom as he begins to move up and out from the Dominican Republic into the world of baseball and being carried away on all-day car trips away from his mom. He is magnificent. One of my favorite moments - this is a sport in which forever someone crosses the plate and points up to heaven thanking God for the grand slam that they have just hit. But nobody ever thanks God for the troubles that baseball is also very much about. Remember you fail seven times out of 10...  Mr.  ...and you are an excellent 300 hitter. But as Pedro Martinez is removed - finally finally - by Grady Little in the eighth inning of the seventh game of the 2003 ALCS against the Yankees in which Pedro has not been taken out sooner and has therefore given up the runs that have allowed the Yankees to tie the game and eventually win it in the 12th inning on a home run by Aaron Bleeping Boon as we say in New England...  Mr.  ...there is this momentary thing as he is walking in and crossing the chalk that he points up. And I just - I love Pedro for that. And the determination and that amazing concentration in the sense that every time he came out you are going to see a great game.  Here is an unsatisfying aspect for me of The Tenth Inning You are dealing with an era of baseball since the 1990s which is documented by video. Still photography cannot play the same role that it would say for talking about the Civil War or baseball in the 1920s. But video has now moved on to digital video to high-definition. And boy I look at clips from the 1996 Braves-Yankees World Series it does not look charmingly nostalgically old to me. It does not look currently new to me. It just looks kind of blah to me. Mr.  I know exactly what you mean. There is all this level of new media and none of it satisfying. And in some versions that you will see it will have different qualities. A DVD might not be as good as a HD projection in a theater where we have had things. And the quality is all over the place and extremely frustrating. And I think it must be as well for Major League Baseball that is struggling to control this mammoth leviathan of an archive.  Ken Burns who along with Lynn Novick is co-director and co-writer of  The Tenth Inning. It airs on PBS at the end of September. Ken thanks a lot for talking with us. Mr.  My pleasure. Thank you. 