 In a wild Wimbledon the upsets just keep happening. Serena Williams the number one seed and last year's champion was knocked out by Germany's Sabine Lisicki. With Williams losing the top three women's seeds are now out and Wimbledon fans are wondering just who is left to win this thing. For that Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated joins us from the court. And Jon we will get to who is left for the women but first explain what happened to Serena Williams today.  I think she would like an explanation. No she came out flat. She played a very good player. I mean this hard serving German Sabine Lisicki who plays well on grass and probably second to Serena has the best serve in the women's game. And Serena loses the first set and then as if she toggles a switch she is back in business. She wins nine games in a row. She is on the verge of winning and suddenly she forgets she is Serena Williams. She is not aggressive. She plays a very shaky game and then Lisicki to her credit served it out and we have yet another titanic upset here at Wimbledon 2013.  All right. So Jon when should we start I guess feeling bad for Serena Williams right? I mean she is done well for so long but should we be worried?  No. I do not think so. I mean she is 31 which in tennis' dog years is getting up there but you know before today she had this tremendous 35 match win streak. She won the French Open. She was the defending champion. She will still be number one in the rankings. And she lost today to a powerful player and I think she learned you cannot be passive late in the match. But she is still doing awfully well for herself and if she were to win the U.S. Open I would say overall 2013 was a very successful year for her.  So now that Serena's gone and we should mention along with Victoria Azarenka and Maria Sharipova are there any more recognizable names left on the women's side?  I think that depends on your level of fandom Audie. Do you have Agnieszka Radwanska fever?  You would have to know how to spell it I think.  For the casual fans there will be a lot of confused looks as they look at some of the remaining names especially on the women's side. You know on the other hand Sloane Stephens the young American is still left in the tournament. And you know maybe this is a disguised blessing. I mean maybe the fact that this is not the Serena Open and we will have a breakthrough star maybe in the long run this is good for tennis. But no I do think to your question I think there will be a lot of puzzled looks when people look at some of the match-ups that await us for the next three rounds.  To follow up on that does this really allow a moment for new stars to step in or do people really just want to see finals with Sharipova and Williams?  No I think you are right. I mean we all like stars and we all like recognized brands but some of the breakthrough stars have to start somewhere. Serena as we said is 31 years old and if a player like Sloane Stephens can use this opportunity to break through then again maybe this is a disguised blessing.  Now before we let you go I have got to ask about the men's side. Last week there were a lot of upsets there as well. Have things calmed down? Who should we be looking out for?  Things have calmed down to some extent. We still have the top two seeds Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic who are really shaping up to be sort of the next generation rivalry after Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer. And you know it is crazy from a U.S. perspective certainly seeing this upset after upset has been crazy working here on the other hand if Andy Murray were to win this and we have a British champion then the folks here will certainly go home happy and that is what this tournament will ultimately be remembered for not this rash of upsets.  Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated thank you so much for speaking with us.  Any time thanks Audie. 