 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  And Audie Cornish. Just 40 days after winning the women's singles title at Wimbledon Marion Bartoli of France announced on Wednesday that she is retiring from tennis at age 28. Bartoli now joins a relatively short list of top athletes who decided to call it quits in their prime. Sports writer Stefan Fatsis joins us now as he does most Fridays. Hey there Stefan.  Hey Audie.  So tell us more about Marion Bartoli and her announcement.  Well she is been a top 20 player for more than 6 years. She lost a Wimbledon final in 2007 and then this year she won Wimbledon without dropping a set. She is known as intense on the court a little bit quirky and in contrast to a lot of her younger and more cloistered colleagues she is mature and outgoing off of the court. And what is making her retirement a big story is the way she announced it. After a second round loss in a tournament in Cincinnati there were only a handful of reporters present to see her break down in tears. It seemed sudden but to Bartoli it probably happened more like Fitzgerald wrote gradually and then suddenly.  So why does she say she is retiring?  I have pain everywhere she said a litany of injuries Achilles tendon back ribs shoulder abs knees. She played through pain at Wimbledon took a month off afterward and she only returned to the women's tour last week. It looked like business as usual for a top athlete. Her agent was even talking about new sponsorship deals. But after that loss the other night it sounded as if Bartoli had decided that she had achieved what she had dreamed about for two decades winning Wimbledon and enough was enough. She said that was probably the last little bit of something that was left inside me. I have the right to do something else as well.  So interesting to hear that from an athlete at her level right? I mean asserting her own right to her life. Rightly or wrongly it seems like we expect athletes to basically play through the pain.  Yeah until they expire on the field or they are cut from a team. We think and not always unjustly that elite athletes have these gifts that we wish we had and therefore they should exploit them until those gifts disappear. We do not expect that to happen at age 28 or 26 in the case of tennis star Bjorn Borg or 29 when football legend Jim Brown retired or 30 baseball's Sandy Koufax or even 37 when Annika Sorenstam the golfer retired at the top of her game. Bartoli is a reminder that for all the reporting about injury X and injury Y we have got no idea what is happening to an athlete's body and in her mind.  Especially you could argue in tennis where there is this reputation that top players are driven by coaches and parents from the time that they can lift a racquet.  Yeah and Bartoli said she would been playing competitively for 22 years. She was coached for all but the last few months of that by her father. And in women's tennis that parental involvement has often proved pretty stultifying. She trained daily and obsessively. Overall the physical and emotional stress is huge and the life can get tiresome. I once interviewed an Olympic shot-putter Adam Nelson a Dartmouth graduate and he described the intellectual boredom of training. Some athletes do not care. They push and push until their bodies simply do not go anymore. A rare few have the intellectual ability to let go sooner and move on with their lives.  At the same time these early retirements seem to happen more frequently in tennis. I mean in the last few years there is been Martina Hingis Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin. All of them have gone out in their 20s.  Yeah but they turned pro at 14 16 and 16. Bartoli was 15. That is a lot of serving and pounding and traveling. Hingis Clijsters and Henin did make comebacks because that is also what a lot of top athletes do. They miss the life and why would not they? You know it is literally all they have known. Martina Hingis she played in her first tournament at age four. She is now begun a second tour comeback at 32. She is playing doubles only and plans to do so in the U.S. Open starting in 10 days. Bartoli by the way insisted that she is done forever. We will see.  Stefan thanks so much.  Thanks Audie.  Stefan Fatsis he joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. You can hear more of him on Slate magazine's sports podcast Hang Up And Listen. 