 There is a dispute over prosthetic blades at the Paralympic Games in London. So-called bladerunner Oscar Pistorius of South Africa seemed to be cruising to an easy win in the men's 200-meter final when in the final stretch he was overtaken by another double amputee Brazilian Alan Oliveira. Right after the race Pistorius complained that his rival's blades were too high giving him an unfair advantage. He called the race ridiculous. The BBC's Emma Tracey is covering the Paralympics. She joins me now to talk about the controversy. And Emma the Brazilian runner won by just point-07 seconds. You were there at the stadium. What was the reaction from the crowd?  The reaction was pretty amazing because I mean Oscar Pistorius is probably the most famous paralympian in the world and as he ran the cheer was uproarious. And then when he lost there was a palpable sense of shock.  Well the Brazilian runner says he is using a new taller carbon fiber blade but it is within regulation. Walk us through how the Paralympic committee judges what is acceptable. It is a very detailed formula they calculate with.  It is an exceptionally detailed formula. Basically what they do is they measure an athlete's forearm length and what they call their demi-stand which is from just below their throat to the end of their finger. They get the mean of those two and then they add 3.5 percent because of the fact that runners who run on blades run on their toes rather than their heels so that is an extra little bit onto that. All of the athletes were apparently within that height and actually quite a lot below it.  Now today Oscar Pistorius apologized for the timing of his remarks but not for the content. And in fact he has said that he had raised this issue before with the International Paralympic Committee. They are going to meet with him on this. What do you expect to happen?  Well Oscar's a very very high-profile athlete so they cannot ignore what he has said. And they have said that they will look into whether everyone should run on the same height of blades. So I do not think anything major will happen until after these Games because you know all the athletes involved particularly Oscar's got 400-meter race in a couple of days and he is going to need to put this aside for now and focus on that.  You know it is interesting Oscar Pistorius is claiming that because his rival had these taller blades he had a longer stride but actually I read an analysis in the Guardian somebody counted the steps and said Pistorius is wrong that Pistorius actually took fewer steps in the race. Oliveira won because his stride rate was better not its length.  It is so complicated and it is only going to get more so as the technology gets better and better for these blades. Yes Oscar took less steps. And because of their different lengths of blades apparently Oscar would have had a better start but Oliveira would have had a better finish according to an expert.  There does seem to be an irony here Emma because Oscar Pistorius famously fought to compete in the Olympics and he won. He had to prove that his blades did not give him an unfair advantage. In a way he is now using a similar argument against his competitor.  Yeah it is interesting. I mean he runs on the blades that he has managed to get by the Olympic committee. And actually in 2004 when he broke his first world record and Marlon Shirley from the U.S. complained that Oscar Pistorius's blades were too big back then. So it is going to keep getting more and more complicated which is kind of the beauty of it.  Well Emma thanks so much for talking with us.  No problem.  That is the BBC's Emma Tracey covering the Paralympic Games in London. 