 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand in California.  And I am Robert Siegel in Washington. Sunday witnessed one of the great events in the history of golf and in the history of 59. Tom Watson came within a single putt of winning the British Open just a few weeks shy of his 60th birthday. Such things just do not happen. All over the world men who used to play sports better run faster used to hit balls harder and hold a putter steadier were with Watson in spirit convinced that for three days and 17 holes of golf the brilliance of past decades can somehow revisit us. What was it like to be there? Well we are going to ask Neil Oxman who has been Tom Watson's caddie since 2003 and joins us from the U.K. where I guess Tom Watson's getting ready for the British Senior Open now. Mr.  We already played a practice round today Robert.  What was it like being there through those four days when up until the last minute it looked like Watson was going to win another British Open? Mr.  Well obviously it was very exciting because Tom is a real hero in Scotland. He is won five British Opens and three Senior British Opens and most of them have been won in Scotland and people there just love him. And so the crowd was quite excited and they were screaming for him the whole time and the atmosphere was obviously the only word really you can use is electric.  How many times have you relived the 18th hole of the fourth round in your head so far? Mr.  Well I did not sleep last night. I ended up instead of staying overnight in Scotland I just decided to drive down through the night to London and that is all I thought about. And you know in my real life not that this is not real life I work in politics and  We should explain that you are no stranger to NPR programs as a political consultant in Pennsylvania but this is your other life. Mr.  Right. But you know we have literally The Campaign Group the company I work for we have done 650 contested primary and general elections in 30 years. And you know I have dwelled on three or four races that I have lost over the years. You tend not to think about the ones you have won. You tend to think about those that got away. This is never going to leave me. If Tom had won this would have clearly been one of the half-dozen sort of most important things in the history of golf. And you know it was just sort of going to be what-ifs forever. What happens if we had hit a nine-iron from the middle of the 18th fairway? There is just a million things that you think about that you know I am going to you know just wish that it turned out differently.  Yeah he shot an eight-iron from the 18th fairway. That is more yardage. It looked like it was going to stay on the green but it just rolled over just went a little bit too long. Mr.  Yeah. Tom usually hits an eight-iron 145 yards and we had 189 yards even though we would been hitting seven-iron. But just to make sure the ball stayed on the green we hit an eight. And I told somebody today as a joke the final words of my life will be you know I should have made Tom hit a nine-iron there but  Mr.  you know and then dramatically go to sleep forever.  Now one could say after all was said and done Tom Watson at 59 came in second in a British Open and made it to a playoff and was one putt away from winning historic pretty amazing. But I guess if you play to win all your life that is not how you think about it. Mr.  Obviously that is a big deal. I mean you know if you had said to Watson you are going to finish second next week at the British Open he would have laughed and said I will take it. But under the circumstances you get so close because you are leading with one hole to go. No it is remarkable. I mean it is really a thing. It just you know wish it had ended up being one shot lower and who knows?  So as things go caddying for the 59-year-old champion at a British Open or say running a victorious presidential political campaign in the U.S.? Mr.  Robert it is not even close. I enjoy this much more than having to deal with the guys who have ruined the country.   Well Neil Oxman thank you very much for talking with us today. Mr.  All right take care.  Neil Oxman who as he says is a caddie. He caddies for Tom Watson who came oh-so-close to winning the British Open yesterday. 