 The World Cup begins tomorrow in Russia. The U.S. did not make the tournament but today it did get a huge win. The United States along with Canada and Mexico will host the World Cup in 2026. The news came after a vote in Moscow.   The member associations of Canada Mexico and USA have been selected by the FIFA Congress to host the 2026 FIFA World Cup.  Tariq Panja is in Moscow. He is a sports correspondent for The New York Times. Welcome to the program.  Hey good to be with you.  So does this mean that the U.S. Mexico and Canada teams will all definitely play in the World Cup in 2026?  That is a really good question. The past World Cup hosts have always been guaranteed an automatic place in their home World Cup. For the first time FIFA has three hosts. And immediately after that announcement was made FIFA president was asked about this. And he said listen what we do know is that there will be seven representatives from that North American Caribbean region. But it will be up to the regional governing body to decide how it allocates those slots. Now if I was guessing I would say you know the United States is certain to be playing in that tournament without qualifying. I would be less sure about Mexico and Canada's guarantee. That said I will not be surprised if they get a place as well.  I want to ask you about this unusual collective bid between Canada the U.S. and Mexico. Was it strange to see them combine forces like this when these countries are in the middle of the biggest diplomatic fight they have had in years over the G7 and the U.S.-Mexico border?  Yeah the backdrop created a narrative I guess that they did not like because whenever they were doing media rounds they are saying you know look hang on a minute are not you supposed to be building a wall in Mexico? Have not you got these tariffs against both those countries? How are you guys getting together and can we really believe that you guys are together? However they have been at pains to present themselves as a United Bid. In fact you know it is the name on the box. It is called the United Bid. That is quite different from the start of the bid where it looked like this is a U.S. bid. Oh and by the way those two guys sitting in the back over there you might see them in the corner. Yeah that is Mexico and Canada and they might have some games as well. So that narrative changed.  President Trump personally lobbied for this. And he had to offer some surprising assurances when he was asked whether fans from around the world would be allowed to attend whether they would be given visas. Tell us about that.  Absolutely. One of the things FIFA has always requested and it is upset some of its critics are these government guarantees. In this case they needed requirements that all of the teams and the fans wherever they are from really will be able to arrive in the United States unmolested. Now given the rhetoric and actual policy that the Trump White House has instituted since 2016 there were some worries about this. And Donald Trump has to his credit really engaged with the bid in the sense of providing guarantees. To be honest with you it looks like that was not an issue really given the emphatic way the U.S. Mexico and Canada won the vote today.  How can the U.S.-Canada-Mexico bid guarantee 14 billion in revenue twice as much as the previous tournament? That seems like a really high number.  I think you are right to question that and they did not guarantee it. But the reality is they have won now. So those people who were seduced by that voted for it.  Tariq Panja thanks for joining us.  Thank you.  He is a sports correspondent from The New York Times speaking with us from Moscow. 