 Another chapter today in the saga of quarterback Brett Favre. Just three weeks after announcing he would stay retired this season Favre flew to St. Paul and then headed to the Minnesota Vikings training camp. This afternoon the team confirmed they have a deal in place. From Minnesota Public Radio Tom Weber reports.  Just as he did when he was considering joining the team and just when he did when he announced three weeks ago he would not join the team and then again today after he would changed his mind again Brett Favre became the talk of the town. Dave and Nancy Tate drove in from Wisconsin this morning to go to Como Zoo in St. Paul. When they heard the news they changed plans and headed to Gabe's Roadhouse which happens to be a well-known Packers bar. But the Tates are Vikings fans. Ms.  We are excited.  Do you know you are at the Packers bar? Ms.  Yes we do. Mr.  Exactly.  Is that okay? Ms.  Yes it is. Mr.  It is a great place to be today.  So there they sat glued to ESPN watching minute-by-minute live video of Brett Favre's plane arriving then Favre getting in a car then driving away then arriving at training camp. Mr.  I think they improved their chances to go deeper in the playoffs. How far that is I do not know.  After years as the NFL's premier quarterback Favre the Packer retired last year but changed his mind. He was then traded to the New York Jets played one season and then retired again this year. But Favre the Jet is way different than Favre the Viking.  neighboring states division rivals ranking up there with Roger Clemens becoming a Yankee after all those years in Boston. Jim Klobuchar the father of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar is also a retired sports columnist for the Minneapolis StarTribune. He spent today sizing up fans' reactions on the Web. Mr.  And you are getting a full measure of both delight and anger and resentment that everybody's emotions were trampled with all of this over the period of three or four months. But that is part of the byplay. All of that - the reaction to it - that is going to be old news when he puts on a uniform.  Something the three-time MVP did today at Vikings camp wearing his familiar number four. Favre has suggested in the past the Vikings could be a good move because they run an offense he could operate in his sleep. His move also means the team's other two quarterbacks Tarvaris Jackson and Sage Rosenfels are probably done competing for the starting job. And the most popular ticket is sure to be the one for Sunday November 1st at high noon in Green Bay - the day the Vikings visit the Packers and the day Brett Favre will run out onto Lambeau Field not wearing a Packers jersey. For NPR News I am Tom Weber in St. Paul. 