 The stars have realigned in the galaxy. We are talking soccer here not astronomy. David Beckham has returned to the L.A. Galaxy pro soccer team after a stint with top Italian team AC Milan. Beckham is one of soccer's better players and its biggest star. But his past couple years with the Galaxy have produced losing seasons hurt feelings and now a tell-all book. It describes Beckham as a poor captain. NPR's Mike Pesca watched the Galaxy defeat the New York Red Bulls last night in New Jersey and he sent this report.  Being a fan of David Beckham seems easy enough. He is a good-to-great player a household name self-effacing a hard worker and a winner.  There is Manchester United Team England Real Madrid and AC Milan.   Last night he re-donned the L.A. Galaxy jersey in front of a sparsely populated Giants Stadium crowd. Each year the Galaxy comes east to face the Red Bulls and Vito Petrezelli has been in the stands for each of Beckham's appearances. Mr.  Three years ago we had the entire stadium every seat filled. Two years ago  the first two levels a sprinkling up top. This year we would be pretty lucky to say that the entire first level is filled.  Part of the explanation for the diminished excitement is that the home team is dreadful as proved by last night's three to nothing halftime deficit which Beckham had little to do with. But part of the explanation for the poor attendance is that the Beckham experiment has not gone so luminously for the Galaxy or arguably for the league. The Beckham Experiment is the title of a new book by Grant Wahl in which he documents what happens when a star who earns 50 million a year including endorsements mixes with teammates who eagerly await double coupon days at the Stop and Shop. Mr.  You have this Armani world of Beckham coming together with this Wal-Mart world of MLS. And Beckham's temperament over the years suggested that he would be a good teammate that he would find a way to connect with these guys even though their skills might not have been that great and their fame was nonexistent compared to his.  While his teammates were happy to have their road accommodations upgraded from the Secaucus Sheraton to the Waldorf Astoria the higher thread count did not translate to more wins. The Galaxy went three months without a victory. The failure seemed especially hard on Landon Donovan. Before David Beckham's arrival Donovan was the Galaxy's captain biggest star and best player. After Beckham only the last of those superlatives held true says Grant Wahl. Mr.  I think he became very frustrated in the second half of 2008 that Beckham's effort surprisingly lagged on the field and that Beckham he thought checked out on the team and was not committed to the team during that time.  Donovan let his feelings be known through Wahl's book. Beckham criticized Donovan's openness as unprofessional. Before last night's game they swore they had patched things up.   One game is not a referendum. One game against the Red Bulls even less so. But last night Beckham played well enough and Donovan scored a goal and assisted on another. In the post-game press conference Beckham embraced Donovan with words just as he had embraced him on the field after his goal. Mr.  When Landon's in the form that he has been you know you just give players like that the ball. And when you give them the ball you know they do what they can do and show how good they are. And you know Landon did that tonight.  Beckham having delivered a beautiful crossing pass was rewarded as Donovan rocketed the compliment home. Mr.  He understands how to play the game. He knows how I play and he can make all the plays that I need to get the ball in a good spot. So it is easy.  Easy has not been an apt word to describe the Beckham experiment thus far but with the Galaxy sitting in third place a new chapter just might be in the offing. Mike Pesca NPR News New York. 