 Turning now to sports two big names are out of the NBA playoffs. For the first time in more than a decade neither LeBron James nor Steph Curry will make the finals and that may signal an exciting shift for the younger generation in the NBA who have been waiting to take the lead. Joining us now is two-time NBA champion Chris Bosh. Good to have you here on ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Man thank you so much for having me.  You were drafted in 2003 alongside LeBron James. So how much of an earthquake is it that this year we will not see him or Steph Curry move forward?  Well I mean you know it is not that much of an earthquake. We are talking about sustaining excellence for over a decade you know? He is been in - what? - him and Steph Curry but especially LeBron at least went to every finals. I cannot even - I lost count .  Sounds like you are saying this is not going to...  Yeah.  ...Mar his legacy.  It is not a big deal. There have been plenty of times where I did not even make the playoffs you know? So I think in their case it is just one of those things. We all are at the hands of disappointing seasons. I think for both of those guys they would want to continue to play. But you know over their careers they know what is important. And especially this one - this year was a very long very strange year because of the cramped year last year...  Yeah.  ...And then rebooting it and getting right back to it. So you know I just expect them to kind of you know retool get their - get healthy obviously with all those injuries and just come back stronger next year.  Let us talk about the younger players who you are most excited about. Who are you really psyched to see stepping into the spotlight right now?  Man I love the job that Devin Booker's doing Donovan Mitchell. You know I think Ja Morant when they were in before they got eliminated - I mean they are always knocking at the door competing especially with Donovan Mitchell. They are - the Jazz team being in the No. 1 seed being a strong home team and a top five team in both offense and defense. And you know let me see. Am I missing anybody? Oh yeah of course - Luka Doncic.  Of course.  I mean there is so many good players.  I was like waiting.  So many good players. Yeah Luka Doncic - he is been incredible. It is just like when you are not sure he can sustain that level of play he has better games.  Can you tell us about a parallel moment you might remember when you were coming up through the ranks and started to eclipse the players you had looked up to? Like does it feel strange to beat your heroes?  No it does not feel strange. It feels - it is gratifying .  Yeah.  It is gratifying. I mean it is hard. My instance was with Kevin Garnett. He was one of my favorite players growing up poster on my wall. But he was a very very competitive guy. And it was confrontational - not in a bad way. But just - I knew that I was going to have to bring my best every single time. And it just becomes difficult because you know your rival that person that you emulated is great at what they do. And you know there is years and years and years of aspiring to get there. And when I say aspiring I mean losing you know because...   Right.  ...You are always finding out every year that there is another level that you have to gain that you do not have right now. So you know that was always my quest. It helped me in my quest. But yeah it does not feel good. But then again it does feel sweet because there always - there is always more work to do even if you are successful.  That is Chris Bosh NBA Hall of Famer and author of the new book Letters To A Young Athlete. So good to talk to you. Thank you.  I appreciate you man. Thanks for having me.  