 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block. And it is time to catch up on some tennis. The latest from the U.S. Open at Flushing Meadows in Queens as they head toward the quarterfinals. Jon Wertheim covers tennis for Sports Illustrated and he joins me from New York. Hi John.  Hi Melissa.  Let us start with the women's side. Serena Williams had a really easy victory today. She is coming off her win at Wimbledon and a dominant gold-medal performance at the Olympics. Is she unstoppable?  She is awfully close to unstoppable. She really has been tremendous. Her last three sets she is won 6-0. You know the last two times she is played at the U.S. Open Serena Williams has had these meltdowns. So Serena Williams can beat Serena Williams whether anyone else can. I certainly do not see it.  And she is coming off a series of injuries - she had surgery blood clots on her lungs - and here she is looking really great. She did lose last year to Samantha Stosur of Australia. It was not even close. How does Stosur look this year?  She is a defending champion you know and her next match - she is still in the tournament which is good. But in her next match she plays Victoria Azarenka who is the number one seed. They have played half a dozen times and Stosur has yet to win a set. So it will be a big ask as they say for her to defend again.  And Maria Sharapova is also still in. How is she doing?  Well she probably should have lost last night and she had a tremendous comeback. She is a great fighter. But remember in the Olympic gold medal match you referenced that Serena won Serena Williams beat Maria Sharapova 6-0 6-1. And one wonders you know the silver medal is nothing to sneeze at but one wonders how such a comprehensive defeat what that has done to Maria Sharapova's confidence. You know she is won this event before. But again it really is Serena Williams's tournament to lose on the women's side.  OK. Well let us switch over to the men's side. This year Rafael Nadal is not competing right. He is out with an injury. There is always the perennials Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic who won at the U.S. Open last year. Who else are you looking at who might be a contender?  Well the other big contender is Andy Murray who had this breakthrough beating Federer to win the gold medal. Murray from Great Britain from Scotland and he wins this medal at the London Games. So the fact that it was in England his home country is all the more significant. He has never won a major and one of sort of these enduring questions in tennis is whether Andy Murray can finally break through and win that title. And certainly a few weeks after beating the might Federer on the lawns of the All England Club to win that gold certainly he has some momentum. So after Federer and Djokovic I think Murray is probably your best bet on the men's side.  Another big story that is going on in the middle of the U.S. Open the American favorite Andy Roddick announced that he is retiring at age 30. I am wondering why somebody with a serve that still clocks in at 141 miles per hour decides to retire.  Yeah and 30 used to be geriatric in tennis but no longer. Both Serena and Roger Federer are in their early 30s. You know Roddick has had some injuries. And he is also sort of been this tennis sissafist where he would broken through in 2003 and since then it is been a lot of close calls no cigars against Federer and Nadal. And I think his body has not cooperated and I think he wanted to retire at the U.S. Open his home country slam and made this decision and announced it. And now suddenly he is sort of hijacked this tournament a bit. He plays on Tuesday night. It will be a great atmosphere could be his last match and he is the last American remaining as well.  And let us talk about another player who is retired after losing at this U.S. Open and that is Kim Clijsters of Belgium. How would you sum up her career?  Yeah you know it is funny because she is so well-liked and the affection that she generated. In an individual sport you know in a sport that is so confrontational for her to have had this uniform affection really is remarkable. But I think in all this sort of love fest and this is her final tournament we lose sight of the fact you know this is somebody who won four majors. This is a Hall of Fame player. It is almost like your niceness in a weird way undercuts her tennis legacy. But certainly the sport will be worse off without her.  OK. Jon thanks so much.  Anytime thanks.  That is Jon Wertheim a senior writer for Sports Illustrated. He is covering the U.S. Open. 