 Believe it or not it is time to play ball. Major League Baseball begins the strangest season ever tonight. You will recognize peak 2020 when I tell you that throwing out the ceremonial first pitch for this pandemic-shortened season is none other than Dr. Anthony Fauci in front of no fans here in Washington. And yet earlier today we learned that Juan Soto a star player for the Washington Nationals has tested positive for the coronavirus. He is going to miss the game tonight. Joining us via Skype is Evan Drellich of The Athletic. Welcome back.  Thanks for having me.  So tonight's game is going forward but we do not know who Juan Soto may have had contact with recently which prompts the big question. How does Major League Baseball plan to keep everybody safe?  They put out a 101-page document organizing all of their protocols for this kind of situation. But arguably it still lacks some specificity. You are supposed to have two asymptomatic tests before you can return to play if you are a player like Juan Soto.  OK.  But if you are somebody who is not showing any symptoms they are not going to keep those types of star players off the field likely in every situation. So if a group of doctors get together they have a joint committee between the league and the players' union and say that a player is fit to return even if he is still testing positive they might return to play sooner. So it is going to be very case-by-case and it seems a little haphazard.  OK. Well let me turn you to what the season is going to look like. I mentioned it is shorter. It is not just shorter. It is way shorter - 60 games instead of the usual 162. Is this basically a sprint to the World Series?  Yeah. And that is the exciting part if you are a fan. If you are looking for a silver lining in the fact that you do not get your normal 162 games you do have a shortened race where teams that normally would fall out of it probably will stay in it. So if you are rooting for a team that was probably looking mediocre this year you might have something to be happy about.   Right. And speaking of the World Series are they still going to have one? How is that going to work?  Well they just agreed to an expanded playoff system. So there will be a World Series this year assuming health and the pandemic does not interrupt the season. And instead of having 10 teams which is what baseball had regularly before in the postseason you are going to have 16 teams. So it is the most teams...  Wow.  ...That have ever made a single postseason in baseball. And that is partly money-driven frankly. That allows the players and the owners to get more money out of this year when they are already going to lose a lot of money compared to normal years.  Sure. Just in the moments we have left I wonder what you are expecting how strange it is going to be to watch baseball in a totally empty stadium.  It will be absolutely bizarre. You are going to have players sitting not just in the dugout but around the dugout. Guys will not be able to spit. They are not going be able to use sunflower seeds. They are not going to be able to high-five. The whole product is...  Yeah.  ...Going to look different on broadcast. You are going to have people virtually in the stands. They are going to do some CGI and some graphics. So the whole thing is going to be very strange but hey at least it is some baseball.  Well at least they are playing baseball. That is Evan Drellich of The Athletic. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 