 It is been a terrible couple of weeks of sleep for sports fans. The NBA just concluded an epic seven-game final with games going on until midnight. For hockey fans the Stanley Cup Finals have been every bit as exciting and sleep depriving. Three of four games so far have gone into overtime. The Boston Bruins and the Chicago Blackhawks are tied now at two games apiece. And tomorrow fans can look forward to another late night when the teams meet again in Chicago. Joining us now from Chicago's United Center is Greg Wyshynski of Yahoo! Sports. He is also the editor of the hockey blog Puck Daddy. Greg welcome back.  Pleasure to be here.  And how tired are you? This has been a thrilling series but it is been sure keeping everybody up late.  Well it is sort of a tradition in the National Hockey League playoffs the war of attrition of overtime. Fans and media both go into these games knowing that there is a chance that we could be here for a very very long time. I do not think many people thought we would have triple overtime in Game 1 like we had in this series but it is one of the things that makes the Stanley Cup playoffs unique. You know there is no shootout like there is in the regular season. There is no four-on-four hockey. It is two teams five-on-five playing until everybody drops.  It is interesting these two teams - the Bruins and the Blackhawks - are so-called original six teams right both in the original NHL franchises. How would you describe the different styles of play for each of these teams?  The Boston Bruins are your blue-collar lunch pail team or at least they fancy themselves that way. They are brutal. They like to hit you and hit you hard. Zdeno Chara their man mountain 6'9 defenseman is an intimidating player. They have other guys in the team that really check hard. And teams always talk about the physicality of this series when they are about to play the Bruins. So that is their style. The Blackhawks do not have a lot of guys who hit as hard as the Bruins do. They are more of a speed team puck possession team able to be a little more creatively offensively than the Bruins. So it has been a contrast in styles and that is why we are 2-2. I mean we have seen one style win two games and one style win the other two games. And now we will find out which - whose kung fu is better I suppose in the last three games of the series.  Di you say man mountain Greg?   I did in fact. If you see the man he can catch planes with his hands. He is a very tall gentleman. He is one of the reasons why the series I think is so compelling because you do have on the other side of the equation - for Chicago players like Patrick Kane Jonathan Toews Patrick Sharp Marian Hossa - real offensive superstars in the National Hockey League. And on the other side you have this giant grizzled looking like King Leonidas from the move 300 Zdeno Chara who has the wingspan of a pterodactyl and is able to intimidate any scorer coming down the ice to face him. And so it is those kinds of conflicts and contrasts that really make the series so compelling. And in Game 4 where the Blackhawks got new life in the series they were able to take advantage of Chara and they scored five goals with him on the ice which is sort of unheard of from one of the best defensemen in the world.  Well do you want to look ahead to Games 5 6 and potentially 7?  I think the Bruins win Game 5 and I think they win Game 6. But that is mostly because I picked them to win in 6 before the series and I do not want to look like a moron.   It is a very close series. It can go either way.  that Chicago is certainly playing with a lot more confidence right now than they had maybe previously in the series. And that Game 4 performance I think was every reason why.  That is Greg Wyshynski with Yahoo! Sports. He edits the hockey blog Puck Daddy. Greg thanks so much. Enjoy the rest.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me. 