 Shock and tears in Brazil. In an utter blowout Germany beat the home team 7-1 that is right 7-1 in the World Cup semifinal. We will hear some reaction from Sao Paul in a moment. But first NPR's Tom Goldman is in Rio de Janeiro and joins us. Tom Germany totally dominated the game. Brazil only scored in the final moments. What happened today?  Oh boy Robert what did not happen? I will tell you what happened - there was a period of time from about the 23rd minute of the first half to the 29th minute of the first half - that is a six minute period - when Germany scored four times and put this one out of reach. At that point it was 5-0 and it was over. A stunning collapse. I mean we have all heard about the players that Brazil was missing and wondering wow would that have an impact. I do not know if 10 Tiago Silvas or Neymars would have helped today Germany was so awesome.  What did the players say about it afterwards?  Well there were a lot of tears. Defender David Luiz said I only wanted to make my people happy. He apologized. He said we are so sorry so sorry to all the Brazilian fans it is a day of lots of sadness. On the other hand Thomas Muller opened the scoring with his fifth goal of the World Cup. He was asked you know what the heck happened from your guys' perspective and he said you know it is hard to say we did not expect this. He said we did play better than we played against Algeria I believe that was in the round of 16 - talk about an understatement. But he said you know it was a little crazy as far as the score and the ease with which they scored. But he said the Germans believed basically in how they did. They know they are capable of this.  Now speaking of expectations - the expectations for Brazil were obviously much higher certainly among Brazilians they were. You mentioned the striker Neymar who was injured in the last game and also the defensive specialist Tiago Silva who could not play today because - I guess it was two yellow cards - was that what happened? How much did that hurt this team?  That is right. You know that is a really good question. I think obviously going in people said well Neymar without his brilliant offensive creativity and the way he holds that offense together and possesses the ball and launches attacks that they would really be hurt by him. I think if you look at how it was such a defensive collapse you have to think that maybe the absence of Tiago Silva may have been more significant. I mean he is the captain he is the glue for that defense. And I tell you Robert there was one time when Germany kicked the ball across the box and in front of the Brazilian goal and it was completely untouched and it went all the way from one side to the next and midfielder Toni Kroos kicked it in and it was like he was at practice. So no one touched the ball the defense was completely disorganized. And so you had to wonder how much of that was due to Tiago Silva being out of the game.  So Germany moves on to the World Cup final. And the Germans will play either Argentina or the Netherlands. Those two teams play tomorrow in the second semifinal match. How does that shape up Argentina versus the Netherlands?  Well you know I think number one we are not missing you know critical players like Brazil was so you are hoping that going full strength it will be a good match. And I think it will be. The Dutch have been fantastic - the players on the field and their coach off. Louis van Gaal has been fantastic. He is been making great moves all along including the last game in the quarterfinals when he pulled his starting goalkeeper at the end of extra time put in a substitute goalkeeper who was dominant in the shootout. So he is been making the right moves. Argentina showed in its match in the quarterfinals that it is more than Lionel Messi. And so they put in more of a team effort there. So we are hoping for a good match and hopefully someone will come out of that who can get close to this German juggernaut.  OK. That is NPR's Tom Goldman speaking to us from Rio de Janeiro on the semifinal game between Brazil and Germany. Again Germany beat Brazil 7-1. Thanks Tom.  My pleasure Robert.  This is NPR News. 