 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Melissa Block.  athletes who take cash payouts from boosters who trade memorabilia for tattoos. But the real scandal according to a provocative new article in The Atlantic is not that some college athletes are getting paid it is that more are not. In his article titled The Shame of College Sports Taylor Branch calls the NCAA a classic cartel making scads of money from the unpaid labor of young athletes. The system he says carries an unmistakable whiff of the plantation. And he joins me to talk about that. Taylor Branch welcome to the program.  Thank you Melissa. Nice to be here.  The premise that underpins college sports is that the players are student athletes. They are amateurs. They are not professionals. You call that a cynical hoax. Why do not you explain what you mean?  The hoax is that it is the only place in American society where we impose amateur status on someone without their consent. They are not amateurs because they have chosen to be. They are amateurs because we said that is what you have to be. No other profession including many on campuses where you have the universities pay the graduate students and they pay bookstore cashiers nowhere else do we say you are not entitled to a portion of the money that you earned from the university. And in that sense it is a plantation and the structure is fully professionalized by all the adults who make millions and it is fair for everyone except the people at the bottom who produce most of the actual value.  And obviously the dollar figures involving college sports are huge. We are talking about a huge pool of money here.  Yes. The NCAA receives from CBS-Turner 771 million just for running the March Madness basketball tournament. That is the vast bulk of its income. A few years ago the NCAA was petrified by rumors that the players were going to refuse to play in the championship game in a Wildcat strike because they were not getting paid. That moment of terror which passed when the team lost did point out what is hanging on the structure which is that you have got hundreds of millions of dollars the entire NCAA budget and subsidies for nearly 1000 schools hanging on the voluntary consent of 10 basketball players when they walk out on the court for the championship game. That is the way this structure has worked. And for all the glory of college sports the underlying economics are not fair.  These college athletes of course do sign a deal. They sign a waiver agreeing to these conditions that they will not be making money off of their likeness or their performance in any way.  What the NCAA forbids any college - it is a cartel that says if you do not do that you cannot go to any college that plays sports. Somehow they were a cartel that said you cannot be a radio announcer unless you agree to do it for free because it is a public service and everybody gets a lot out of it. So you should do it for free. That would not be put up with in any other sector of our society.  This argument has been raised before whether you know should we pay college athletes to play their sport? The counterpoint to that is that athletes especially in Division I schools are already getting scholarships estimated in the hundreds of thousands of dollars over four years. They are getting a free education and a lot more than that. Why should they get even more? Why is not that a pretty fair trade?  Why should we presume to be involved in a decision about what a fair rate is for their services? If they are generating hundreds of millions of dollars then they should be free to bargain for their services. And it distorts the whole question of whether or not professionalized sports are compatible with higher education. That is a real debate that we ought to be having that universities ought to be having.  Taylor Branch if you are talking about paying college athletes are you talking about every sport? Are you going to be paying field hockey players volleyball players fencers?  football basketball?  I do not want to make colleges pay anybody. I do not think they should have to pay anybody. In fact I want them to have a debate an honest debate about whether they can sponsor all these big-time sports. The point is that you should not forbid colleges from paying athletes and you should not stigmatize athletes for trying to be paid for something that they work at 60 80 hours a week and maintain as a second career alongside their academic career. I want colleges if they are going to be in professionalized sports they cannot exclude the key source of labor from being professionals too so that you know it would not affect the vast majority of colleges who are not going to - Williams is not going to pay players because it did not earn any money. But the big money schools where they generate hundreds of millions of dollars in athletic revenue would have to make a decision of whether they are going to pay players and whether or not they can recruit players if other schools are going to pay them themselves.  The idea of paying college athletes is not new and it is one that the NCAA has flatly ruled out in the past. The president of the NCAA Mark Emmert has said they are not our employees. They do not work for us. They are our students. So we do not pay them. As you talked about this with other people in the industry university presidents this idea about paying college athletes did you find anybody who said this is a good idea? I think we do need to think about this.  Well all the ex-players said they thought it was a good idea. Well no not all the ex-players. I want to be honest about that. There are a lot of ex-players who are quite romantic about it and who say it would have spoiled the bond I felt with my teammates if we have been paid. So there is a lot of romance about this but many many other players do not feel that way. And they say that they do not get an honest education about how - what amateurism is or what the structure of college sports is and how they might evaluate their chances for a sports career against their chances in other professions. They do not get any of that because the NCAA simply says forget about pro sports be happy you have got a scholarship. You have minuscule chances of doing that anyway.  And what about from universities? What do they say?  I have talked a lot with university presidents lots of athletic directors. The most honest and telling one for me was Dick Baddour who was until recently the athletic director for 44 years at my alma mater Chapel Hill who just said I would not want to be a part of any system that paid these players. It is hard enough to run an athletic department as it is which is basically diverting the profits from the money sports into the non-money sports and trying to keep them afloat. And you know they pay the soccer and volleyball coaches an awful lot of money. And if they had to divert some of that money from the coaches and from the non-revenue programs and other he said it would be a nightmare. And he said I think that this university would want to think long and hard about whether we would pursue big-time sports under that basis if we had to pay the players. And I can understand how that would be a nightmare for him and he would not want to do it. And he has since retired. However I think that would be a very very honest discussion that many education reformers have long wanted which is can professionalized sports and quality education coexist on the campus? We ask the athletes to pursue those two careers but we do not give them the respect for that when they do pull it off because somehow we have convinced ourselves that these student athletes are doing something that is a natural gift and doing something that is easy.  Taylor Branch thank you very much.  Thank you Melissa.  Taylor Branch his article in the latest issue of The Atlantic is titled The Shame of College Sports. 