 And we are going to hear more now about this alleged baseball hack. I am joined by longtime baseball writer Richard Justice. He is a columnist for mlb.com. Richard welcome to the program.  Thank you Melissa.  And you are joining us from Houston. What is the reaction been to these allegations there today?  . The reaction has been just - it is amazing how the world has turned. Two years ago no one wanted the Astros' information - or three years ago. They averaged 104 losses the last four years. Now they are in first place and suddenly everyone wants to break into their computers. I think that is the fans' general reaction. And I think we are in such the early stages of it that people quite do not understand what is happening here.  Well let us talk about a key character here. It seems to be former top exec with the Cardinals Jeff Luhnow. He left the Cardinals to join the Astros. He is their general manager. And the assumption is that this hack was an act of revenge after he left right?  Yeah and the irony of this is that it is - Cardinals owner Bill DeWitt Jr. who was looking for a better way to do things that his son had known Jeff from the corporate world and brought Jeff to the Cardinals in 2003 and he had a string of great drafts there. He impressed so many people in baseball that when a guy named Jim Crane here in Houston bought the Astros Jeff Luhnow was his first hire. And he said hey I want you to tear it down and start over and build a great team. But Jeff had a way of doing things. Clearly he rubbed some people the wrong way in St. Louis. And it appears to be a - maybe a guy that maybe did not know that he was breaking a federal law and just wanted to monkey around with Jeff but it has become serious. In the old days baseball scouts would get one other drunk and try to steal their secrets. That was not a violation of federal law.  This is a whole new thing. Jeff Luhnow we should say is a data-driven manager right a money ball guy?  Yes the Astros have - and he has hired for instance a rocket science - a guy who spends his spare time doing algorithms.  Literally a rocket scientist.  Yes that guy Sig Mejdal came from the Cardinals as a matter of fact. He has the Google rule in the front office that you can spend 10 percent of your time thinking outside the box just thinking of ways to make us better. It is kind of a great experiment they are doing here all in with the analytics. And you know there are people in baseball that still adhere to the traditional role of scouts and you got to see a player to evaluate him. And they frankly hope Jeff fails but so far he is been a smashing success.  Well any sense Richard of what kind of information these alleged hackers would have gotten from this database?  Yeah. That is the part that is going to make you laugh. If it was not the...  I am already laughing. .  ...Yeah it was not the real propriety information as far as we know. The Astros had internal message boards where they posted notes from trade discussions. For instance you call the Baltimore Orioles - we want player X. Would you take player Y? No we will not do that. And they would post it on an internal message board. It was really just notes nothing that Jeff could not keep in his pocket. In fact the day the story broke that someone had gotten into the message board and gotten it out Jeff said you know what? I am going to use a pencil and paper today.  And just briefly Richard I am going to run the Deadspin headline by you on this case that I just love. It goes like this. Everyone Involved In The Cardinals Hacking Scandal Seems To Be An Idiot.  . Well you know the idiot part of it is did you not know you were leaving a digital footprint? Did you not know this would be the easiest thing in the world to track?  All right. Richard Justice columnist with mlb.com thanks so much.  Thanks Melissa. 