 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. Sunday Silence War Emblem Smarty Jones - those are just a few of the horses who won the first two legs of racing's Triple Crown The Kentucky Derby and the Preakness. Then they went on to lose the third - The Belmont stakes. The last horse to win all three was named Affirmed and that was way back in 1978.   On the inside Affirmed. On the outside Alydar. And those two are letting out all stops. They are going on out together. Affirmed along the...  On Saturday California Chrome will try to end that 36-year Triple Crown drought. NPR's Joel Rose reports on why it is so hard to win at Belmont.  The first thing to say about Belmont Park is that it is big. More than 100000 people can fit into its massive grandstand on Long Island New York.  And they are off.  The horses look tiny as they burst out of the starting gate on the far side of the enormous racetrack.  This is the only mile-and-a-half dirt track in the country.  Teresa Genaro writes a blog called Brooklyn Backstretch and is a regular at the park. Genaro says Belmont's size is one of the main reasons it is so hard to win the Triple Crown. She says the strategy for riders is different here than at smaller tracks.  Ordinarily when they come around the far turn that is a good time to ask your horse to start to put in his maximum effort. If you do that in the same spot on the track here as you do at other racetracks you are still a half a mile away from the finish line and you are going to use up your horse and they are probably going to run out of energy and speed before they get to the finish line.  The horses do not look small anymore as they gallop down the stretch and the crowd gets involved.  Come on work this horse warrie. Come on warrie.  Turns out that guy is not the only one with some money riding on the race. Teresa Genaro placed a bet too. So how did you do?  I won. I put five to win on him at eight to one. So that is - I got 40 dollars.  In the quest to win the big purse this Saturday jockeys who have raced at Belmont before may have a slight edge but there is no telling how the horses will handle the extra distance. Martin Panza is vice president of the New York Racing Association which runs the Belmont.  A mile and a half is a long distance for these horses. None of them have run a mile and a half yet. This is a stepping stone up and not every horse is bred to go that far.  Panza says there is another thing that makes Belmont hard to win - it is why Belmont Park is called the big sandy.  This track is a lot sandier than most tracks. We get a lot of rain here and there is humidity therefore we use a much sandier mix in the main track here hence the big sandy. It is part of the equation and it is probably stopped some horses from winning the Triple Crown.  There is another theory about why it is been so long since the last Triple Crown winner and it has to do with race schedules and training. To win the Triple Crown a horse has to win three tough races in just five weeks and most modern thoroughbreds have never run that kind of brutal schedule.  I think a lot of people do not train their horses as hard as they used to train them you know. They are afraid to train them that hard.  Fay Donk  and her husband are trainers who have a barn at Belmont.  Most horses especially your good horses - you do not want to run them more than maybe once a month. So they get the time to recover from their races.  Did they used to get trained a little harder?  Back in the day? Oh yeah. You know they might run once every two weeks. The old-time trainers are gone and it is a lot different.  In the 1970s there were three Triple Crown winners - Secretariat Seattle Slew and Affirmed. Since then a dozen horses have come close. California Chrome is the latest. His trainer Art Sherman says he is the horse to do it.  I think that a mile and half will not be a problem with him. He is got the right demeanor that you want to have a horse. He has no wasted motion. When you want him to go he goes.  Sherman flew in from California this week along with the horse's owners. At a press conference today at Rockefeller Center co-owner Steve Coburn says the attention of the Triple Crown run has not been a problem for California Chrome.  He just loves people. If you ever notice this horse - you pull up a camera he will stop. He will let you take his picture. That is why we call him a people's horse. And we have got all of America on our side I do believe other than the people that have these horses running against us.  And even a few of those people might not mind seeing the first Triple Crown winner in almost 40 years. Joel Rose NPR News New York. 