 To athletes young and old Lance Armstrong has been an icon and an inspiration even more so to cancer survivors their families and anyone who wore a yellow LIVESTRONG bracelet. So what becomes of Armstrong's legacy now that his titles are gone and he is been labeled a doper? Here's NPR's Mike Pesca with some reaction.  The year is 2000 and the Tour de France has just reached a critical stage in Provence. Breaking away from the pack in effect breaking the pack is Lance Armstrong.   Incredible Armstrong passes Botero crushes Ullrich chases down Pantani. He is ascendant and those competitors just named would all soon be implicated in doping scandals. There were years when you could take a still photo of the closely bunched riders in the peloton and just pick out rider after rider and match them with the drug for which they were banned. But not Lance Armstrong. He was above the rest - until now. In deciding not to fight the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency investigation Armstrong's name goes down alongside the other cheats. But the name has come to mean so much more than cycling. In Austin Texas home to headquarters of the LIVESTRONG Foundation Armstrong's decision was met mostly by sadness.  He did not fight it so I really - you know it seems like it is him giving up.  I - Lance Armstrong is always a hero of mine and personally I am crushed. I think this decimates his legacy and his career.  That was Tommy Pomeroy who works in a bike shop and Frank Joseph a cycling enthusiast for 50 years. They and other Austin residents expressed concern that the LIVESTRONG Foundation which has raised half a billion dollars in its 15 years of existence will suffer. That has in fact been the pattern when a charity's public face is legally or ethically compromised says Ken Berger executive director of Charity Navigator.  The most common result is that the charity will see a decline in support but this may be an exception to the rule.  Berger points out that LIVESTRONG has distanced itself from Armstrong a bit and he also takes pains to note that LIVESTRONG is a very efficiently run charity earning four-star ratings from his organization. And LIVESTRONG has thrived even as allegations against Armstrong swirled. The lay public has long known that Armstrong was always said to be taking some drug and nothing was ever proved. Easier to put faith in the man who beat cancer's constant refrain of never having failed drug test. Charles Pelkey a lawyer and cycling journalist considers that claim misleading and mostly beside the point. Pelkey is certainly not in mourning for the sport he loves.  Big picture I do not think it is all that sad. I think it is a good thing that you know it sends one clear message that you may be able to get away with it now but at some point there is a good chance that results and witness testimony will combine to show that you did cheat.  Today most riders participating in Spain's biggest road race La Vuelta Espana sidestep questions about Armstrong though the Spanish rider Oscar Pereiro criticized how long the investigation has gone on. Pereiro is now the winner of the 2006 Tour de France after Floyd Landis was stripped of the title for doping. Floyd Landis coincidentally admitted today to fraud ripping off donors who had contributed to his legal defense fund. When it comes to legacies it seems all disgraced cyclists are not the same. Mike Pesca NPR News New York. 