 All right. The Oakland Raiders are the featured team this season on HBO's NFL show Hard Knocks. And on last night's episode coach Jon Gruden kept repeating the same thing.   Has anybody seen my friend Antonio Brown? Let us hope we get Antonio Brown. I mean I am concerned we are missing time here. And we hope Antonio is back here soon because he is exciting to be around. I am excited. I got some plays for him. I hope we can start calling them.  Antonio Brown the team's new star wide receiver has missed a bunch of Raiders training camp. In fact he is missed most of it. And to find out why let us bring in Lindsay Jones who covers the NFL for The Athletic. Hey Lindsay. Welcome.  Hello. Thanks for having me.  All right can you just explain what all this drama is about behind Antonio Brown missing training camp?  Well there is been a lot of drama and there is multiple things at play here. But the first part is that before reporting to training camp he was on vacation in France. And while he was there he was working out. He had his trainer. And one of the things he went to do to recover was he went to a cryotherapy chamber. That is where you get really really cold and it is supposed to help regenerate your muscles and make you feel better. And he ended up getting frostbite all over the bottom of his feet. So that was one thing that was at play is what is going on with his feet.  There is more.  Yes and it is bizarre.   So the second thing that has happened is that he has decided that he wants to wear his old football helmet. And long story short is that a couple of years ago the NFL banned a bunch of helmets basically ones that were not certified anymore. They told all of the players - you know all 2000 players or more than that in the league that have played over these last couple years - and they said by the 2019 season you have to be in one of these helmets that is approved.  OK.  Last year there were 32 players left in the league who were playing in one of the helmets that would no longer be approved. All of those players have moved on to a new helmet that is now legal and approved and certified and all this stuff except for Antonio Brown.  On the other side of this drama is Jon Gruden who we just heard talking about Antonio Brown. Why is he responding like oh my God this is the biggest deal ever that he has missed this much time at training camp? Like tell us what is at stake.  So Antonio Brown is new to the Oakland Raiders. The Raiders traded for him after kind of a rocky end to Antonio Brown's time in Pittsburgh where they did not trade him because he is not a good football player. In fact it is the exact opposite. I mean he is one of the very best but he is kind of come with a lot of baggage. He is kind of gotten a reputation of being difficult to deal with in the locker room. He is had disagreements with teammates with coaches. And the fact is he is only gone through half of the practice. So it is a really big deal that he has not participated because...  Yeah.  He is going to be the focal point of that offense. And so I suppose the good news and if you watched Hard Knocks they snuck it in at the very end of the episode - Antonio Brown came back to training camp yesterday.  OK so does that mean this whole show is over and everything's going to be just hunky-dory from now on?  Well I do not think this is over because with Antonio Brown given what we have learned about him and his career is that it is never really over. There is always going to be some new level of drama that comes along with Antonio Brown.  All right sounds like we all got to stay tuned. That was Lindsay Jones. She covers the NFL for The Athletic. And she joined us at the airport. Thanks so much Lindsay.  Thank you for having me.  