 In the NFL labor dispute the beginnings of a deal are emerging. Team owners have approved a new collective bargaining agreement that would end the 132-day lockout. Here's league president Roger Goodell.  I think we have crafted a long-term agreement that can be good for the game of football be good for the players be good for the clubs and mostly importantly good for our game and for our fans. We really are anxious to get back to football.  Mike what do we know about the deal the owners signed off on this evening?  Also a big issue was how much rookies would get paid because it was the case in the NFL where guys who were just coming to the league - sure promising college players - would demand these enormous contracts whereas proven NFL players could not get paid that much. So that is one of the issues that is also been addressed. Also a big thing that football watchers were talking about for awhile an 18 game season does not look like that is going to come to pass.  Now Mike we know that there are indications that the players might not sign off on this. What is the latest? What are the sticking points?  And there could be football - there is one preseason game that is cancelled but there really - aside from the one game could be football on the regular schedule that football fans were all anticipating.  And if the players do approve the deal are there any other hurdles or steps they have to take?  It seems to be the writing on the wall is for this deal to get done. The players will have to say we are going to reform the players union and then you know we will have a little bit different terms there will be some different rules but we are going to get back to football if that comes to pass.  So a template that could possibly maybe lead to a deal. What do the contours of the season start to look like?  You know overall this was a hyper-scrutinized process but I do not know how surprising it was. Looks like there is going to be football.  That is NPR's Mike Pesca. Mike always good to talk to you. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 