 Despite the continued uncertainty surrounding this summer's Tokyo Olympics due to are signs that the games will begin next month. One of the strongest indications - U.S. athletes are taking part in the Olympic and Paralympic trials for the right to compete in Tokyo. NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman joins us now with an update. Hey Tom.  Hi.  Hi. OK so trials in some sports wrapped up over the weekend and I want to start with those. U.S.A. swimming finished up in Omaha Neb. last night. And I understand that there was a pretty dramatic moment involving one of the stars of the 2016 games.  There sure was Ailsa. Five years ago Simone Manuel became the first African American woman to win an individual swimming gold medal. She won the 100-meter freestyle. Now she failed to qualify in the 100 in Omaha. It was a very tough loss for her.  Yeah.  And she revealed she would been dealing with something called overtraining syndrome. She had physical symptoms and dealt with insomnia and depression. She said the pandemic might have contributed. Remember when the games were postponed last year it added a fifth year of training to what is usually a four-year cycle. So she had one more chance last night to make the Olympic team - the 50-meter freestyle. And she won that all-out sprint by one hundredth of a second and she was incredibly emotional in the pool after winning. In a press conference she explained her reaction.   It kind of was just a mix of a lot of emotions and what I have been through really in my entire swimming career. It is not just the last couple of weeks but just from you know being a young Black girl and not knowing if the sport of swimming was for me. And continuing on this path is just a part of my faith walk.  Part of her faith walk - that is so moving to hear. Well the U.S. usually does do really well in swimming at the Olympics. Can you just tell us about some of the other athletes we may be hearing about in Tokyo?  Well you will be hearing about the amazing Katie Ledecky of course - a veteran but still only 24. She is expected to add to her five Olympic gold medals. She won four events in Omaha. Another Katie Katie Grimes - 11 teenagers made this team and Grimes was the youngest at 15. She finished second to Ledecky in the 800-meter freestyle. She is going to Tokyo. And then on the men's side this is the first trials and will be the first Olympic Games since 2000 when Michael Phelps was not in the pool.  Wow.  Caeleb Dressel is being touted as the one to start filling the enormous Phelps void. Dressel won three races in Omaha and could compete in at least six events in Tokyo individual races and relays.  All right. That is swimming. Meanwhile the track and field trials are going on in Eugene Ore. which I did not know has been nicknamed Track Town U.S.A.  You betcha .  What is been happening there?  A lot including nine-time Olympic medal-winning runner Allyson Felix qualifying for her fifth Olympics. Garrett Scantling won the 10-event decathlon. That is a cool event that determines the best overall athlete. They run. They jump. They throw. And speaking of throwing shotputter Ryan Krauser the defending Olympic gold medal winner looks very good again. He broke the world record in the shot the first night of the trials.  And we should note that the delayed Paralympics will get underway in late August. And there was a big trials event this past weekend right?  Yeah there was Ailsa. And it was notable that for the first time NBC covered what is called the Super Trials combining Paralympic swimming track and field and cycling. It happened in Minneapolis. And the coverage some of it in prime time is an indication the Paralympics are becoming a respected competition of their own.  That is NPR's Tom Goldman. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome.  