 You can trace the downfall of FIFA head Sepp Blatter and the FIFA executives who were arrested last Friday to a 71-year-old English investigative reporter Andrew Jennings. He is been doggedly digging up evidence of FIFA's corruption for about 15 years when no one else was. And he wrote about what he turned up in books with sensational titles. One is titled   Bribes Vote-Rigging And Ticket Scandals. The other is  Sepp Blatter's FIFA Organised Crime Family. Andrew Jennings joins me now from his home in the very north of England. And Mr. Jennings first I am curious to hear your reaction yesterday when Sepp Blatter came before cameras and resigned.  Well he has not quite resigned. He said he is going but he is staying as long as he can to control the transition process for several months. I mean I have known it was coming because I have been helping the FBI organized crime squad from New York over the past six years. And they did not tell me they were coming to lift some people but it was about time for them to do it. So I was not very surprised and I have known they have been crooks for so long.  You say you were helping the FBI. And I read about this today in the Washington Post - that you were approached by FBI special agents back in 2009. And you sent them documents - confidential financial reports. Were you comfortable with that role? Were you blurring a journalistic line there?  I am perfectly happy with it because for nearly two decades I have looked at FIFA and the European police forces have done nothing. The Swiss governments have done nothing. So when a bunch of sophisticated honest policemen turn up and say hey we want to nail FIFA what do you do? Say no no I am a liberal journalist. I could not possibly give you - you say what do you want?  Before you started into looking in FIFA Mr. Jennings you had investigated the Italian Mafia. You would investigated international drug rings. What was it that got you interested in exploring the dirty dealings of international soccer?  Well it takes time. I mean I looked - there was something desperately wrong. I knew there was corruption going on. I thought at first it was sort of you know the few rotten apples in the barrel theory. But then as I dug into them it interested me because what I realized is you start with passion and it is massive for sport. I do not have it personally but millions and billions of people are very very passionate about performance of sport. It generates a lot of money. Then you realize it is unregulated. If there is unregulated money than the mob turn up quite soon. They turned up. They took control of world soccer. They privatized it sold it to the global brands. Now that to me is a fascinating axis for a reporter.  Looking ahead to where FIFA goes from here do you think an insider can turn the organization around or does it need to be somebody completely from the outside?  I think FIFA stinks. FIFA is rotten. All the directors - the important people who run it - are complicit. We do not want these people around and I think world football in America could help with this. And that is we need not a congress doomed to elect some other Muppet but we need a conference of friendly descent football associations talking about new structures. How should we be organized? What is the ideal way at this time in history to organize it?  Would you expect to see the World Cups that were given to Russia in 2018 Qatar in 2022 - would you expect to see the World Cubs being played in those countries?  No because as Blatter goes down logic common sense sponsor interest fan interest are going to take them away.  No question for you.  No. It was corrupt when it happened and we have to deal with that corruption. And the feds I think will be able to help us.  Well Andrew Jennings thanks so much for talking to us.  Thank you very much.  That is investigative reporter Andrew Jennings. His most recent book is  Sepp Blatter's FIFA Organised Crime Family. 