 In Rio de Janeiro the Olympic beach volleyball tournaments are coming to a close. The women's medal matches are tonight and the men play tomorrow. One place where people are certain to tune in - Manhattan Beach Calif. It is a spiritual home to the sport and the actual home of one of its greatest players Kerri Walsh Jennings. NPR's Becky Sullivan paid a visit.  It is clear pretty much from the moment you step foot on the sands that this place has it bad for beach volleyball.  Oh yeah - super big deal here - look how many courts there are for volleyball . It is like that is all there is.  Jesse Connor is waving his arm at the volleyball nets which dot the beach literally the entire length of the city limits. He is here teaching beach volleyball lessons. It is about 7 in the evening. The sun is getting low over the water. Dozens of people are out playing.  It is just so easy because it does not cost much money. It is - you need a ball and a net. That is it.  Daniel Hegglin is here with Ed Jamgotchian and Peter Joyce.  You know it is the best workout you could have right here.  So we all worked today and then no better way to end the work day than come down here and play volleyball - sunset beautiful weather.  Manhattan Beach has a long history with beach volleyball. The pier doubles as a volleyball Walk of Fame with little bronze plaques commemorating the winners of each year's Manhattan Beach Open volleyball tournament which is the longest-running contest in the sport. Five of the 8 Olympians have their names inscribed here the former gold medalist Kerri Walsh Jennings seven times. Another one of the coaches teaching here tonight Ryan Olsen tells me that some of the Olympians live and practice nearby. He is even played with Phil Dalhausser who just lost in the Olympic quarter finals. Both of the U.S. men's teams are already out of the running but Ryan Olsen and his friend Jesse Conner tell me they have more confidence in the women's duo Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross.  Oh yeah oh yeah they are going to - they are for sure going to win. They have to.  Yeah they were 5-0 in...  I would be so...  ...Group play right?  I would be so confused if they did not win.  This was just before Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross played in last night's semifinals against the Brazilian team which they lost.  Oh nice shot.  Kevin Quinn and Ashley Burke are taking lessons here too. They have just moved to Manhattan Beach from Manhattan N.Y. They admit that they have not watched every Olympic match.  We are reformed New Yorkers. We are getting there.   But they have watched more this year than ever before.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I definitely care more now that we live here and like the whole hometown you know?  We saw the Manhattan Beach Open a few weeks ago as well.  Yeah.  So that was super exciting.  Yeah the guys that won were in the Olympics - just was really cool.  Yeah it is just cool to see how like - how excited everyone is too 'ecause it is kind of part of the heartbeat of the beach. So...  Yeah.  It is cool to see.  They were not going to make it home in time for last night's semifinals but they did agree to each other to watch the medal matches tonight.  Let us shake on it right now.  Yep.  It is happening.  It is a deal.  .  So Quinn and Burke and the rest of Manhattan Beach will be watching tonight as Kerri Walsh Jennings and April Ross play for the bronze. Becky Sullivan NPR News. 