 At the Paralympic Games in London 29-year-old Matt Stutzman of Fairfield Iowa won a silver medal in archery. And here' Stutzman has no arms. That is right. He medaled in archery without arms competing against athletes who do have them. And he joins me from London to explain how he does it. Matt Stutzman congratulations. That is great.  Thank you. And also thank you for having me.  You bet. Well I have been watching videos of you shooting and I wonder if you can explain the mechanics of how you do this. You have a harness around your torso right?  Yes. I have a belt basically from a tree stand safety harness and it goes basically around my chest. And then there is a release or a mechanical aid that goes over my right shoulder. If you are an archer I can put it on your wrists and you could use that release to shoot your own bow.  Aha. And how are you picking up the arrow? How are you getting them into the bow?  So I use my left foot to pick up the arrows from the ground or pull them out of the quiver and then I use while I am holding the arrow in my left foot I kind of guide it onto the bow with my right foot as well. It is kind of like a two-footed job to put an arrow on the bow.  And it looks like you are stretching out the tension in your bow as you extend your leg right?  Yes. That is correct. So when I - after I get the arrow onto the string I kind of cross my legs almost gentleman-style as you can say it. And what that allows me to do is it brings the string close enough that I can actually kind of bend down and hook my release aid which is on the right shoulder onto the string. So once I do that then I sit up and then I just push my right foot away from my chest.  And then how do you release the arrow?  The release aid has a trigger almost kind of like a gun of some sort. And that actually goes underneath my right jaw. So once I get anchored I just kind of move my jaw slightly backwards. That is all the pressure it takes for me to make the bow shoot.  How did you start doing archery in the first place and how did you figure out how to do it without arms?  I grew up always looking for challenges and I am the kind of guy who sees a challenge and I have to go after it. And so when I was younger my dad and my brother they would you know they would go out hunting with their bows. And I was like that is not fair. You know I want to do that.   And so I got myself a bow. I worked a deal with my dad and he purchased me a bow. And I did odd jobs around the farm to pay for that bow and then I essentially had to teach myself how to shoot. You know great example the guy is holding the bow with his right arm. So I would hold out the bow with my right foot and I knew in my head I would think that my foot was his arm and I would just try to mimic him exactly.  Matt I was reading a little bit about you. You were born without arms. You are adopted when you were 13 months old and your mom says they never modified the house for you because as she put it the world outside has no modifications.  Yeah. It was amazing because of course as parents you always want to help your kid out. Even with my boy I always want to help him out all the time. But I can see it would be especially hard for them you know adopting a child that has no arms and struggles a lot to just figure out how to live life and always trying to want to help me. So they have always taught me to try to figure it out on my own first and really give it 100 percent. And even if I could not figure it out then they would help me but it would not be just like let me do it for you. It was OK let us sit down together and now let us put our both foreheads together and try to figure out how to overcome what you have to do. And it worked out great because you know now my house is not modified at all. My car is a regular car. There is no modifications to it at all.  Driving surely with your feet.  Yes. I use my left foot for the gas and brake and my right foot for the steering wheel.  That is - it is a remarkable thing to think about but I am sure it is not remarkable in any way for you.   It is just what you have always done.  It is my everyday thing. You know I just do that every day you know? I have a good sense of humor. So even though I have a regular car I am sitting in a parking lot and a guy comes up and says I just realized you have no arms and I wanted to know how you started your car. And I said well check this out. I got a special car. It was modified just for me. And I had my foot down by the key where he could not see it and I go car on. And then I turned it and it goes vroom.   But he did not see my feet move at all right? So he is thinking I have got like this supercar like that could start by itself. And he is like so does your car drive by itself too? I am like this was a specially made car. It - you do not even have to use your hands to drive this one.   It gets them every time right?  Yeah. So it is pretty funny.  Well Matt Stutzman congratulations on your medal and thanks a lot for talking to us.  No problem. Thank you very much for having me.  Matt Stutzman who is armless he won a silver medal in archery at the Paralympic Games in London.  230 yards. 