 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel.  Welcome to the program.  Melissa thanks for having me.  Let us talk about the weirdness factor here first.   This one-hour special apparently pitched by LeBron James to ESPN and they bit. Have you ever heard of something like this before?  This is unprecedented on every level. You know this free agency process with LeBron James has been treated as if just a separate entity almost as if you know I started to write about it earlier calling it the Championship of Me.   And you had a league with a lot of teams trying to clear the necessary salary cap space to go after him and so you will have now on Thursday night you know a one-man special here to at least formally declare where he is going to play.  Yeah kind of a one-hour coronation of King James on ESPN.  Yeah. Probably more like an infomercial but I guess they will probably call it a special.  Well what do you figure the upshot is? I mean does this signal to you and knowing now that Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh are both set to sign with Miami does that signal to you LeBron James is also heading to Miami? Or maybe now he is going to take the hour and explain why he is staying in Cleveland?  Now if he announces he is staying then he is staying and he will be celebrated and he will anger the other places.  Do you personally Adrian feel like you have gotten tired of LeBron James?  Well you know it is - listen he is the best player in the you know along with Kobe Bryant he is the best player in the league. It is been an important story to cover. You know the free agency we have been covering it for two years. It is taken on a life of its own.  Yeah.  And I do not know if there will ever be a player in the history of the NBA who will go into a season with more of a burden than he will next year wherever he plays.  Well I guess millions of us will be watching to see what he does.  No question. And that was the plan here all along I think.  Well Adrian Wojnarowski thanks for talking with us.  Melissa thanks for having me. It is good to be with you.  Adrian Wojnarowski is the NBA columnist for Yahoo! Sports. 