 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Audie Cornish. The story of San Francisco Giants outfielder Melky Cabrera has taken a strange turn. The slugger is serving a 50-game suspension for using performance-enhancing drugs.  MVP of the All Star game the second highest batting average in the league. Then came the positive drug test the suspension and now reports that Cabrera and his associates set up a fake website to trick Major League Baseball as it was looking into the matter. NPR's Mike Pesca joins us now. And Mike start with the basics. What exactly is Cabrera accused of doing?  He tested positive for testosterone a performance-enhancing drug and under the mandatory sentences that is a 50-game suspension as you said by Major League Baseball. And in trying to perhaps explain what the testosterone was doing in his system leads us to that website chicanery that you mentioned.  Yeah. Exactly. How does a fake website come into play here?  Well Melky and his associates I guess decided you know it would be a really convenient excuse if we were to say oh I took that testosterone by mistake. That testosterone was in an existing product. Unfortunately that seems not to have been you know the truth. So what they did was they invented a website that advertised a product said to be a topical cream and they submitted this to Major League Baseball trying to you know get off the hook a little bit. So this plan the boldness of its ambition was matched only by the patheticness of its execution because it was pretty much seen through immediately and it actually got Cabrera perhaps in a little more hot water. Federal investigators are said now to be looking into what Melky and his associate Juan Nunez did. Melky's agents say we had nothing to do with this. This guy Juan Nunez set up the website. He only worked for us but not as an employee but worked for us.  What is been the reaction to this story? I mean I know there is been other performance-enhancing drug suspensions.  Yeah. So Cabrera is not the best-known guy to be suspended. You know Manny Ramirez got a big suspension for taking banned substances and he is not actually the most accomplished guy. You mentioned that he was doing well in batting average but last year's National League MVP Ryan Braun had a positive test for testosterone which was later overturned on appeal. So inside baseball they are saying the - all the right things that you would expect them to be saying. The league is sort of trumpeting how tough its policy is and players and former teammates of Cabrera are saying you know how sad and disappointed they are. There are a couple of other maybe shoes to drop. In about eight days the Giants have a guy named Guillermo Mota. He is a pitcher. He was serving a 100-day suspension - 100-game suspension because he is a multiple violator. You know if the Giants welcome him back onto the team perhaps that gives really the wrong message. And Cabrera's batting average of .346 it is a weird situation. He could actually win the batting title if the guy who is first in batting right now comes down a little bit and there is a mechanism that he would qualify Cabrera would qualify for the batting title even though he is one at bat shy or one plate appearance shy of technically qualifying.  Short time left here Mike but Cabrera's team the Giants are battling the L.A. Dodgers for the top spot in the National League West. What does his absence do for their chances?  Yeah it hurts it very much. They are a half game behind. And I know that Giants fans right now are saying it is natural to say oh no what are we going to do without Cabrera? You did have his services for you know over 100 games his drug-aided services. There is a stat called wins above replacement. Cabrera said to have contributed five wins more than average. You take off those five wins they would not even be in contention so it will hurt.  NPR sports correspondent Mike Pesca. Thank you Mike.  You are welcome. 