 Finally this hour here's the sound of 1.3 million people joyously exhaling for the first time in 52 years.    Let us go Cavs. Let us go Cavs. Let us go Cavs.  Thousands upon thousands upon thousands of happy Clevelanders came out to see the newly minted NBA champion Cavaliers on parade.  It is the city's first pro sports title since the Browns won the NFL championship game back in 1964. And yes that is the NFL championship game. The Super Bowl did not even exist at the time.  1964 is also when Francine Goldberg was born. The Cleveland native was among the throng today and she was ecstatic.  You know we are a city full of grit and determination and to see all of these people from all of these diverse backgrounds from really all over the city all over Northeast Ohio and maybe all over the country and to see this coming together in celebration of the Cavs and of this championship you got to love it. And the return of LeBron James - there is nothing better.  Marylin Anderson of Chagrin Falls is a Cavs season ticket-holder and she says she has never seen anything like it.  On the way here I felt like we were going to you know like the Lady of Fatima in Portugal or you know - it was just a pilgrimage. It was crazy.  That craziness dragged out the festivities an extra couple of hours. The players on their floats made slow progress because fans kept clogging the route. Eventually the procession complete with the Ohio State Marching Band made its way to the Cleveland Convention Center for a rally.   You are in Cleveland.    And we as not going to lose.  Sure the fans were happy to see game seven hero point guard Kyrie Irving.   So from the bottom of heart man this was a very very special year. I would not trade it for the world man. I love all you all man - real talk.   But really we all know they were there for finals MVP and unofficial high ruler of Ohio LeBron James - spread the love to his coaches his teammates and everyone.   I am nothing without this group behind me man. I am nothing without the coach's staff. I am nothing without the city. You guys are unbelievable and these guys told me I got to turn around. So I am nothing without you all. I am nothing without you all. I love all of you all. I love all of you all and let us get ready for next year.  So the city that could never win has finally won. Now Mike Peters who drove two days from North Carolina wants even more.  I will say I will be back for the Indians World Series.  OK. An NBA title for the Cavaliers is one thing but a World Series victory for the Indians? That is crazy talk.  