 When the World Cup kicks off Thursday in Brazil the voice we will hear calling game on ESPN will be the familiar one of Ian Darke. Clear precise infusing the play with his own enthusiasm and smarts. This will be the British announcer's sixth men's World Cup. Here he is four years ago when the U.S. tied Slovenia in the 82nd minute.   ...Giving the United States at least hope. Out a door to lay in down. Bradley has done it. U.S.A. - a level.  The comeback kings strike again. Michael Bradley for the U.S.A. What a moment.  What a moment. Now do the math. There are 32 teams in the World Cup from Algeria to Iran to Uruguay. That means 736 players in all. And the announcer has to be able to identify them with split-second timing. Ian Darke says that is 95 of the job.  People say oh well it is no problem. They are all wearing numbers and they have got names on their back. Well you try identifying the numbers and names from 80 yards away and often in positions which feel like you are calling the match from the flight deck of a Boeing 747.  So we asked Ian Darke what is the secret? How do you prepare for the World Cup? He says he spends a lot of time reviewing tape memorizing the players' positions and watching them during warm-ups.  I always have binoculars with me. And I look down and get in my head any players that I am not quite sure of. And you might have something very similar. And this all sounds very geekish I am sure...  But in the best way.  ...To people who do not do it who do not apply this peculiar trait of ours. But if you have got two players look similar you try to find some distinguishing mark. And it might be that one of them is wearing yellow boots and the other one orange. And it is amazing how many times something like that will help you in a crowded penalty area identify a goal-scorer.  And then will you make a note to yourself? Would you put like orange marker next to somebody's name or do you just have to remember it?  I kind of consign it to my head really. I will write that down - orange boots or blue boots - about a certain player or some distinguishing mark. So I will be honest about it. There are times in a commentary - and I think any person who is called any sport will tell you the same - where you are on a little bit of a wing and a prayer with it.  And you are hoping you have got the right one.  And you hope that you have got that right. And most of the time we are thankfully.  Well let us talk about the opening game on June 12 in Brazil. It is Brazil versus Croatia. And I have been looking at the rosters. Croatia of course has all those names that end with I-C. And I may be mangling the pronunciations here but - Subasic Pranjic Rakitic Perisic Mocinic. And then Brazil has these players with these wonderful single-word names like Hulk and Jefferson.  Yes.  What do you think about that match-up in terms of the names that you have to responsible for?  Yeah. Well Brazil are very kind to us all because they do shorten very long names to very short and actually quite catchy names as you have just described. By the way your pronunciations of the Croatia players were more or less spot on. .  Oh good. I am gunning for your job.  Of course Pele - those names of Brazilian players going back through history roll off the tongue to anybody who follows the game. Rivelino Vava Didi Gerson Zico and so on - you know wonderful players. And I think that is part of the charisma of Brazilian football as well - that the names do have that way of reverberating through history.  And now Hulk. .  And Hulk of course. Everybody's going to write their headline Incredible Hulk when he scores. .  Is there one language Ian Darke that gives you particular trouble when you think about the teams in this year's World Cup?  Well I struggle I must admit with the South Korean team every time because the names are all very similar. If you read through their squad they have all got names like Sun Heung-ji Park Ji-Sun Park Li-Heung. And I just find that very difficult to get those names into my head.  When you think about your role your character in these games what do you see that character as being? What you want to convey?  That is difficult question to answer. I do not think the game is about the commentator or the announcer or the broadcast team. You hope that what you do is adding to the drama that is unfolding on people's television screens at home. You hope that you are not being too intrusive. You hope that you are a welcome guest in their living room because that is what you are. You do not want to be an annoying boring know-all in the corner who never stops talking.  Do you find yourself dreaming about games? Do you have work nightmares of - just like - what is the thing that wakes you up in the middle of the night?  Yeah. My worst nightmare - and this is a recurring nightmare so maybe I need to be psychoanalyzed about this - is that I am making my way from the TV truck to the commentary position. And it is getting a bit too near the kickoff. And I am on the stairs and I just cannot find where the commentary position is. And of course it being a dream I never do. Or I sort of burst in on the co-commentator. And there is already 12 minutes gone and it is already two-two. Yeah. I have had that many times that dream. So if there is a Joseph out there who can interpret it that would be good.  Well Ian Darke have a great time in Brazil. We will be listening. Thanks so much for talking to us.  And my pleasure to talk to you. Thank you very much.  That is Ian Darke ESPN's lead play-by-play commentator for the World Cup. 