 Now anyone familiar with minor league baseball knows that teams will do just about anything to get fans in the stands. Just last month the New Orleans Zephyrs had a lightsaber giveaway night.  And The Fresno Bees had bromance night. We do not have to explain that any further. You get the idea.  The Sonoma Stompers are no different. Former big leaguer Bill Spaceman Lee became at age 67 the oldest pitcher to win a pro game after pitching five innings for the Stompers in 2014.  And tonight they will stand out again when they field the first co-ed pro squad in more than 60 years. Here's Stompers vice president and general manager Theo Fightmaster.  Every organization every business every team is trying to do something to differentiate itself and gain an advantage. And now we have got two utility players who can both pitch. I think we will have a competitive advantage.  That competitive advantage is 17-year-old outfielder Kelsie Whitmore and 25-year-old pitcher Stacy Piagno.  Both are members of the USA women's baseball team so it should not have been that big a surprise when the Stompers came calling. But for Piagno it definitely was.  Yeah for me I was just kind of like OK yeah you know sounds good. And I was probably like probably will not happen but sounds good. You know I will - I will-just-answer-your-interview type of thing. And then honestly like the more I started talking to Theo and everyone and the more I really started thinking about it I am like you know why not?  Indeed Kelsie Whitmore says she is always wanted to give playing at this level a shot. And just being in the dugout with her teammates will be a huge help.  Being surrounded by these guys who have played at higher levels than this is great because I get - I get more you know feedback and information in like - in like how to be a better ballplayer.  Theo Fightmaster says the response to signing Piagno and Whitmore has been really positive. But of course a few have called this a stunt. Fightmaster admits yeah having two women on the roster has been good for business but it is not a stunt.  They are going to be here tomorrow and they are going to be here the day after and the day after that and the day after that. And they are part of this team. And they are going to get an opportunity to earn playing time based on their performances. And it is not affirmative action. It is not a one-game appearance - come on and see a woman pitch. This is two talented young women who are also really good at baseball.  And he says his independent Stompers could prompt big league teams to sign women of their own.  Maybe we can give an organization that is maybe on the edge of this enough courage to say yeah look it worked here. Let us try it up here now.  Both Piagno and Whitmore will start tonight for the Stompers against the San Rafael Pacifics in northern California. 