 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block. Years of talk and speculation months of anticipation and a couple of weeks of sports hype overdrive.  NBA superstar LeBron James with ESPN's spotlight all to himself making what was build as the decision public. Mr.  It was very tough. In this fall I am going to take my talents to South Beach and join the Miami Heat.  That is right. LeBron James is headed to Miami. NPR's sports correspondent Tom Goldman joins us to talk about this. Tom obviously lots of rumor and speculation and finally it comes down to the Miami Heat. How did LeBron James explain his decision?  Well you know Melissa he telegraphed his answer a few minutes before he actually said what we just heard him say. And he was asked by sportscaster Jim Gray what the major factor was in his decision. And he said to win now and in the future. And he said that is a huge thing for me. So at that point I think everyone pretty much folded up their tents in Cleveland and said we have lost him because all these so called experts in this process said all along if he wants to win now it is not going to be in Cleveland. Cleveland could have paid him more money. But Cleveland spent so much in recent years to try and get the right people to help win the championship and now ultimately failed. So they did not have any money to get any of these other high praise free agents. And so he is going to Miami with his buddies Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade to form this power trio in South Beach. And you know many people are going to say this is going to tip the access of power in the NBA to South Florida.  See Tom I thought the signal was when I heard him say he spent this morning talking with his mom.   I thought that when he was seeing people it shows how much I know. Dwyane Wade Chris Bosh and LeBron James in Miami. Can the three coexist? Is this a happy mix?  Oh it is. You know a lot of people think oh my god they are going to need three balls four balls.  people they put on the court. But you know these guys showed in - certainly in the Olympics in 2008 - that is not exactly the same as an 82-game regular season than in the playoffs that they certainly can coexist. They are great players. And you know LeBron said tonight that he realizes that the guy who is making the biggest sacrifice is Dwyane Wade because it is his team. He want a championship with Miami in 2006 and so LeBron knows that he is coming in there. And - you know some people are saying LeBron who has you know played for - he is 6'8 250 pounds the body of a football player - could play point guard because he is a very unselfish player and he can pass the ball and you know and still allow Dwyane Wade to be the guy.  Tom can we talk a bit about the spectacle of this LeBron James getting an hour-long special on ESPN televised from Boys and Girls Club in Greenwich Connecticut. Money I guess from the ads that were sold going to the Boys and Girls Club. But the hype and the way this was rolled out with this stentorian announcer the NBA's balance of power hanging in the balance. I mean what do you make of this?  Hype Melissa? What are you talking about?  Yeah what am I thinking?  Yeah. It is where we live now you know? And the whole kind of weird thing about this was this was a story that was largely generated and pushed along by ESPN the last week or so. And then ESPN got the goods and they got to program it. You know it makes me think of Notre Dame football. Notre Dame has its own network NBC. I think LeBron may have his own network now ESPN.  Okay Tom. Thanks.  You are welcome.  NPR's Tom Goldman with the news that LeBron James is joining the Miami Heat. 