 An enormous upset at the World Cup in Russia today. Germany the reigning champions from the most recent tournament was eliminated from the tournament. And it is the first time in the past 80 years that Germany has not advanced past this stage. Now here to tell us more is Grant Wahl. He is covering the World Cup for Sports Illustrated and Fox Sports. Welcome back Grant.  Good to talk to you.  So give us the score and tell us if it was at least a good game.  Well Germany lost 2-0 to South Korea today at the same time that Sweden beat Mexico 3-0 knocking Germany out of the World Cup. And it was an interesting dramatic game. I do not know if I would say it was a great game in terms of the level of play. But any time you are in a situation where there is high drama at the end of the game and the defending World Cup champion has a chance to be eliminated and is eliminated that is worth watching. So nobody expected that Germany would go out and here we are.  You are saying nobody expected it but this is not the first time that this has happened in recent World Cup history right? I mean four of the five past champions experienced the same things. Is there like a curse? Why do you think this keeps happening?  Well it certainly makes you wonder if it is a coincidence in a small sample size or if there might really be something to the idea that championship teams may have a tendency to stick with players until they are maybe a little bit too old and a little bit too slow. And you could certainly make that argument for Germany here. Their midfield looked old and looked slow over the last couple of games here in the World Cup and maybe should have gone with some younger guys. And they had opposing teams counterattack very effectively against them. So four out of the last five champions going out in the group stage the following World Cup is a pretty remarkable statistic.  What was the response for South Korea? I know Germany is not beloved by all  in terms of soccer. So how are the South Koreans reacting?  Well the South Koreans were ecstatic to beat Germany today. They did not advance - the Koreans - in the tournament themselves. But I think they can certainly go out with their heads held very high and very proud of their performance today. In the end Mexico and Sweden were the teams in the group that advanced. And Mexico owes a huge favor to South Korea for saving it in this tournament because Mexico only needed a tie today to control their own destiny and win the group and lost 3-0 in just a horrible display. But South Korea's performance against Germany allowed Mexico to go on.  For those of us who love rooting for the underdog are they - are there any other Cinderella teams so to speak anyone else we should keep an eye out for?  I would say that that team is Senegal which not too many people expected to advance from the group. And they have played great soccer so far. And they are in a good position to advance to the knockout rounds. There is a lot of exciting play in Senegal. And I think whenever an African team advances in the World Cup it is just a lot of fun in general just so much skill in the Senegal team and in entertainment value. And I think they have got a good shot to last a little while longer.  Before I let you go what has been the level of play in this particular World Cup?  You know I think it is been pretty good. I think it is higher on drama and emotion maybe than great plays so far. Maybe that is the nature of the international game these days. But players clearly care about winning the World Cup. You are seeing star players crying on the field after winning group-stage games - so just so much emotion involved. And the fans feel it too.  That is Grant Wahl speaking to us from Russia. He is the author of the book Masters Of Modern Soccer. 