 NFL players have been back on the job for just over a week now and already more than 200 of them have been traded or switched teams as free agents.  Can I keep my number?  Yes for a price.  Some call it the most lopsided trade pulled off in Minnesota since the Vikings dealt for Hershel Walker. Others say that is a bit hyperbolic especially since clause number three of this week's transaction was this.  An ice cream cone but that one's optional.  At stake the rights to Vikings uniform number 5. Punter Chris Kluwe wore it last year new quarterback Donavan McNabb has worn it throughout his career. So Kluwe named his price 5000 charitable donation the aforementioned noncompulsory dairy product. And this plugs for the band in which Kluwe plays base.  Five mentions of my band Tripping Icarus in non-consecutive press conferences.   You cannot just you know  Tripping Icarus Tripping Icarus Tripping Icarus.  Okay.  Tripping Icarus an alternative metal band whose name clearly should have been Optional Ice Cream was the greatest beneficiary of this deal. But former NFL offensive lineman Damien Woody has heard price tags that are much much higher.  I have heard like ridiculous amounts like 100 grand. You know stuff like that. And I am like are you serious?  As for Woody he wore 65 with the Patriots and was successfully wooed by the Lions with the promise of keeping number 65.  You know when I went to all my visit - my free agent visit to Detroit they had it in the locker with a couple other linemen. So they had the number they had my name and all that stuff. That was part of the pitch.  But when Woody came to the Jets there already was a number 65 so he strapped on 67 without complaint. He says linemen do not really care about such frivolities.  Linemen you know we do not have egos or anything like. We could care less.  No NFL player is more attached to a number than Chad Ochocinco who named himself after his uniform number - actually misnamed himself. He should be Chad Ochenta y Cinco technically speaking. Ochocinco was able to acquire number 85 with his new team the Patriots as the old wearer graciously gave it up. Another wide receiver the newest Jet Plaxico Burress was also able to get his old uniform number 17 for no charge. Of course had Burress made a cash offer it would have to be taken with 17 grains of salt. When with the Giants Burress agreed to pay for the remodeling of punter Jeff Feagles' kitchen in exchange for number 17. Feagles says Burress stiffed him. Burress still wears 17 and Feagles is retired presumably ordering take-out most nights. Mike Pesca NPR News. 