 Wimbledon is in full swing. Seven-time champ Serena Williams is looking to make it eight. Many agree she is probably the best women's player on the tour arguably the best women's player ever. Well according to Deadspin she is also one of the most drug tested. Laura Wagner writes that Serena Williams has been tested for performance-enhancing drugs five times this year by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency. That is more than twice as often as other top American women players. The question is why? And for that we turn to Laura Wagner who joins us via Skype. Hey there.  Hi how are you?  I am well. Thanks. So before we get into the why let me start with the how. Describe how the testing process typically works.  Sure. So with USADA testing some athletes are required to give whereabouts information. So for one hour every day of the year they are required to say a time and a place where they will be available for testing. And the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency - if they come during that availability window the athlete must be present to get a test. Otherwise it counts as a missed test. But USADA is also able to come outside that availability window and test whenever they want for whatever reason they want.  OK so describe then what is going on with Serena Williams and any insight we have into why she seems to be getting tested more often than anybody else playing.  Well that is the question that I put to USADA. They said that they only test within - in accordance with international standards. They would never conduct testing in an unfair way. But when I asked them is the testing for Serena Williams because they suspect her of doping a spokesman said absolutely not. So there is not a lot of clarity on why she is being tested more than the other players.  What does Serena Williams say?  She was asked about this at Wimbledon. And she said that she knows that she is getting tested all the time. She wants to cooperate with the testing. She says that she wants everybody to be tested fairly - be tested at the same frequency. Her team - in a statement to me - said that the testing was invasive and targeted. She did not use those words in her Wimbledon press conference.  For comparison's sake Roger Federer - the number one seed on the men's side - he said in a press conference before Wimbledon that he is been tested seven times already this year. And I will note that like Serena Williams he is in his 30s. Is one possibility that nobody quite believes people could be playing this well at this age without getting a little bit of help from somewhere?  Yeah I think that is certainly a theory that is been floated. Those - of course USADA would not  say anything specifically about that.  Based on your reporting Laura what do you think is going on here?  I think it is hard to say. But if I could just zoom out a little bit I would say that this discrepancy in testing and even the idea that USADA has this wide latitude to test - it epitomizes the problem with anti-doping sports more generally. So you know it is based on this premise that there is some substances the athletes are allowed to put in their bodies and some substances that are not. And that line is always changing and sort of arbitrary and also maybe unfair based on the number of times Serena has been tested with other athletes. So you know if there is a reason that USADA is testing Serena Williams more frequently - if there is some sort of suspicion of wrongdoing out there - they are not saying that. We do not know the answer. So what we are left with is this idea that there is something fundamentally flawed with the anti-doping efforts in tennis and probably all the sports.  Laura Wagner a reporter for Deadspin thanks very much.  Yeah thanks for having me.  