 It is not very glorious being a golf caddy. Bobby Jones  If I needed advice from my caddie he would be hitting the shots and I would be carrying the bag. But that is not the way Steve Williams sees it. Williams caddied Tiger Woods to 13 major championships before he was fired last month. And last weekend after his new boss Adam Scott won a tournament Steve Williams appalled many golfers and fans when he said this.  I am a great frontrunner when I get racing and I feel like I am a good you know frontrunner when I am caddying. So I have you know great belief in myself. But honestly that is the best week of my life. I have caddied for 33 years 145 wins now and that is the best win I have ever had.  The best win I have ever had. Well Williams' How much credit do caddies deserve? To help us answer that we are joined by Lawrence Donegan. He is the golf correspondent for the Guardian newspaper. And he joins us from Atlanta where he is covering the PGA Championship. Welcome to the program Lawrence.  Hi there Melissa. Welcome. Thanks for having me.  And you spent a year as a caddy on the European tour for a book you wrote. So why don' beyond carrying the clubs what else does a caddy do?  Well there is various standards. In candid caddies of course some are good and some are bad. The good ones well they give all sorts of advice on club selection you know a lot of it based on reading putts on the greens. I think the main job of a caddy is really you know it is a psychological job. You have to know your player's moods you have recognize you know when he needs somebody to talk to when he needs silence. And it is just a question of you know judging a player judging his moods knowing his moods. And you know when his head goes down which frequently happens with professional golfers I mean it is a caddy's job to really get his head back up and get his spirits back up.  How important would you say the caddy is to a golfer's success? Can you rate that in any way?  Well it is a tough one. A lot of the players down here in Atlanta this week were asked you know how much would you say a caddy's worth in terms of strokes? Again everybody has a different answer. Some players think they make no difference and some players think they make maybe a difference of half a shot  half a shot a round. Now that does not sound very much but at this label it is all in the margins in professional golf. Half a shot a round is two shots over a tournament and that could be the difference between winning and losing. You know I think certainly the good caddies definitely make a difference and the bad ones probably do not make a difference at all. What I would say is that some of the caddies are paid extraordinarily well up to 10 percent of a player's winnings. So some players must think that they are worth something.  Well yeah and I think Steve Williams was said to be making over a million dollars a year while he was caddying for Tiger Woods. The golfer Luke Donald made a point.  If I thought my guy was carrying my luggage I would not pay him nearly as much as I am. That says something right there.  Yeah that is absolutely right. Although Steve there - again who knows if this is true - but there you know it is been widely quoted that Steve Williams was New Zealand's best paid sportsman which says something about how much he gets paid or how much sportsmen in New Zealand get paid. But yeah I mean there is all sorts of figures being bandied around. I mean I have a couple of friends who are caddies who are very good players and I know for a fact that they make a lot more than me - a lot more than me - and probably you Melissa as well.  Yeah I bet they do. So here' if you were to take the caddies on the PGA tournament shuffle them around assign them to different players do you think it would have an effect on the results?  You know I think it would make a difference. I am not a believer in this idea that caddies are not worth very much.  Well spoken like a true member of the fraternity of caddies.  I am sorry. Yes. I am sorry about that. Yeah I probably have. I would love to go back. In fact if Tiger is looking for a new caddy he can always come and ask me. I think I would probably take the job.  Lawrence Donegan former caddy and author of the book Four Iron for the Soul. He is the golf correspondent for The Guardian and he is in Atlanta covering this week's PGA Championship. Lawrence thanks so much.  Thanks very much now. Take care. 