 It is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. Now we are going to hear from London from an Olympian who won gold today in women's boxing. This is the first Olympics to allow women to box and American Claressa Shields just 17 years old from Flint Michigan fought her way to the gold medal in the middleweight class. And Claressa Shields joins me from the boxing arena in London. Claressa what a huge day for you. Congratulations.  Thank you.  You know I thought I heard the team coach Gloria Peek  You did a good job. Now let us have some fun. Was it fun?  Yeah. I had a lot of fun you know? I dropped my hands moved my head you know? I was having fun making her miss making her pay. I was  with more punches but you know I had made them count so everything worked out good.  Claressa we aired a long profile of you on the program earlier this year and I wanted to listen to a clip from it with you. This is you talking with your father a former boxer and you were remembering the first conversation you had with him about boxing when you were little  Maybe you can live your dream through me. Let us take a listen.   You said boxing is a man's sport. That made me so - it made me so mad.  And you should have took it that way. That was a chauvinist statement that a girl cannot do it. So you know you was right.  And I have been at it ever since. I am still proving people wrong.  Truth be known. I just think little momma you are awesome.  Claressa your father was not able to be there in London. What do you think this means for him?  Oh my dad he is watching me every day fight. They had like a huge get-together up in Flint. And he always gave me a good word like whenever I  like saying that I did not want to box like my dad always like you know you need to go and sleep it off because my dad knows. He knows how his attitude is and my attitude is kind of like his. So my dad he is really happy right now.  You know I think somebody else who is going to be very happy is one of your heroes and somebody who sent you a tweet this week Sugar Ray Leonard who tweeted...  Yeah.  ... Your jab is so solid. Use it more. Your hook wow just like mine. Win every round and bring home the gold.  Yeah. You know I was kind of shocked that he tweeted me. I did not even know because he did not tag me in it. I was like what? And I re-tweeted and I was like wow you know? Just having him watch me is a compliment. It means a lot because he is somebody who I studied. It was great.  Well you have dreamed of - about this moment for quite a long time now even though you are only 17. Now that you have this Olympic gold what is next?  I do not know you know? It is like tomorrow I do not know should I get up and train you know? It is like I do not know what to do now you know? This has been my dream the last four or five years. This is what I worked toward every day. It is still unbelievable that I you know that I won the gold medal. Yeah. I am just - I do not know what I am going to do now you know? I am just going to enjoy the moment. I have not even cried yet. It is like I feel it is kind of unreal. I always always go to sleep and then I wake up and then I realize something that is when I go berserk like I did at the Olympic trials.  Well Claressa congratulations again and have fun going berserk with your victory.   OK. Thank you. Hope to. Bye.  Bye-bye. That is boxer Claressa Shields who today won gold in the women's middleweight category at the Olympics. And you can find Claressa's radio diary and photos of her and other female boxers at npr.org. They come to us from Joe Richman and Sue Jaye Johnson. 