 For Major League Baseball players long commutes are very common. Every season teams log tens of thousands of travel miles shuttling from one-away game to the next and back home. They mainly stick to charter flights or the occasional bus. But tomorrow to go to Philadelphia to play the Phillies from Washington D.C. where they are playing the Nationals The St. Louis Cardinals will catch a train. And joining us by phone from St. Louis is Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak. How unusual is it for the Cardinals to travel by train? Mr.  Well it is the first time in I believe probably over 40 years so it is very unusual for us. But it was something that we looked into and it seemed to make a lot of sense. Plus it ends up shaving a significant amount of time off our travel.  Do you have your own special car or might an ordinary Amtrak passenger rub shoulders with Albert Pujols on the Mr.  I would think that they will give us three privatized cars. I doubt there'ill be any intermingling but there is surely going to be other cars on the train.  You know for the Northeast Corridor for Amtrak this is - since Joe Biden stopped commuting from Delaware to the Senate this is I think the biggest event they have had in terms of passengers on the train. Mr.  Well I think some other teams have used it. So we are definitely looking forward to see it and hopefully it all go smoothly.  Have you heard any reaction from the players about taking the train from Washington to Philadelphia? Mr.  Well a lot of guys were hoping we would do it. You know after I looked at the financials I decided to sign off on it.  Forty years ago - I mean where were they on the train 40 years ago by the way? Mr.  '50s I think they used trains. And then '60s was probably when they went almost exclusively to planes but it still would not have surprised me if they were doing you know a train between Philly and New York or something.  Yeah my historical marker is that I think Jackie Jensen of the Boston Red Sox was afraid of flying and he could still play. He could go by train all over the country. It was going to the West Coast that really ruined train travel for baseball.  Mr.  Well I sit with Red Schoendienst. This is a hall-of-famer and he tells me many stories when there was only train travel.  Red Schoendienst great St. Louis infielder. A lot of card playing on the train I should think? Mr.  I would imagine yes. And he even referenced that the food was great if you could afford it.   This was also in the days when baseball players sometimes could not afford everything. Mr.  Exactly.  Well good luck to you on the train. It should be quite an event at Union Station in Washington D.C. when the Cardinals arrive and I hope they enjoy the trip. Mr.  Well thank you.  That is John Mozeliak who is the general manager of the St. Louis Cardinals who tomorrow will be traveling for the first time in decades by train. 