 Of course there were also plenty of neighbors friends and family gathered in spots all across the U.S. today. A huge lunchtime crowd came out in Washington D.C.'s Dupont Circle to watch the game. Thousands turned up in Chicago's Grant Park waving American flags and chanting U.S.A.. And in Los Angeles NPR's Shereen Marisol Meraji joined die-hard fans at a neighborhood bar early this morning.  I am here from NPR. You are having the first beer in the bar?  I just confirmed we have - we are pouring first beer. Although it is sort of late. It'30. But we are Americans so I guess it is OK.  What is your name?  Phil. Phil Stark.  And who are you rooting for?  The United States of America. You know what country you are in right?  I am at Hyperion Public in LA's Silver Lake neighborhood so the bar is packed with want-to-be comedians like that dude freelancers and I overheard someone say please do not tag me on Facebook. I called in sick. There are diner mugs filled with coffee and pint glasses with beer. And I would describe the fan reaction throughout the game as elation followed very quickly by devastation.  You suck Bradley.  And then there is Germany's back-to-back shots on goal one saved...   The other not. Zero-one Germany. We lost but we kind of won because we are moving on. You are smiling?  I am smiling. I mean I am smiling because we are still - we are alive. You know we are alive. And at the end of the day you have got to be glad about that.  Marisol Orihuelaso stopped by the bar on her way to work. So she rocked career-casual red white and blue. But Tomas Pais walked into the bar with a Portugal jersey and huge Portuguese flag tied around his neck like a cape. He watched the Portugal-Ghana game on the smallest screen in the bar with like three other people. And although his team won they kind of lost.  Portugal is gone unfortunately. I was actually there in the stadium in Manaus a few days ago watched them tie the game. Now I am rooting for the U.S.A.. because it is good for us. It is good for the country. It is good for soccer and the United States.  Shereen Marisol Meraji. NPR News.  We welcome you to follow our program and follow us on Twitter. I am Audie Cornish npraudie.  I am Melissa Block nprmelissablock. Our colleague Robert Siegel is rsiegel47.  And this one is important. The show is npratc. That is our name on Facebook too. This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 