 Last night baseball fans celebrated a milestone for one of the game's best hitters. Yankees outfielder Ichiro Suzuki had his 4000th career hit in New York's 4-2 win over Toronto. Suzuki joins Pete Rose and Ty Cobb as the only major leaguers to reach the 4000 hit mark. But NPR's Tom Goldman reports he will not be listed as such in the record book.  That is because Major League Baseball does not recognize all 4000 of Ichiro Suzuki's hits - 1278 of them came during his first nine seasons as a pro ballplayer in the Japanese Pacific League. But last night's 2722nd major league hit still stirred players and fans alike.  Ichiro Ichiro Ichiro.  Line drive base hit there it is 4000 hits.   And it was like so many others an opposite field single as heard on the YES Network. It was off Toronto knuckleballer R.A. Dickey a fitting match really. A quirky pitch hit by a quirky player. An ESPN profile of the man known around baseball simply as Ichiro detailed how he sewed his gloves by hand stored his bats in a hardcover case with a chemical rod to control the humidity and how he answered questions through an interpreter with his back turned to reporters. But last night Suzuki faced his inquisitor on the field at Yankee Stadium and talked through his interpreter in emotional terms about how his teammates left the dugout to hug him after the big hit.   You know I was not expecting that. I did not think everybody would come out. You know I really got choked up.  Suzuki certainly has the resume to counter some pre-milestone grumbling that his 4000 hits do not resonate like Pete Rose and Ty Cobb' All-Star appearances Gold Glove Awards in Japan and the majors and of course the batting titles and hit records all with his unique slap-at-the-ball style. Jay Jaffe writes the Strike Zone blog for Sports Illustrated.  It is not quite accurate to say that he dominated because you know his singles did not quite add up to the same kind of value as the sluggers of the era but in his own way he was certainly the best of a certain type of hitting and showed that a Japanese position player could succeed here in the majors and that is been quite unique.  Which is not lost on other Japanese players. After last night's hit Suzuki bowed to the fans his teammates and to Toronto second baseman Munenori Kawasaki whom Jaffe says obviously looks up to Ichiro Suzuki. Tom Goldman NPR News.    Go go go go Ichiro. Rounding third and heading for home.  You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 