 The U.S. team arrived in Sao Paulo fresh off a few weeks of its own controversy. At the center of it is the U.S. coach the former German soccer star Jurgen Klinsmann. He baffled and infuriated U.S. fans when he cut star player Landon Donovan from the roster even though Donovan was the national team's all-time leader in goals and assists. And in a New York Times profile this week Klinsmann drew still more criticism when he said we cannot win this World Cup because we are not at that level yet. Sam Borden wrote that profile for the Times and he joins me now from Sao Paulo. Sam welcome to the program.  Thanks very much. Nice to be with you.  And let us start with those comments from Klinsmann who is coaching his first World Cup with the U.S. team. Now even if he is saying what pretty much everybody is thinking is not he violating a taboo to say it so bluntly out loud to a reporter?  You know to be honest I was a little bit surprised by the reaction. It seems to me like in soccer there is like a little more harsh truth than in a lot of the American sports. You know even the Jacksonville Jaguars think they can win the Super Bowl at the start of training camp every year. And I think in soccer it seems to me that there is a little more sort of realistic expectations. And I think he was just trying to set a reasonable bar for what the team you know can accomplish.  Sam the headline for your story is - how Jurgen Klinsmann plans to make U.S. soccer better and less American. Why do not you explain that? Has he brought a European style of play? Is there something visible on the field that is changed?  With soccer there is a lot of credence put into sort of national identities and how teams play. Brazil is known for a certain flair. Italy has traditionally been known as a defensive team that can really kind of strangle a game. He is trying to drill into them a little bit more attention to short passes - control the ball control the pace of the game - which is generally a European sensibility.  And apart from the style of play is there a European sensibility overall - a European culture that you think he is brought to the team?  That is one of the things I think it is a little bit harder to say one way or the other. In a lot of ways the stuff that he does is very American. And when he was the coach of Germany he was called out by sort of hard-core German fans for bringing in a psychologist. Whereas in America generally you know teams often embrace new innovations in sports science. He is very much into that. You know the players have their blood analyzed. His sort of personal approach to dealing with the players and his expectations is European but the way that he activates them often times can be American.  How have the U.S. players responded to that approach? The blood analysis that you mentioned. He is pushing yoga looking at their diet. Things like that. How did they respond?  There have been a number of instances where Klinsmann has tried new things that players were not particularly enamored with. I remember Tim Howard the goalkeeper told me you know at one point Klinsmann brought in sort of this brain doctor or a guy that studied sort of the way brains handle stress situations during games. And Howard said to me you know that was like a little more analysis than any of us wanted. But in general I think the players react well. You know they treat their bodies as temples generally. And so the nutrition and the bloodwork is just more information to help them figure out what is best.  Do you figure that Jurgen Klinsmann is thinking well beyond the 2014 World Cup? He is thinking about the long-term future of the U.S. national team?  I do. I mean you know he would say otherwise and I think other people have said otherwise. No no no he is really focused on the task at hand. But you know the reality is that very few World Cup coaches have guaranteed contracts beyond the World Cup at hand and Klinsmann does. And I think that is not an unreasonable move from the U.S. Soccer Federation because they are looking to you know really establish an identity. The federation has decided OK Klinsmann is the guy that is going to sort of craft our path here. And so they gave him the security of knowing that he is going to be around for a little while.  That is Sam Borden. He is the European sports correspondent for the New York Times and he is in So Paulo covering the World Cup. Sam have a good time. Thanks so much.  Thank you. Really appreciate it. 