 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Melissa BLock.  And I am Robert Siegel. The London Paralympic Games wrap up this weekend. Record crowds have turned out and tuned in to watch the games where disabled athletes from around the world compete. The American team includes several veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan among them Navy Lieutenant Bradley Snyder. He is swimming exactly one year after he was hit by a bomb blast in Afghanistan. NPR's Quil Lawrence has his story.  The first thing you need to know about Navy Lieutenant Brad Snyder is that he is a bit intense.  Chill out? What is that? Just kidding.  He is sort of kidding. But if you go to the U.S. Naval Academy swim competitively and make the cut for the Navy's elite bomb-disposal squad you are probably going to be the competitive type.  Crossfit surfing biking running swimming you know you name it I am into it. Rock climbing.  The second thing you should know is that Snyder plans to continue doing all these things even though he is now blind. Snyder's last combat deployment took him to Afghanistan where he defused bombs for a Navy SEAL team. That is where he was on September 7th last year when an explosion blasted shrapnel into his face. He remained conscious the whole time as medics struggled to reach him.  I was worried about the guys. I was worried about what had gone on with my face how do I get to the helicopter. I did not really process that I was blind.  U.S. military doctors in Kandahar put him under for the long journey back to Walter Reed Hospital outside Washington D.C. Two days later he woke up.  There was about 30 stitches in his face.  That is Snyder's mother Valerie.  And a lot of wounds from shrapnel going in that were healing from the inside out scarring but he looks pretty much the same.  She flew in from Florida to be at his side when he woke up. That is when doctors told them his blindness would be total and permanent.  I stayed with him in the room that night 00 in the morning he sat up  It is going to be all right. Do not - you know Mama we are going to get through this it is - everything's going to be fine. And he is been like that ever since.  Take your marks. Snyder away very very quick...  That announcer on Paralympic TV marveled at Snyder's speed. In his first race at the London Paralympics last week he won gold in the 100-meter freestyle. The blind have their own category at the games. A guide reaches out with a soft pole to tap the swimmers before they reach the wall for a turn. As fast as he is in the pool coaches and competitors talk about how quickly he even got in the water to start training only months after his injury. Snyder says swimming was something familiar that helped restore his confidence.  One of the harder aspects of my injury was not necessarily the physical detriment but it is the idea that I got benched. I was with an assault team doing operations in Afghanistan and then in a snap of a finger I was benched and I was not able to be with my team anymore. But to be able to go back out and throw on this uniform wear my flag on my sleeve and compete for Team USA I used the term earlier get back into the fight.  Snyder says he still has hard moments from mundane frustrations like banging his head on the laundry dryer door to dreaming each night that he can see only to wake in total darkness. But other disabled veteran athletes inspired him to compete here and now he is hoping to pass that on.  I know there are a lot of guys out there who are - guys and girls who are struggling with a tough hand and hopefully my success here at the Paralympics can reach out to those people and say hey there is a way forward there is something you can go out and do that will give you that relevance and success again.  Snyder's best event the 400-meter freestyle landed on September 7th today exactly one year after he lost his sight. His mother says for the family there is something fateful about the timing.  Today is a great day because we are going to have great memories on this day now.  They will. A few hours ago Bradley Snyder won the gold medal in the 400-meter freestyle and to hear him tell it he beat blindness. Quil Lawrence NPR News London. 