 When a great sports team suffers a surprise upset there will always be a story asking is this the end of an era? Well in the case of the U.S. women's soccer team it kind of feels like it might be. They are bringing home bronze this week from the Olympics which is terrific. But they were expected to win gold. Stars Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloyd are 36 and 39 years old respectively and they are just two of several players over the age of 30. So it is a safe bet that the team that romped through the World Cup in 2019 is going to look different next time in 2023. Well to walk us through some of these changes is Meg Linehan of The Athletic. Meg welcome back to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED.  Thank you for having me again.  Are we staring down the end of an era? You know this U.S. women's team has seemed so unstoppable. The World Cup champions - and clearly a bronze medal is nothing to sniff at. Do you think the era of total domination though is winding down?  I do not know if it is necessarily the end of an era. It might be the end of a chapter but that only means that we get to start a new chapter with new players and some of the same players. So total domination - maybe yes because other countries are really catching up.  Well that is what I was going to ask. I mean part of this is what is going on within the U.S. team. Part of this is the rest of the world where yeah it is a great good news story if women are playing at higher and higher more elite levels in the rest of the world.  I mean it is absolutely a great thing for the growth of the sport. You have a team like Australia who the U.S. women's national team played in the bronze medal match today. They are hosting the 2023 World Cup along with New Zealand. They have really gone all in. They have arguably one of the best players in the world in Sam Kerr. This is a good thing to have real meaningful competition for the United States because that is only going to push them into new heights.  Megan Rapinoe said today that she is weighing whether she will be playing at the 2003 World Cup or whether she might retire. She is 36. Do you worry that the excitement - that this team this generation of players has generated about women's soccer about women's sports maybe - this team has had such an impact that that will wane if she goes away and some of these other stars we have gotten so used to watching leave the sport?  I think it is part of sports - right? - where athletes phase in and out of their career in and out of national team responsibilities. I think one of the best things about the sport is that we have seen so many of this team stay within this realm. I mean you think about Mia Hamm who is an owner with Angel City the new expansion team in Los Angeles. You think about Julie Foudy who is calling all of these games for NBC. All of these players still want to drive the growth of women's soccer. I do not think that is going to change. But there is absolutely something to the marketability - right? - of this team might change a little bit. But also that is just kind of the nature of the generations of players kind of going through the U.S. women's national team.  Well get us excited about the new generation of players coming up. If I asked you for one or two that we should keep an eye on and start paying attention to who would you say?  Catarina Macario and Midge Purce. Midge Purce was arguably one of the last players cut from this team. She is a very dynamic very crafty player super-exciting to watch highly recommend - also just one of the most brilliant people to talk to in this sport. Catarina Macario - if you want to talk about a player that has kind of the expectations of the U.S. women's national team already put upon them it is Catarina Macario.  All right. Now you have got me excited to keep watching so thank you .  The future is very very bright for this team in terms of talent coming up. Honestly I do not think people necessarily need to worry about the talent influx for this team anytime soon.  That is Meg Linehan of The Athletic. Thank you Meg.  Thank you. 