 Major League Baseball announced that it is suspending outfielder Ryan Braun for the rest of the season for violating its drug policy. Braun was the 2011 National League Most Valuable Player. Before that he was Rookie of the Year and several times in All-Star. He plays for the Milwaukee Brewers and he is one of several star players who faced scrutiny by baseball for apparent ties to an anti-aging clinic in Miami called Biogenesis. Joining us to talk more about this is NPR's Tom Goldman. And Tom what did Major League Baseball say today?  Well pretty much what you said Robert that Ryan Braun has been suspended without pay for the remainder of the 2013 championship season and post season for violating the basic agreement in its joint drug prevention and treatment program. It is his ties to the Biogenesis clinic as you say. And Rob Manfred another baseball executive said and I quote We commend Ryan Braun for taking responsibility for his past actions. We all agree that it is in the best interest of the game to resolve this matter. When Ryan returns we look forward to him making positive contributions to Major League Baseball both on and off the field.  Now Ryan Braun was the first player to successfully appeal a drug suspension last year. No appeal this time. What was his reaction this time?  Yeah that is right. As Rob Manfred said he is - Ryan Braun is taking responsibility for his past actions. Braun said and this is another quote As I have acknowledged in the past I am not perfect. I realize now that I have made some mistakes. I am willing to accept the consequences of those actions. This situation has taken a toll on me and my entire family and it has been a distraction to my teammates and the Brewers organization. So no appeal. Ryan Braun evidently was presented with enough evidence by Major League Baseball investigators that he will not appeal this thing.  Braun is not the only player facing a possible suspension. We have heard the names of Alex Rodriguez Melky Cabrera mentioned. What is the word from the players' union? How did they react to all this?  Well you know the union has said there will not be a blanket support for the players. Last week union head Michael Weiner said the union of course would make sure due process is being upheld. But he also said and I am paraphrasing here that if there is overwhelming evidence against players the union will not fight sanctions. Now a source close to the case told me that current players just do not have the stomach for that. They want to take ownership of the doping issue and they want a clean game. And Robert you compare this to attitudes and the foot dragging on the doping issue as recently as eight to 10 years ago and this is a dramatic difference.  Thanks Tom.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Tom Goldman on the season-ending suspension of baseball player Ryan Braun. 