 All right. We are going to go west now to the Fort Hall reservation in Idaho where every summer Native American tribes celebrate their history and culture through horse races. They are known as Indian relays. Tribes call them America's first extreme sport. From member station KUER Nate Hegyi sent this postcard.  It is a windy hazy summer morning on the Snake River Plain in Southeastern Idaho. Trevor Beasley is hanging out near his horse trailer.  Throw them down real easy.  It is about an hour before the Indian Relay races begin and he is watching as a teammate gets a little too close to his favorite mare.  Got to watch out for her. She is a kicker.  His teammate jumps out of the way laughing.  That is your warning right there man.  The mare's name is As Thunder Rolls. She is a tall muscled animal - perfect for Indian Relay racing. And the kicking Beasley says is pretty normal.  She is like that - feisty fighter man.  And you have got to be a fighter if you want to race in Indian relays. In them jockeys leap onto a different bareback horse not once not twice but three times as they race around a track.  The ride the speed the love of the horse the power.  Indian Relay began around a century ago but its origins stretch back more than 300 years to when tribes like the Shoshone and Bannock first climbed onto the backs of horses acquired from the Spanish.  That is what we survived on.  LaGrande Coby is president of the Fort Hall Indian Relay Association. And he says western tribes relied on horses for almost everything.  Gathering our food back in the day traveling from different reservations to different reservations.  It is a relationship that survived forced assimilation and western tribes' loss of land.   Today about a hundred Indian Relay fans are sitting in Fort Hall Reservation's rodeo bleachers sipping Coke and eating barbecue. The rodeo track begins filling with horses and men wearing neon jerseys with bright-colored ribbons attached. The jockeys get ready.   And they are off racing around the dirt track. Dust flies up from the horses' hooves as the riders whip the animals.   It is a windy day. Grass and hayseed are blowing around and the horses fly through it. As they end their first lap the jockeys leap off their first horse sprint to the second and take off. And this is when things get chaotic. A man is knocked down and one animal even takes off without a rider.   It gallops wildly off the rodeo track and into the grass staging area where folks frantically wave their cowboy hats. They are trying to contain it. Back on the track the jockeys are now on the third horse in the last leg of the race.   A team called Cedar Ridge wins.  The Indian Relay - Cedar Ridge .  Trevor Beasley watched the race from the sidelines.  Pride is what it really means around here. A lot of people take pride in it.  He says win or lose everyone who participates in Indian Relay is celebrating their horsemanship and their history. For NPR News I am Nate Hegyi in Fort Hall Idaho.  