 The college football season is scheduled to start in about two months though concerns about COVID-19 are growing. Athletes have been testing positive suspending some preseason workouts and college football parents are among the worried. And NPR's Tom Goldman reports on one couple who have turned that worry into action.  In the midst of a pandemic Mya Hinton says she and her husband Chris have pretty much stuck to the rules in their home near Atlanta.  Cooked all our meals here. We let the boys go up the football field by themselves and work out but that is about it.  The boys are Myles...   Congratulations to Greater Atlanta Christian's Myles Hinton who ranks as one of the top 10 players in the state...  ...He is now an incoming freshman offensive tackle at Stanford and his brother Christopher a sophomore defensive tackle at the University of Michigan. As they got ready to head to school for voluntary workouts their parents scanned the landscape to see what safety measures were in place. They were confident about prominent schools like Michigan and Stanford but talking to other football parents they realized there were wide discrepancies in testing and safety measures at the more than 1200 NCAA schools. So in May Chris and Mya created an advocacy group - College Football Parents 247.  It is something that we have talked about for multiple years. It made sense and now was the time to do it.  The Hinton's were college athletes themselves - Mya played basketball Chris football including 13 years in the NFL - which gives their effort more heft. They are not just a couple of worried helicopter parents.  As former athletes we know that the process is not perfect.  But the 1200 plus parents who have joined the Hinton's organization are demanding the NCAA and it is schools get closer to perfect during the pandemic. The NCAA has a comprehensive set of COVID-19 guidelines but not enforceable rules and this creates more risk. For instance if a school only tests athletes who show symptoms infected athletes without symptoms could play and spread the disease to opponents teammates and beyond. Mya Hinton a former prosecutor says the NCAA should lead not guide.  Different protocols that the NCAA we feel is capable of putting in place to make sure it is uniform across the board.  The NCAA has rules for recruiting athletes for academic standards for player compensation. And it enforces them. Tim Nevius knows firsthand.  I was at the NCAA for five years in the enforcement department and it was my responsibility to enforce the rules of amateurism.  Now he is a lawyer fighting for college athletes' rights and Nevius says those rights to health and safety are threatened in the absence of uniform safety measures. There is inconsistent testing for example because some schools cannot afford the cost. Nevius says the NCAA should pay. In 2018 the Department of Education reported college sports generated 14 billion.  Not only can they afford it they cannot afford not to do it because of the risks that are at play here.  The risks have prompted some schools to require waivers athletes have to sign to protect the schools from COVID-19 liability. The NCAA declined an interview request for this story. Chris and Mya Hinton meanwhile hope there is college football in a couple of months. They are huge fans but they say they want it done right and their sons protected. Tom Goldman NPR News.  