 Maria Sharapova one of the world's top tennis players will not compete at Wimbledon later this month or in any tournament anytime soon. Today the International Tennis Federation banned her from the sport for two years. She tested positive for a performance-enhancing drug a few months back. Maria Sharapova says she is appealing the decision. Joining us to talk about it is Jon Wertheim of Sports Illustrated. Welcome back.  Thanks Ari.  Sharapova tested positive for a drug that she says she took for medical reasons. Why is this drug banned? Tell us more about it.  This drug meldonium was tested on soldiers. It stems from Russian and former Soviet states and they have found in testing that this has performance-enhancing qualities especially to the respiratory system. So this drug went on the banned list on January 1. So you could have taken this drug on December 31 and it would have been legal. But right now it is on the banned list.  On her Facebook page Sharapova says the two-year suspension means her use was unintentional and that if it had been intentional abuse of the drug the suspension would have been longer. So is the organization basically saying we know you are not lying but you still broke the rules?  Well there - in - I think tennis deserves credit here. There is a 33-page decision that is posted online. Anyone has access to it. And with a tremendous level of specificity they go through their case and what they consider credible what they did not. And what seems to be the case is that they did not really weigh in on the performance enhancing. The lack of intent was she did not realize this was banned. And I think that is a critical distinction - one that she not surprisingly did not make. But I think that is a critical distinction. She got two years. She could have gotten four if there had been clear intent. She got two which suggests a lack of intent but that does not pertain to the performance enhancement. That is just an intent of whether she knew the rules or not. I know that is a little in the weeds but I think that is a critical distinction to make.  And when is she going to hear about her appeal? There is still the Olympics the U.S. Open.  As soon as she possibly can. Athletes have a right to appeal these decisions - so do the governing agencies though this time it was obviously Sharapova. She may get this two-year ban knocked down a little bit but I think now it is just a question of the length of the suspension. I do not think the overall finding is going to be overturned. I do not think we see her again until 2017.  Her last big win was a couple of years ago at the French Open but she is still a top earner because of endorsements from Nike Porsche. Any word from her big sponsors today?  It is funny. When she first had this press conference announcing this positive test the sponsors went in very different directions. Nike did not wait until dinnertime until they sent out a press release saying they were suspending the relationship. Other endorsers - Head rackets for example double-down and we are wholeheartedly supporting her. I think that is a real dimension to this whole story. This is not just an athlete this is a brand. And this is a brand based on sort of grace and dignity. And when you read this report it really undercuts that image. So this is a sports story but it is a business story as well. I mean Maria Sharapova is her own empire. She herself personally makes more in revenue than the entire WTA tour. And the fact that her image has really been undercut so severely I think makes this much more than just a conventional athlete gets busted story.  And what is the message here for other athletes beyond do not do drugs or if you do do not get busted?  It is read the rules. And it does not matter if you are Maria Sharapova one of the brightest stars in your sports cosmos it is on you as the athletes would say. It is your responsibility. And in the case of Sharapova it was really her business that got her in this mess.  Jon Wertheim executive editor and senior writer at Sports Illustrated thanks for joining us.  Thanks Ari. 