 It takes a lot of talent and hard work to make the Olympic team but it also takes a good support network. Twenty-year-old Jackie Galloway has all three. She will compete at the Rio Games for Team USA in taekwondo. As Courtney Collins of member station KERA in Dallas reports Galloway is part of a taekwondo dynasty.  When you first meet Jackie Galloway you notice the giant smile the painted toenails and the delicate braid woven into her ponytail. Watch her train and you see the other side of Jackie. She is a fighter - a really good one.  She kicks hard.   Her younger brother Austin holds the bag Jackie is currently pummeling. He is a nationally ranked black belt himself and her official Olympic training partner. A taekwondo sparring match is three two-minute rounds. A basic kick to the body is worth a point. One to the head is worth three.  Spin technique called a back kick is three points or an offensive turning kick is also three points.  Jackie is a first-time Olympian. She was an alternate four years ago. She is excited to go to Rio but to her the cameras the crowds the electrifying opening ceremonies - it is all just distraction. She has one goal and it is simple. J.  I am not going there just to participate and be another face in the crowd. I am there to bring home the gold.  And this Southern Methodist University sophomore takes a brainy approach to the sport. J.  I study engineering so I kind of enjoy puzzles and problem solving. It is very strategic but it is very competitive so that competitive killer instinct inside of me has an outlet to get out and perform.  That is how she is always been her dad says. She does not hope for a win. She knows she can get one. She is not worried about losing. That thought just does not cross her mind. Her Twitter handle is ikick-urface. For the Galloways this is a family business.  I remember at 14 she fought her first woman and knocked the lady out.  Dad Gary is also Jackie's coach. He was also trained by his dad and came close to being an Olympian himself. At age 35 Gary just missed making the 2008 team. G.  You attack from out of distance and you work on your face kicks on motion for me.  Gary Galloway's ultimate goal was always passing this sport onto his children. He says Jackie's commitment and confidence make her stand out which is why in Rio he will focus more on being coach than dad. G.  It is maybe a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that many many people do not get but we are just not really focused on that part of it right now. I will try to find some time - maybe closing ceremonies - to take it all in but until then I - she is on a mission. And you know I am trying to help her take the next step.  And that is how Jackie wants it. The Olympics - just another tournament just another opportunity to put all that exhausting training to good use. J.  I also look at it as all the hard work I have done I am going to put on somebody you know? I am going to remember that time where I was crying and hurt and I am going to make someone feel that because I went through a lot to get there.  And she plans to put her opponents through a lot at the Olympics. It is not about the experience or the honor of competing. It is about winning. Jackie Galloway is headed to Rio with ice in her veins and gold on the brain. For NPR News I am Courtney Collins in Dallas. 