 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Melissa Block.  head injuries and their suspected connection to dementia and mental impairment. The survey was commissioned by the NFL. The retired players who were questioned had a particularly high rate of memory- related diseases as NPR's Tom Goldman reports.  The University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research conducted phone interviews with a random sample of 1063 retired NFL players. The interviews happened in November and December of last year. Researchers asked the players a wide range of questions  Has a doctor ever told you you had some memory-related illness? Six percent of players 50 and older said yes 1.9 percent of players between 30 and 49 said yes. The 1.9 percent is 19 times higher than the national average.  The remarkable aspect of this study is that it is a study that they commissioned.  They says neurosurgeon Dr. Julian Bailes is the NFL the same NFL that has in recent years discounted any outside studies including Dr. Bailes' showing a link between retired players and brain problems.  We told them this four years ago. It is fully in lockstep with other results. But my opinion ball's in their court about how they want to react.  So far cautiously. While acknowledging it commissioned the report the NFL warns it is not hard science.  The survey did not diagnose dementia but relied on self-reporting by retirees or their family. The survey's lead author researcher David Weir also noted that the numbers being reported as alarming particularly the incidence of brain illness in 30 to 49-year-old retirees being 19 times higher than the national average. That figure says Weir is based on a very small sample of respondents.  That total amounted to a total of nine people in our study. So it is hard for me to conclude there is a 19-times elevation on the basis of only nine people being observed and again all they told us was a self report. They have been told they had this problem.  Tom Goldman NPR News.  