 Despite fears of a super-spreader event it appears the Tokyo Olympics will begin as planned July 23. Organizers have pledged the games will be safe from the pandemic. They also say they will be environmentally friendly. NPR's Anthony Kuhn takes a closer look at that claim.   Last month grandiose music swelled at a ceremony to unveil symbols of Olympic sustainability. One symbol comes courtesy of Olympic sponsor Procter  Gamble. Stanislav Vecera CEO of PG's Japan subsidiary introduced the podiums on which athletes will get their medals.   The Tokyo 2020 podiums are made from used plastic packages directly collected by consumers and then recycled.  Even the gold silver and bronze are part of the symbolism. They will be extracted from recycled cell phones and other gadgets to make the athletes' medals. But some analysts say the symbolism of sustainability exaggerates the reality.  Unfortunately the data show that sustainability in all dimensions is decreasing over time from 1992 to 2020.  That is Sven Daniel Wolfe at the University of Lausanne Switzerland. He co-authored a study of the sustainability of recent Olympic Games. Wolfe defines sustainable as having limited ecological impact promoting social justice and being economically efficient. These goals he says tend to take a backseat to the ambition to put on dazzling mega-events. But Wolfe and some environmental groups do give Olympic organizers credit for at least trying. Masako Konishi is the climate and energy project leader at WWF Japan. She praises the games' energy plan.  So the extra electricity that is required for the Tokyo Olympics will be 100 renewable energy. And that could be a very good role model for the future Olympics.  The Games will of course still produce carbon emissions but she says the organizers have already secured more than enough carbon credits to try to offset the greenhouse gases the games produce.  So 150 of the credits has been collected.  And that would make it the...  First ever carbon-negative Olympic.  Konishi is not as upbeat about sourcing seafood or how to serve athletes sushi without overfishing the seas. She says Japanese suppliers have lobbied Olympic organizers to water down their sourcing standards.  Basically they are saying that if the standard is too strict there will be not much Japanese marine products going into the Olympic of Tokyo.  Sourcing timber is also a thorny problem. The Rainforest Action Network or RAN traced plywood from the construction of an Olympic stadium in Tokyo to the forests of Indonesia. Hana Heineken a campaigner with the group explains their findings.  We actually found that the majority of the Indonesian plywood that the Olympic organizers sourced was coming from rainforests that are being converted into palm oil plantations.  The conversion destroys some of the oldest forests on Earth that are home to endangered orangutans. Heineken says RAN complained to Olympic organizers who rejected the complaint. Whatever standards the games set for a sustainability researcher Sven Daniel Wolfe says they are likely to be overshadowed by the bigger crisis.  In the final analysis I think Tokyo will be remembered more as a pandemic games rather than any claims to sustainability.  Anthony Kuhn NPR News Seoul.  