 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. From NPR News I am Melissa Block.  Well both the Sox and the Braves spent the rest of the month losing big. And last night with playoff hopes on the line both lost the last game of the regular season in spectacular last-minute fashion. We will have more on last night's losers in a minute. But first to Tampa where WUSF's Bobbie O'Brien caught up with some relieved and ecstatic Rays fans.  The sun was shining a little brighter and the fans were smiling a little broader at the Tampa Bay Rays team store at Tropicana Field. The phone rang at a steady pace fans asking if playoff T-shirts were available. Jane Chapin of St. Petersburg was there for the team's send-off as the Rays head to Texas to play the Rangers on Friday.  They are so young so underpaid and so underrated that it is just - they are so much fun to watch and they have so much heart.  Rays fans do not mind being considered the underdogs. In fact it is a role some relish like Nicole Kirchberg.  I lived in North Carolina when the Panthers went to the Super Bowl when they were playing the other Boston team up there with New England Patriots. It is the same thing. It is like they were the underdogs and I feel that with Tampa Bay it is like they do not get the respect like the Yankees and Boston and all the - Chicago the big teams. And I think it is awesome for the community.  Kirchberg works at Eckerd College with Michelle Digioia. They were on their lunch break hoping to buy some of those playoff T-shirts.  You know teachers students everybody was very excited. We have some teachers actually put up pictures from the newspaper on their classroom doors.  Eight-year-old Marco Jimenez's dad got him out of bed to watch the end of the game after the Rays tied the score in the ninth inning. He says it taught him a big lesson.  The Rays never gave up. They never gave up and they continued playing the game right. And they won because they never gave up.  How about you? Do you ever give up?  No.  Where did you learn that? From the Rays?  Well actually yes. So I learned it before but this helped reinforce it.  Just like the Rays reinforced their image that they are never out of it. They were down nine games at the beginning of the month and made an unprecedented comeback. The team found a way to win. For NPR News I am Bobbie O'Brien in Tampa. 