 The governor of Minnesota has weighed in on the case of Adrian Peterson the star running back with the Minnesota Vikings. Peterson was arrested on charges of child abuse. He has admitted whipping his four-year-old son with a wooden switch. But he says I am without a doubt not a child abuser. The boy's injuries allegedly include cuts and bruises on his back buttocks legs and scrotum. Today Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton called Peterson's actions a public embarrassment. And he said the Vikings should suspend Peterson until the accusations have been resolved. But that is not what the Vikings are doing. Last night general manager Rick Spielman went before reporters to explain why Peterson was being reinstated after he was deactivated for one game.   We feel strongly as an organization that this is disciplining in a child. And whether it is an abusive situation or not or whether he went too far disciplining we feel very strongly that that is the court's decision to make.  I asked Chip Scoggins sports columnist with The Minneapolis Star Tribune for his reaction.  Honestly I was surprised. I thought that the team would suspend him anywhere from four to eight games. It is such a serious issue and for them to basically welcome him back without any kind of discipline really surprised me. And I think it surprised a lot of people here. Adrian admitted to hitting his son. He admitted to causing those injuries so I am not sure what more they have to learn.  Four to eight games you say? That would have been what you feel would be appropriate?  That was just a guess. I thought there would be some suspension. They suspended a former player Chris Cook here a couple of years ago who was arrested and charged with domestic assault. They told him to stay away from the team for basically two months. He ultimately was exonerated and he was allowed back to the team. You know the precedent was there. I thought that they would hand Adrian some sort of suspension. I thought six games probably was going to be the number. The fact that they did nothing is really quite surprising.  It is interesting that yesterday with this announcement it was not the team's owners who came forward. It was the general manager and the coach.  Yeah and that bothered me and it bothered a lot of people here. This is a crisis for the organization. They are under a national microscope. And to send a general manager out there and not the owners who - ultimately this is their decision. And just to issue a statement and not make themselves accountable in front of reporters - they should have been there. They should have had to answer those questions.  Adrian Peterson is one of the best running backs in the league. There are a lot of people who say the message coming out of the team is this a team that will do anything to win at all costs. If he were a lesser player things would have been different. Do you agree with that?  Yeah and - I absolutely agree with that. And you just look at the other cases. In the past couple years there have been three players who were arrested for some sort of domestic assault. One player they released a couple of hours afterwards. Chris Cook - like I said he was told to stay away from the team. Adrian had no punishment.  We did see one of the Viking's sponsors Radisson Hotels suspend its sponsorship after they decided to reinstate him. Do you think other sponsors are going to do the same?  I would not be surprised at all. And that is a clear message to the team that hey the people that are invested in you do not believe in the decision that you made. And so it will be interesting to see here in the next few days whether other companies and corporations step forward and do the same thing. Adrian before this was a beloved athlete. The team uses him in marketing. He is a great player - the face of the franchise. This situation has hurt the fan base.  Well the Vikings are going to be playing Sunday in New Orleans. What do you think happens from here especially once they come back home?  My guess is it will be a mixture. There'ill be people that boo him. And I think there'ill be people that cheer him. But I would be hard-pressed to think he is not going to hear boos when he steps on the home field again in two weeks.  Chip Scoggins is a sports columnist with The Minneapolis Star Tribune. Chip thanks so much.  Yeah thanks for having me. I appreciate it. 