 Now a few hours after the last cyclist crossed the finish line at the Tour de France a race with a little more horsepower got cranking on this side of the Atlantic.   It seems plummeting attendance sliding TV ratings and a sponsorship crunch have NASCAR worried. The circuit is president Brian France said as much before the race. He promised impactful changes in next season's schedule and hinted that NASCAR may retune the way it crowns a champion.  The Magazine. He says NASCAR's economic problems are not unique.  When they look in the grandstands and they see empty seats at racetracks that quite frankly always sold out and that includes Daytona then I think a lot of people will suddenly - I do not want to say panic but certainly some concerns at it.  And I have read that some of it could be in reaction to various rule changes that NASCAR has made.  There has been a lot of rule changes you know primarily with the cars themselves. You know about five years ago NASCAR introduced what they called then the car of tomorrow. Now they just call it the COT. We joke now it is the car of today.   And I think a lot of NASCAR fans kind of missed the innovation. They kind of missed the pushing the rules and for lack of a better word the cheating you know that went on. It was this kind of cat-and-mouse game between the mechanics the crew chiefs the teams and then the people from NASCAR that policed the cars technically. So I think...  Right because half the fun is seeing souped-up hot cars...  Yeah absolutely.  ...doing things your car cannot do.  And I think that the fans miss that. And honestly the NASCAR officials and the crew chiefs themselves miss that a lot more than I think that the league officials probably speculated or realized.  Are not there also a lot of differences between the way I guess what you would call stick-and-ball - football baseball - type sports make money and the way that NASCAR team owners and drivers do that affect the sport as well?  But these days that is a lot of jobs that you potentially could have kept in the building. And so it is hard to justify spending that kind of money to sponsor race teams. And as a result the teams have got pretty creative as far as tracking down sponsorship dollars.  So is the sport really in trouble or is this just a speed bump?  So I think we are going to have a little bit of a drought for a little while but I think we will all survive. The sport will be fine. It is just - Richard Childress the great NASCAR team owner always tells me this is just an adjustment that we probably needed to make anyway. It is just been forced on us.  Thanks Ryan.  Thank you. 