 As the Olympics have shown participation in sports at such a high level can teach discipline perseverance and teamwork. But can the Olympics teach U.S. athletes to think in meters and kilos instead of feet and pounds? NPR's Mike Pesca surveyed some Olympians to find out.  U.S. Greco-Roman wrestler Ben Provisor and hurdler T'Erea Brown perform different disciplines. But it seems like they have the same major. I am going to take this as a learning experience for the next four years said Provisor. It was still a great learning experience said Brown. But what were they learning? Hard work? Sure. Sportsmanship? Maybe. The metric system? Certainly not. U.S. judo competitor Kyle Vashkulat competes at 100 kilos which he knows means he weighs 220 pounds. But height?  I know we were in a sauna and the guy was telling us like the height of the boxers. And he was like yeah this guy is like 1.7 meters. And we were like how tall is that?   Nick Delpopolo a judoka who wrestles at 73 kilos which of course means 161 pounds also has distance deficiencies. Yeah like if someone says something's 10 kilometers away that means it is how far?  That is about a little over three miles. I know that.  Off by about 100. Now it is true that Delpopolo was bounced from these games for ingestion of marijuana but that surely did not affect his math skills. But if you want the testimony of a straight shooter literally take Jason Parker Sergeant U.S. Army shooter U.S. Olympic team dependent U.S. system of weights and measures. Because you shoot at distances measured in the metrics are you good with the rest of the metric system? Like do you know kilograms?  No not really.  Do you know like there is a 50K marathon. Do you know how long that is?  No I do not.  So the distance athletes do not know metric weights the weight athletes do not know metric meters and degrees in Celsius seems to be the universal baffler. Perhaps U.S. gold medalist Dan O'Brien veteran of the decathlon is metrically proficient. I was asking him about the scoring system in the decathlon and guess what came up? Speaking of metrics are you good with the weights? Like if I said 78 kilos would you know how much that is? DAN O' No not at all. I just kind of roughly think you know two-thirds of that added on. You do not double it but no I am in the weight room at the gym you know? I pick up the 36 kilos and start doing some benches and stuff and I - no. It is frustrating.  There is perhaps one reason this matters. Track and field is relative unpopular in the U.S. maybe because its feats are measured in a way that is meaningless to most Americans. Would not it be more impressive to say that the gold medal hammer throw went 87 yards? Then we could picture Eli Manning standing on the 13-yard line and tossing a 16-pound steel ball clear to the end zone. And while Monday night hammer throw will not soon be coming to ESPN it could help the sport heat up a bit  if not reach a full boil which is what like 600 degrees Celsius? Mike Pesca NPR News London.   And you are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 