 Beginning this weekend Lexington Kentucky plays host to one the premiere horse events the World Equestrian Games. The 16-day competition is a first for the state and for the country. And as Brenna Angel of member station WUKY reports Kentucky's embrace of this non-racing event signals a dramatic shift for the self-described Horse Capital of the World.  Forty-five 50 - that is all right. Forty-five 50 - we will get you in there. Forty-five 50 so that is how high it could be...  The largest thoroughbred yearling auction in the world is under way in Lexington Kentucky this week. At the Keeneland Sales Pavilion next to Keeneland's mile-and-a-16th race course horse owners and trainers come from across the globe. They are looking for a future Kentucky Derby winner.    fast thoroughbreds and mint juleps in May. But the thoroughbred industry is struggling in the commonwealth competing with neighboring states that allow casino gambling. Keeneland's president Nick Nicholson. Mr.  We see other states doing it. We see other states supplementing their horse industries and it puts us at a competitive disadvantage.  The safer bet in Kentucky is on equestrianism. Horses in this state generate 3.5 billion a year 45 percent of which comes from racing. That is according to the American Horse Council. They lobby in Washington on behalf of the horse industry. The rest of that amount comes from Kentucky' recreation and horse competitions. Competitions like the one beginning this weekend at the Kentucky Horse Park. The 1200-acre state-owned facility is hosting this year's Alltech FEI World Equestrian Games. It is the World Cup of horse sport naming champions in dressage jumping endurance and five other disciplines. The championships are usually held in Europe. But for the first time riders from 58 countries will be coming to the United States for the games. John Nicholson is executive director of the Kentucky Horse Park. He is also Nick Nicholson's brother. Mr.  This is not a case where we picked up the mail one day and the FEI sent us word that we had been selected. This was not something that even goes back four or five years it goes back 10 or 12 years. Ms.  Good Morina. Elbows to the side. Do not be too stiff. Make sure you move a little bit.  Just north of Lexington in Georgetown Kentucky Reese Koffler-Stanfield operates a dressage training center at her recently established Maplecrest Farm. Dressage is a sport most easily described as horse ballet. Riders wear the sophisticated attire of white britches a dark colored coat and a top hat. Koffler-Stanfield is coaching an Argentinean athlete competing at the World Games and her new farm is in a prime location near the horse park. Ms.  You know we will always have wonderful big racing stables and tracks and training centers. But one of the things that we are seeing is a lot more smaller farms - 20 acres 30 acres 10 acres - of people that are just coming for the sport horse industry and there are a lot of farms now around the horse park.  Back at Keeneland Lexington's thoroughbred race hub President Nick Nicholson is encouraged by thoroughbred sales figures that are up from last year but he wonders if the boon from the World Equestrian Games will translate into a long-term benefit for racing. Even so Nicholson says they all need each other if Kentucky's horse industry is to survive. For NPR News I am Brenna Angel in Lexington Kentucky. 