 This week the city of Greensboro N.C. celebrated the retirement of a barking baseball legend. Ms. Babe Ruth is a black Labrador retriever. She fetched bats and delivered baseballs for the minor league Greensboro Grasshoppers. She worked 649 consecutive home games - a streak that came to an end last night. Sean Bueter of member station WFDD was there.   Here comes our very own Ms. Babe Ruth bringing fresh baseballs to the umpire. Today is Ms. Babe Ruth's last game ever.  Greensboro baseball fans saw a beautiful dog trot onto the field carrying a metal bucket with Babe hand-painted on the side. She is made this delivery at least a thousand times before but last night was different. For Ms. Babe Ruth it is retirement day and many fans did not want to see her go.  That makes me so sad. She is been a staple here at the park since I can remember.  Exactly yeah. It is definitely something unique that is to the Grasshoppers and something that I think will bring you know - or has brought a lot of joy to a lot of people coming to the games.  Most games they sit up there and we can pet them. And I am going to miss petting Babe Ruth.  That is London Kern Felix Hernandez and MacKenzie Grant. For nine seasons Babe played the role of bat dog and she never missed a home game. She had two jobs - deliver new balls to the umpires and wait patiently by the dugout for a Greensboro hit so she could cheer...   ...And then fetch the bat or the stick the batter left behind. Babe's dedication has made her a star in Greensboro. On Sunday the team threw her a red-carpet retirement party. The mayor gave her a key to the city and the National Baseball Hall of Fame is adding her signature bucket to its museum collection. Grasshopper player Mason Davis says his teammates love her too.  Every time I go on deck to hit I will you know - I give her a little pat on the back for good luck.  Does it work?  Yeah it works sometimes.  Last night Babe was good luck for the Hoppers. They won their final home matchup of the season. After the game Babe's owner team president Donald Moore walked her out onto the field. He says he is proud of her and at nearly 10 years old she is earned her retirement even though she looks ready for another year.  I think if she knows she is done she is probably mad but we will see. I am sure she is happy. She loves this. She always has and - yeah she loves it.  Her replacements were there to see her off - Yogi Berra and Ms. Lou Lou Gehrig. Babe could not end her career though without enjoying a final home game tradition. Moore let her go off her leash and after a moment's hesitation she dashed off around the bases one last time. For NPR News I am Sean Bueter in Greensboro N.C. 