 We are back with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Guy Raz. NASCAR has spent years trying to break free from its hillbilly caricature. Despite some rough patches because of the current recession NASCAR still reigns as the second most popular TV sport after football. Now though comes a drug scandal involving one of NASCAR's drivers Jeremy Mayfield. He recently tested positive for methamphetamine his second positive test and that is only the beginning. Here with the rest of the tale is Ryan McGee. He broke the story of Mayfield's first positive drug test this past spring for ESPN The Magazine. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you.  Mr. McGee first off give us a little background on Jeremy Mayfield. Who is he? Mr.  Jeremy he is your classic NASCAR success story. He grew up in Owensboro Kentucky which has always produced great NASCAR talent. And Jeremy was the last person to come out of Owensboro came to Charlotte landed a ride with NASCAR legend Cale Yarborough and has won five Sprint Cup Series races and a very likeable guy. And that is why quite honestly this last chapter of his career has been such a shocker.  Well what happened to him this past spring? Mr.  Jeremy turned 40 just recently which in NASCAR is kind of the golden number. Once you hit 40 it seems like your history says that is the backside of career as opposed to the ascent. Coming into the 2009 season he was not able to secure a ride with the full-time Sprint Cup Series team so he started his own. It was this great kind of story that the fans clung to which was the man that just said you know what I am going to do it myself. He had a lot of volunteers working on the team building his own racecars. It was kind of throwback story. And then he tested positive failed his drug test the first weekend of May. The following weekend NASCAR announced the suspension. No one knew what he had tested positive for and then eventually we learned that it was methamphetamines.  And he recently tested positive for this again. He is denying this. But at the same time his stepmother has come out saying that she has seen him use methamphetamine on at least 30 occasions. Mr.  That is where this entire story has taken a Jerry Springer turn and it just has happened in the past week. Certainly he was being tried in the court of public opinion. There was a huge line the dividing line in the grandstand at the racetrack. Some thought he was guilty some thought he was not. Same can be said for the garage where the people that work within the sport some jumped to Jeremy's defense but the vast majority behind closed doors they would say they thought he was guilty or they just did not want him on the racetrack. You know NASCAR is like the circus. It is the only sport where everybody packs up and goes to the next town and it' team owners sponsors NASCAR officials media members crew members you know other drivers crew chiefs. It is really a very small very tight-knit community and everyone knows what everyone else is doing. And you know there are rumors and there is truth. And you know it really is just like being back in high school.  So is Mayfield's career over? I mean does he have any future in stockcar racing? Mr.  No he does not at all. And he himself has started to admit that you know this week.  Mr. McGee I understand you used to work for NASCAR. How big of a deal is the Mayfield case for NASCAR sport that has really been trying to work on its reputation as a kind of a suburban lifestyle sport? Mr.  Yeah. And when I worked for the league it was a very deliberate -it was not malicious but it was a very deliberate plan which was bringing in new fans. It was not necessarily cutting ties with the old fans. But it was bringing in you know housewives. And it was bringing in white-collar businessmen. And it was bringing in people from the West Coast and people from the Northeast that do not necessarily come from a car culture. Part of that was trying to put some distance between itself and the old school you know Southeastern you know fair or unfair redneck image of the sport. And that is why this hurts so much because you certainly could not come up with more of a redneck situation quite honestly than a driver from Kentucky testing positive for methamphetamines and doing it twice and now dragging the whole stepmom and some of the things that he said in public. So you know whether he is guilty or innocent at this point the league is scrambling a little bit to make sure that you know the perception is not that it is like this with everybody in the garage because quite honestly it is not.  That is Ryan McGee of ESPN The Magazine. Mr. McGee thanks for joining us. Mr.  Thank you. 