 Spoiler alert soccer fans. In that first match of the World Cup right now Brazil and Croatia are tied with one goal apiece and about 27 minutes to go in the second half. NPR's Tom Goldman is there in Sao Paulo covering the match he joined us from the stadium before the game as the crowd poured in.  You have got tons of yellow and green t-shirted Brazilian fans. You have also got the color clash of red and white checked Croatian fans and they are playing the first game of the World Cup.  And what have the expectations been for this matchup Tom?  Huge expectations for Brazil. Brazil has won a record five world cups. They think now that it is on their soil that they are one of the top teams in the world. They are ranked number three in the world. I think the attitude is let us get this party started. These billions of dollars that were spent - let us see if they were spent you know - we have spent them now let us get going with the party - and so great expectations for this thing - great expectations that it is a success - great expectations for one player in particular - 22-year-old Neymar this dazzling forward winger for the Brazilian team who people are saying has the potential to be another Pele. So there is tremendous pressure on this young man to perform even though his manager has built a very strong team around him so he does not have to do it all. He definitely will feel the pressure to have a transcendent World Cup.  Brazil is going up against Croatia. Croatia is way down in the FIFA rankings and they have the task of going up in the opening game against the home team - against Brazil.  Yeah - a rotten draw for sure. Plus they have got one of their best players out because he got a red card during qualifying and he is serving his punishment today. They do have a talented team and they have got a good defense but I do not think anyone gives them a chance of certainly beating Brazil. They do give them a chance at perhaps being the second team from the group to get through. The top two teams in each of the eight groups advance to the knockout stage.  Tom is there any sign of the anger and the protests that have been bubbling up on the streets of Sao Paulo - any of that filtering inside the stadium?  So far I have not seen any and you have got this thing guarded like Fort Knox to the nth degree. Police and security are everywhere. Everyone here is in a festive mood. I walked with a throng of people - most of them yellow and green-clad Brazilian fans. And everyone seemed to be in a happy mood and you really do not have a sense of that. And of course this is what Brazilian authorities want. This is what FIFA wants - is to forget all that ugly stuff that is happening outside the stadium and focus on what is happening inside the stadium. I like to call this World Cup the inside-outside World Cup.  And Tom talk just a bit about some of the other teams that you are going to be watching especially carefully over the next few weeks.  Well we have what we call our usual suspects. You know you have got defending champions Spain. They are ranked number one in the world - very strong. They have got a chance to win. Of course Argentina with the transcendent Lionel Messi the man many consider the best the world. Argentina is given a very good chance. You have got Germany a perennial power and a - definitely a contender. You have got Portugal with the other great star-to-be people are expecting Cristiano Ronaldo. Unfortunately the U.S. has both Germany and Portugal in its group - so a very tough road for the United States.  And we have talked about - on the program Tom - that the coach of the U.S. men's national team Jurgen Klinsmann has come right out and said it is not realistic for the U.S. to win a World Cup. They are just not ready. They are not at that level. But I bet you have tons of U.S. fans there in Brazil who would love to see Klinsmann proved wrong.  Oh absolutely. I will say that Landon Donovan the man Jurgen Klinsmann left off this team to travel to Brazil - in his debut with ESPN Landon Donovan said Jurgen Klinsmann is wrong and the Americans do have a shot. It is the American way to think with that kind of optimism.  We should explain ESPN hired Landon Donovan to come - as a commentator during the World Cup.  Yes.  Tom thanks so much. Have a great time.  Thanks Melissa.  That is NPR's Tom Goldman at the stadium in Sao Paulo Brazil where right now in the second half Brazil is tied with Croatia one to one in the opening match of the World Cup.  This is NPR News. 