 On to some groundbreaking news today from the National Football League. The NFL has announced a settlement with former players on concussions. Forty-five hundred players sued the league over concussion-related injuries and today the league agreed to settle for some 765 million this with just a week to go before the football season starts. NPR's Tom Goldman is with us and Tom let us start by breaking down the deal. How does this proposed settlement work?  Well Robert the NFL and NFL Properties will make payments including breaking down that 765 figure you mentioned 675 million for compensating former players who have quote suffered cognitive injury or paying their families. There will be a cap of 75 million for baseline medical exams for former players without symptoms or just starting to show symptoms and 10 million for concussion education and research. Those are you know some of the key parts.  And when it comes to the players who gets what and when?  Well any player who has retired through the date that the judge in this case U.S. District Judge Anita Brody preliminarily approves the settlement is included. Brody is expected to give approval within 30 to 60 days from now. If you are currently playing and you are not retired you are not included in the settlement. There were as you mentioned about 4500 players former players who would filed suit. The plaintiffs' attorney said today the number of qualified veterans could be around 18000. Now as far as the money they are awarded it is on a sliding scale based on the severity of their condition. Any player who develops a serious neurological problem - Parkinson's Alzheimer's dementia - will receive a substantial benefit in some cases as high as 5 million. Families of those players who have committed suicide after suffering from chronic traumatic encephalopathy CTE will be eligible for compensation as well. Again that could be a seven-figure payout. Now Robert if the settlement receives final approval as is expected and any appeals have been concluded the NFL will pay approximately 50 percent of the settlement amount over three years the next three years and the balance over the next 17 years.  You say approval is expected. What kind of response has there been from the NFL and from the players?  Not much from the NFL. They said because there has not been final approval they are not really going to say much. The players' attorney a man named Christopher Seeger held a conference call today. He was very positive about the settlement which he said really did not come together until early this morning about 2 a.m. He called it an extraordinary agreement that'ill provide immediate care and support for former players and families. Now the settlement means the NFL does not have to turn over files that the plaintiffs alleged would show years of covering up serious health consequences of concussion. Seeger was asked about the NFL not having to reveal that. He said some - certainly many in the media - would be upset about it. But he says he had one goal and he achieved it so he is not bothered. He wanted to get enough money for substantial payouts and not waiting 10 maybe 20 years or never if litigation had continued. And the NFL is expert at dragging out lawsuits.  Now the NFL season begins next week. And this deal is widely seen as a victory for the league. Why? Why is it such a big deal?  Well look at the money 765 million. That is a lot of money. But it is a 9 billion you know revenue league. It gets this albatross of a huge lawsuit a possible doomsday scenario if the NFL lost the litigation. It gets this off the NFL's neck as the season starts. And remember Frontline is airing this controversial documentary in October that is being promoted as a comprehensive look at the NFL concussion problems. And there is a companion book both are titled League of Denial. That is still going to happen and the concussion issue is still very real. But you cannot help but think the impact certainly of the documentary will be lessened by this settlement.  OK. Thank you Tom.  You are welcome.  That is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 