 The boss is back. That is the word from the Tour de France where Lance Armstrong is racing again after four years in retirement. And today a dramatic finish to the fourth stage of the race a team time trial. Lance Armstrong and his Astana team needed to make up 40 seconds for him to take the lead and the yellow jersey. Here's how commentator Phil Liggett called the end of the race.  Mr.  Even Armstrong  his team as they drive up now 46.29. They have got to do it. They need to kick very very hard here and they have done it by a matter of - oh my goodness me.  Oh my goodness me. It took a while to calculate but when they did Armstrong had missed taking the lead by just eighteen-one-hundredths of a second. John Wilcockson of Velo News is covering the tour as he has for 40 years now. He is also the author of a new biography of Lance Armstrong written with the cyclist's cooperation. John Wilcockson welcome to the program. Mr.  Nice to be here Melissa. Thank you.  It does not get much closer than that finish today. Mr.  It certainly cannot. You know that is like one meter. So - yeah it does not get as close as that ever.  Well why do not you explain how the team time trial works? They are racing in a group against the clock right? Mr.  Exactly and the actual time of the team counts towards the individual classification and that is why it is so important. Today there was nine men on each team starting in the center of Montpelier and they had a course of roughly 25 miles to race around and they have to work as a team. And two of Lance's team actually got dropped behind on one of the climbs and the other seven had to go on but they raced so well that they won by 40 seconds over the team of Fabian Cancellara who had the lead this morning and still has the lead.  Well let us talk about how Lance Armstrong is doing. He is 37 years old now coming out of retirement. He is won the tour seven times. He is racing against guys who are a whole lot younger. One of his teammates is 11 years younger than he is. Mr.  That is correct. And when he announced his comeback to the sport almost a year ago now he said he thought it might be quite easy to get back into it. Six months ago he said that mm yes this might be much more difficult than I thought it would be. And today he is sort of in between those two things. He is optimistic but he realizes he is got a very very difficult task if he wants to win the Tour de France. And the super favorite for the race is his teammate Alberto Contador who won the tour two years ago.  What is the dynamic between the two of them - between Alberto Contador and Lance Armstrong? Mr.  Well the Spanish media who know Alberto very well they say that Alberto is holding back. He is not really saying what he really feels because he does want to win the race and Lance also wants to win the race. But publicly he says that Alberto is the leader and it is an incredible dynamic and it will all come to a head this coming Friday when we get to the mountains.  And typically Lance Armstrong would be expected to do really well. He is always done well in the mountains. Mr.  He always has done but this is four years after he last did the Tour de France so it is going to be very difficult for him. There is never been a Tour de France rider as old as this. Thirty-six was the oldest man to win the race before and that was like 80 years ago and Contador is renowned as a climber. So the stage on Friday is going to be something that everybody will want to watch I am sure.  Well John enjoy the rest of the tour. Mr.  Thanks so much Melissa.  Reporter John Wilcockson speaking with us from Montpelier where he is covering the Tour de France for Velo News.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 