 We turn now to sports. First Naomi Osaka said no to the press then the No. 2 women's tennis player left the French Open altogether. And in recent days we have talked a lot about Osaka's mental health after she revealed that she is dealing with depression. Right now we are going to look at the relationship between athletes and the sports media. Joining us is Meadowlark Media's Howard Bryant. You also hear him sometimes on Weekend Edition. Welcome back.  Hello. How are you?  So you write that since the '20s the press has been instrumental in growing pro sports and that talking and publicizing those conversations with athletes was a part of that. Can you talk about what that looked like?  Well I think what it is been is that the real question that is been taking place right now is the traditions of sport. Are - have we reached a point where the athletes do not need to be forced essentially at some level to communicate? It is - the obligation here is with - is between the athlete and the tournament. I mean the media is obviously a very big part of this but where this became a controversy was in the obligation. In other sports players are not obligated to talk to media. But in tennis this is part of their obligation. So what Naomi Osaka was doing is...  But you have also made a delineation - sorry to interrupt. You have also made the delineation between - that you have a generation of athletes who also are positioned as entertainers in the style of movie stars...  Yes.  ...Who also do not want to do daily press anymore.  Well exactly. And that is what I am saying - is that you have a cultural generational difference here. The athletes for the last 25 years are like well wait a minute. People get upset that I make 20 million but they do not get mad that Prince made that much money or that Beyonce makes that kind of money. And now they are also saying well when Neil Young does a concert or when Jay-Z does a concert they do not have to do media but we have to do media. So what you are seeing here is a shift - a cultural shift and a cultural challenge of the traditions of media. And what the tournaments are saying is you have a professional obligation to speak to the press. And that was at the root of this challenge. And then obviously what Naomi Osaka was saying at first I think was dealt because she did it very publicly and also because this generation really does speak to the public directly because she posted on Instagram. And once it went public without sort of the behind-the-scenes conversation then the federations came down on her en masse. It was not just the French Open. It was Wimbledon. It was the U.S. Open and it was the Australian Open all together looking like - essentially ganging up on a 23-year-old.  In part is this because of some of the history you have talked about? If the relationship was between professional leagues who needed the advertising and the media which stepped up to do that in a way the athletes were not exactly let in on that deal right?  No not at all.  I mean now it seems like they are using their muscle.  Absolutely.  And is it a surprise that both media and the leagues are the ones that are most upset?  Well no it is not a surprise. I mean the leagues absolutely are trying to promote their tournament. And their attitude is - is that without this promotion which is essentially free advertising then the 3.3 million that you make for winning the championship would not be nearly as large that you do have a responsibility as part of that. So to me it always comes back to labor. This is a labor issue. This is a workplace condition issue. And then when Osaka - when she withdrew now they have sort of pulled back a little bit and said well maybe we do need to look at the conditions as well. So this is going to be an ongoing conversation about a massive cultural shift during a very very explosive time in our history.  That is Howard Bryant contributor to ESPN. Thanks so much for digging in with us.  Thank you.  