 Rory McIlroy two-putted on the 18th green of Valhalla Golf Club yesterday to win the PGA Championship the last of golf's four major annual tournaments. McIlroy also won the third - last month's British Open. The 25-year-old from Northern Ireland grabbed his victory Sunday in the dim light after sunset following a rain delay. But metaphorically the win confirmed a new dawn. A young superstar now dominates the game the way Tiger Woods once did. Tom Watson knows what it is like to tower over the game of golf. In the 1970s and '80s he won the British Open five times the Masters twice the U.S. Open once. He played in this year's PGA invited because he is the captain of the U.S. Ryder Cup team. This was his 33rd PGA Championship and he joins us now from Louisville. Hi. Welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert.  Pretty exciting PGA yesterday would not you say?  It was a very exciting PGA with everything happening with the weather delay with Phil Mickelson making a great run throughout the last day and then Rory McIlroy doing what he did - what he is been doing for the last month. He is just had a tremendous last month winning the last three tournaments he is played in - the Open Championship the Bridgestone at Firestone Country Club and now the PGA Championship for a second PGA Championship here at Valhalla.  Yeah. I should note here - I do not mean to rub it in but of the four major golf championships the PGA's the...  Do not rub it in Robert.  It is the one you never won.  .  Is there anything so different about these tournaments - one from the other - setting aside the British Open which looks like a different game altogether. Is there anything so different about them that you have worse luck in the PGA than elsewhere?  Well not really. I think it is just kind of the luck of the draw. I played well in PGA Championships. I had a lot of good rounds but I never put the four rounds together to win. It is just one of those that got away from me.  Thinking back to say 1973 - your first PGA - how different is the men's professional golf game today than it was then?  Back in 1973 you did not have the corporate hospitality the big grandstands. You just did not have the infrastructure that they have now. It is just amazing. With all the media involved now it is so much bigger in the outside part of the championship. But actually playing the championship it is very much the same for the players.  Let us talk about Tiger Woods. On Friday - day two of the PGA - the cable station covering the championship actually cut to the parking lot to catch Tiger Woods arriving and watch his caddy unload his clubs from the SUV. That is to say watching Tiger Woods in the parking lot watching Tiger Woods on the practice tee competes actually with watching other guys golf at that very moment. Is it healthy for a sport to have its fortune so connected to the fortunes of one great player?  Well it is if that player continues at a high-level. And unfortunately Tiger has not continued at that high level. His form right now and more importantly his health is not good.  When Woods broke in - it is 20 years ago now really - there was some hope that he would be followed by other African-American golfers others members of minority groups in the States. Twenty years later when Woods is not out there the tour is as white as ever. What happened? What did not happen to make the sport more diverse?  Well that is a good question. I really do not know. Three things that make the game tough are the expense of it which you know puts a lot of people out the difficulty in learning the game - the third thing is how much time it takes. And that - that is the big problem especially in our society today when it is so based on social media - time that is taken away from just about everything else. Do they have enough time to spend playing the game of golf? That is the biggest issue that I think that we have in the game.  Health and form obviously are very important to a golfer but I wonder which you think is more true. What separates say Rory McIlroy Tiger Woods at his best Jack Nicklaus you at the top your game? Is it health strength mechanics swing? Is it mental control over your game?  Well I think the most important thing about being a champion is the stick-to-itiveness if I have to use an awkward word. You never give up on any shot and I think that is what Rory brings to the table all the great champions bring to the table. They understand that they are not going to hit the best shots all the time but they manage the golf course with their game better than the other players and put themselves in a position to win and then take advantage of what they can do to win.  At Valhalla you shot a 72 and a 73 on Thursday and Friday. That is a couple of strokes too many for you to advance into the third round on Saturday but scores that a lot of mortals would only dream of scoring at Valhalla. Are there anymore PGA Championships in your future do you think?  Probably not Robert. I am always disappointed when I miss a cut. I missed the cut by two shots and I had the opportunity to make the cut. And I failed and when you fail it is always disappointing.  You failed but you are more than twice as old as the guy who won the tournament. You...  I do not think I am that old. That is the problem.   I mean I was curious what you were - what you were thinking on those first couple of days. It is important - it would have been important to make it into the weekend for you.  Well I thought exactly the way I always have thought. How best can I shoot the scores that I need to win a golf tournament or to make the cut? I still think I am a little bit younger than my body actually is still and that still gives me the desire to play.  I need no convincing on this score but for people who are mystified by what is so great about playing golf what do you love about this game? What keeps you at it so long?  You know the beautiful thing about golf is that you take a golf ball which is 1.68 inches in diameter. And you hit it with a club which is ill-designed to project a golf ball. And you can make that golf ball go 200 yards and end up six inches from the flag stick.  You can do that anyway.  Well you can too.  That is once in a while once in a while once in a while.  One of the things - you see - you see that is the thing. I play with a lot of amateurs and honestly amateurs can hit better shots than I can. And that is what keeps them coming back. They hit that one shot that they just - you know that is what they are trying to do. And they hit that one shot and then say I can do it. And so they come back the next day and say I am going to try to hit that same shot. They may top it or shake it or whiff it but you know at least they have that belief that they can do it again.  That is true. It is remarkable how a few good shots in a round can make you think that you should come back and do this again.   I know. I see it every day in Pro-Ams.  Well Tom Watson thanks a lot for talking with us and good luck at the Ryder Cup.  Well Robert I appreciate it. I appreciate your support too.  Well Tom Watson spoke to us from Valhalla Golf Club in Louisville Kentucky. 