 Biles' decision to withdraw from this week's Olympic competition shocked fans worldwide. She acknowledged that her emotional state was shaky and that being the star of the Olympics was no easy thing. Biles became the most recent athlete to train the spotlight on the mental health of competitors.  In sports we usually focus on what is happening on the gym floor the field or the court - what athletes are doing. Today we are launching a series that focuses on what athletes are thinking during and after clutch moments in their performance. We are calling the series Almost a Dub conversations with athletes about moments of victory defeat and perseverance that went on to shape their lives.  That moment for Darius Washington Jr. came 16 years ago. He was in college and one of the top five freshman basketball players in the country.   Darius Washington Jr. - he is got 10 points.  It was the championship game that would get his team the University of Memphis Tigers to the NCAA tournament - the so-called Big Dance. The Tigers were trailing 75-73.   Two-point game Washington.  He got hit.  Foul on Garcia.  He got hit.  In the last second of the game Washington is fouled and steps up to the line to take his free throws. Washington's dad Darius Washington Sr. who was a good basketball player himself had groomed his son for this moment.  I grasped the concept of - it is all about winning. And that is what I instilled in him. Nobody remembers second place. No one.  There was not a day that did not go by that we did not do something with the basketball. You know we were in the gym you know from sunup to sundown pretty much. And we just pounded it pounded it pound it until it became second nature.  We were at a tournament and they came in second place.  Oh yeah.  So - and on the way home he had the trophy. Remember this? He had the trophy in the car.  Yeah I was happy yeah.  So he was happy about that second-place trophy.  I am happy. Oh yeah.  And I was like you can get in the car but that second-place trophy as not getting in this car.  ...As not getting in this car.  So...   So he held it out the window while I was driving. Now he is in the car the trophy is out the car. And when I tell you I was trying to hit all the bumps and everything you know for he can drop that trophy because we was not going back to get it - from that point he knew that second place was just something that we just was not going to tolerate.  Man . Second place was not something we were going to tolerate - the dad lesson that was drilled into Darius Jr.'s head. And that lesson was on his mind as he stepped up to the line to make those free throws on March 12 2005.   If he hits three in a row Memphis goes to the NCAA championship.  I was nervous on the first free throw. But you see that one went in.   Two to go.  Boy does that take the pressure off right now.  The toughest one was the first one for sure. When that one went in like you could not tell me I would not make the next two. And when I missed the second one...   Vern  I would be hard pressed to tell you right now that if you - you will see a more pressurized situation this year in this tournament as we are watching right here.  I was like all right all right I am definitely going to knock this one down.   Tournament's on the line.  It fell short.   Louisville wins.   Somebody's got to go help that kid out.  When the third ball bounces off the rim Darius Jr. sinks to his knees pulls his jersey over his head and just lays down.   We were actually behind him. So when he went down and I seen it I knew from that point - and I had told my wife. I was like I got to get down there 'ecause they as not going to get him off that court. So I tried to get down. Security's trying to stop me. Then somebody was like that is his dad. The coaches was out there. I mean they were trying to get him up but he was not going nowhere 'ecause I know my son. So I get out there and bend down. And I was like listen we are going to walk out of here. We are going to walk out with our heads high and we will discuss all this in the locker room. So we went in the locker room. Basically you know he let it all out then you know? He was frustrated. He was throwing stuff. And you know I was allowing him to do - you know just get it all out you know? And he was like this not supposed to happen to me - dah dah dah dah dah . And I was like well we in this together 'ecause my name is Darius Washington too.   So I got to walk this path too for the rest of our lives. We cannot rewind it back. We cannot do anything. We are going to hold our heads up high and we are going to make it work. So you know at this point we just got to get out of here get back to - you know to the hotel and we will talk about it some more. For the first hour you know we was talking - me him my mom. His grandma was there. Everybody was there. So we were talking about it. Then he went and laid down. So I was sitting looking at SportsCenter. They were showing it. I am looking - every channel I turn I am like damn. So then I started to think. I am like now how can I - 'ecause this is definitely not a good moment in the Washington household. So how do I you know get this going so he can understand it is not the end of the world? He woke up and we discussed a little bit more about it. I showed him where he went wrong then. I showed him hey this is where you lost focus. When you hit that first one you looked over to the bench. You are doing your little thing pointing. And he saw that and he accepted it. So about 5 oclock I told him to get dressed. And he was like where we going? 'ecause I had already thought about this before. And there is no need to run and hide because it is going to come and get you anyway. So I was like come on man we are going down on Beale Street. And he was like we are going to Beale Street?   I was like yo...   I do not want to go to Beale Street. I said no we are going to Beale Street. So actually that was the best move that could have ever happened because when we got down here I mean people were just like mobbing. They was like coming from all over just mobbing just you know giving him you know five and telling him it is all right you know we love you you know? For you to do what you did to bring them back to show the passion to lay out on that court that showed that you left it all out there. And so from that point it was real good you know?   I think if that would happen in today's era you would have to get off social media because they going to kill you for sure. Like you know with me following and - you know all these graphics  - all these graphics and stuff they have it is ridiculous. You know what I am saying? So I think for the first week you would have to definitely get off social media and let it calm down. You have to get your mental together. You got to get your mental together. Get off social media. But you got to deal with it on your terms.  Darius Washington Jr. had a short stint in the NBA with the San Antonio Spurs. He continues to play professionally overseas.  