 After 13 years as a New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez will play his last game in pinstripes tonight. Reporter Jim O'Grady of member station WNYC recounts the ups and downs of the slugger's career which has been nothing less than operatic.  JIM O' Not just operatic - this guy is Wagnerian.  O' You could say the career of Alex Rodriguez begins on a mountaintop like the high peak in Ride Of The Valkyries.  O' In 1993 he is the number one pick in the Major League Baseball draft. A year later at age 18 he is in the big leagues. He will be the youngest player ever to hit 500 home runs - younger than Babe Ruth younger than Hank Aaron.   She is gone. Another A-bomb from A-Rod. O' In 2000 A-Rod leaves the Seattle Mariners to sign with the Texas Rangers for 252 million. It is the richest contract in baseball history.   . O' Those are Rhinemaidens singing about gold - so much gold. Now it is 2008 and A-Rod is with the Yankees in tabloid town.    Do not go for second-best baby. O' And speaking of maidens he is linked to Madonna and reveling in his status as an A-list celebrity. He rules baseball as the five-time homerun king and three-time most valuable player. In Wagnerian terms he has achieved the ring of power. But this is opera so the ring is cursed. A-Rod's wife files for divorce though the seeds of his destruction have begun germinating the year before when he took questions from Katie Couric for 60 Minutes.   Have you ever used steroids human growth hormone or any other performance-enhancing substance?  No.  O' Wrong answer Alex. Not only had he done steroids he had tested positive for them years before. Major League Baseball tested its players confidentially to find out how many were using drugs to cheat. When that long list of names was leaked A-Rod caught most of the flak.   In an exclusive interview with ESPN Alex Rodriguez answers allegations he tested positive for steroids.  I was young. I was stupid. I was naive. O' But at the time there is no rule against steroids so he is free to help vanquish the Phillies and win the World Series in 2009.   The Yankees win. O' Now the protagonist has an actual ring but his flaws remain. A-Rod is caught doping again. This time baseball uses a new rule to slap him with a record suspension. He unleashes an army of lawyers to contest it but loses in arbitration and must sit out the following season. Today he leaves with a whimper a shadow of his former self his bat a broken sword. Alex Rodriguez is one of the greatest players in the history of baseball but he is fallen from the mountaintop and knows it.   I am upset about the mistake and disappointed but I am even more disappointed that I acted like an ass. That whole process was painful. O' At least A-Rod at 41 is no longer using youth as an excuse. And maybe that counts as a glimmer of wisdom. For NPR News I am Jim O'Grady in New York. 