 If you have been watching the Olympics in Rio then you have been watching the U.S. gold medal totals climbing every day and you probably also heard the triumphant sounds of The Star-Spangled Banner while the athletes stand at the podium.   But have you really been listening?   Well Jason DeBord has been listening very closely. He teaches musical theater at the University of Michigan and says he is been noticing something off about the Olympic anthem for years.  I think it was during the London Games in 2012 when I first heard this version of The Star-Spangled Banner and I went well that is a very different take.  Then last week at a medal ceremony in Rio he heard it again.  It is so hollow. Oh it is not triumphant. And it was driving me nuts and I finally just muted the TV which makes you sad. You want to be thrilled when you hear you know your national anthem and the athletes from your country winning a gold medal.  DeBord says the national anthem usually has a boisterous and energetic feel.   But this rendition of it almost has a - I do not want to use the word sad because that is so general. It has an ambivalent feel to it.  He says the basic melody is the same but the music underneath has changed.  I can give you a very realistic simulation here at the piano. It is not exactly what you hear on the Olympics obviously. But let me show you what I am talking about. So at the beginning of the anthem we have  oh say can you see? By the dawn's early light what so proudly we hailed. OK? And proudly is a different chord in this version than the traditional version we are used to hearing. Here's the traditional version . And here's the current Olympic version .  The subtle chord changes he says happen at key moments throughout the entire song.  At the end of the piece which is the one that actually kind of bothers me the most I must say and that is o'er the land of the free - home of the brave is the same. But listen to the difference of o'er the land of the free. This is the traditional version . This is the current Olympic version . It is different right?  DeBord admits that most people probably are not paying close attention to the music when they are watching a medal ceremony. And in the end he says the Games in Rio are not really about the music. They are an opportunity to cheer on the USA.  You know what? If I see the United States win that is enough for me. In the end it is just a song.  