 For decades Cuban athletes have defected at international competitions or on perilous journeys in rafts and speedboats. Well those days could now be coming to an end. Cuba's Communist Party newspaper reported on Friday that Cuban athletes will be allowed to sign professional contracts and play in foreign leagues. To explain this sportswriter Stefan Fatsis joins us now as he does most Fridays. Hi Stefan.  Hey Robert.  And fill us in on the big news out of Cuba.  Well the news would be the first time since professional sports were outlawed in 1961 that any former professional competition was allowed for Cuban athletes. Granma the party newspaper said that athletes will need government permission to sign contracts abroad. They will have to meet their obligations to the Cuban national teams as well as their obligations to fundamental competitions in Cuba. There is going to be a lot of parsing of this over the next few days to see exactly what it means.  Well what do people think pushed the Cuban government to make this change now?  Well there have been some signs of change. Under Fidel Castro's brother Raul Cuba has slowly begun expanding the island's private economy. Just yesterday the government announced 18 new categories of private employment. And that is extended to sports too. Since the summer Cuba has joined a semi-pro international boxing series. It allowed 10 boxers to turn pro in Mexico. It announced it was rejoining the Caribbean Series which is a winter baseball tournament. It will do that next year after 53 years away from it. And it also allowed three baseball players to sign pro contracts in Mexico this season. Finally there was a report that Cuba is going to establish its own professional sports system. Today's announcement included news of higher pay for baseball players in Cuba.  Well Cuba under Castro certainly used sports as a badge of honor. Olympians like boxer Teofilo Stevenson and sprinter Alberto Juantorena were held up as paragons of the state system. This could change that.  Yeah I think it would. I have no idea how much traction that argument still has in Cuba about how important the athletes are to the system. But it is inarguable now that defections of top athletes have been numerous. They have been embarrassing for Cuba at home as well as abroad. And they have hurt Cuba's performance in international events like the Olympics and world championships especially in sports in which Cuba historically has done well like baseball boxing track and field. Cuba wants to do better. Authorities recognize that the best way to do that is to let athletes compete more abroad.  Let us talk about baseball. The past few years have been banner years for Cuban players in the major leagues including several players who will play big roles for their teams in the upcoming playoffs.  Yeah. It' Yoenis Cespedes of Oakland Aroldis Chapman of Cincinnati Yunel Escobar of Tampa Jose Iglesias of Detroit and of course Yasiel Puig the rookie sensation for the L.A. Dodgers. Twenty-one Cubans played in the majors this season. That is the most since 1970 when pre-Castro players were ending their careers. The key thing is that today's players are arriving younger. Cubans did not hear much about the previous generation of defectors. Now as one agent put it in a story this week in the Los Angeles Times Aroldis Chapman's Lamborghini is on Facebook. His mansion is on Facebook. There were two big defections just in the last month of players under the age of 26. This tide is not going to change.  But there is still the hurdle of the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba.  Yeah. Granma said that Cuban athletes will have to pay taxes to the Cuban government on earnings from foreign clubs. And that would be a violation of the embargo I think. A Treasury Department spokesman said today a change in Cuban laws does not affect our licensing procedure. So we should not get too excited. But maybe this is an overture. And there is a lot to gain here not just because you would have more better players in the big leagues but on the more human level too an end to dangerous defections an end to the black market in the trafficking of Cuban athletes.  Thank you Stefan. Have a great weekend.  You too Robert.  Stefan Fatsis joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 