 Finally today let us check in on Women's World Cup hosted by France this summer. This weekend the tournament entered the round of 16 - the knockout round a time when players have to leave it all on the field or go home. And who better to guide us through it than our friend Roger Bennett half of the Men In Blazers podcast and a tireless soccer superfan who is been touring the U.S. this summer to spread love for the beautiful game. And he is with us now from - where are you exactly Rog? .  I am in New York City Double-M and it is a joy to be back with you.  Likewise. Likewise. So this is the first time we have had the pleasure of checking in with you during this competition. How is the women's World Cup going for you so far?  Oh it is a human joy. I actually call it the real World Cup because America have actually qualified for this one and are very very good. So we will call the other one the men's World Cup. We have finished the group stage. We are in the knockout round now. It is win or go home and it could not be more exciting.  Well going into the weekend big news was that for the first time ever two African teams Cameroon and Nigeria made it to the round of 16. While Nigeria was facing off against powerhouse Germany Cameroon was paired with England also a top contender. So both African teams now out of the tournament both having suffered 3-0 losses. But the fact that they made it this far - does it say anything bigger about the women's game?  It was heartbreaking to watch Cameroon today - to watch them struggle against England to watch them feel hard done to by the refereeing and the video assistant refereeing which has been a constant thorn as a feature in this tournament in-game. The Cameroonians were crying the decision-making made by the referee and they probably had a case at some point. I am not Cameroonian but I felt their pain. You know their dreams are as big as the American or English players dreams. Their resources are not. They struggle to even be at this World Cup Cameroon. They are so woefully underfunded. The players hardly come together to play games. They barely train before the tournament begins. I can say the joy from an African perspective is that fan interest is soaring. And that may be the true legacy of the World Cup runs for the continent of Africa - a taste of the future and all that is to come.  And you know of course Team USA continues to be the favorite won all of their matches by shutouts. So Team USA plays Spain tomorrow. I guess the U.S. is still a favorite to win. But Spain is not a pushover though right?  USA USA.  .  Michel it is been a joy to watch the U.S. who did not lose a single group stage game did not give up a goal either. I will say their games have been devoid of suspense or drama. They score early and often. But the reality is we still do not know how good this team is. They have played teams that are frankly just patsies happy to be there. Title IX has given the U.S. such dominance in this sport which has barely been on the radar of other nations. That has changed. The European powers have all invested heavily deeply smartly in the game. And there is so many threats in this World Cup starting with Spain. So there is many games to go before we can get what we all dream which is American glory.  I do want to mention though that Team USA had success off the pitch too because U.S. Soccer has agreed to negotiate with players who are currently suing the sport's governing body for gender discrimination. And you know I am just interested in your take on this as a person who watches both the men's game and the women's game closely. What do you make of it?  It is a massive issue behind the scenes. Now the tournament's kicked off football is almost always front of mind for the players. But it really is simmering away in the background. The U.S. women are remarkable. They are elite footballers elite athletes. But they are also pioneers not just for the women's game in America - for the women's game around the world. And as they say - I interviewed a series of the players in the run-up to the World Cup and Megan Rapinoe the talismanic attacking midfielder - she said we do not feel that we are just trying to pioneer for women's soccer. We feel we are pioneering for women in all jobs in all offices around the world. It is a massive weight a massive responsibility that is on their shoulders. Ultimately for the U.S. women they all agree - winning is the best negotiation and that is what they are now trying to focus on and pulling off and trying to do.  All right. Big match today - France versus Brazil. How did it come out? And what does it mean for Team USA?  The French team on whom to - trying to repeat the achievement of the men and becoming world champions they played just exquisite tactical technical football. And if the U.S. can top Spain the clash between the French and the U.S. will be a one which will really grab the wider American audience and fuse it to this tournament.  That is Roger Bennett one of the Men In Blazers. Roger it is always good to talk with you.  Michel courage. 