  In 1911 a baseball team in the Class D Missouri State League played in Kirksville Missouri home of the Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine. They were called the Kirksville Osteopaths.  In 1899 the New York State League included a team based in Auburn New York which is home to a New York state penitentiary. They were called the Auburn Prisoners.  In 1903 the very same Class B minor league in New York included a team from Schenectady. They were called the Schenectady Frog Alleys. Do we see a pattern emerging? Well if you do you are better than I am. From what I can tell the universe of minor league baseball team names is a completely loopy place and it is the subject of Tim Hagerty's funny little book  Minor League Baseball's Most Off-the-Wall Names and the Stories Behind Them. Tim Hagerty welcome to the program.  Thank you Robert.  Now some of the weirdest names in your book are really old ones from the late 19th or early 20th century and I would assume that say the 1906 Fresno Raisin Eaters were named rather earnestly. That it was not done ironically.  Yeah. It is funny. Way back when Robert there was not an official logo or official brand as a lot of these minor league team names so in some cases the teams would actually use their city names. There was actually a team in Washington state called the Walla Walla Walla Wallas.  The Walla Walla Walla Wallas.  Yeah. And another way that back in the day team names evolved were from the sports writer covering the team. The Sioux Falls Canaries got their team name that way. In the early 1900s the sports writer covering the team thought their yellow uniforms resembled canaries so in the newspaper he began calling them the Canaries and it stuck.  I think the state of Kansas may take the prize for the most terrific names - the Wichita Wingnuts the Wichita Izzies the Hutchinson Salt Packers and the Iola Gasbags. Why the gasbags?  The gasbags from what I understand had won a championship a couple of years before when they were named the Iola Grays and they were always boasting their way through the league. They traveled to these other cities and they would be bragging that they were the champion so people started giving them the nickname gasbags. And they said you know what yeah we are. We are the Gasbags.   Well what do you find Tim is the trend still to come up with retro-ish funny names with unique logos or are names like the Blue Sox and the Tigers and the Saints making a comeback around the country? What is the trend these days?  No I do not think so. I think that the trend is even more unique. Last year the Pensacola Blue Wahoos debut - the Cincinnati Reds' AA team. The blue wahoo is a type of fish.   The year before that the Omaha Storm Chasers debuted in Omaha Nebraska poking fun at the weather that they get there. In 2009 the Richmond Flying Squirrels came about in Virginia. So I think we are in a trend now where the wacky are above the rest.  Well God bless them and thanks for talking with us.  Thank you Robert.  Tim Hagerty who is a radio broadcaster with the AAA Tucson Padres in Arizona is the author of  Minor League Baseball's Most Off-the-Wall Team Names and the Stories Behind Them. 