 The WNBA playoffs are kicking off with a pair of first-round single elimination games. And one of the teams playing - the New York Liberty the team that clinched a place in the playoffs by a technicality. Their last game was Friday.   Barclays Center crowd deservedly so rises to their feet in honor of the effort that their squad put forth tonight.  So to talk more about what to expect we have reached Lyndsey D'Arcangelo of The Athletic. She joins us from her home in Buffalo N.Y. Welcome back. LYNDSEY D' Hey. Thanks for having me.  So I hear it is a technicality. And yet in that tape he is saying deservedly so. How did the New York Liberty squeak into the playoffs? D' Well they were tied with the Los Angeles Sparks and the Washington Mystics. Both - all three teams had the same record and so it came down to a tie-breaker. And for the New York Liberty to get in they had to beat the Mystics which they did. But then the Los Angeles Sparks and the Mystics had - both had to lose over the weekend which they did.  So this Thursday night match-up - Dallas Wings and the Chicago Sky. What are you going to be looking for? D' Well both teams are holding their opponents to about 81 points on the defensive side. So I think it is going to be whoever scores more obviously but I think it is going to be a close game. I think you know these teams are pretty - statistically-wise they are pretty even. They are six and seven in the seating. So I think it is actually going to be a close game.  So for people's background the reigning champs the Seattle Storm - they are also in the playoffs. But they are going to play a little bit later in the tournament. Are they expected to win again? What is going on? D' Well I mean Seattle's up there right? They are the reigning champs so you cannot count them out. But they may be without one of their best players in Breanna Stewart. She had a foot injury towards the end of the season did not play the last two games of the season. So without her you know they are going to be missing her offensive and defensive production. But they still have a chance. They still have Sue Bird. They still have Jewell Loyd. So you cannot count them out just yet but I would not be surprised if they did not make it back to the finals.  Lyndsey for a time we were watching how the NBA was affected by the pandemic by r it is injuries or just kind of being in the bubble. Is there anything to talk about there with the WNBA? D' As far as the pandemic goes I think you look at the WNBA and how they have handled it and they are probably the best pro sports league out there that has handled everything with the pandemic from the bubble last season to every - I want to - I do not know the percentage of how many players are vaccinated but it is certainly way up there. And there is been no incidents that you have seen in other pro leagues so far this entire season. So I think they have done a bang-up job and they should be commended for it.  That means that there is been ample time for good players to stand out. Who are you watching? D' Oh goodness. There is so many amazing players in this league. My eyes are going to be on the Connecticut Sun and my vote for MVP this season Jonquel Jones. She is just been playing at another level. And I am excited to see what they can do. They have not lost a game since August 12 and I think they are going to ride that momentum all the way to the Championship and perhaps a WNBA trophy.  That is Lyndsey D'Arcangelo with The Athletic speaking to us about the WNBA playoffs which are kicking off tonight Thursday night. Thanks so much. D' Thanks again.  