 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel. Athletes all over the country are competing to secure their places on the Summer Olympics team. At the same time Winter Olympians are doing what they can to stay in shape. For cross-country skiers that means roller skiing. New Hampshire Public Radio's Sam Evans-Brown reports roller skiing has become a competition sport in its own right.  The words roller skiing bring a picture to your mind and that picture is almost certainly not what roller skiing actually looks like. Here's Olympic cross-country skier Andy Newell.  I would basically describe it as roller blading with poles. And that kills me to say that because it sounds super-lame but that is basically what it is.  There are some differences. Roller skis are a little longer than roller blades have only two wheels are only attached to the skiers foot at the tip of the ski boot so they can get a better push.   Driving down the pine tree-lined roads of Craftsbury Vermont it is not uncommon to see a stream of roller skiers clattering along the side of the road. If it seems like something you might want to try consider another fun feature of roller skis - no brakes.  If you are new coming down a hill you have to either bail into a ditch or like somehow slow down. So when you are skiing like a new road for the first time it is kind of a sense of excitement and like you do not know what is coming around the corner so it is like a little bit of sketchiness involved too which can be fun.  Newell says he is never been seriously hurt but like most racers he is had some near-misses.  I have been clipped by cars a couple of times including a eight-wheel bus like a full-on tour bus clipped me one time which is sketchy.  Like he said fun. Mostly though it is a training tool. In winter New England has great trails for skiers but when summer rolls around racers have to slap on roller skis and put on extra-hard carbide tips onto their poles that will bite into the pavement.  Nice Erica nice.  Here in Craftsbury a big group of the best Nordic skiers in the country meet up to train by laboring up and rocketing down a steep hill almost a mile long. Ski racers like these spend so much of their time on roller skis that across the pond in Europe they have created a whole roller ski world cup. In Norway over 80 percent of the country's TVs are tuned into the broadcast of top flight Nordic races. And now even roller ski races are getting TV play.      It is serious business - so serious the International Ski Federation even has a roller ski subcommittee. Its chair Ozkan Koyuncu is a big believer in roller skiing. He says snow is getting harder to come by in many parts of the world so roller skiing could be the future of the sport.  I do not know when - 15 20 or 10 years or more I do not know - but I believe that roller skiing will be in the program of Summer Olympics.  Most American skiers are not quite so convinced. Back in Vermont Andrew Johnson a former Olympian and assistant cross-country ski coach at the University of Vermont says lots of skiers do not even like roller skiing that much. They just do it because it is what you have to do to stay in shape.  You know somebody comes up and they see it for the first time and they are like oh man that looks like so much fun. Where can I get some of those? And to me it is not that much fun.  But who knows? If you watch enough of those races in Europe you too might start to believe that roller skiing could be the next Summer Olympic sport.    For NPR News I am Sam Evans-Brown. 