 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Melissa Block. In this hour of the program we begin with the Olympics and first the outcome of the much-anticipated rematch between the U.S. and Japan in women's soccer. In last year's World Cup final Japan beat the U.S. and broke the team's heart. Well tonight before a record-setting 80000 people at London's Wembley Stadium the U.S. triumphed winning 2-1. NPR's Howard Berkes was at the stadium for the game and he joins us now. And Howard this was a game that the U.S. team talked about as a chance for redemption against Japan and it was a thriller. What were the keys do you think behind the U.S. victory?  Well this was a very exciting match and you had two really key players making it happened. Carli Lloyd scored two goals for the United States and Hope Solo who blocked I do not know how many I have lost count of how many blocks she successfully engineered and maneuvered...  The goalkeeper yeah Hope Solo.  ...blocks - the goalkeeper. This was a game in which both Japan and the United States were in each other's territory a lot throughout the game. There were a lot of shots on goal and it took both goalkeepers an enormous amount of skill to keep that ball from going in the net. And you know  two for the United States one for Japan.  And a clean game too Howard a real contrast with the very physical semifinal match that the U.S. played this week against Canada.  No. And this is exactly what Abby Wambach from the United States predicted before the game. These are two teams that respect each other that know each other well. They are friends. They hugged each other before the game. They hugged each other after the game. They hugged each other at the pregame news conference yesterday and they talked about the respect they have for each other and they said it would not be the kind of wild rough game that there was with Canada. Still there were some major penalties but still overall it was a pretty clean game a game between two teams that respect each other.  Interesting Howard the U.S. women have now won gold in all the Olympics except for one since 1996. This year though the men's U.S. team did not even qualify for the Olympics.  No no. The men's team you know the women have really been the hope of soccer in the United States. They have really been the focus of the attention because they have been so consistent over the years. This is their third gold medal in a row fourth overall. They have dominated the Olympic tournament. They have been very strong in the World Cup as well.  And a raucous crowd an Olympic record for a women's soccer match there at Wembley Stadium. It must have been quite a night. Howard thanks so much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Howard Berkes talking about the gold-medal game in women's soccer tonight. The U.S. beat Japan 2-1. 