 Now there have already been a few surprises at this summer's Olympic Games and one of them has nothing to do with medals or the athletes vying for them. American sports of all stripes have long featured the flips tosses and yells associated with cheerleaders. But the Olympics too? Yes the Olympics as NPR's Mike Pesca reports.  When I say Citius you say Altius. When I say Altius you say Fortius - or do not that is fine too. Traditional even but these Olympics have conspicuously defied traditional notions by having cheerleaders in a few different styles at a few different venues. In basketball dance teams perform between matches. In beach volleyball highly choreographed teams delight attendees.  That was awesome. Amazing. Boom.   The beach volleyball cheerleaders are more like the dancers in two-piece bathing suits which it must be said are actually a bit more conservative than those worn by the female players. In indoor volleyball once known as volleyball spectators retreated to the more traditional cheerleaders during routines you would find that most high school basketball games.   We will we will rock you...  Waving pompoms and doing flips in between dances was a cheer squad from Crimson Heat an English cheer team invited by the London Organizing Committee to cheer on volleyball. Not any particular team just a volleyball at the club's own expense. They are part of a sensory assault surely meant to counteract the normally drab 75- the Earls Court Exhibition Center which is the sort of place in America that will be called them War Memorial Coliseum and have hosted a hockey team that eventually move to the Sun Belt. The IOC tests medal winners but this was the venue on steroids. In between every point the PA pumped in a song promising to blow my speakers up or a light it up like its dynamite.    Light it up like its dynamite...  Combine that with a crowd full of on this afternoon's feverish Bulgarian and Polish volleyball fans and one's senses were overcome by the noise not the cheerleaders clad though they were is silver and fuchsia spandex suits.   Polish fan Justine Lipa liked the cheerleaders just fine but really had no need for them.  Yeah exactly and we are own cheerleaders so...   Plus they can really cheer for a team. They can just generally dance around.  Yeah no way. You know they just tried to activate the crowd. And I think the Polish fans are active enough singing and booing and they are doing all kinds of stuff.  There might actually be a U.S. advantage in all of this. As U.S. basketball star Diana Taurasi says if anyone will be comfortable with cheerleaders its veterans of American college play.  I mean we grew up in a college setting where each team the band had cheerleaders cheerleaders had cheerleaders. So to see cheerleaders at a women's volleyball game would just be normal to us.  In fact Taurasi noted there is precedent for punishing sports which do not use cheerleaders.  I played five years in Russia and teams that did not have cheerleaders would get fined.  It is not come to that yet. Gary Ayckbourn the manager of the team at the volleyball arena noted his cheerleaders were sleeping in a sports hall camping out with two moms cooking for the whole team. His Crimson Fire squad has been received enthusiastically by a once-skeptical volleyball association he says. But there is still no talk of payment. It is one area where the amateur ideal still reigns. Mike Pesca NPR News London. 