 The National Basketball Association's made up of 30 teams. That is 30 head coaches and all of them men. But Natalie Nakase hopes to change that. The 34-year-old Nakase is currently the assistant video coordinator for the NBA's Los Angeles Clippers. Before that she played women's basketball professionally and even coached a men's team in Japan. But a few weeks ago just before the start of the NBA Summer League Clippers head coach Doc Rivers called Nakase into his office and changed her life.  He just said OK I am going to make this quick. And I was like all right - thinking like I did something wrong because I usually do not go into his office that much. He just pulled me in and he just said would you want to coach Summer League? And I said what? Like I just - you know my first response was like a shock and then I said yes right away.  Your goal is to be a head coach in the NBA. One commentator said there will not be a female NBA a coach until there is a lawsuit. Do you worry you are going to run into glass ceiling that will only be broken through litigation?  No. I actually do not worry because I think if I did worry it would kind of distract me from my goal. You know your mind is so strong that if you know you have one like negative thought about what you want to do it is going to kind of put you in a reverse you know reverse direction. So I continue to believe every day that I could do it. And then I just stay focused on what I want to do.  You are one of the first Asian-Americans to play in professional basketball. I mean what inspired you to want to become a coach?  It just - it actually just happened. I did not want to become a coach at the young age that I was. I wanted to keep playing as long as I could. I always told myself that - that I wanted to just keep playing because that is the best job I think in the world is to play basketball and get paid for it. So I did that. And then I hurt my knee a second time. And so when I hurt my knee the second time I did not want to go through the rehab again. So it was kind of like a blessing in disguise.  And what is it like being on the bench? You know you are  5' 2'' with these - these are giant basketball players these giant men.  When they sit down is probably the best time where I can you know really get into their ear because they are sitting and they are like level to me. But you know they do not ever say anything in terms of like my height or - they do not say anything. As long as you know they trust me. And again I bring value to help them winning and then helping them to make them play better. You know if I say the right things and things that can help them then they will listen no matter how tall I am or you know if I am a female.  Obviously the L.A. Clippers have been through one heck of a year Natalie with the ouster of team owner Donald Sterling after these recordings of him making the racist and sexist remarks. Has that added a natural layer of stress and distraction to this job? It must have.  For me no. He was never around. So I really had no connection with him. And so for me I just - I was so focused on coaching the Summer League. I did not have any chance to think.  So you are coaching the Summer League. I mean will you be on the Clippers' bench this October this fall when the NBA season begins?  Not that I know of. Doc you know assigned me as being assistant video coordinator this year. And you know whatever Doc needs I am going to do. So if he wants me to be the best at that job then I am going to do that and help him win the championship. If he you know wants to put me in a different situation like on the bench or on the floor then you know I am just going to be prepared to do it. So I am more like given an opportunity OK do the best you can with that position. And that kind of you know go forward unless given the opportunity.  That is Natalie Nakase. She is the assistant coach for the L.A. Clippers Summer League and the team's assistant video coordinator. Natalie good luck and thanks for coming on the show.  Thank you. Thanks for having me. 