 The call to remove Confederate symbols is echoing across the country. Today House Speaker Nancy Pelosi requested that 11 statues of Confederate soldiers be taken down from the U.S. Capitol. And NASCAR has now banned the Confederate flag from all events including tonight's race in southern Virginia. The stock car racing association has been under pressure to prohibit the flag for years. Jeff Gluck covers NASCAR for The Athletic. He joins me now via Skype. Hi Jeff.  Hi Mary Louise. How are you doing?  I am well thank you. What exactly is NASCAR saying about this? What is the reasoning?  Well I think that NASCAR is really taking a big step here for them. I mean you could argue it is been a long time coming and I think a lot of us have been calling for it for years. But on Sunday they showed their support for Black Lives Matter. They had an official kneel during the anthem - African American official. And they supported that and they - you know so far up till today it was words. And you are sort of wondering OK is this just going to be an empty statement? And they come out and say you know what? The Confederate flag - we have been talking about it for years and it is done just like that - gone. So it was - you know I am not sure I ever thought I would see it in my lifetime covering re we are.  Yeah. I saw that Bubba Wallace the only black driver racing on NASCAR's top circuit - he called for this ban on the Confederate flag on Monday. Do you think it actually signals a real culture change in the sport and among fans?  I think in the leadership of the sport right now you have sort of a different regime. And I - you know they had a Pride Month tweet that they put out yesterday. I mean it is - and you are just seeing things from NASCAR. Like wow is NASCAR woke all of a sudden?   You know it is obviously - it is got a long way to go but I think they are sending a clear message to their fan base that look we are going to put what is right over our profits here. And that is not something you have seen before because - they are clearly going to alienate some of their fans by doing this.  Yeah. Yeah.  I mean there is no question.  Yeah. I mean for those who do not regularly go to NASCAR races maybe are not watching it on TV how prominent was the Confederate flag at racetracks these days?  So basically it is something that you would see on RV campers in the infield. It is not like people in the stands were having it. But you would see it. And they - five years ago they tried to get rid of it and they asked people to take it down. But there was no consequence. It was not banned. They just said hey please do not fly this anymore. And people flew it even more after that so I think it was one of those things where they needed to put some teeth into their statement. And they finally did.  Right prompting interesting questions about how NASCAR is going to be maybe called to enforce this ban going forward. Jeff Gluck of The Athletic - he joined us via Skype. Thank you Jeff.  Thank you very much. 