 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand in California.  And I am Robert Siegel in Washington. In Britain they just call it the Open. In this country to distinguish it from the U.S. Open the golf championship that was played last month in Bethpage New York we call it the British Open. And this year's British Open is full of surprises starting at the top of the leaderboard. After two rounds two Americans are tied for the lead and Tiger Woods is not one of them. They are 29-year-old Steve Marino who is never won anything on the tour and 59-year-old Tom Watson who has won just about everything but not for years. Joining us from Turnberry in Scotland is Lawrence Donegan golf correspondent for The Guardian and author of the book Four Iron in the Soul. Lawrence Donegan tell us about Tom Watson's day. Mr.  Well it was a wonderful day. A wonderful day for Tom Watson because he started off this morning tied for second place birdied the first hole and then proceeded to drop five shots in six holes. Playing partner Sergio Garcia clapped him on the back going down the eighth fairway and said come on old man.  Mr.  And Watson duly did come on. He played his last 11 holes in four under par and it was really - he is a great wind player. He is got a great record here in Scotland. As I say he played his last 11 holes four under par and that was capped off by this amazing putt in the final . It really was - it was one of those magical moments for those of us who cover the game of golf.  Now that was Tom Watson's second round that left him at five under par tied for the lead with Steve Marino? Mr.  Well Steve Marino is obviously a good player. He is playing in the Open championship. But he is one of these you know  in Britain he is one of these faceless PG tour pros. But he again he played very very well. He is clearly a good player. What is kind of odd about him is that he is never played links golf before.  Mr.  I mean links golf is not supposed to be this easy but you know he came out and he played again a couple of rounds under 70 and there he is. I just felt slightly sorry for him that his big day was overshadowed A by Tom Watson and B by the other big story of the day which involved Tiger Woods.  Tiger Woods has missed the cut. That means in effect he is finished in the bottom half of the field. It is only happened once before in a major tournament a championship for him. What happened to Tiger Woods today? Mr.  Well he missed a cut for the second time in a major championship and that is the second time in his professional career. I mean the first time was in 2006 at the U.S. Open in Winged Foot. And that came shortly after the death of his father so that was perfectly understandable. This was not in the slightest bit understandable. He came into this tournament as an overwhelming favorite. And we have all the bookies over here as we would call them and we could not get any decent odds other than for Tiger Woods. He won his last tournament playing the ATT National in Washington D.C. He played three practice rounds. He was magnificent.  Yeah. Mr.  We all expected him to stroll away with it. And he got on the golf course on Thursday morning and played. He shot 71 one over par but for those of us who followed him 'round it was probably one of the worst rounds of golf that we have ever seen him play. And came out today typical Tiger you know battled did well. But then got in a temper lost his ball got a couple of duff chips and then the next couple of holes and then he was out of it. It was very shocking.  Yeah. How is the weather? Mr.  Well yesterday was a beautiful Scottish day it was -very light breeze. But today was dank and dark as a Presbyterian funeral I have to say.  Mr.  It is very windy. The rain was out. Everybody had their umbrellas and we were all dressed in our rain gear. It was actually a classic Open championship day really. It was great - it all adds to the gaiety of this event. Tomorrow who knows what we will get. The forecast is all over the place it could be sun it could be rain it could be wind it could be anything. That is all again all part of the joy of this event.  Well Lawrence Donegan of The Guardian thanks a lot for talking with us. Mr.  Thanks very much Robert.  The British Open in Turnberry Scotland. 