 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Audie Cornish.  And I am Robert Siegel. The NBA season may have ended but there is still a lot of pro basketball to talk about. The NBA draft took place last night with a real surprise choice leading things off. And there is a big trade in the news too. NPR's Mike Pesca is with us. Hi Mike.  Hello.  The first player picked last night was a surprise - a shock you might even say - Anthony Bennett out of UNLV. Why did the Cleveland Cavaliers pick Bennett?  Well the Cavaliers looked at their roster and they think that Bennett who is 6-7 6-8 - and is very good at shooting from the outside and he is very good near the rim - he fits in well with what they have already. Perhaps a cynic might add is what they have already so important? I mean you get to pick first in the draft because you are not such a good team. But overall it was considered a weak draft which is a bit of a cliche and sometimes that label gets hung on players unfairly when you look back - in retrospect. But it is clear that the number one player this year was not one of those sought-after guys whoever the No. 1 player was going to be and it was probably - going up to the draft - it was thought to be Nerlens Noel who played for Kentucky. But he hurt his knee and he is also very - a raw specimen you know a kind of guy who could play great defense but will he be able to contribute immediately? It is very hard by the way to go to the draft and watch a lot of TV without using all these cliches like ridiculous upside.   OK.  But because of factors like that Bennett went No. 1.  Well what happened to Noel in the draft?  So he did slip down down down down down - people were wondering - at sixth. The New Orleans Pelicans picked him the newly named Pelicans. But then they immediately traded him to the Philadelphia 76ers. It was an odd thing. I was in the press conference with Noel. They said oh you have been traded to the Sixers and he kind of did not know that. They said what do you like about Sixers? He said well they have a great point guard in Jrue Holiday. Guess who they traded Noel for?   Jrue Holiday. The Pelicans also gave up a draft pick next year.  Any other surprises during last night's draft?  Yes. Well there are always players that we have seen play but we might not know them we might not get to know their personalities. And there are guys from foreign lands and obscure schools. And one school who is never had a player drafted is Lehigh University. But C.J. McCollum went to the Portland Trail Blazers. And here is McCollum who is a very charming guy explaining that growing up baseball was his best sport. C.J.  It was kind of boring and basketball was more intense. And I like the fact that you know when I shot threes they said three! - and stuff like that. And the fact that I was allergic to grass that did have a huge factor in me deciding to stop playing it.  Yeah so I would say if - you know the allergy is to grass maybe you want to get out of that sport not go into a field like landscaping. As I said there were a lot of international players a record number of international players. One guy from New Zealand a guy named Steve Adams is the youngest of 18 children. He is also the tallest of 18 children at 7 feet tall. And there is a Greek player named Giannis Adetokunbo - I am sure I got his name wrong. But he is 6-10 has all the scouts salivating because he plays point guard.  And the other fellow could have gone into landscaping with artificial turf I suppose.  There are always options yes.  Well he had to. Then there is this very odd story overshadowing a lot of these picks - was a trade. Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett great veteran stars of the Boston Celtics leaving Boston headed for the Brooklyn Nets. Why are the Celtics giving up two of their best players who helped them win a championship a few years ago?  The adjective you used veteran - which means old. Now Pierce and Garnett are still actually great players even though they are 35 and 37 - Pierce 35 Garnett 37. The Nets improve immediately but they have taken on so much salary. They are owned by a Russian billionaire. He might not care. But the Nets have gotten better. They have a really short window - two years - to possibly win. All the Celtics were trying to do was you know dump salary and get some draft picks for it. The Nets also shifted draft picks to the Celtics. It is a pretty good trade for the Nets for the next two years. They could be in terrible shape in the years to come.  One last quick question Mike about the guy who does not stand 6-7 or 6-8 - NBA Commissioner David Stern who was booed a lot last night his last NBA draft. He does not sound like he is going out a very popular guy.  Yeah. But he was booed lustily and played to the crowd and said come on you could do better than that. I asked people in the crowd why they were booing him. I just got a sense of you know the answer is that - Bart Simpson why was he was booing Principal Skinner. You just boo the commissioner. It is what you do.   OK.  He has grown this business tremendously. He made some unpopular decisions along the way.  Thank you Mike. That is NPR sports correspondent Mike Pesca. 