 If you have been addicted this week as I am to the U.S. Open you might find yourself listening as much as watching listening for the rhythmic soundtrack of grunting.    Those grunts from Rafael Nadal of Spain and here's Serena Williams.    And my new favorite the Belgian Yanina Wickmayer.   Ms.  Whoopee. Whoopee.   What is she saying there whoopee? Long-time tennis watcher and listener Bud Collins joins us to translate from Flushing Meadows where he is doing television commentary for ESPN. Hey Bud. Mr.  How are you?  What do you think she is saying there? Is it whoopee? Mr.  Whoopee I think it is. She started in the second set. I was doing the match and I thought is she saying whoopee? Well it sounds like it. I asked her about it. She said she was not aware of it  Whoopee whoopee.   Every time she hits the ball. Mr.  Yeah and I do not mind that so much as some of the screamers.  Well there is a really really loud screamer. She is not made it to the semis Michelle Larcher de Brito of Portugal. Let us take a listen to her.    Kind of banshee-like. Mr.  Frightening is not it?  Well she I guess has drawn lots of complaints from her opponents. She was booed at the French Open? Mr.  She was yes but then she went to Wimbledon and of course all the writers went out to listen and she did not utter a sound.  Oh she can keep it under control. Mr.  She can keep it under control and she is a little belligerent about it says I can do what I want to do.  Well Bud why do players grunt or scream or whistle or yell whoopee? Does it help the game? Mr.  I do not think so. We had four pretty good players I can name here - Martina Navratilova Chris Evert Steffi Graf and Billie Jean King - and you never knew they were on the court except for their shots of course.  Not a grunt. Mr.  No no.  Jimmy Connors grunted. Mr.  Jimmy did grunted a little bit. The first grunter I ever heard was back in - oh gee the '60s a kid named Vicki Palmer from Arizona and I think people had told her she had to stop that. They had more control over the younger players then.  I read about one scientific study that showed that grunting increases the speed of a serve and a forehand by up to four miles an hour. Mr.  Well maybe they think so. I do not know but I wish Maria Sharapova would tone it down and when she got in trouble against Oudin she stopped screeching.  Hmm. Melanie Oudin you are talking about who beat her. Mr.  Yes yes the sensation who got all the way to the quarter finals.  So you are saying it is a deliberate thing. Mr.  I cannot prove it and - but I have seen people who have done it turn it off and play just as well and Serena and Venus of course they really shout. And of course Monica Seles was the first famous grunter and I think it cost her the Wimbledon championship in 1992 because Martina complained about her and a French player complained about her too. So the referee said tone it down and she was at a loss. She really needed to grunt.  I have heard some people complain that the grunting the screaming keeps the other player from hearing how exactly they have hit the ball. Mr.  Well that is what Martina says and you need to really hear the ball come off the other - off your opponent's strings. I really think the Women's Tennis Association ought to have a disarmament conference I guess with the players and say look I guess they will have to grandfather or grandmother some of the players and say okay but from now on - I think with the 2010 season - they ought to start saying no more loud noises.  You know Bud I noticed we are talking more about female players than male players with a couple exceptions. Do you think more women grunt or are we just noticing it more? Are we more - are we biased here? Mr.  Probably I am biased but yes I think it is the women who are the chief offenders.  You think you might be biased though? Mr.  Oh I could be. I am a guy.  Bud Collins thanks so much. Mr.  Thank you.  You want to give us a grunt? Mr.  Well I like that whoopee whoopee.   That is not bad. Thanks Bud. Mr.  Bye.  That is Bud Collins doing television commentary for ESPN from the U.S. Open in Flushing Meadows Queens.   You are listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. 