 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel. And here is the least surprising news in the nation' The Washington Nationals are in last place. That is where they usually are. But there is some hope for Nationals fans. This week they signed their second straight top draft pick a player many observers believe could be a major league superstar soon. Sportswriter Stefan Fatsis joins us now as he does most Fridays. How are you doing?  I am doing well Robert.  And the Nationals could be doing all right. They signed Bryce Harper 17 years old. Tell us about him.  Well he is a catcher who could be converted to an outfielder. He is so talented that Sports Illustrated put him on its cover last year when he was a high school sophomore  Baseball's Chosen One. Now Harper wanted to get to professional baseball as quickly as possible. To make himself eligible for the pro draft a year early he finished high school enrolled in junior college tore that up signed up with the baseball super-agent Scott Boras and this week the Nationals gave him a contract that could be worth at least 9.9 million a record amount for a non-pitcher and a record amount for a 17-year-old. The Nationals say he is fast-tracked to the Majors 2012 or '13 would be my guess.  But he was drafted more than two months ago and the deal to sign him happened just before a deadline after which Harper would have returned to the draft in a year.  Yeah at the last minute literally. The agreement was reached anywhere from I have read 22 to 26 seconds before a midnight deadline on Monday. A year ago same thing. The Nationals and their top pick Stephen Strasburg a pitcher reached a deal a reported 77 seconds before the deadline. But these kinds of negotiations could soon be a thing of the past. Baseball is going to have a new collective bargaining agreement that'ill take effect after the 2011 season. One of the changes could be a slotting system for draft picks a specific amount for each player taken at each position. It is been a longtime goal of team ownership to rein in astronomical bonuses for untested players many of whom do not fulfill their promise and do not you know do not fulfill that big early bonus of that contract.  When you say for each position you mean each position they are picked in the draft number one number two...  Yeah one two three four five all the way down to the bottom of the first round.  Speaking of contracts the New York Mets are attempting to void the contract of their closer Francisco Rodriguez also known as K-Rod. K-Rod was arrested and he injured himself in a fight I gather with the father of his girlfriend.  Yeah in the family lounge of Citi Field their stadium in New York. And the story has dominated the New York tabloids of course. The Mets suspended Rodriguez for two days but then the pitcher revealed that he had injured his hand in the fight has had to have surgery placed on the disqualified list meaning he is out for the season and his contract flipped from guaranteed to nonguaranteed. Now Rodriguez is still owed 3 million for the rest of this year. It is very difficult to void a contract here. The players' union already has said it is going to fight the Mets' attempt to do so.  You mean the Mets cannot just say you destroyed your own hand therefore we are not going to pay you for your foolishness in fighting with your girlfriend's father?  No they cannot. I mean they can try to do it but union rules are pretty strict and they defend the player pretty strongly.  Well the measure of the Mets' season is that the only team doing worse than they are in the National League East is the Washington Nationals we have talked about already. Who in baseball is doing well this year without having one of the huge payrolls like the Yankees or the Red Sox?  Well  the Texas Rangers and the San Diego Padres. They are both in first place in the Western Divisions. The Padres have a 40 million payroll second-lowest in baseball the Rangers 55 million. The Padres do not have any stars the way the Rangers do. They have outfielder Josh Hamilton there and a new ownership that is pledging to spend more money. But San Diego has got young pitching leading the league in multiple categories there. They have won nine of their last 10. The Rangers just lost four in a row to Tampa Bay but they have a commanding lead in their division. We will see if both of these teams can hang on through September.  That is Stefan Fatsis who talks with us about sports and the business of sports on Fridays. Stefan have a great weekend.  You too Robert thanks. 