 Finally this hour a new basketball shoe that is touted to dramatically reduce ankle injuries. Ankle sprains and breaks are the most common injury in the NBA and they are largely treated as just part of the game. Well one new shoe company says it can change that. NPR's Mike Pesca tells us about its prospects.  No one pays to watch Kobe ride the pine or to assess Kevin Durant's towel-waving skills. But that is what we have seen from these NBA stars at different points last season - all because of ankle injuries. Tim Duncan Lebron James Amar'e Stoudemire Gilbert Arenas Kwame Brown - from stars to scrubs and in between ankle injuries are the common denominator or deactivator. Enter Barry Katz former college basketball player radiologist visionary.  We have solved the problem. We cannot say 100 percent but we are confident that we will knock out 99 percent of ankle injuries.  Katz is the inventor of the Ektio a sturdy - one might say imposing - shoe that features a system of straps and dorsal protrusions called side rollers. It is an unquestionably serious sneaker so Ektio sought to outfit serious players. Brooklyn-based Pro Am team the X-Men. One of the X-Men Malcolm Connor who is played professionally in Chile spoke of the footwear the team is now sporting.  Of course seeing a new sneaker you are a little skeptical like OK it is not Nike it is not Adidas. Let me see what it is about. Well as we are trying them on you know and the reassurance of not spraining an ankle and everything like that you know it kind of clears your mind and allows you to play free up and down you know.  The X-Men's founder Dytanya Mixon says his team which just won the prestigious Rucker Park Tournament has experienced only one ankle injury all summer.  Everything is a fad. And right now Nike has a fad. You know everybody want to wear Nike. They do not care about ankle injuries. They do not care they want the look. You know they are not thinking about healthwise. That is where the Ektio - it definitely protects the ankle - injuries definitely. You cannot roll the ankle no matter how much you try.  It does seem that considerations other than safety dictate the choice of shoe for most professionals. Former New York Knicks guard John Starks puts his finger on how he made decisions concerning his ankles.  The money. You know most guys do not even think about you know the safety of the shoe or what have you. You know they think more so about the money. And I was a young player then and had a family to feed.  Starks is now part owner of Ektio so you could say it is still about the money. But he says he wishes Ektio had been around when he was wrapping his tender ankles in tape. Historically shoes do not seem to be getting safer. Foot injuries are up more than 60 percent over the past two decades. Barry Katz says Ektios can solve this problem. He compares the shoe to a familiar piece of sports equipment.  What we did is we created a very light ski boot 15 to 16 ounces. So while tape is attached to your foot the shoe can still roll over when you land on someone's foot. If the shoe rolls over you tear your ligaments and you sprain your ankle. We keep the foot and the shoe together so this does not happen.  There is a problem with this analogy however. Dr. Benno Nigg founder of the Human Performance Laboratory at the University of Calgary says the ski boot itself has been rethought. DR.  In the old days the ski boot's very very very soft and flexible. And then they made them safer and safer and with that they reduced a number of ankle injuries but increased the number of knee injuries. You want to have all the muscles that you have in your body involved in the whole process of the movement. A shoe that is very stiff and very rigid does not do that.  Nigg is an undisputed expert in the field but it must be disclosed that he is accepted funding from big shoe companies including Adidas throughout his career. He says that the studies Ektio has commissioned are insufficient to make any claims about injury reduction. He has worn the sneakers however and he says...  Oh I thought it was a good feeling.  But he says proof of the shoe's effectiveness would require a study that would be fairly costly for a small company like Ektio. On the other hand if thousands of players wear Ektio sneakers on their own that could provide important data. Of course it is hard for a bit player to outfit thousands absent a verifiable scientific claim. So as it stands this small shoe company is hoping to get a break for its product that hopes to prevent them. Mike Pesca NPR News New York. 