 We are three weeks into the NFL season now but very little of the conversation around the NFL these days is focused on the game. Several players have been involved in incidents involving or alleging domestic violence. It is made many fans question the sport and the men who play it. Yesterday for the first time in more than a week NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell spoke publicly about the incidents and the league's handling of them.   Unfortunately over the several weeks we have seen all too much of the NFL doing wrong.  We wondered how far that wrong trickles down - how it affects football at all levels. NPR's Nathan Rott went to a Friday night football game in Gardena California just south of Los Angeles to find out.   Ladies and gentlemen welcome to  Serra High School.  It is a packed house under the lights at Serra High School. People pile into the stands. The marching band plays. And the team is pumped.   That Serra Cavaliers are something of a powerhouse in Southern California. They are the 22nd ranked team in the state. Many of their players are looking at Division I scholarship offers. And in recent years they have graduated a number of guys that have gone on to play in the pros.   Midway through the first quarter they show they are still not hurting for talent.   So yeah football is a pretty big thing here. And fans like Jane Austin are upset when they see its stars like ex-Baltimore Raven's running back Ray Rice physically assault his now wife.  That is the mother of your child. And you should treat her with all the respect in the world.  Or when Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson was indicted on child abuse charges.  I mean you know I am from the South. I got whippings to. But you have to know how - what the boundary is.  But Austin says that does not affect how people feel about the sport overall.  No because if you are a football lover you are going to be a football lover to the heart no matter what.  Dishawn Roberson sees it the same way. She is the mom of Serra's star running back. And yeah she worries about football and injuries like concussions.  But it can bring more positivity to your son than anything else.  And she says it beats the alternatives like drugs and alcohol that she says pushes kids away.  Football brings your kids closer. Because when this is over with my son's going to say did you see when I - did you see when I?  So what of those teenage boys? I ask a group outside the stadium about the charges against players. They joke and jaw like boys do. None of them condone what is happened. But they have some choice words about how people are reacting.  It is crap. It is unnecessary bull crap.  Because you think they like - they get a bad rep because they are athletes?  Yeah.  But Serra coach Scott Altenberg does not see it that way. He says he is using what happened in the NFL as a teaching moment time to talk to his athletes many of whom will go on to play at higher levels about accountability - what it means to be an athlete and what it means to be a man.  It is unfortunate that these things have made it a forum that I can access now with my kids but I am absolutely going full-blown on it. And you know I think that is good for our kids. They need it.  Some good in weeks filled with bad. Nathan Rott. NPR News. 