 As Eleanor Beardsley reports the blistering weather did not wilt the fans or the day's winner.   As expected the day's six midgrade climbs in the brutal heat began to weed out cyclists. Former leader Fabian Cancellara cracked finishing 23 minutes behind Chavanel.   Team RadioShack is strong and loaded with climbers says Pierre Callewaert cycling correspondent for L'Equipe newspaper. Callewaert says he thinks Armstrong still has a chance to win the Tour.  He said he would be stronger in 2010 so - and he is right. He is stronger. You would say he is old because he is 38 but he has a lot of experience. The experience is very very important in the Tour. He knows the techniques. He knows the road very well the climbs. And he has the strongest will to win the Tour.  Spectators joined the grazing cows on hillside pastures to watch the 101-mile stage that led up into the Jura Mountains known as the foothills of the Alps.   The beauty of the Tour is that it is a big glamorous international sport yet it is so accessible to regular folk.       Two couples in their late 60s have set up a card table in the middle of a field of wildflowers. It is laden with a picnic lunch of mountain cheeses and chilled ros wine. They cannot seem to name any riders but they are having a great time say Odille Durant and Brigitte Pisante.   The Tour is all about friendship and hanging out and having a good time.   And it is about discovering France too because every July we follow it and explore a new region.  Others come to the Tour for the pure sport of it. Amateur cyclists and brothers Ulav and Aldam Dal have planted themselves under a tree and hung a Norwegian flag from its branches. They got up early to ride the last part of the stage themselves before the race.  It is pretty cool to see the last bit of the course that they are riding to get the feel of what they are experiencing during the last miles or so a better understanding of what they really go through.  Well it is amazing. I can really not understand how they can do it. It is pretty incredible yeah.  And for others the Tour is more of a party.    This group of boisterous friends from  Belgium say they come to the Tour every year without their wives. They are at an outdoor caf in one of the villages along the Tour route. Robbie Mannas sums up this group'  Each year we come in to the  to view a little bit of the race and to party and to drink some beer. The good weather holiday - it is all we need.  Eleanor Beardsley NPR News Station des Rousses France. 