 Kevin Blackistone would you ever wear these five-toed vbrooms I am wearing here in the studio? Mr.  I smell a fad. That is your feet. I smell a fad.  Kevin Blackistone is a sports columnist with AOL FanHouse and a frequent panelist on ESPN's Around the Horn and he is here to talk about a different kind of glove Kevin the kind that you wear on your hands. It is a big night for boxing tonight. Floyd Mayweather comes out of retirement. Mr.  Absolutely this is huge. When Floyd Mayweather stepped away from the ring just about two years ago he did so undefeated at the height of his career as what is considered the pound for pound best fighter on the planet.  Why does so many boxers make this huge show of retiring and then come back into the ring you know a few months later? It happens all the time. Mr.  Money.  Oh. Mr.  That is the end of the story on that one. It is not that Floyd Mayweather needs money but where else can you go and in one night go out and make seven figures sometimes eight figures in less than an hour? And that is what is on the table for Mayweather.  Tonight's fight is on pay-per-view. It is going to  about 50 bucks if you choose to buy it. Mr.  Right.  For those who are not following this match or do not follow boxing why is Floyd Mayweather worth watching? Mr.  Well he is worth watching because he is an absolutely fabulous athlete. He is a quicker version of Muhammad Ali.  Wow. Mr.  He is got some Sugar Ray Robinson in him.  And he is never been beaten. Mr.  Never been beaten undefeated. And he is going up against a guy in Marquez who is now 36 years old but at a time was thought to be as good a fighter there was on the planet. And he is the classic Mexican boxer who will give no quarter. This fight will certainly go the distance.  Kevin I do not know all the details about this but I understand that Juan Manuel Marquez has a pretty unique training regimen? Mr.  Yeah. I just learned of this the other day watching one of those fabulous HBO 247 documentaries. And they showed Marquez training in the mountains which is not unusual for Mexican fighters. But then they showed him going to get his first post-mountain workout meal 24 freshly laid quail eggs cracked into a huge cup. And if that was not enough to turn your stomach they showed him in his ringside ingesting his own urine.  Why would he  ingest his own urine? Mr.  He claims that it was to recapture the nutrients lost out of his body.  Whatever works.  Kevin it is been about two years since Mayweather's last bout. Tonight's match was actually postponed because of a Mr.  An injury.  of a rib jury. Mr.  Right.  Do you think he will be anything close to the fighter he used to be? Mr.  I think he will. I think he was rally young. He is never really been hurt. He is had some hand issues. You know to have a rib issue is pretty minor. I was a little bit concerned he did not make the 144-pound catchweight that they were supposed to fight at.  At the weigh-in yesterday. Mr.  The weigh-in yesterday. He was a couple of pounds overweight which suggests maybe he is not as fit as he should be.  And he has to pay a penalty actually for being overweight. Mr.  Right he does.  Something like 300000 per pound right? Mr.  Which is - exactly. Which is like nickels and dimes for a guy who is - who makes millions of dollars any time he steps into the ring.  And reportedly will earn about five million. Mr.  Right. And that is five million pretty much guaranteed. I mean he could make up as much to 10 million depending on the pay-per-views which is really really a big story going into tonight's fight.  The big story as you alluded to is that they are up against another fight which is the Ultimate Fighting Championship bout Mr.  That is right.  mixed martial arts. And that is really been cutting into boxing's numbers over the past few years. Mr.  Oh absolutely. It is been a rising tide since about the late '90s. It is not a great card. It does not measure up to Mayweather and Marquez. But if it can match what Mayweather and Marquez bring or maybe even beat them then that is a really really bad sign for boxing. And you have got to wonder like why is it that MMA is becoming so outrageously popular. And I think it is because a lot of kids coming up today did not grow up like me where they could watch boxing for free with Howard Cosell on Saturdays the Wide World of Sports. But MMA has been out there to YouTube phenomena. It is all part of the new media. And I think that is part of what made it so popular.  Kevin Blackistone is the national columnist for AOL FanHouse. Kevin thanks. Mr.  Thank you very much.  And enjoy the fight. Mr.  I am certainly going to buy it.  