 Let us talk basketball for a few minutes. Sure you are probably watching baseball or tennis or NASCAR or cycling right now but this is the time of year when the business side of hoops kicks into high gear. This weekend marked the start of free agency. That means that players who are eligible for free agency are signing huge contracts. The Golden State Warriors' Steph Curry just signed a 200 million deal the richest in league history. But here's a thing that is also getting a lot of attention some players are taking less money to play for teams they prefer teams that they think can better set them up for championship contention. Think LeBron James Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh in Miami. Jerry Brewer just wrote about this for The Washington Post where he is a columnist and he is with us now via Skype. Jerry Brewer thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thanks for having me.  So first let us talk about the money because the numbers seem staggering. How is it that players are able to command such high salaries?  Well when the NBA did their new television deal it was a mega-billion-dollar deal. And salary is a function of revenue so the salary cap in the NBA has shot up. It was 70 million in 2015. It is shot up to 94 for the 2016-'17 season. And now for the '17-'18 season it is going to go up to 99 million. So salaries are rising because the salary cap is going up.  But you also pointed out in your column that money is not everything for these players. I mean for example that you know Los Angeles Clippers just traded Chris Paul - their star point guard - to the Houston Rockets. He actually took less money to play for what he hopes might be the latest super team. And I just want to read a line from your column. You said  the modern NBA superstar is the most powerful genre of athlete in American professional team sports history. Those elite players have it all - the riches the platform the influence the savvy about the league's business and the audacity to use everything for their own good no matter the consequences. The latter two things the know-how and the nerve frighten and intrigue at once. It is an uneasy feeling because it is unfamiliar. Uneasy to who?  I think it is uneasy for fans who would like there to be a little more competitive balance. I think it is uneasy for - definitely owners. The NBA has a super-max system now that they are trying to do something where if you have a star you can pay him more to stay with you than to take less to go. But the stars are saying you know what? That is very nice that you are offering me 42 million a year. Let me think about it. Which is just unprecedented. These guys make so much money off the court in terms of shoe deals and endorsements so they have a lot of power because they have the power to say no and change a system which is designed for the guy to just take the most money and be happy.  Is the issue here for fans that if just a few teams would command all of the attention that that somehow would be bad for the league on the whole?  That is the argument. I mean what is the point in following a league for six months of regular season and two months of the playoffs just when we know that it is going to be Cleveland and Golden State again? I would argue though that the intrigue of the NBA has never been about widespread parity. It is always been about super teams and dominance. It is interesting now though the difference is is that it is not just big-market team doing the dominating. It is Golden State which went 40 years without a championship before they put this team together. It is Cleveland which has had a really tough run until LeBron James came. It is not just about the market anymore it is about which organizations are going to have the competence to help me reach my goals.  That is Jerry Brewer. He is a columnist for The Washington Post. We reached him via Skype. Jerry thanks so much for speaking with us.  Anytime.  