 Now to a moment of theater in last night's baseball game between the Tampa Bay Rays and New York Yankees. Those two teams are dueling for first place in the American League's Eastern Division. It is the top of the seventh the Rays are up 2-1 the Yank's Derek Jeter comes to bat. Now before we actually tell you what happens here I want to introduce our guest Buster Olney. He is a senior writer at ESPN the Magazine. He has been covering baseball like forever. And he joins us by phone from his home in Yorktown New York. And Buster thanks for being here with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me David.  I trust you can help me through this as a sports journalist  - and not as a New Yorker.  Mr.  Absolutely.  Okay let us actually listen to the tape from the game. Jeters at the plate and the pitch comes in.    Look out!  He gets clunked and you could hear that up here.  So I guess the pitch appeared to hit Jeter on the wrist at least that is what the umpire saw. Mr.  Yes.  And Jeter himself leaps away from home plate dramatically clutching his wrist kind of wincing in pain. But Buster I guess this is where it got good. An instant replay revealed that the ball actually never touched Jeters.   Wow it hit the bat.  Wow Derek is some actor.  So Jeter is sent to first the play has lots of baseball fans wondering today - is that cheating? Is it just part of baseball? And you are going to answer that question for us. Mr.  Absolutely. And it goes on for nine innings of every game. Not only will you have hitters pretend that they were hit by pitches but in every inning you will have catchers who will try to trick the umpire into thinking that a ball thrown outside of the strike zone is actually thrown in the strike zone. Now I will say this about Derek - he does have acting chops. Remember he did host Saturday Night Live. So maybe he has a little bit more experience than some of the other guys.   He did put on quite a show. And actually it was pretty funny listening to what he said in the locker room after the game. Let us pull that tape up.  Where did that ball hit? Mr.  The bat.  And? Mr.  Huh?  Did you just milk it? Mr.  Well I mean told me to go to first so I am not gonna tell him I am not gonna go to first you know? I mean my job is to try to get on base. You know it is part of the game.  He is like huh? I do not know what you are talking about. Mr.  That is right. You know to his credit he is not trying to pretend that he actually got hit. I did think on that play he often gets hit by pitches he will spin out of the way and then part of the reason why is 'ecause the way that he takes his swings he sort of ducks into the ball. And I think that by the time you know he spun away the umpire had already called a hit by pitch. And at that point you could almost see in his expression okay I am going to go along with this. And as Kim Jones said I am going to milk it for all I can.  Well I guess people maybe who do not know that this type of stuff goes on in every game or do not follow baseball that closely would want to ask is there no honor in baseball? I mean cannot someone be honest and... Mr.  Not like there is in golf and not like there is in amateur tennis where of course you know the players make their own lines calls. This is sort of - it is interesting when the whole debate comes up about replay in baseball people talk about the human element meaning umpires can make mistakes. And the players will do everything they possibly can to exploit that. I have only heard of one instance in the you know 25 years that I have covered baseball in which an umpire has gotten mad at a player for what he perceived to be the player trying to trick him. Otherwise I think the players and the umpires all understand the players are going to try to get away with as much as they possibly can.  Buster thanks for talking to us. Mr.  Okay David good talking with you.  Buster Olney senior writer at ESPN the Magazine talking to us about the actor and baseball player Derek Jeter. 