 In less than 24 hours the biggest women's sporting event in the world kicks off. And yes that pun was intended because I am talking about the 2015 Women's World Cup. Hundreds of millions of people are expected to tune in to the opening game between host country Canada and China. NPR's Shereen Marisol Meraji is in Canada and gives us the rundown.  Twenty-three women's teams from across the world have descended on Canada eight more than last tournament. The U.S. is ranked second among the lot and they have got the player who has scored the most international goals in the entire world male or female - forward Abby Wambach. She just celebrated her 35th birthday this week.  Number one I am four years older so of course I am four years wiser. For me it is being smarter than I was four years ago so that I can be in the final playing for my country come July.  Wambach has two gold medals but no World Cup championship title and she wants it bad. But it is not going to be easy. The U.S. is playing in the group round with some decent teams one of which is Sweden whose coach Pia Sundhage used to coach the U.S. women. So there might be some emotional baggage on the field that day. And speaking of the field it is not grass. It is artificial turf the first time the World Cup has ever been played on turf and ouch it hurts.  It feels like one giant rug burn.  Patty La Bella hosts the Women's World Football Show a podcast about women's soccer and is talking about U.S. defender Lori Chalupny after a game on turf against super physical France.  Like from her ankles to her - all over her elbows her arms - and I am like holy cow. They are going to do this for how many games?  Last year more than 60 players signed on to a gender discrimination lawsuit against FIFA saying FIFA would never allow men to play on turf but ended up dropping it because it was not going to get sorted in time for the Cup. Star midfielder for the U.S. Carli Lloyd said they made their point loud and clear and now they have got bigger things to worry than the absence of grass.  We have been training on turf a lot and I think we will adapt just fine to it.  Just like the women to put their head down and play through the pain. That is the one thing about this international tournament - not as much rolling around on the grass - I mean turf - crying foul after being knocked down by a feather or nothing at all. Speaking of the men the promos on Fox Sports designed to pump everyone up for the Women's World Cup starts with the U.S. men in Brazil which was last year.   It is De Bruyne and Belgium scores. The American's World Cup dream is over.  It did not end when the final whistle sounded.  Jennifer Doyle who writes about gender and sports for her blog The Sports Spectacle has been following the women's team closely for almost a decade. She says the new ads are way better than the ones from years ago with the tagline the greatest team you have never heard of. But they still put the men first setting it up like the U.S. women will avenge the men's defeat.  As if the U.S. women were not in the final of the last Women's World Cup and lost to Japan. They have their own score to settle.  Yup. Japan won four years ago. They of course want a repeat. The U.S. is ranked second to Germany which has also won the World Cup twice. France is a powerhouse team. Brazil has a five-time FIFA Footballer of the Year winner who just goes by Marta. She is so good she does not need a last name. Soccer fan and semipro player Mary Brazie says this World Cup is going to be exciting so figure out how to tune in.  You track it down. And you go to a bar and you watch it. Like everyone should be watching the women. Like everyone should be doing it. Like they are - they play so well. They play so skilled. They work so hard to do it. There is no reason we should not support them.  At least 50000 fans are expected to attend tomorrow's opening game between Canada and China. That will set a record the largest crowd ever to cheer on a national team here men or women. Shereen Marisol Meraji NPR News Edmonton. 