 Professional tennis is one of the major sports where men and women play in the same tournaments on the same courts. Yet women make less money than men and they deal with a lot of scrutiny. But one male player Andy Murray who is currently ranked number two in the world has become a kind of champion for women in the sport. He gets in fights with people on Twitter. This summer at Wimbledon he corrected a reporter who said Sam Querrey was the first U.S. player to advance to a semifinal since 2009.   How would you describe the...  Male player.  I beg your pardon.  Male player right?  Yes.  Yeah.  Yes first male player. That is for sure.  Meaning the Williams sisters Serena and Venus have made it to the semis tons of times. Lizzy Goodman recently profiled Murray for Elle magazine and she is here in the studio with me now. Hey there.  Hey there.  OK so first let us just talk about last year. I mean it was a pretty tough year for women in tennis right? What happened?  Yes. I - it kind of started in the spring with the Indian Wells tournament which is one of the biggest tournaments of the year. And the tournament director gave some quotes in which he basically said that the women are riding the coattails of the men. So sort of - and he used the phrase get down on their knees and thank Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer and these sort of banner players on the male side for the attention they have brought the sport in the last few years. So that was not received well. And that was kind of the gun going off. And as the year progressed there were a series of events in which this came up. And tournament directors made ill-advised comments in response.  And so enter into Andy Murray. I mean we talked about some of the things that he did. What else has he done and said?  He is been at this for a long time . It is - his mom Judy Murray is a kind of stalwart supporter of women in tennis an incredible coach an icon in the sport in general and an advocate for women. But he also quite famously sort of ushered in the era of bold name coaching with his relationship with Ivan Lendl. Now that is standard. Like all the big players on the male side have kind of recruit past greats to help them. Andy was first. Then his second choice after he worked with Ivan Lendl - the next person that he went to was a woman Amelie Mauresmo and that drew a lot of negative attention at the time. It was like he had launched this sort of - this pattern. And then when he changed it up by hiring the next in line of sort of amazing former players to work with and it happened to be a female human being that was quite scandalous.  Really? And so what did he do when people criticized him for that?  He spoke out really strongly about it. And I think the clip you played is a really good example of what is great about Andy's feminism which is that it is kind of - it is dudish . Like there is something very like bro-y  in the best way about his response. He does not give this sort of soliloquy about - excuse me reporter did you actually mean to say? He is just like male player right? Like it is very in the language of his - the way he speaks about everything else is how he speaks about this and I think that is what is lent power to his advocacy in this space because on some level he is sort of like I would really rather not talk about this. But like you have got to be kidding me. Like I cannot anymore. And I think that is - the female players that I spoke to for the piece - that echoed - that rings really true with them because it is sort of like - it is not something you want to talk about. It is eye roll inducing and yet it is so prevalent.  Yeah your piece is called Game Changer. I mean do you think he really is changing the game and helping it move forward in the way people treat women?  I think so. I think that attention on this level from this side of the aisle so to speak is powerful. I do not - I think it is unfortunate that that is what it takes...  Right.  ... Obviously.  Yeah. We are talking about a dude as a feminist here.  Yes.  Yeah.  And I struggled with that in the piece. I mean to write a piece in a women's magazine that uses this kind of attention on a man and have it be about feminism is a trick you know? But I think to - it is appropriate because he is making waves in a way that has an effect. You can tell by Serena's response to it. I mean Serena's response to Andy has basically been - at each of these junctures has been like you know all of us are grateful to him for calling these issues out because you have to - there - we need it from all sides. And he has a powerful megaphone.  Lizzy Goodman is a contributing editor at Elle magazine. She is also out with a new book called Meet Me In The Bathroom. It is an oral history of rock in New York City in the first decade of the 2000s. Thank you.  Thank you so much.  