 The Olympics start tomorrow in Rio de Janeiro. But the world is already planning for the next Summer Games Tokyo 2020. And the International Olympic Committee just announced that Tokyo will feature five new sports including for the first time ever surfing.  We caught up with a few surfers in Los Angeles to see what they thought.  Wow that is gnarly.  That is 24-year-old David Hirsch. He was decked out in his wet suit waxing his board. And he was about to head down to the ocean when we broke the news.  Like I am not like waving like a surf flag but it would just be cool for people to be able to see something new some different sport that they were not exposed to before or something.  Gaby Herbst was packing up her board and strapping it to the top of her car. She is a high school teacher. And she has time to surf while on summer break.  And even though you might not think of Japan when you think of surfing she says it is a good choice.  I think it is a fun place for it to start because internationally I would not say that it is the biggest scene. But they do have really good waves out there.  She is a little skeptical that the biggest names in surfing will come out to the Olympics though since it is around the same time of professional surfing competitions.  Like I do not know who is going to give up you know all those points for missing out on a comp and all that money to go compete in the Olympics.  Then there is Matt Muzio. He grew up in Hawaii and started surfing at the age of 12 about 40 years ago.  And he is basically over it.  They are about 50 years late.  Fifty years late and for all the wrong reasons.  I think the whole thing's a joke. It has nothing to do with surfing. It has everything to do with money. Surfing's a soul sport. It is about going out in the morning and surfing. What are the Olympics going to do for surfing?  Lauren Bos was coming out of the water when we spoke to her. She and her friends have been talking about the Olympics news since yesterday.  Yeah it was like all my girlfriends that we all surf and our group text is called wave babes. They are all still in the water actually yeah .  She just started surfing two years ago and she is hooked.  I mean it sounds very hippy but like I caught the stoke. I know that sounds really silly but I mean it really is like once you start you cannot stop. And it is all you think about. And you watch videos and you watch other surfers. And you start recognizing all the big names and follow their Instagram accounts and just start recognizing good style when you see it.  She is excited to see some of the big names compete. But one downside all the Olympic attention might bring more people to her favorite surf spots. 