 Tennis fans are buzzing about Serena Williams' obscenity-laced tirade at the U.S. Open semifinals on Saturday. It reminded a lot of people of John McEnroe's angry meltdowns. In case you missed it Williams the defending champion was losing to Kim Clijsters. On a crucial point in the second set a lineswoman called a foot fault on Serena's second serve.  Foot fault.  Foot fault and that gives Kim Clijsters two match points.  Serena Williams lost it. She went over to the lineswoman shook her racquet at her took a ball and verbally threatened her with it. A penalty point cost her the match and she was fined 10000. NPR's Elizabeth Blair takes a look at what else this might have cost you.  It certainly cost Serena Williams the anger of fans when she walked off the court defeated not by another player but by an official's call.   For Richard Evans who writes for Tennis Week it was a sad sight especially since Serena Williams is such a positive role model. Mr.  It is very sad and I think what Serena said and the language she used is very disappointing and I know she will be disappointed with herself.  Williams did look disappointed in the press conference just following the match but many commentators jumped on the fact that she did not seem all that remorseful. On Sunday the day after the match she issued a statement acknowledging that she handled the situation poorly. It was not until today that she apologized to the lineswoman to Kim Clijsters and to her own fans. Ms.  Let us face it abuse of an umpire is just about the cardinal sin in any sport.  Sally Jenkins is a sports writer for The Washington Post. She says one reason there is been such a vehement reaction to Serena Williams' outburst is because tennis seems like such a genteel sport. Ms.  Because I mean I have seen far worse on NBA courts I mean my gosh. It is funny because tennis is such a hushed sport and you know it is a culture of silence and stillness in a way between the points. And so when you do have an explosion like that it just seems louder somehow.  But Sally Jenkins does not think that will have a negative impact on Serena Williams' career. Ms.  It is a black eye. She will put a beef steak on it and the swelling will go down in about a week.  Maybe not even that long. Today she and her doubles partner and sister Venus Williams won the U.S. Open Women's Doubles. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 