 There were big hopes this year of a Triple Crown winner when the thoroughbred I will Have Another won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness. Then the day before the Belmont Stakes the colt was suddenly withdrawn from the race. His trainer Doug O'Neill chalked it up to a freakish injury. But an investigation by The New York Times shows that was not the case. Veterinary records show that I will Have Another suffered from osteoarthritis for some time and was being treated with painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs. Reporter Joe Drape joins me to talk about what he found. Joe welcome to the program.  Thanks for having me Melissa.  Why do not you go back to the explanation from the trainer Doug O'Neill last month about the freakish injury and how that squares with what these records show?  Well the sequence he described at the time is that he woke up on Friday the day before the race worked the colt out lightly and discovered a little inflammation and some heat to his left front tendon and what the records demonstrate is that he had chronic tendinitis. He had issues before that that he arrived in New York and immediately got X-rayed three weeks prior to the race and they diagnosed osteoarthritis there. So basically what the records show is that this horse had some wear and tear and was banged up and they were treating it and they were trying to get him to the Belmont Stakes.  They were giving pretty powerful drugs to get him to that race.  They - you know two days before the race they gave him two pretty powerful shots that intended to get him to the races. It was not until an ultrasound was done the following day at the request of the owner that they diagnosed that he did have this chronic tendonitis and it was not probably the right thing to do to run him.  When you confronted the trainer Doug O'Neill with these findings what did he say?  He said the horse was perfectly sound and that he was not aware that he had been diagnosed with osteoarthritis and he did not have any chronic conditions and you know he had iron legs and he was sound.  There is an interesting twist to the story. You had access to these horse records because the trainer Doug O'Neill has had repeated drug violations with horses. He faces a 40-day suspension in August. That is why you were able to access these records in the first place.  Yeah. The state of New York made Doug O'Neill agree to conditions of turning in his vet records daily as a requirement of licensing him here to run in the Belmont. You know it was a rare glimpse that we usually do not get on vet records. In 2009 before the derby I asked 20 owners for their vet records of all the horses that were running and only three would give them to me. Usually these come out in lawsuits and you know they guard the vet records and the conditions of these horses before big races like they are state secrets. They do not want to let on if a colt is banged up a little bit. You know and especially in the Triple Crown races this is three-year-old colts which are the equivalents of adolescent boys. You know they are 13 and 14. They are not fully formed and they have asked to do a lot. You know it is three races five weeks three different distances. They have run three or four times to even get into the series so you know they are pushing these horses pretty hard at that time of year.  Why is this significant? What is the big implication here?  Well what is significant is horseracing has a history of leaning hard on these horses and getting them to the races and you know nobody's really asked what is going on how they get them there what kind of medications they are given. And you know America leads the world in catastrophic breakdowns. The New York Times had a series and we went out and documented 24 horses die a week at the racetrack. That is far more than Europe Hong Kong the rest of the world. So you look at what is the difference between us and them is we rely more on veterinarian and medications and we have more permissive rules with not very strict or stiff penalties.  You report that I will Have Another was given drugs two days before the Belmont painkillers and synthetic joint fluid drugs that you say are not illegal. They are not uncommon in horseracing. Are there people who say they should be illegal they should be made uncommon?  There is a great dialogue right now about how America medicates its horses. In Europe and the rest of the world they are not allowed to have these medications. We worked on a series for a year now and have run out several parts and what we have found is that trainers use these things to prop up a horse to get him to the races. Does it enhance their performance? Yeah. Because maybe they would not make the races. And you know they mask the pain and that is where the danger and the abuse is.  I have been talking with Joe Drape reporter with the New York Times. Joe thanks so much.  Melissa thanks for having me. 