 Every World Cup we ask the same question in our editorial meeting - has soccer finally turned the corner and become mainstream here in the U.S.? Well if you go by the television ratings the answer this year is a definite maybe. And for more on this we turn to Brian Steinberg. He is the senior TV editor at Variety and he is been tracking the ratings. Welcome to the program once again.  Thank you very much.  What numbers jump out at you in the first few days of the World Cup?  Well I think ESPN and Univision are both seeing pretty good numbers. I think it was 7 million plus combined for both networks for the first couple of days which I think is quite good - 7 million now - in summertime especially.  And who is watching. Who is in that audience?  Well I think what is driving it these days is a growing Latino population that is really a second or third generation. They are upwardly mobile in society. You know this is a favorite sport that is been handed down from generations. And it is once every four years. It is another version of the Olympics for some people certainly.  You mentioned the number 7 million - put that in some context for us. Just the past few days we have seen the NBA finals wrap up also the Stanley Cup the U.S. Open without Tiger Woods playing - how does 7 million figure for those sports?  7 million would be good for that. I think the Stanley Cup actually did a little bit less than that. Look it is not the Super Bowl certainly. That has a 110 million people watching that event. 7 million - look - I - talk about prime time entertainment certainly you know Modern Family gets about 8 to 10 million people for a fresh episode. So this is summertime where you are always down a little bit certainly. But live sports tends to kind of draw a pretty big crowd. And 7 million for two networks showing the same thing over a month long period which is not like most sports events which are one and done - it is a pretty big event and it is getting decent traction in the United States.  What about advertising? The World Cup obviously is a lot cheaper to buy a 30 seconds or a minute for than the Super Bowl.  Yes. I mean - look look - this is a month-long event. There are many ways to advertise. For example Fusion - which is a kind of new cable network owned by ABC and Univision as a matter fact - is doing a hour-long analysis show every night on prime time. So there is different ways to kind of - to get the audience certainly. But yeah this is a younger audience that watches soccer. It is a more global audience. There is definitely a reason to be attached to this event.  But is not there a problem for commercials - for advertisers in soccer - which is that there just are not timeouts? You get before the game you get halftime and you get after the game.  That is a problem. And I think one of the reasons why soccer have may not taken off the United States is that it is a very European South American sport and there is not this overwhelming flood of commercials - from minute to minute there is not a scoreboard sponsored by so-and-so or a cut-in brought to you by Subway. You know you do not see Jared Fogle the guy who lost weight at Subway holding forks with the guys during halftime. So there are some definitely non-U.S. elements to this game that keep it a little more pristine.  But the evening is still young though. Who knows when we will see Jared with the players of the world.  I am sure someone's talking about it as we speak.  So if you had to put a lead on this so far what you are seeing - a continued steady climb for soccer a breakthrough World Cup? What do you think we are looking at this year?  I think it is definitely a steady climb. I think it is something to keep watching. I think it is emblematic of bigger shifts in the consumer audience. If you are an advertiser or a programmer you want to keep your eye on this because if you can find some way to harness it now it might pay off for you later on.  Brian Steinberg thanks for talking with us.  Thank you.  Brian Steinberg is the senior TV editor for Variety.  This is NPR News. 