 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Noah Adams. There is Mike and Zac Jessica Abby and Laura.  All teenagers with a passion for sailing and a desire to circumnavigate the world alone. Two did it this summer.  Last weekend 17-year-old Mike Perham arrived back at his starting point of Portsmouth England. He became the youngest sailor to complete the around-the-world trip.  The title had been held by another 17-year-old old Zac Sunderland of California who completed his journey earlier this summer.  And then there is 13-year-old Laura Dekker from The Netherlands.  Her attempt to sail around the world was scuttled at least temporarily by a Dutch court. She was deemed too young to go alone.  So why all the interest in sailing among the teen set? We are joined now by Tania Aebi who is in Corinth Vermont who was 18 years old when she started a solo trip around the world and that was back in 1985. How did that trip go Ms. Aebi? Ms.  It took two and a half years and it went well. I survived.  You went from where to where? Ms.  New York to New York through the Panama Canal the Suez Canal so the Pacific the Indian Ocean the Mediterranean and the North Atlantic. The trip itself was great. It was a huge adventure and it tested me and it taught me all kinds of things and so on. But the best part of the whole trip was sitting down at the end of it and writing about it and processing the whole experience.  You had quite a different experience technically. You had a sextant right and not a GPS? Ms.  Yes that is right. They did not even exist back then.  And you were not sending any Twitter messages or any - you were not on the Web. You write in an article coming up in a magazine that if you Google Zac Sunderland you get 1.17 million hits. Ms.  I did get that at the time when I wrote it. And then of course there are less and less. I guess they disappear. I do not know how Google works but yeah there was no Internet when I went. There was no cell phone. It was the Dark Ages really.  And so he was in touch with much of the world for much of his trip. Ms.  Zac was.  Zac was. Ms.  And so was Mike and so will Jessica. Yeah they have all their blogs and Web sites and it is changed. The technological advantages are huge.  And you were out there by yourself sighting the stars at night trying Ms.  I did. I would get one position a day. With a GPS you have a position constantly - constantly being updated. There was no communication with land. There was a VHF radio which carries for 12 miles. So I could talk to other ships when one came within sight of me. Articles I wrote about the trip were handwritten on lined paper and I had to put them in an envelope with a stamp. And when I called home I had to find a telephone booth and make a collect call. It just it seems like it was so long ago but not really 20 years only.  What about those long nights you know in a dark ocean when you are trying to stay awake a little bit just in case there may be a whale or a container ship floating along. A ship would be you know sort of off-course in a shipping channel and could not see you and you would not show up on radar. Ms.  You had to suspend a little bit of that fear. Otherwise you cannot sleep. I kind of operated on the premise that the chances of being in the exact same spot as a ship at any given time in all that ocean were slim until I actually got hit by a ship one day which changed it kind of altered the way I was able to sleep at night.  You know when we talk about teenagers 17 18 16 but then we talk about a 13-year-old young woman Laura Dekker. Ms.  Yes.  A Dutch court says she cannot go alone. Ms.  Yes.  How do you feel about Laura Dekker's situation? Ms.  I think technically she would probably be okay especially with all the technological advances that have been made. Emotionally I do not know. I do not know her but I have to respect her desire to do it and her parents' belief in her. I take it a little personally the criticism because I fielded that as well and I was 18. I mean I was old compared to these kids now. The thing that I say the most now is that a lot was made of my courage and my abilities or whatever but my dad's faith in me was the biggest. That was the biggest factor of the whole thing for him to have had the faith in me that I could do it and to let me go and to give me that chance. And I would have to respect that for these parents too because the girl wants to do it. They are not making her go. She wants to do it. It is her dream.  Tania Aebi who two decades ago sailed alone around the world. She is the author of the upcoming article Soloist to Soloist in the October issue of Cruising World Magazine. Thank you Ms. Aebi. Ms.  You are welcome. Thank you. 