 The Major League Baseball season is nearing its midpoint and it is no surprise that the New York Yankees and the Texas Rangers are in first place in their divisions but the Washington Nationals were not expected to be there. The team has a first-rate pitching roster. And as NPR's Joseph Shapiro reports it has been energized by the game's youngest player Bryce Harper.  So how do you build your baseball legend when you are in the major leagues and you are 19? Actually that is a pretty good start. You are playing Major League Baseball and you are just 19. Bryce Harper sits at his locker in the clubhouse before taking batting practice and says he is just trying to enjoy it all.  I come in here and try to you know laugh and smile as much as I can. You know I am 19 and in the big leagues. And you know that' I have a great team around me and you know it is just a lot of fun coming in here every day in the club house and you know I just have a blast.  Harper started building his legend with laser throws from the outfield by running the base paths so hard that his helmet flies off and by blasting home runs. Like this one last week called by the Nationals' radio announcer.  Swing a long one. Deep right center field. Going going gone goodbye. Off the back wall of the Rockies' bullpen. It is a game-tying Harper homer here in the ninth inning.  Harper's not one of those modern sluggers who stands at home plate and admires his blast. He takes off running.  You know I have always tried to you know get to second base before that ball lands. And you know really not try to show up that pitcher or anything like that.  He built his legend too when Cole Hamels the Philadelphia Phillies pitcher threw what he later admitted was a deliberate welcome-to-the-Majors-kid fastball to Harper's back. Harper did not show emotion. But when he advanced to third base he waited until the pitcher turned to pick-off the runner at first. Then Harper tried a rare steal of home. The announcers on ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball called what happened.  He is coming home. Safe.   You sure this kid's 19?  Sometimes that teen energy leads to rookie mistakes - like getting thrown out at third base when he should have stopped at second or the time after grounding out he slammed his bat against a wall in frustration. Only the bat bounced back and smacked him in the head. Harper ran out to right field the next inning with blood streaming down his face. Later he would get 10 stitches. That only added to the legend. Harper says he models the play of some old school greats.  Cal Ripken Jr. and Pete Rose George Brett Griffey.  Only those players never had to grow up in an Internet age where everything they did was instant news. In Toronto a reporter kept pushing whether he would celebrate a home run with a beer. Nineteen-year-olds can drink legally in Canada. Harper's reply cleverly used the word clown as an adjective and the video clip went viral.  That is a clown question bro.  It was also a disrespectful question to ask someone raised as a Mormon. Harper grew up in Las Vegas. His father is a retired steelworker who helped build the city's hotels and casinos. Harper left high school after his sophomore year for community college where he could play for a year against better competition. He would already been hitting home runs so far that at 16 he was on the cover of Sports Illustrated which declared him Baseball's Chosen One. That helped start the legend but it created resentment. In basketball the first three picks in last week's NBA draft were 19 or younger. But baseball expects its heroes to be older. At opponents' ball parks Harper gets cheers and lots of boos. The Nationals manager Davey Johnson says Harper handles the jeering like a pro too.  He likes tough situations. He is always been competing his whole life with kids a lot older them him. He is very physically strong and he is very mentally strong. But he is very driven to succeed.  Now Harper's competing for the last spot to play in next week's All Star game. Johnson his manager says he would like to see Harper take the days off to rest his sore back. But Harper just wants to play baseball every day. Still if he is not an All-Star this year Bryce Harper figures he will get more chances in the future. Joseph Shapiro. NPR News. 