 Columbia University is known for many things - winning at football not one of them. In the 1980s the school set a record for most consecutive no-win games at 44. The team is currently at 22 straight losses the worst in the league. But wait. This season there is some hope for the Columbia Lions in the form of a new coach with a good record. This fall Ilya Marritz is tracking the Lions for member station WNYC to learn what it takes to have a breakthrough.  Meet the Columbia University Lions one of the oldest football teams in the country.  One team.  One team.  One family.  One family.  Together.  Together.  Squad on three. One two three...  Squad.  If you watched them practice you would probably think those are some good athletes and you would not guess that they are in the middle of a long losing streak.  I mean obviously we have not won a game in two years so everyone just thinks we are a bad. But that is not the case.  I have not won a game since my freshman year.  You never forget the feeling of winning and that is what we are trying to get back to here is winning.  Travis Reim Toba Akinleye and Nick Durham - all seniors. If things are going to change this is the year it starts. Columbia is pouring money into the team and working hard to get students and alums to root for the Lions again. But the biggest change is the man at the top - a new coach who is legendary for winning. His name is Al Bagnoli and in 23 years leading the University of Pennsylvania Quakers he brought home nine Ivy League titles.  What we are trying to do here is no different than a company that is gone bankrupt and it is been bought by somebody and they are coming in there with a new management team. And how do you get that business to be solvent and then how do you get it to be profitable?  Kristyn Brundidge does play-by-play for the college radio station WKCR and she thinks Bagnoli may just have the right resume for this job.  It really would take a unique talent to come in here change the attitude of the existing players do the recruiting that is necessary and also appeal to the alumni enough to gain the support that is necessary for this team to compete.  That sounds like a miracle worker.  . I mean - and like the thing is like Al Bagnoli is probably the closest thing you are going to get to a miracle worker.  Bagnoli's approach - attention to deal. Take care of the little things and work on motivating athletes who have gotten used to losing. So go out he says and play 100 miles an hour. Last Saturday the Lions faced the Fordham University Rams in their season opener. And for the first three quarters it is close. In what was probably the most thrilling moment of the game Columbia running back Alan Watson catches the ball at kickoff at the two yard line. He disappears in a knot of Fordham players and then reappears on the other side sprinting for the end zone.   It is the Lions' first kickoff return for a touchdown in a decade. In the fourth quarter it is the Rams though not the Lions who roar. Fordham wins 44 to 24. Up in the stands Columbia fans are just happy they got to see an exciting competitive game. It feels like an improvement but it is not good enough for coach Bagnoli.  I do not want our kids happy that you know they made this thing respectable. I do not think that is our goal. I do not think that is where we want the program to be at.  This Saturday the Lions are on their home field to face Georgetown. If they can make this a win if they can get even just one win this season it will feel like success. For NPR News I am Ilya Marritz in New York. 