 Thursday Night Football has never been the NFL's biggest stage. But last night it was in a way. For the first time ever an NFL game streamed live on Twitter on its website and apps commentators and all.  No cable subscription needed no antenna just the Internet. More than 2 million people saw at least part of the game on Twitter though many people did not watch for very long. It was the first in a 10-game deal Twitter made with the NFL earlier this year.  Here to talk about how it went and the implications for both Twitter and the NFL is NPR TV critic Eric Deggans. Eric welcome back.  Are you ready for some football?   Yes I am. And the obvious...  I was.  ...Question that comes first is how was it? I mean what is it like watching a football game on social media?  Well you know  in a weird way it was like watching it on CBS or the NFL Network - right? - because they simulcast that game on those two channels and Twitter presented that feed. I do not know. There were a couple moments when I thought the screen might freeze up for a second or you kind of see a sequence like a second or two repeated like a record was skipping or something. But for the most part I really liked it. They had curated comments if you watched it on a desktop or you watched it on the app underneath the actual video footage. So you could see a little bit of the conversation. Some people complained because on CBS and on the NFL Network the action was a little bit ahead. You know the Twitter broadcast was a little delayed. But other than that it seemed to go very well and people seemed to like it.  OK so no spoiler alerts .  .  And then the other thing - for a long time people have been I guess using what you call a second screen - right? - watching something on TV and then commenting on social media especially Twitter. So tell us about those comments from Twitter users. I mean what were they like?  Well that was the weird part about this is that you know sports fans have long used Twitter and other social media to sort of talk about games as they watch them. So you think if Twitter is going to present a live-streaming cast of a game that that might be a big feature. But that was kind of hampered because the comments that you saw associated with the video were curated or were selected. And now they did that I am sure to keep out all the Twitter trolls and so you could not post any vulgarities or anything like that. But you could not have like a direct conversation. You had to sort of watch this conversation that Twitter was giving you. And you had to go to a different area of Twitter if you wanted to talk to your friends or if you wanted to talk to people that you follow. As I saw somebody else point out online the comments did not really feature like football experts or somebody who was connected to the game or a celebrity or anything like that. And that would have spiced up the conversation I think if Twitter had dropped in some specialized comments. So it did not feel very much like Twitter even though it was on Twitter.  Now Twitter reportedly paid 10 million for the rights to stream 10 of these Thursday Night Football games - nine more to go. What is in it for both of these entities right? Ten million dollars is not a lot when it comes to NFL money.  Right exactly. This is a bit of an experiment I think for both of them. For Twitter they are trying to get people to see it more as a general-interest website. You know they have already got the people who are interested in social media. But maybe people might see Twitter in a different way if they go to it for something that is more generally interesting like football. For the NFL they have always been experimenting in the last few years about how to stream their games outside of their own platforms. They did something with Yahoo where they live-streamed a game last year for example. So this is part of that experiment to sort of see who shows up who watches the ads who can they reach that they are not reaching before. Both of these companies seem to be trying something new.  That is Eric Deggans NPR's TV critic talking to us about Twitter's livestream of Thursday Night Football last night. Eric thanks so much.  Always a pleasure. 