 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Robert Siegel. Bud Selig the commissioner of Major League Baseball formally announced his intention today to step down from that position at the end of next season. Under Selig's leadership baseball has experienced both expansion and upheaval. NPR's Mike Pesca joins us to discuss the tenure of the man who took over as the league's acting commissioner in 1992 Mike.  Yes.  Well what will Bud Selig be remembered for after these 20 years or more as baseball commissioner?  I would say strikes and steroids. And if that sounds a little harsh you know there is a good side to both. They lost the World Series in 1994 and you can never go back from that and it is of course not only Bud Selig's fault there were - the owners and the union were negotiating hard but he was the one who ultimately made that call. The good side I suppose is since then baseball has had much less labor strikes than all the other team sports but then again no other team sport ever lost - you know NBA did not lose a championship or a Super Bowl. And steroids were rife in the game and he was a bit blind to it. I have heard it said that he got religion late on the issue and he certainly did. Now baseball has harsher anti-steroid rules than all the other sports and what I am leaving out - perhaps if an owner is listening to this they would just say look at the bottom line. Baseball was making 1.4 billion in 1995. Now they are making about 7.5 billion and that is what matters to them.  Well how much of that growth can one attribute to Bud Selig?  Well you know whenever I do a story on a commissioner I always note - whoever it is the NFL commissioner Roger Goodell or Gary Bettman of the NHL David Stern of the NBA - they have presided over unprecedented expansion. Is it that these four guys are geniuses? Maybe they are. Or is it that we are in a golden age of sports and especially sports on television? That seems to be a large part of it. I will say that Selig seems to be habitually underestimated perhaps because of his comportment that he wears suits that fit him like a rosin bag. I mean ESPN's Scott Van Pelt once said that you go to Selig's house and it probably has plastic on the sofas and it would smell bad. I mean Van Pelt got suspended for that even though it is pretty funny. The tag or the coda to that was you know Van Pelt was kind of outraged that Selig was getting paid 18.5 million. You know his salary has been upped to 22.5 million so the owners think Selig is valuable.  No matter how he dresses. The game has changed a lot under Bud Selig. Interleague play wildcard playoffs some instant replays. What is the verdict? Are these successful changes?  Yes and no. I mean in five days there is going to be a one-game wildcard. It will get great television ratings relatively not compared to the NFL. But you know when you have so many wildcard slots a lot of people say it devalues the regular season. Interleague play is successful although you know we could point to a lot of boring games that do not really matter. And as you say instant replay it is creeping along. He is been sort of incremental although he has modernized the sport a bit.  Are there any names people have mentioned as possible successors to Selig?  There are almost too many names. I mean there is no clear frontrunner. He could go with someone inside his office like Rob Manfred who is the executive VP. Maybe he will go with at team president like Dave Dombrowski of the Tigers. Hey how about Joe Torre? He is now a vice president for baseball. It could be him.  Let us ask him. Thank you Mike.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Mike Pesca talking about Major League Baseball commissioner Bud Selig's formal retirement announcement. 