 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Michele Norris.  And I am Robert Siegel. The heat is oppressive across the country and for Pittsburgh Pirate fans most summers are oppressive - but not this one. This week the Pirates moved into first place of the National League Central Division. They have not been in first place this late in the season in 14 years. And Pittsburgh finally is buzzing about the Bucs. Ms.  Terry McFerrin. I have been a lifelong Pirates fan. This is just the most exciting thing going for Pittsburgh right now. They are just doing so well. I listen to them every day and I talk to my daughter about them every day. Everyone in my family's really excited. Mr.  Alex Sanzione from Pittsburgh. Here for a long time -20-plus years now. I am in my mid-20s. And so I remember the last time the Pirates winning in '92 when I was six and seven years old. They have been just so irrelevant and basically a quad-A minor league baseball team and so it is nice to finally have a team that is gained respectability amongst their peers in the major league and amongst the fans here in America for them to be considered much a contender. It is been awesome.  But will this enthusiasm last? Well joining me to talk about this is Jerry Micco. He is a sports editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Robert. It is a pleasure to be on.  And before we get to the good news about this year and how long the Pirates can keep it up tell us about how bad the team has been for the past several years. Mr.  Well Robert it is been 14 years since they have - I am sorry 18 years since they have had a winning season in Pittsburgh. So Pittsburgh fans here have gotten used to bad baseball over time although they have never liked it. And a lot of that' they have not supported the team as well as they maybe would have had they won certainly. And the ownership has taken it on the chin rightfully so I think for not spending a lot of money. But they have a plan now and it looks like it is starting to come to fruition and we will see how far this goes. But certainly the people in Pittsburgh this summer have supported this ball club.  What is so different about the team? What happened to turn the Pirates into a winning ball club this season? Mr.  They hired Clint Hurdle in the off-season. As you might remember Hurdle a few years ago took the Colorado Rockies to the World Series lost to the Red Sox. But he is infused such an enthusiasm into the team. You have that plus I think you have some players who are maturing into better players. Neil Walker is in a second year is throwing very well Andrew McCutchen is kind of reaching the potential they thought he would. And I think you have got enough good pitching. And they have managed in a division that is fairly weak to do very well and the people in Pittsburgh have just loved every minute of it. So a lot of factors conspired I think to bring these guys where they are right now.  Jerry in this drought era what I will politely refer to as the post-Clemente post-Stargell era of the Pittsburgh Pirates the football team the Steelers have been great in many seasons the hockey team the Penguins have been great in many years. Are the Pirates that other team in town that people do not really think about that much or have they remained large in the hearts of the people of Pittsburgh? Mr.  I think in the hearts of the people of Pittsburgh they have remained large but they are a very discouraged bunch - 18 years will do that to you. The people in Pittsburgh though because of the history of the Pirates and the rich history of baseball here still supported them. Now not like they would have had they won but nonetheless they still supported them. And I think it is more of a reward for those fans that the team that is now put together is a good team and they are showing up to show their you know appreciation for that.  Is this team good enough to end up the season in first place to be in the postseason maybe to make it to the World Series? Mr.  I think it is going to be a stretch for them to get into the postseason. Their next 40 games - 32 of them are against teams with .500 record or better. I think they have a real shot to break the 18-year losing streak and win 82 or 83 or even 85 games I do not know if they can do that or not. I do not know if they are quite ready yet to get that far but I think they can contend all the way through.  Well Jerry thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Sure Robert. My pleasure.  Jerry Micco who is sports editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 