 Dominance in sports is a funny thing. It can elicit both admiration and total hatred - case in point University of Alabama football. The Crimson Tide has won five national championships in the past 10 years. That is too many say the haters who especially love to insult Bama's head coach Nick Saban.  But in Alabama and especially the team's hometown of Tuscaloosa there is mostly devotion and a sense of mission. In last season's national title game Clemson walloped the Crimson Tide. With a new college football season beginning tomorrow Saban and his team are determined to as he puts it not waste a failure. NPR's Tom Goldman reports.  On a sweltering mid-August morning in Tuscaloosa the University of Alabama campus is largely deserted. Bryant Denny Stadium is empty but you can hear a football season approaching.   T-shirts are already stained with sweat as members of the Alabama marching band rip their way through morning practice. Hit your notes hydrate Roll Tide.   Do you want a copy of your receipt? OK thank you darling. See you later.  Same morning and business is bustling at The Waysider. It is the city's famous Alabama-football-themed restaurant. The walls are crowded with photos and paintings of players and coaches. The menu has breakfast of champions written on the front. A woman is finishing her meal. She has a striped shirt and lipstick matching the school colors.  Every day you need to wear a little bit of crimson.  In her 51 years in Tuscaloosa Mary Jo Mason has cheered many national championships first under legendary head coach Bear Bryant and since 2007 Nick Saban. For Bama fans heading into a season is not a question of how will we do it is more who are we going to play for the title. You would think after last season's drubbing Mason would want another shot at Clemson.  I do not care who we have. I just want to win the national championship. That should not be our focus. Our focus is us and what we have to do to get there.  Sounds like you should be playing for Coach Saban.  .  What the heck it sounds like she is Nick Saban.   I felt like I personally needed to do a better job of keeping people focused.  This was him a few hours later talking about what he learned from the 44 to 16 beat-down by Clemson.   I think one of the most difficult things is for the players to stay focused on not the outcome but what does it take to do to get the outcome.  That is the foundation of his success getting young men to do what is required to accomplish a goal. At Alabama it is called the process and it is a hallowed term here albeit a bit vague. Ask what the process is exactly and you get different answers. But you are not wrong if you say the process involves accountability coachability effort.  We have had good players who buy into the things that we do here to help them be more successful as people students and players and that is worked fairly well for us.  No kidding. In his 12 years in Tuscaloosa five national titles 141 wins against only 21 losses and the most players drafted to the NFL. Yeah his recruits are among the best in the nation but sportswriter Cecil Hurt says there is something else that links Saban's success and Bear Bryant's decades ago.  One way in which they are alike is that they had 100 confidence in what they are doing.  Hurt has covered Alabama football for the Tuscaloosa News since 1982.  But they also had the ability that very few people have to convey that confidence onto the people that they are leading.   The Tigers reclaim their crowd by crushing Alabama.  Even after the Clemson loss televised on ESPN Alabama's players like Shyheim Carter share Saban's confidence in the process and talk about recommitting to its tenants of discipline and preparation.  People think just because we you know Alabama you know we just going to walk in the stadium and win. No it does not work like that. You know we had to prepare just as everybody else just as every other game.  Saban urges his players not to dwell on losses or wins. But Carter a senior defensive back says the Clemson defeat has come in handy.  When you know leaders on the team feel like practice is going sluggish they always say oh 16 to 44 remember that. And you know that kind of like give everybody an extra boost.  Sixteen to 44. Alabama first even in defeat.   Nothing sluggish about practice on this day. Wearing his straw hat with crimson-colored band Saban is in the thick of it working with his defensive backs.  Come on. Set go. Step step step. Come on. Strong strong with the lock-out. Strong with the lock-out with the punch. Let us go. Come on.  He moves well despite recent hip replacement surgery. He was back at work within 36 hours of the operation. Saban does not like to waste time. Before our interview an assistant advised do not meander with questions. Be direct. How will we know if it is not working? His leg will bounce we are told fast. Or maybe we will get a snarl. Search Saban rant and YouTube is filled with clips of him yelling at practice or snarling at the media.   I do believe in our team all right? And we are going to work hard to make our team better. And it is not going to be for you because if it was up to you we are six foot under already. We are dead and buried and gone. Gone.  Sometimes after a tense moment like this there is levity.   Last one with Alex.  You better make it a good one now because I am about half fired up here.   But the levity often does not make it onto the highlight shows. We are left with the snarl which has earned Saban nicknames like Satan or the Nick-tator. With one eye trained on his leg - it is not moving yet - I ask Saban about his reputation as the dower leader of what is been called a joyless juggernaut.  No I do not think that is fair.  Saban says they have fun at Alabama their kind of fun.  You know is fun cutting up and doing crazy stuff that is not going to help you sort of be successful in the future? Or is fun knowing you did your best to be the best you could be at whatever you choose to do? And that does not mean you do not laugh and enjoy yourself and the relationships that you develop while you are doing it.  It also does not mean it is not hard. Saban is a perfectionist and he can be tough on his team. Thirteen assistant coaches have left in the past two years. They are in high demand after working for a demanding head coach. Former offensive coordinator Michael Locksley told The Wall Street Journal every day you walk in that building you better bring your A game. My goal was to show up every day and not have Saban have to rip my butt. There are seven new coaches this season and a renewed dedication to the process. Will it all be enough for a seventh national title giving Saban the most of any college coach in history? A final answer will not come until January when Alabama may be playing for another championship. But do not ask Saban about that now eight days before Bama's opening game against Duke. It would ignore the process and for sure get that leg working overtime. Tom Goldman NPR News Tuscaloosa.  