 That is one ginourmous fish in the hands of a proud Sean Konrad in a photo taken earlier this month. Konrad reeled in a 48 pound rainbow trout on Lake Diefenbaker in Saskatchewan. That is a world record for rainbow trout if it is certified. But there are anglers who say that Konrad should not claim the record because he caught a genetically engineered sterile trout known as a triploid having three sets of chromosomes not two. Sean Konrad joins us to talk about it from Edmonton Alberta. And Sean first I want you to describe what it was like to reel in that 48 pound fish.  Mr.  It was something else. I hook into those big rainbow and you know you got a big one and it did lots of rolling and it did about three different runs which - we would actually had to lift the anchor and go after this fish. But the real excitement did not come until we actually netted the fish and realized the size of this thing.  Well yeah I mean a typical rainbow trout might be how big? Mr.  It depends where you are. But you know a trophy is going to be around the 15 to 20 pound mark.  Okay this was 48 pounds. Mr.  Yeah.  So what were you thinking when you saw that in the net? Mr.  Well we knew it was a big. We were not exactly sure how big. And my brother had the previous world record before. And we brought it in the boat and we knew it was going to be pretty close for sure to break Adam's record. So we kept it. And we had a certified scale out there and pretty much bottomed our 50-pound scale out. It is hard to explain. You know it does not really kick in until you actually sit down and think about like what you have just done and like how much I would broken the record by. It is kind of mind-boggling. So  Yeah you mentioned the earlier record that is held by your identical twin brother Adam. That record was what forty? Mr.  Forty-three pounds.  Forty-three pounds. And that fish I have seen a picture of that one. You know that fish just looks like a minnow compared to what you are holding. Mr.  Well it was a big fish that is for sure.  Well let us talk about this issue of the genetic engineering here. I gather that there were half-a-million genetically engineered fish that got into this lake through a damaged net at a fish farm and they have stocked more since. And I guess it is because they are genetically engineered they are sterile. They do not use up energy spawning. So they grow really big and you knew there would be a bunch of really big fish in this lake. Mr.  That is for sure. Yeah me and my brother we guide out there for these trophy rainbows.  Well I guess this is not a random catch. You are out there trying to break records with your brother. Mr.  Yeah. We were trying for all the line-class world records. I think we have six or seven now out of nine or 10. So we still got our work cut out for us.  Well you know Sean there is this controversy out there. There are people posting on message boards saying you know does not this completely demean the records from real rainbow trout? This is genetically engineered. It is a freak. Mr.  Well you know it is up to the IGFA to decide. I am just an angler out there catching these fish. And my opinion is you know I am not the one that made this fish. I am the one that caught it. So I am going to register it.  And IGFA is the International Game Fish Association. Mr.  Yes.  They decide. Mr.  They decide.  You did have a snappy comeback to one of those people who was posting online complaining. Mr.  Oh yeah. What was it? My brother said it. It was like stop crying and start fishing.  Words to live by I guess. Mr.  Yeah.  Well Sean Konrad thanks for talking with us. Mr.  Oh thank you.   Sean Konrad is an auto mechanic in Edmonton Alberta when he is not catching monster trout. As for what he plans to do with his 48-pound catch it is sitting in a deep-freezer right now while Konrad makes plans to mount the fish and show the world how big a rainbow trout can grow.   Your letters and a new magnum opus from one of America's late great playwrights Horton Foote The Orphan's Home Cycle. That is when we continue with ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. 