 One of the youngest athletes at the Tokyo Olympics is a 13-year-old girl who lives in both California and Japan. Her mother is from Japan. And she is representing her father's country Great Britain. As NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports she competes today in the Olympics' first ever park skateboarding event.  Sky Brown is adorable in her cute skating outfits always riding her skateboard with a big smile on her face.   For me it feels like I am flying in the sky. I want to go as high as I can. Hi. My name is Sky Brown and I like to skate and surf.  She just celebrated her 13th birthday and as she tells her online fans she is skated and surfed since she was 3. When she was 10 she and her ballroom dancing partner were crowned the first winners of TV's  Junior .   Sky and JT.   Sky and her little brother Ocean have a popular YouTube channel Sky  Ocean.   We can skate maybe TikTok maybe jump in the pool and east some sushi.  Sometimes she vlogs about new tricks like the 100-foot mega ramp she jumped with skateboard legend Tony Hawk cheering her on.   Yeah.  She is just someone who really loves skating. She is very focused. I have seen her be nothing but polite and nice.  Atiba Jefferson is a staff photographer for Thrasher the premier magazine for and by skateboarders. Here in Tokyo Jefferson has been photographing her as she preps for the Olympics.  She is doing Frontside 540s spinning in the air 540 degrees. And that is amazing. You know I have watched all the skaters practice over the last four days. And you know I would be surprised if she is not on the podium.  At the Tokyo Olympics two other 13-year-old girls from Japan and Brazil won medals in the street skateboarding event. Jefferson says being so young and small is an advantage for Sky as a skateboarder in the park competition doing midair tricks flips and rotations in an outdoor concrete course.  You are catching air and you are learning speed. You are a lot more resilient when you fall and it does not hurt as much if you are only 100 pounds.  But last summer during a practice session Sky had a big fall - 15 feet off the side of a vertical ramp. She crashed down on to flat concrete and was unresponsive at first.   Sky fractured her skull lacerated her lung and broke her left wrist and hand. From her hospital bed with a black eye and cast on her arm she recorded an Instagram message.   I do not usually post my falls or talk about them because I want people to see the fun in what I do. And I just want everyone to know that it is OK. Do not worry. I am OK. It is OK to fall sometimes. And I am just going to get back up and push even harder.  Sky says she wants to use her platform to empower young girls.   I want to push boundaries and show that I can do what boys can do and you can do it too.  She wrote a book filled with similar advice and she even recorded a song and music video called Girl.    They know I am fast on my feet. Gravity got nothing on me. Take a look got my lip gloss on. Ride or die I have got to be strong. Got to be fast got to be tough be brave and do what I love. I do not mind if people stare. No one going to stop me. I do not care.  Singing dancing surfing skateboarding in the Olympics - it seems the sky's the limit for Sky Brown. Mandalit del Barco NPR News Tokyo.    I can be gritty and shake up the world. I can do anything. Yup. I am a girl. I am a girl. I am a girl girl girl. I am a girl. 