 NPR's Mike Pesca was there.  But the word that brought the Quicksilver Pro event to Long Beach had nary a trace of the goofy about it.  The symmetry...  The symmetry?  ...is like the topography of the ocean floor.  Sean Collins is founder of Surfline the condition forecaster of record for the surf community.  The first thing that I do when I am going and looking at new surf spots is I check out the underwater bottom contours offshore for every single spot because that is really the secret of what makes a really good surf spot.  Long Beach New York's secret lies in an underwater trench that extends 400 nautical miles offshore called the Hudson Canyon. It contributes to the surfable waves off the Barrier Island 50 minutes from Manhattan by Long Island Railroad.  Long Beach last stop. Please...  Collins pointed to the second week of September as the perfect time to surf Long Beach. Still the tour knew that people would ask are there really waves in New York? The PA announcers during the event had clearly heard the skeptics.  Just wanted to say what is up to all those people who said there is no waves in New York. It does not look like there is really any waves today. Right? Yeah right.  But mostly they reveled in the athleticism and artistry of the athletes performing in what turned out to be excellent conditions.  ...the bottom carves back into the power sources goes...  Peter Mel a surfing analyst who once competed on the tour says that with an assist from Hurricane Katia the swell in Long Beach was exactly what the event organizers were hoping for.  I believe that a world champion should be versatile. You got to have venues like this as well as you got to have venues like Pipeline you got to have venues like Tahiti you got to have venues like J-Bay. They are all different in their aspects the way you approach the wave. They are all different in the way you approach your equipment. They are all different in the way you approach your fitness.  Julian Wilson a 22-year-old Australian who lost to eventual event winner Owen Wright in the quarter finals said the conditions were great for him.  I grew up in waves that were not that good so I mean this is a really good day at my house so I am not complaining one bit. And if you want to you know be the best you have got to be able to surf all conditions. So yeah. I mean guys that maybe grew up in perfect waves it is not ideal but it looks pretty perfect to the size out there.  Mike Pesca NPR News New York. 