 The Pittsburgh Pirates have the best record in Major League Baseball. It is been 21 years since the Pirates have made the post-season and that may be the biggest surprise in a baseball season so far that is full of surprises. And here to talk about all this is Jonah Keri who covers baseball for Grantland.com. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  Let us talk about the Pirates first. They have always seemed to have had good young players but that has never led to lasting success. What is different this time?  Well it is kind of all come together. They have had some good young players but they have not had a collection quite like this one. They have drafted very high in the draft every year. When you are a bad team you basically get to pick from the best of the litter and for whatever reason they have messed it up many times. And now we are starting to see the talent come together in a good way and their pitching has been the big story. They acquired a guy named Francisco Liriano typically an injury-prone pitcher who struggles with command. He is been great. And another named Jeff Locke who came out of nowhere and was known really for nothing other than having long hair. And at this point he is having a great season too.  Of course they have been here before. Two years ago on this program we talked about the surprising first-place Pirates. And then almost the day after that they collapsed and ended up in fourth place. Is there any chance that could happen again this year?  Well let us hope it is not the curse of ALL  Yeah no this is probably a better team than it was last time. But I do not think it is a team necessarily that is fully formed. I do think that they owe it to their fans and to themselves to go out and be aggressive toward the trade deadline. We are four weeks away from that. If they just stood pat and did nothing I do not think they would collapse necessarily but I would not necessarily say with 100 percent confidence they would make the playoffs either. So it is a better club but if there are trades to be made I think that it behooves them to try to make them.  OK staying in the National League the Los Angeles Dodgers have spent a ton of money on household names with no luck. But after a slow start it looks like a Cuban defector known by only the most die-hard fans just a couple of months ago could wind up saving the Dodgers. How great has Yasiel Puig been in his debut?  He is been tremendous one of the best debuts you have ever seen in baseball. I will say this though. You know I do not want to rain on the parade but one of the records that he held was there were only two players in the history of baseball who homered four times in their first five games. One is Yasiel Puig and that is great. The other one is a guy named Mike Jacobs. If you know who Mike Jacobs is then you win the prize because he amounted to basically nothing.   But yes so far supremely talented and the good thing for the Dodgers as well is very very weak division. It really would not take that much to win the NL West this year. If Puig keeps hitting and some of their other guys come on they could do it with 86 or 87 wins.  Turning to the American League the defending champion Detroit Tigers are in first again. And last year's MVP Miguel Cabrera is great again. But the best player on that team this year might be pitcher Max Scherzer who is 13 and 0. He is not going to be undefeated obviously could his season end up a historic one?  Well it could. The interesting thing about Scherzer and really any pitcher is when you are a quality pitcher and you have a lot of support that allows you to win games. I mean you have Cabrera and Prince Fielder and some other guys putting up runs when Max Scherzer pitches and it is been great. He is a tremendously good pitcher. He deserves the accolades that he has. But the 13-and-0 record I would not say that this guy's a flawless pitcher even if the record implies it.  Another eye-popping stat comes from Baltimore Orioles' first-baseman Chris Davis. He has 32 home runs so far this year. And people are wondering if he could at least do better than Roger Maris' mark of 61 home runs which would be the pre-steroid official record for home runs in one season.  He is been tremendous and it is an interesting story. Here was a guy who was always a good home run hitter and he is hitting a lot of home runs this year too of course but he is changed the methodology. I mean he has the ability to hit pitches that are on the outside corner and hit them out to left field and left center. That is been great. Just a much better batting eye. Just a much better approach all around. So it is made for a great season. I mean the home runs stand out but he is hitting well over 300. He is walking more than ever before. He is just become a complete hitter.  Jonah thanks for talking with us about baseball today.  Thank you for having me.  That is Jonah Keri who covers baseball for Grantland.com.   This is NPR News. 