 In college football there are five athletic conferences considered elite - the Power Five. Yesterday three of them announced an alliance.   To the three of us this was a chance for a new direction a new initiative that I do not think has ever been done before.  ACC Commissioner James Phillips - The Big Ten and Pac-12 also joined in. Now what this alliance will actually do is not clear so we brought in Nicole Auerbach who covers college football for The Athletic. Welcome back to the show.  Yeah thanks for having me.  So this alliance was announced on Tuesday. Do we have any sense on the purpose? What did they say it is for? And do we have any idea of what it will look like?  We do not know the extent of it. We know that at some point they hope to have football games scheduled against each other on an annual basis. And we know that they want to work together and possibly vote together on major policy and governance issues. But it is very vague by design I think right now because it is at very early stages. So they are trying to say hey we are on the same team. We are working together on stuff. We see college athletics in a similar way.  Interesting because the universities of Texas and Oklahoma agreed to leave the Big 12 conference and they went to the Southeastern Conference or they are planning to in the next few years. Can you talk about what all this movement is about?  Well the SEC adding Texas and Oklahoma is a major power move and I think that is what led to the formation of this alliance because you had a lot of pressure on the other power conferences to do something in response and to show strength and to show might. And so they banded together essentially to say strength in numbers. So they banded together say we have 41 schools across our three leagues and we are going to stay united and that is our response. It will include aspects like football scheduling. It will include you know stances on playoff expansion. But really it is about doing something in response to what the SEC did. It is a countermove to an aggressive move of the SEC adding two blue bloods  to their league.  Right. And the College Football Playoff which crowns the national champion has been publicly talking about an expansion. Is the alliance trying to look for somehow a voice in that decision? I mean I know there is a lot of money at stake.  Yeah I think the three commissioners involved in the alliance really want their input as part of the process for the playoff expansion. There was a four-person working group that came up with the proposal for a 12-team format which is what is being vetted right now. And the Big Ten ACC and Pac-12 were not on that four-person working group. So I think this is one way for them to exert influence as a bloc and make sure that the aspects of the proposal that they support are in there.  Can you talk about why this matters? I mean for people who think like well there is the you know NCAA - there is all kinds of sort of governing bodies. What is the reason why we should care about kind of the alliance of various athletic conferences?  Well the NCAA has never been more fractured and less powerful than it is right now which is part of the reason it is facing calls for drastic change. College athletics is at this inflection point and everyone's trying to figure out what are ways that we can position ourselves to help chart our own course? And the SEC did that by adding Texas and Oklahoma and renegotiating its media rights deals for a massive deal with ESPN recently. But these other conferences have to figure that out too. How do they get a say in the future? So that is what this is really about. It is trying to figure out what the next five and 10 years of college sports look like.  Nicole Auerbach a senior writer for The Athletic where she covers college football thank you for explaining this all to us.  Absolutely. Anytime.  