   Baby baby you did something to me. I could not sleep at all last night.  Fifty years ago today Tossing and Turning was topping the charts and New York sports fans were in their glory. Two Yankee sluggers Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris were closing in on Babe Ruth's elusive record of 60 home runs in a season. On this very day in 1961 the MM boys both hit number 45 during a doubleheader against the Washington Senators. There was no doubt longtime Yankee Mickey Mantle was the fans' favorite.    Well kids baseball season's here again. And with Post Cereal's baseball trading cards you can get a rundown on all your favorite players.   Hey he talked to me. Mickey Mantle talked to me.  Even teammates had trouble remaining impartial.  I think there was a little tension in our clubhouse. And I think there were some that were pulling for Mickey and maybe one or two that roomed right by Roger that were pulling for him to break it.  That is Bobby Richardson who played second base for the '61 Yankees. While Bobby was on the field at Yankee Stadium another Bobby a rabid 9-year-old fan was following the drama across the river in Queens.  The Yankees were the team that was on radio and television in New York. Mickey Mantle was the guy so they became my team.  That is Bob Costas who as an adult has made a career out of capturing the poetry of sports. These two voices Costas and former player Bobby Richardson are going to help us remember that sizzling summer of '61. Like most Yankees' fans 9-year-old Bobby Costas was cheering for Mantle.   A lot of people thought well if anyone is going to break this record it should be Mickey Mantle who was already certified as a first-rate Hall of Fame player.  Mantle had grown up through the farm system and played in the minor leagues and come up and he really was a Yankee. So all the teammates were pulling for him in '61 to break the record.  Every young kid my age idolized Mickey Mantle.    Dad Johanna this is Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle.   Hello Roger Mickey.   Roger.   Mick.  During the season Mickey would be out of the lineup for a little bit and he would be introduced to come in as a pinch hitter and there would be an ovation that was absolutely tremendous. And I did not see that for Roger.  We thought Roger Maris was terrific. We hoped that he would hit 59 and Mickey would hit 61.  When we came to work each day the press would come in. They would all go right to Maris' and Mantle's locker. Well Mickey knew how to handle them. He could walk away from them but Roger was just because of his shyness and so forth portrayed in a different light altogether. And so the pressure was on him. He was losing his hair. Mantle it did not bother him at all.  You know he was a guy from Fargo North Dakota a guy with little use for all the trappings of fame and celebrity.  I think the problem was that Roger just did not - he really did not care too much. And you know he was a team player. He wanted us to win. But I do not think personally it was that big a thing with him having a personal record. He just wanted the team to win.  It is kind of instructive when you watch the black and white clip of him hitting his 61st home run.  Two balls no strikes on Roger Maris. Here's the windup. Fastball hit deep to right. This could be it. Way back there. Oh.  This was a monumental achievement and the crowd is saluting him and his teammates practically have to push him up to the top step of the dugout after he is rounded the bases. And in a brief awkward almost sheepish moment he removes his cap waves it at the crowd and then ducks back down. Today guys take three curtain calls for a sacrifice fly.  But he was just not one to show not like Reggie Jackson. Reggie would come out and put up one two three when he hit his. Roger was not that personality at all.  People found out about it in different ways. They learned about it over the radio. When they picked up the newspaper - seems like a quaint concept you' Did one of the MM boys hit one last night or did they both hit one? You could not follow it instantly and see the highlight immediately on the Internet or every game on television. So there was more distance from it and therefore more romance and imagination.  It is different.  