 From NPR News this is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Madeleine Brand.  And I am Robert Siegel. The average age of members of the American Contract Bridge League is 64. That is the average. Tom Watson who is playing golf with the seniors this week in England would be a kid at this year's summer bridge championships in Washington.  A young bridge player - and a successful one. He and his partner were 2008 winners of the National 99ers event. Stephen Drodge of McLean Virginia welcome. Mr.  Thank you.  How young are you? Mr.  I am 18 years old.  And just finished with high school. Mr.  Correct.  How long have you been playing bridge? Mr.  I have been playing for about two-and-a-half years now maybe.  And how did it start? Mr.  It started because I went to a magnet school Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology. We had an unusually long bus ride because of that and being a bunch of nerds and having nothing to do on the bus naturally leads to something nerdy to do on the bus which was bridge.   So a byproduct of attending a school some distance away was learning to play bridge to kill the time in the bus ride. Mr.  Yes.  You need a partner. Bridge is a game of partners. So you had to find somebody equally bored in the bus ride? Mr.  Well actually the bus ride is fairly low-level party bridge but I was in - both Andrew and I my partner - we were in the same computer science class. So we were the only two sophomores in there. We were often ahead of the curriculum and we decided that we would use our free time to learn bridge.  This is Andrew Rodriguez. Mr.  Correct.  I read that you permitted him or convinced him to stop paying attention in class as a result. Mr.  Well that is a little facetious. Basically the curriculum you could get up to two weeks ahead most of the time and so we were always about two weeks ahead. And we would use our free time to learn bridge.  How involved in bridge did you get? Did you read bridge books and read bridge columns in the paper? Mr.  I have not really - I did not start off reading a lot of bridge books. I read a lot more on the Internet which is harder to piece together because it is not coherent and well-explained but I think that actually helps you learn if you have to figure it out yourself to some degree.  Bridge can be - I am speaking a little bit from personal experience -bridge can be one of the great time consumers of young people. Do you - I mean do you find that it is addictive and that long nights disappear into games of bridge? Mr.  They have very many times. A lot of the times when we sit down at the table people warn us that they almost dropped out of college from the game but so far we are doing all right.   Okay. Well when you went up to Boston or thinking ahead to this week in Washington if you walk into a room and there are dozens and dozens of people and a lot of them are as old as your grandparents do you feel at all you know awkward or out of place or do you feel well you know they are bridge players I am a bridge player? Mr.  It does not seem awkward at all. You eventually start to get maybe a little bit tired of hearing it is so great to hear - see young people playing all the time. But people are generally fairly nice. There are a few people who are not but that is been taken care of more in recent years due to zero tolerance policy. So  Zero tolerance of? Mr.  Just bad behavior in general.  All right. What are your ambitions for this week in Washington at the summer championships? Mr.  I think I am going to go into it the same way I did with the Boston one which is just I will play to have fun and see what happens.  Well good luck to you. I hope you repeat as a winner. And it is very nice of you to come in and talk to us. Mr.  Thank you.  That is 18-year-old Stephen Drodge bridge player of McLean Virginia. 