 There will be quaffles broomsticks and yes a golden snitch zipping around the field this weekend in Sarteano Italy. It is the inaugural European Quidditch Games with a dozen teams from Catalonia to Norway to Turkey competing for glory. Quidditch of course is the flying sport played by wizards and witches in the Harry Potter series and the movies.    He is got the snitch. Harry Potter receives 150 points for catching the snitch.   Gryffindor wins.   This weekend's games will be the real-life terrestrial version for Muggles - those without magical blood. Karen Kimaki is tournament director for the European Quidditch Games and she joins us now from Sarteano. Karen why do not you explain how this game is played in real life?  So it is fairly similar to how the books work. Obviously the flight is the thing we have not quite surmounted yet.   Have not figured that part out.  Yeah no we have not quite gotten there. So the teams run around with brooms between their legs. If they fall off of the broom or they get hit by a bludger they have to run back to their hoops to simulate falling off. But everything else is fairly similar. You have got the keepers guarding the goal hoops. The beaters would throw dodgeballs for bludgers and the main difference is we actually have no flying ball in the way of the snitch. We have a snitch runner who has a ball velcroed to the back of their pants and they run around and the seekers have to try and capture that.  So it is a ball velcroed to the back of their pants that is the idea.  Absolutely.  Well tell me about the scene there in Sarteano which it sounds like has really embraced this championship in trying to sort of turn the town into a mini Hogwarts.  We got very lucky in Sarteano offering to host us. Every restaurant has like snitches hanging from ceilings. They have got the house signs everywhere. They built a platform nine and three-quarters in their main piazza. It is really quite impressive how welcoming they have been to us.  Is it pretty much the case that anybody who is playing in the Quidditch games is by definition a Harry Potter fan has read the books knows everything about him?  Weirdly enough no.  Really?  When it first started a lot of people were Harry Potter fans. I got involved 'ecause I was a Harry Potter fan. And as the years have passed in the U.S. there is actually a lot of people who would prefer to not be associated with Harry Potter and they want to be taken seriously. They consider this an actual sport.  What do you think it takes to be a great Quidditch player if you are a Muggle?   It does take a bit of training. There is a lot of running. It is a lot like soccer. There is not a whole lot of stoppage time. It takes some smarts. It is definitely grown into a very sort of mind as well as body sport.  Are there people there for the games who would harbor dreams of Quidditch one day becoming an Olympic sport?  I would say that there are some people who probably share that opinion and that would be very happy to see that. For me I do not personally care if we become an Olympic sport. I feel like that is a form of recognition I do not necessarily need to have to enjoy the sport itself.  What is it about for you?  For me I - I am not the most athletic person. I stopped playing very quickly and just started switching to administrative tasks. But for me it is the fact that it is so inclusive. It is the fact that you have got these athletes who quit football and rugby and soccer and ended up joining the sport next to complete nerds who you would never see necessarily running up and down the pitch but are perfectly willing to put hours in training for this sport. There is no judgment and I love that. It is one of the few sports where that is actually the case.  Well Karen Kimaki it sounds like a whole lot of fun. Have a good time this weekend.  I will thank you.  Karen Kimaki is tournament director for the European Quidditch Games in Sarteano Italy. 