 For athletes this sound can be a source of motivation or dread.   At the upcoming Olympic Games it is a sound that competitors will not be hearing. After Japan declared a state of emergency due to a spike in coronavirus cases Olympic organizers announced that the games will be held without spectators. So we wondered what effect will this have on athletes? To talk about that we are joined now by Daniel Weigand. He is an adjunct professor of sport and performance psychology at the University of Western States. Welcome.  Hi. Good to be with you.  Good to have you. So first let us just talk about what effect crowds generally have on athletes. Like at the Olympics you usually picture these stadiums full of people watching track and field or gymnastics or whatever event. Can you just talk about what an in-person crowd does for competitors?  Well with most things it depends on the person. What we try to do is we try to get athletes into an optimal zone of arousal. So over time we train them using mental skills techniques where they can manipulate their heart rate their breathing their sweaty palms and interpret it as excitement.  So for athletes who thrive off of that crowd energy like say the gymnast Simone Biles who has said that she is a little worried about not having her fans around her is there a way for athletes to sort of create that energy for themselves?  So you are going to use imagery the five senses to imagine what it is like performing in front of a crowd and simulate that experience because the crowd's not going to be there.  So can you give examples of how an athlete can do that with their five senses?  Sure. You are going to picture in your mind that you are performing in front of the crowd. You are going to hear the crowd noise. You are going to feel the tension. You are going to smell the arena. And you are going to practice that over and over again until it feels comfortable. So for example a long jumper might clap his or her hands to get the crowd's attention to have them clap and cheer for him so it increases his arousal level. He is going to have to practice doing that without having a crowd there.  That is so interesting. I did not yet picture that the training these athletes have been going through has had to integrate that simulation of crowds in order to prepare for these unusual Olympics.  Absolutely.  Well what about athletes who may perform better without a crowd?  Well and the irony here is that a lot of Olympic sports are performed without crowds. So being at the Olympics where there are no crowds for the individuals who prefer that lower level of arousal do not necessarily like performing in crowds it might be ideal for them.  Right. What about the camaraderie between athletes? Like I know that unnecessary forms of physical contact are prohibited at these games like high-fives hugs and athletes cannot watch events as spectators and cheer on their team members from the stands. How do you think that might impact performance?  Well I definitely think it will impact their enjoyment of the events. First time you get to go to an Olympics and you cannot do those things it is going to be very frustrating. I saw the other day where they are going to have to put the medals on themselves rather than have somebody put the medal over their neck.  Whoa.  That is got to be frustrating to not be able to get the total experience. So again for some individuals who prefer that team environment they are going to suffer or at least they are going to have the potential to suffer if they do not prepare well. The ones who do not want that again may have an ideal scenario.  Daniel Weigand is an adjunct professor of sport and performance psychology at the University of Western States. Thank you very much for joining us today.  Thank you - appreciate it.  