 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. One of the most compelling stories of the recent Olympics came from Oscar Pistorius a South African runner with two prosthetic legs. Pistorius is also running in the ongoing Paralympics - the follow-up games for athletes with disabilities. During the recent 200-meter race a London crowd watched stunned as a Brazilian runner edged Pistorius at the finish line. Here's the call on Paralympics TV.   Here goes Pistorius. Look at him go. Oscar Pistorius absolutely storming away. Oscar Pistorius is he going to get is he going? He is been caught has he? Oscar Pistorius just tying up. Oh my goodness he is been caught by Oliveira of Brazil. Well that is absolutely extraordinary.  Tomorrow Oscar Pistorius gets a chance at redemption in the men's 100-meter sprint. The winner traditionally gets bragging rights to the title of world's fastest amputee. But NPR's Joseph Shapiro reports Pistorius will again face some strong competition.  There is an American runner who would like to introduce himself to you. JEROME SINGLETON JR. My name's Jerome Singleton Jr. I am the fastest amputee in the world.  Singleton can say that because after years of narrow losses to Oscar Pistorius he defeated him at the world championship games last year. But just barely. That race was so close the judges had to spend several minutes studying pictures from the photo finish. Now meet another American runner Blake Leeper. He would never heard of the Paralympics until he saw a news story three years ago about Pistorius. Now he and Pistorius share the world record for a double amputee in the 100 meters.  It is such a quick race that it is to the point anybody can win. That is why everybody likes the 100-meter race. It is hard to dominate 100 meters.  These guys have great names. Blake Leeper the double amputee on two bouncy prosthetic legs. Jerome Singleton the single amputee. Great Britain's got a top runner named Jonnie Peacock. And there is Alan Fonteles Cardoso Oliveira the Brazilian who upset Pistorius on Sunday. All of them have a chance to win the 100-meter sprint tomorrow.  It is just going to be phenomenal in terms of who is the favorite. And it is going to be one of the most fantastic races in sport history.  That is Charlie Huebner. He runs the Paralympics for the U.S. Olympic Committee. And you have got to forgive him if he is a little over-excited about the 100-meter race because this is a moment that shows the maturing of the Paralympics.  Athletes are getting better no different than the Olympic program. And you are just seeing some incredible athletes with better training better coaching that are getting better and running near Olympic times.  The winner tomorrow will run the 100 meters in a little under 11 seconds. At the Olympics Usain Bolt of Jamaica was a little more than a second faster. It helps that U.S. Paralympians now train side-by-side with American Olympic athletes - at the same training centers under the same Olympic coaches. Prosthetic racing legs are getting better too. Pistorius when he lost the other day complained that his competitor's new leg blades were too long and gave him an unfair advantage. Paralympic officials said the winner's blades were a regulation size but that they will take another look at the rules for these legs. In world competitions double and single amputees run together. And that leads to another friendlier controversy over who' a runner with one prosthetic leg or the guy with two? For an answer let American champion Jerome Singleton explain it. He is got degrees in applied physics and industrial engineering.  With a double amputee they cannot generate the type of force we can out of the block. But when they get up tall and start running they are blessed to be symmetrical so they can run through and have a smoother gait and be in control a little bit better.  So that' the single-leg amputees start faster out of the blocks. But watch out for the double amputees who on two prosthetic legs are more balanced and finish faster. Joseph Shapiro NPR News. 