 We already have a final score in the World Cup. Host Russia beat Saudi Arabia in the opener today 5-0. But there are 63 more matches over the next month before a World Cup champion is crowned. And for a preview we welcome back Tariq Panja. He is in Moscow covering the soccer tournament for The New York Times. Welcome back.  Nice to be with you again.  So are you looking at something like a full-fledged soccer fever in Moscow?  Yeah well maybe not from the Russians. It is not a football nation. But what you have here are thousands upon thousands of the world's soccer fans here. So there is an avenue behind the Kremlin and if you walk down it it is like being in a museum of soccer fans. So you know you walk 5 yards and there is like hundreds of Argentines. Walk maybe 10 20 more feet and then there is a group of Peruvians. And then you bump into the Iranians and then the Moroccans. And then why not turn left and then you get into the Egyptian section. So it is fantastic. There is a World Cup fever in the city. But I believe that is been kind of imported by all these fans that have come in.  You mention Argentines. And I know Germany won that like huge thrilling final over Argentina in 2014. Can Germans repeat as champions in 2018?  I am really not good at predictions.  .  But I am going to say no so they probably will do it. And the reason is they enter this competition on a - what is for them a bit of a rocky buildup. And it just has not been playing as well as we know it can. I think they will go deep in the competition but perhaps they are not the ones who are going to take the trophy away at the end.  Brazil has won five World Cups but the last time around we watched them also fall to Germany right? They were eviscerated in front of a stadium of distraught fans. What is their situation this time around?  This time around Brazil has turned a corner. But you know as you say they were eviscerated. We have never seen anything quite like that. And you thought can this nation bounce back in time for the World Cup? And to me it looks like they certainly have. They have got a new coach since then Tite. He is galvanized a new team. And they have been performing extremely well. They topped their group in fact sailed through South American qualifying and are the ones to beat here I would say.  Here in the U.S. we are bummed because the U.S. men's team did not make it of course. But neither did perennial powers - Italy also the Netherlands. Does the tournament feel a little weird with some of these countries missing?  Yeah and I guess if you are someone of a certain age and used to seeing them as I am like Italy are kind of - when you think of the World Cup there is a few nations. You mentioned Germany Brazil. You have got to throw in Argentina. And then you always throw in Italy as well. It is a passionate soccer country. They were in pieces  when they did not qualify. But I think it kind of goes to show if your program is not running on full-steam you cannot rely on the past. You cannot rely on legacy and you cannot rely on your name anymore. Soccer has become a lot more sophisticated. And with some investment and a bit of luck a lot of teams are performing a lot better than they may have done in the past. I mean you only have to look to Iceland the world's smallest - World Cup's smallest ever of a country. They are coming to their second straight tournament. We are all looking forward to seeing them and their supporters.  It is a good thing you are telling me this because when I sit down to watch a World Cup game I basically just root for whoever is the underdog. So are there any other upstart countries that I should look forward to watching?  Yeah yeah. For me - I am flying tomorrow to the city of Saransk where Peru are meeting Denmark. And if you were to arrive in Moscow today you may think you have come to Lima. There are thousands and thousands of Peruvians everywhere. It is a soccer-mad country on a soccer-mad continent and it has not qualified for 36 years. So the whole generation of people have never seen their team play a World Cup and they have done it. So people have been selling their cars and remortgaging homes I heard. And they are here. I think when we see the game against Denmark their opening game it may feel like a home game for the Peruvians. They are a good story.  That is Tariq Panja sports correspondent for The New York Times. He is covering the World Cup in Russia. Thanks for speaking with us.  Happy to be with you. 