 From NPR News it is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED. I am Robert Siegel.  And I am Michele Norris.  But it was the two lead riders who fought for dominance. Alberto Contador and Andy Schleck kept tour fans on the edge of their mountainside seats for most of the day. Eleanor Beardsley reports.  At six miles to go Contador accelerated but he could not lose Schleck either.   The two men left the other riders behind in the mist and crossed the finish line separated by less than a bike length. Schleck won the stage but he is still eight second behind Contador. Bruce Hildenbrand is following the tour for magazine VeloNews.  So a great rivalry is developing here. They are both young guys. You know Andy Schleck is just 25 and Contador is 27. So we will see this rivalry around for a while.  Towns and villages across the region have been celebrating the 100th anniversary of the tour coming through the Pyrenees. In 1910 riders called race organizers assassins for making them climb the Tourmalet Pass. Today riders set out in better spirits with a parade sendoff in the town of Po. Seventy-five-year-old Michel Delbess was one of the thousands who came out to watch the start.   The Tour de France is the biggest of sporting events for us. It brings everyone together no matter what their age. No one is left out. It is a beautiful sport and a great show.  All day long thousands of people streamed up the tiny mountain road to try to get a place at the finish line. The green velvet slopes of the Pyrenees were speckled with pup tents amid the confused sheep. Some fans had been camping for days to save their spot.  Are you going to talk about the cycling?  Londoners Jonathan DeVilliers and Isabelle Best rode their bikes to the top with daughters Penelope and Matilde in tow.  It is nice because you dump the car and then you ride up the route and you get some of the acclaim that the pros do especially when you are pulling two little kids.  Eleanor Beardsley NPR News at the Tourmalet Pass in the French Pyrenees. 