 This is ALL THINGS CONSIDERED from NPR News. I am Melissa Block.  And I am Robert Siegel. The National Football League season kicked off last night with a pregame Mardi Gras-style celebration for the Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints. The Saints then took to their home field inside the Superdome and defeated the Minnesota Vikings by a score of 14 to nine. Sportswriter Stefan Fatsis watched the game and joins us as he does most Fridays. Hi Stefan.  Hey Robert.  And the Saints beat the team they had beaten to get to last year's Super Bowl. Do you think they are on their way to another Super Bowl?  Well Weve had 44 Super Bowls so far and only eight teams have ever managed to repeat.  salary rules scheduling all conspire against repeating. But New Orleans does have a pretty good chance of at least making it back to the game because its largely the same team that piled up points in 2009 and its defense might be a little bit better than it was last year. Last night was a rusty start though. After a very sizzling opening drive resulted in a touchdown the Saints slumped on offense. The 14 points were the fewest the team has scored in a win since Sean Payton became their head coach four years ago. The offseason was all about celebrations and bestselling books and documentaries and hosannas to the team for its role in the citys rebirth post-Katrina. First game on the field back to reality.  Back to reality  Vikings quarterback Brett Favre who took the field for the start of his 20th season in the NFL. How did he look to you?  Not real good. Favre of course spent the offseason manipulating us with his usual will-I-or-wont-I-retire act. Then he signed a contract that is worth up to 20 million for this season. He arrived at Vikings training camp just two and a half weeks ago. And that may have explained why he threw a few simply uncatchable passes last night. No matter how many seasons youve played it takes time for a quarterback to reestablish his timing and the rhythm he has with his receivers. Not attending practice delays that process longer especially when you are 40 years old and you are just coming off of ankle surgery the way Favre has.  Now before last night's game started players from both teams raised their index fingers in a coordinated gesture toward management. What were they trying to get across?  Well they were not pointing to the heavens to thank God and they were not saying that they are number one. It was a message to owners as negotiations get rolling for a new collective bargaining agreement. And after the game the Saints quarterback Drew Brees who has been active in union affairs in the NFL explained that the raised fingers meant unity. And here' Even though five minutes from then we were going to go out and bash each others' heads in we are all one voice. Now one voice that did not seem to appreciate that was on NBC where Al Michaels made a snarky comment about starting the season with a labor statement but thats a management position. Its a game not a business. If these talks dont go well theres a possibility of no football a year from now.  on the field with millions of people watching.  Well one player got a pretty good deal from management this week. Tom Brady the New England Patriots quarterback yesterday signed a new contract. Tell us about that big contract.  Big contract but Brady had a tough time getting there. His car was struck by another car that had run a red light in downtown Boston yesterday morning. He was fine. Later in the day he signed this four-year deal. It is worth up to 72 million but in NFL terms that money is meaningless. All that matters is what is guaranteed and in this case 48.5 million is guaranteed to Tom Brady regardless of whether he gets injured tomorrow and does not play another down in the NFL or if the Patriots release him. And what this shows is that in a sport that does not have guaranteed contracts for players the top players find ways to make sure that they get paid. That is not the case for the rank and file. They do not get that benefit. NFL commissioner Roger Goodell held this town meeting the other night in New Orleans and he defended the tradition of nonguaranteed contracts as a great incentive for players to work harder to make the team so that they get paid. The union has never liked this and maybe this'ill be the year where they bring it up with management in a strong way.  Okay thanks Stefan. Have a great weekend.  You too Robert.  Stefan Fatsis who joins us most Fridays to talk about sports and the business of sports. He is also been writing this week about the NFL season at Slate.com. 