  Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To Radiolab.  Radiolab.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  Hi there. I am Latif Nasser.  And I am Lulu Miller. We already messed it up.  This is Radiolab.   OK the reason we are being so awkward is because...  We are awkward.  ...We are awkward but also we are here to ask for money the money that we need to keep doing our jobs that we love so much. This is listener-funded journalism.  Yep.  And you are the listener because you are listening to my voice right now. And Lulu what is the case? Make the case.  OK the case is like - OK have you ever turned to anyone and been like oh that reminds me of this Radiolab episode? OK if you have said that phrase we are in your head and we are so honored to be in there.  But maybe like you could just buy us a drink kind of thing.  Yeah like we will keep giving you factoids and new ways of seeing the world we hope. Just buy us a fancy coffee or a beer.  And we know like this has been a really hard year and a lot of people are strapped and we understand that. And if you cannot afford it that is OK. But if you can afford it...  A little bit goes a long way.  A little bit does go a long way yeah.  A little bit goes a long way. The average donation is 8 a month and to do it to actually throw some money our way all you have to do is go to radiolab.orgdonate or text the word Radiolab to the number 70101.  70101. There will be so much fun. 70101. That is how you get the donate job done.  And if you pay us extra we can make sure Lulu never does that again.  Sings again.  Sings that song again.  If you donate 12 I promise to never sing again.  My fingers are crossed.  .  But really I mean one of the things we put effort and time and money into is making things that last. And that is why there are maybe shows you mention at a party to a friend even shows that came out years ago.  Yeah. And like we do that too. Like we say have you ever - like that reminds me of a Radiolab episode.  Yeah yeah yeah totally.  There are episodes that - from before I got here that I listen to and I think about and they kind of haunt me in a way that stay with me.  Yeah. And so what we have got for you today is a little celebration of durability. We are going to play a couple pieces that have stood the test of time for us.  They are - like even if you are a big-time listener these are deep cuts. They are from you know years back. You may not remember them or ever have heard of them. They were not our biggest hits. But I do not know. Just in the last year these pieces have sort of popped back into our minds and we heard them anew.  So to start us off - I truly had this just the other day where I was just swirling in the grief of still so much uncertainty with all the things in our world right now. And there was so much talk. There was so much like people making sense of how we got here and what the path is out. And I was on a run. I wanted to listen to something. And then I suddenly remembered this old Radiolab piece called Salle Des Departs that in a way is about how to make sense of grief without words. And it is by this producer Jocelyn Gonzales. I listened to it and it was just as beautiful. It like was helpful to me in this new way. And you know what? I mean like enough of me talking. Let us just play it.  Yeah yeah yeah.   This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Welcome to the podcast. This week...  I think all you really need to know is that it is about this composer named David Lang who got a commission to - I will just let Jad pick it up from here.   He was commissioned to create background music for the most unlikeliest of places - the morgue. He was asked to write background music for that moment when you see a loved one for the last time. Like what kind of music do you write in that circumstance? Do you even do it? And if you do like what is the right mood? What as a composer do you want to accomplish in that situation? What is appropriate? Well the project is called Salles De Departs. I think it means - translates from French to chamber of departure maybe. I do not know. Someone correct me if I am wrong. And producer Jocelyn Gonzalez spoke with David Lang about it.   When I was very young I had a brother who died. I have had a lot of relatives who have died. And so in a lot of my work I actually have many pieces which are about how to memorialize someone how to use a piece of music as a way to capture a moment in a relationship between that person and me or how to freeze something so that I never forget it or how to express a feeling of rage at finding out that someone died that I knew was going to disappear as soon as time took the edge off.   Some doctors from a very major hospital outside of Paris in a suburb of Paris called Garches - and the doctors got together and thought you know we have so many people who die in this hospital and they die in this very strange way. They die not after being sick for years and years. They just die instantaneously. One moment they are alive on the road. The next moment they are dead. Their family has not had a chance to grieve.  So the doctors got together. They went to the Fondation de France. And they commissioned an Italian artist Ettore Spalletti to make a little chapel. But it is really a morgue this beautiful blue sensuous relaxing room the idea being that when your loved one would die in this hospital then they would take the body and move it into this room so that your last memory in the hospital would not be you know in this bright white light in this horribly compromised position and this you know real message of eternal defeat. So they made this little space. And then they thought now that we have the space we should see if music can participate in this space. So they commissioned a piece both from Scanner and from me.   It is made for three cellos and women's voices but I deliberately wanted to make a piece which could not be played live because I felt that the whole point of this was a piece about death. So the idea that this could have a live performance seemed really like cheating to me so I made a piece that was supposed to have the unending vocal part that no human being could sing. There are singers who sing their part and through the beauty of the recording studio there is no breath. Basically it is sort of one giant long tune so in the instruction of how to play it in the score is to play it like angels. It is supposed to be something that is past the ability of human beings to play it.   It is not as if it is you know piped in like Muzak. People are given the opportunity to decide whether or not they want an intrusion at that moment. That was something that was very important to me at the beginning - was to not feel like I was dictating something. I do not want to intrude on these people. It is strange to do a project like this because your goal is you hope that no one ever hears this piece actually. You know I mean your goal for life is that no one should ever have to hear this music.   The other thing was the idea of how long it should last because the idea that the doctors had when they came in was that I should write music that was on a loop. And I was adamant with them that I felt like this music should last a certain amount of time until it accomplishes its musical task and then it should be over. And then if you decide that you would like to stay there longer that is between you and the silence. Here's you know the contribution that I can make. And when I have made that contribution I should get out. Music goes into you in the - you know it sort of bypasses all of your normal protection mechanisms so it goes to the place of you which is not dealing with language or rationality. And that is why it is so useful to sell cars and toothpaste and why it is so useful in movies to get people to all burst into tears at exactly the same moment. I mean it has this ability to go around all of your defenses.   So I imagined this music in this morgue as having this horrible power to make people feel cold or make people break down. And I wanted to actually do something which I thought was much more neutral which was to say here is an environment which does not tell you specifically how you are supposed to feel but it is an environment which may loosen your resolve enough to give yourself permission to feel whatever you want to feel at that moment. You know all of our training in our society is to avoid those horrible experiences and avoid those horrible emotions. I understand why you are being strong but it is OK if you do not want to be strong. For this piece I wanted to make something which gave people permission to examine which way they wanted to go with their emotions.   Well I felt it - as ridiculous as it sounds when this commission came my way I felt like I would been waiting my whole life to get this. And I got really happy about the opportunity to make this environment for mourning that getting you know this miserable horrible commission which - it was about people in their most vulnerable moments but actually you know made me so excited. But what I really liked about this was I really felt like I was trying to make the environment that would have been the right environment for the experiences I have already had. I never imagined it in a frivolous way. I could imagine somebody taking it very frivolously. I could imagine somebody thinking here's my opportunity to write the tune that is going to make people cry. But I certainly did not want to do that.   When we come back we are going to go from the end of life to the beginning. Stay with us.   All right.  Lulu.  Latif.  Radiolab.  And yeah today we are just kind of calling back episodes that happened like even before our time - before my time at least - at Radiolab that really do stand the test of time and have kind of stood up to listens even you know 10 years later. And there is an episode I wanted to put in front of you. In a way it is sort of taking it from the last one which was about death to - this one's about birth and about babies and about sort of the wordless place not the wordless place of grief but the wordless place of like potential and possibility and yeah like just what is going on in all of our heads right after we are born. And - so yeah so Jad made this in 2009. It is beautiful. Take a listen.   All right. So for this podcast I want to talk about my kid.  .  His name is Amil. This is him right here.  .  And by the way I do plan to make this interesting to people who do not have kids because I was just one of those people two months ago so bear with me. But OK Amil - he is 2 months old. He is still in the munchkin phase.  .  And he is just starting to tune in the world.  Who is that?  .  And so there are these moments - like yesterday for example - where he gets real quiet and he just stares at me.  Hello bubs .  It is kind of amazing actually. But it also kind of presents an interesting question which I want to explore right here. In fact you cannot avoid it. You are just staring at this thing and you are like...  .  What is this little creature experiencing? Like here is a little human being that is brand-new in the world. What does the world look like to a tiny baby? What does it smell like? What does it sound like? And I happened to find somebody who could help me at least begin to answer these questions.  Pop those on.  OK. Hello.  Hi Jad.  Hi. Is this Charles?  Yes. That is right.  Wahoo.  Good to talk to you.  Charles before we get started can I just have you introduce yourself so I can get your name right?  OK. Hi. My name is Charles Fernyhough. I am a writer and developmental psychologist from Durham University.  And back when Charles had his first child Athena he decided to tackle the question.  What is it like? What is going on for this little person as a dad you know as an awestruck new dad?  But also as a scientist. So he wrote a book.  Called A Thousand Days Of Wonder A Scientist's Chronicle Of His Daughter's Developing Mind.  It is an amazing book where he basically goes through what we do and do not know about what is happening in the minds of little babies when they are brand-new. So I put the scenario to him. OK Amil's brand-new.  .  When I am sitting there holding him and we are staring at each other what exactly is he seeing?  One difference that does relate to the visual system is that their - the lens of their eye is absolutely crystal clear whereas your lens my lens - because they are of a certain age they have become slightly yellowed. So they filter out some of the blue frequencies of the light that we see.  So wait. Paint the picture. What would that be like for them?  I mean this is my stab at imagining what this would be like but if you can imagine being in a Greek village in the summer...   ...At noon.  Sun is directly overhead and it is one of those villages where...  Everything is white. You know the houses are all painted white. You are wearing sunglasses and you suddenly take off those sunglasses.   It is that bright?  Yeah. I think light is a big - it is probably the biggest shock to newborn babies.  It is interesting to consider that that blinding haze of whiteness might actually be how the world really is. We just do not see it. In any case then I asked him about sound. Do babies hear things differently than adults the same way they see things differently? And he said yeah we think so. We think they hear echoes.  Yeah. The echoes are actually there but our brains filter them out.  Woo .  But it takes some time for them to learn to do that. I mean the science behind it is quite complicated and I do not think I could explain it now. But it is to do with the relative times of arrival that the sound makes on the two ears but the brain basically has to learn to make this adjustment. It cannot do it straightaway. And so a newborn baby's hearing we guess - we do not know for sure again because we cannot know what it is like - but we guess that babies hear things in a very echoey way.   But it gets even stranger. Tell me about the experiment with the babies and the brain cap.  Yeah. I described a study that was done with babies where they were taking EEG measurements and these are the kind of measurements that you get when you put a net of 16 or so electrodes over the scalp. And these electrodes pick up the very small electrical changes that go on as your brain works and it is a perfectly safe harmless procedure which you can do with very young babies. Well usually when you do these studies you can see the way in which particular parts of the brain respond to different kinds of stimulus.  In an adult brain he says if you show someone a picture you will see a little - bzzt  - bit of electricity towards the back of their brain.  If on the other hand you heard a sound then the bit of your brain sort of slightly further forward from that the auditory cortex would fire. And you would not see any in the visual cortex.  Because different parts of the brain have different jobs. But what happened with these babies is that things got very strange. Like the researchers would show them a bunch of pictures. Like boop  here's a circle. Boop here's a cross. And often things would work as they were supposed to. They would see like a little spark in the back of the baby's brain where vision is processed. Sometimes they would not. Sometimes when they showed them say a cross the vision part would be silent but they would see a spark...  ...In the auditory cortex the hearing part of the brain.  So the picture would trigger a sound in their head?  We do not know what it triggered in their head for them subjectively but we do know that a part of the brain that should not have fired did fire.  They were - what you are saying but not quite allowing to pass through your lips...  .  ...Is that they were hearing the picture.  But we do not know what they heard. But it is a good basis for saying that when a newborn's brain is developing these different wirings that lead information into different parts of the brain are still taking shape.  It might be he says that inside Amil's brain right now at 2 months all of his senses are in a big synesthetic knot so that when he hears my voice maybe he sees flashes of color. Or maybe when he looks at the wall he hears tones. Or maybe when light comes in through the window he tastes it like salt or something. I do not know. I mean that is the thing.  We cannot know. I mean there is really strong philosophical grounds for being skeptical. I mean actually I cannot know that anybody is conscious.  Wait what does that mean?  I cannot know that you are conscious.  But I am talking to you.  Sure you are. But you know you could be a really smart zombie. You could be a robot.  .  You know I cannot see you. You are 5000 miles away. I mean it may be that I am the only person in the universe who is conscious. We tend to - you know the vast majority of us tend to say well he looks like me and he talks like me and he thinks like me and he perceives like me so he is going to be like me. But it is a leap of faith.  Then I told him about the stare how you know just in the last little bit Amil has started to really stare at us and we stare back. And it is - that is not a leap of faith. That is for real. And he told me something really depressing.  In those first couple of months the visual system is controlled by the subcortical regions and they are kind of the old bits of the brain. The cortex is the relatively new - evolutionarily speaking the relatively new part of the brain that surrounds the whole thing. And there is a switch between one kind of control system the subcortical system and the cortical systems. But as the handover happens - and this is happening at about two months. It would be interesting to know if he is doing this now. As the handover happens there is a kind of struggle for power. And the subcortical regions which were controlling vision kind of do not immediately want to cede power to the cortical regions. So the baby loses - temporarily loses control of where he or she is looking because of this struggle for power.  Really?  The scientists call this sticky fixation. And it is where a baby will just keep staring at you. It is as if the baby cannot take its eyes off you.  Yes this is what is happening now. You are telling me this is a brain glitch?  Yeah. It is quite a well-documented phenomenon. And it is bad news for the parents who think that their babies are gazing at them adoringly because actually they are just kind of - they do not know where to look. They cannot control where they are looking. They do not know how to look away basically.  Depressing. This might actually be one of those cases where ignorance really is bliss because the truth is you have to project. You have to make that leap of faith or at least you have to believe whatever it is you have to believe so that when he looks at you and you look back at him you smile because eventually that will teach this little dude how the world works that humans operate on relationships which are these feedback loops which - OK - at this moment in time for him are not real but they will be soon.   That is it for Radiolab this week.  See you again next time.   Hi. This is Spencer  calling from beautiful Barre Vt. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Carin Leong. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  