Molly Webster      Hey Radiolab. It is Molly Webster. Before we start the show I want to say two things. One of which thank you. A couple of weeks ago we asked you to donate to support the show and you did and we are so so grateful. Which brings me to the second thing we still need more of you. This is a stat that I was handed today. Most people listen to Radiolab for about two and a half years before they become a member.  Molly Webster      Can you imagine that? That is like that is like going to a potluck dinner for two and a half years every week and never bringing a dish or going to two and a half years of weddings and never bringing a gift or asking people to follow you and never following them. You would not want to do any of those things. And so I know that you want to become a member today. Go to radiolab.orgdonate. The average donation is 75 but we are happy with whatever you can give. If you donate before April 30th you and a friend could win an all expenses paid trip to New York City. We will take you bowling once you get here. So go to radiolab.orgdonate and thank you.  Jad Abumrad        Wait wait .  Molly Webster      Okay.  Jad Abumrad        All right.  Molly Webster      Okay.  Jad Abumrad        All right.  Molly Webster      You are-  Jad Abumrad        Listening-  Molly Webster      To Radiolab.  Jad Abumrad        Radiolab.  Molly Webster      From-  Jad Abumrad        WNYC. Yep.  Molly Webster        Jad Abumrad        I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich.   I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad        This is Radiolab and this is reporter Julia Longoria.  Julia Longoria     Okay great.  Jad Abumrad        She is going to start things off.  Julia Longoria     Let us do it.  Robert Krulwich   So where do we start? You took a trip.  Julia Longoria     So I took two trips. Uh the first trip inspired another trip.            Hi.  Julia Longoria     Hello.            Hello.  Julia Longoria     But let us start in Denver Colorado. You have such a beautiful home.            Oh thank you.  Julia Longoria     Where I wanted to speak to this young man.            Come here Jon Carlo. Jon Carlo?  Julia Longoria     Very young man.            My youngest.  Julia Longoria     What is your name?  Jon Carlo Mary     Um Jon Carlo Mary.  Julia Longoria     He is nine years old. What are you doing today?  Jon Carlo Mary     Well I am done eating lunch so currently I thought I would just give my grandmother a hug. So yeah. So currently that .  Julia Longoria     And I wanted to talk to him because there is this particular chapter in his family history that presented this thorny question to the United States of America. Do you feel like you are like a descendant of immigrants?  Jon Carlo Mary     Yeah like sort of. Like not all the way like pure immigrant. But like partial immigrant because um people from Puerto Rico back then like 1998 I think maybe-  Julia Longoria     It was actually 1898.  Jon Carlo Mary     Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.  Julia Longoria     Close enough yeah. And what happened in 1898 was that the United States had gotten sort of grabby. We grabbed the Philippines we grabbed Guam and we grabbed Puerto Rico which is where Jon Carlo's family was from. And just a few years after Puerto Rico became part of the U.S.  Jon Carlo Mary     My great-grandmother... It is either great-great or great-grandmother I do not remember which one.  Julia Longoria     It was his great-great-grandmother. And her name was Isabelle Gonzalez.  Jon Carlo Mary     Isa-Isabelle Gonzalez she was on a boat. She was on like... Like there were... There used to be like boats from going from here.  Julia Longoria     She was traveling alone and pregnant from Puerto Rico from New York City. And when the boat arrived in Ellis Island-  Jon Carlo Mary     These white men would go out and like select like people. Like You cannot go you are not allowed. You cannot go. Where is your spouse? Not allowed.  Julia Longoria     She was stopped at Ellis Island because all women arriving at Ellis Island who were pregnant were stopped and examined and some of them were turned away. A little historical assist here from Christina Ponsa-Kraus.  Christina Ponsa    I am a Professor of Law at Columbia.  Julia Longoria     She says when those guys tried to pull Isabelle aside-  Christina Ponsa    She said You cannot even stop me much less question me or get in my way at all. I am coming from Puerto Rico which is part of the United States. I am an American Citizen. And citizens cannot be stopped at the border.  Julia Longoria     Christina says around this time a lot of people a lot of goods like fruit.  Christina Ponsa    There was a shipment of oranges-  Julia Longoria     Among other things started arriving in the U.S. from the newly acquired territories. And all of these new arrivals posed a sort of existential question to the U.S.  Christina Ponsa    Are these new colonies part of us or are they something else?  Julia Longoria     So a bunch of these cases like Isabelle Gonzalez's case um ended up in the Supreme Court. And they eventually become known collectively as the Insular Cases.  Jad Abumrad        The Insular Cases. What does insular mean in this context?  Julia Longoria     Insular actually means relating to an island. It also means parochial or close-minded.  Christina Ponsa    At the time when the United States annexed Puerto Rico the Philippines and Guam it still had territories. It had Oklahoma it had Arizona but it had not yet become states. So territories were not new. However these territories seemed very different to the American Public. They had different cultures different races. They did not seem American enough.  Julia Longoria     So the judges are dealing with the fact that these new islands are now part of the U.S. but they also have this public opinion in their heads and they do not want to let these people all the way in. So in the case of Isabelle Gonzalez they ended up saying...  Christina Ponsa    We are not going to answer the question of whether Puerto Ricans are actually U.S. citizens. We are just going to say they are not immigrants. And so-  Julia Longoria     And if that is not confusing enough they went on to say that Puerto Rico-  Christina Ponsa    Puerto Rico is foreign to the United States in a domestic sense. That sounds like nonsense. The dissenters in the case said it sounded like nonsense.  Julia Longoria       Christina Ponsa    Nobody understood exactly what that meant.  Julia Longoria     It is like almost textbook double think right ? Like it is like foreign but domestic. Domestic but foreign.  Christina Ponsa    Absolutely.  Julia Longoria     It is kind of wild.  Christina Ponsa    It is textbook having it both ways.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Christina Ponsa    And therefore having it neither way.  Julia Longoria     And do do you feel like you are Puerto Rican?  Jon Carlo Mary     Um sort of I guess.  Julia Longoria     Do you feel American?  Jon Carlo Mary     Um partially.  Julia Longoria     Yeah? Just partially? Why?  Jon Carlo Mary     Because I am also a little bit Irish I think. Is it Irish?            Well yeah. On dad's side you know you are-            They are French.            Your dad's from France right?  Jon Carlo Mary     I am a little bit of French.  Jad Abumrad        Just back up-  Robert Krulwich   Go ahead.  Jad Abumrad        And say so today on Radiolab we are continuing our thought that we had in the last episode we did about citizenship.  Robert Krulwich   Yeah about what it means to belong to a place or a country. In the last episode uh we spent some time in Switzerland thinking about cowbells.  Jad Abumrad        But this time we got a story that that hits a little bit closer to home.  Julia Longoria     Yeah and this next part is really what blew me away and actually inspired my second trip. Because shortly after the Insular Cases Congress stepped in and they passed a law to make it so that anybody born in Puerto Rico is an automatic U.S. citizen. Congress did the same thing for the other major territories. I mean they cannot vote for president they do not have a vote in Congress but at least the people born in those territories are automatically U.S. citizens. Except for one place cluster of tiny little islands in that great blue expanse of the Pacific Ocean between Hawaii and New Zealand called American Samoa. This is the only place in the world that is U.S. soil and people who are born here are not citizens. So-  Robert Krulwich   Is that true?  Julia Longoria     Yes.  Robert Krulwich   So it is only... Oh that is interesting. So it is the only place where the whole like uh My baby was born in the U.S. therefore... That does not happen?  Julia Longoria     Correct. They become-  Robert Krulwich   So what are they then if they are not citizens?  Julia Longoria     In their passport... They have a U.S. Passport but on the last page it says This person is not a U.S. citizen. They are a U.S. national. A child born in American Samoa will not become an automatic citizen. They have to go take the test. They have to pay close to 800 and you cannot even... Like there is no immigration office in American Samoa. So you have to go to some other part of the States stay there for a few months and apply in order to qualify.  Jad Abumrad        Wow.  Julia Longoria     So it is it is-  Robert Krulwich   That is weird.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. And it is not just weird. I mean it... When I first looked into it it seemed like this holdover from this really racist time in our history. But then I started making calls to American Samoans living in American Samoa. And I realized there might be a more complicated reason why American Samoans still are not U.S. citizens after all these years.            Ladies and gentlemen we would like to welcome to American Airlines.  Julia Longoria     So I decided to get on a plane.            50.  Julia Longoria     After a 25 hour trip I landed in the middle of the night.           Longoria? Yeah hi. What is the purpose of your trip?  Julia Longoria     I am here uh... I went through border security.           Longoria is it?  Julia Longoria     Yep.           Julia?  Julia Longoria     Yes. I walked out of the of the airport which is really small. Hi.  Jenny              I am Jenny.  Julia Longoria     Very nice to meet you.  Jenny              Yes pleasure to meet you too sweetie.  Julia Longoria     And people I had emailed showed up to the airport  to greet me .  Robert Krulwich   Oh wow.  Julia Longoria     With leis with like flowers and... It is just me yeah .  Jenny              Oh okay. Where are you staying?  Julia Longoria     And I I... At first I thought it was just like the hotel picking me up but it was like this woman who I had not even talked to on the phone but she knew I was coming from far away . And then more and more people who I had talked to showed up.  David Herdrick     Hi Julia.  Julia Longoria     Hi.  David Herdrick     I am David.  Julia Longoria     Wait David Herdrick?  David Herdrick     Herdrick yes.  Julia Longoria     So instantly it felt so welcoming. Anyway I got to my hotel that night. And then the next morning I stepped out of my hotel... Ocean view. And it was just incredibly gorgeous.  Jad Abumrad        I saw the pictures of that trip. What the ? No one told me it was going to be that beautiful.  Julia Longoria     It was amazing. Just huge lush mountain bright green mountains. So many palm trees pastel colored houses tucked into the side of these cliffs. American Flag hanging flying high. Just stunning.  Robert Krulwich   How big how big is American Samoa by the way?  Julia Longoria     Well it is a cluster of islands but the main island Tutuila is about 50 square miles with about with about 50000 people. There is a two-lane road that seems to be like the main route. There is just one main road that you drive. So if you... If the ocean's on your right you are probably going east. If the ocean's on your left you are probably going west. And just I spent 12 days there and it was just kind of like riding back and forth and back and forth with different people.  Robert Krulwich   Mm-hmm .  Julia Longoria     Uh with... Who had different ideas of what the island was about which was really interesting.  Robert Krulwich   Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Seeing the same places through different eyes.  Jad Abumrad        Interesting interesting.  Julia Longoria     Um so that is District Court. The first stop I made was to meet with a guy named... Charlie hi.  Charles A.         Hi you are Julia?  Julia Longoria     Yes.  Charles A.         How are you?  Julia Longoria     Charles Alailima . Really smiley silver hair thin-rimmed glasses wearing a floral short and flip-flops. Almost everybody at the courthouse was wearing flip flips.  Charles A.         Julia this is .           Very nice to meet you.  Julia Longoria     And when I caught up with him he was actually meeting with a couple of Samoan men who were in the middle of a land dispute.  Charles A.         Which is basically the rights of the Chiefs to control this top of this mountain .  Julia Longoria     Is that... Are these your clients then?  Charles A.         And these are my clients.  Julia Longoria     Okay . But the reason I wanted to talk to Charles is that he has a case right now pending before the Federal Courts that is basically Isabelle Gonzalez in 2019. He is arguing that denying American Samoans birthright citizenship is unconstitutional.  Charles A.         So I believe that when you are born in American Samoa you are American. And unusual American but you are still one.  Julia Longoria     Now in Charles' case he is what some Samoans call afakasi.  Charles A.         My mother was born in Auburn New York.  Julia Longoria     His mom is white and his dad is from Western Samoa which is not part of the U.S. His parents actually met in the States. His dad was in grad school in D.C.  Charles A.         And my father and mother could not get married in Virginia because of the uh anti-miscegenation laws.  Julia Longoria     This was back in 19-oh-racism.  Charles A.         My mother kept trying to insist that Samoans are not black they are something different. And she says No he looks too dark .  Julia Longoria     But they were actually able to get married in Washington D.C. and they moved to American Samoa where Charlie was born. And you would think that Charlie would be an automatic U.S. citizen.  Charles A.         And this is a U.S... I was born in a U.S. territory but she had to... Because they had to register at the closest embassy .  Julia Longoria     But his mom a U.S. citizen actually had to register him in a foreign country.  Charles A.         And the closest embassy was all-  Julia Longoria     All the way in New Zealand.  Charles A.         You know it does not make any sense. And it is it is and it is against the principles of the United States.  Julia Longoria     So Charlie says the fact that American Samoans are not automatic citizens by birth...  Charles A.         It is hiding a lot of injustices that are going on injustices that could be remedied if you did not say Oh we will we are... You are a national. Right?  Julia Longoria     Mm-hmm .  Charles A.         You can be treated differently.  Julia Longoria     Mm-hmm .  Charles A.         Oh gee. You should be in hiking boots and-  Julia Longoria      Should I be?  Charles A.         Okay well-  Julia Longoria     So I drove around with Charlie for awhile and um-  Charles A.         This is where the tsunami really took its toll  in this whole area.  Julia Longoria     And everywhere I saw signs of threats of natural disaster tsunamis typhoons earthquakes.  Charles A.         So this is the... This was the main center of the government in the beginning.  Julia Longoria     He showed me the town center which is really just a cluster of pastel colored buildings.  Charles A.         So these are these are all the old Navy building that... Remnants of the old Navy buildings.  Julia Longoria     And the original U.S. Naval Base which is really where this whole thing got started. So the U.S. Navy showed up in American Samoa in the late 1800's.  Charles A.         At a time when Samoa was extremely fractured.  Julia Longoria     Germany and the U.K. were hanging out there too. And there were fights among chiefs across the islands about who owned what turf. And the U.S. Navy offered the islands of American Samoa protection in exchange for-           Beautiful Pago Pago Bay.  Julia Longoria     ... the use of their harbor.           The safest the best altogether the most superb harbor in the south seas possibly in all the Pacific.  Julia Longoria     According to Charlie at least some of the chiefs wanted that protection.  Charles A.         American Samoans they said That is great.  Julia Longoria     They thought it was a good deal.  Charles A.         One of their high chiefs his name was Mauga uh was basically telling everybody No. Let us let us have the Americans come in.  Julia Longoria     And in 1900 they made it official. Some Samoans chiefs signed what they called a Deed of Session to hand over sovereignty to the United States. And according to Charlie-  Charles A.         At the time that they did this they thought they had become U.S. citizens.  Julia Longoria     Of course thanks to the rulings in the Insular Cases they actually had not. And then-  Charles A.         In 1929-  Julia Longoria     Congress took up the question of whether American Samoans should be U.S. citizens and they just said No.  Charles A.         And really some vile racist statements being made back then in 1929 against it We do not want any of these these savage racists who would never be able to understand our system.  Julia Longoria     Fast-forward 100 years and Charles is basically trying to overturn Isabelle Gonzalez's case. His first attempt to do that...  Lene Tuaua         You there?  Julia Longoria     Hi I am here at the hostel... Was to represent this guy named Lene Tuaua. I actually got in a rental car and went to visit him while I was on the island.  Lene Tuaua         Then continue on towards the mountains.  Julia Longoria     Okay.  Lene Tuaua         Do not make any turns.  Julia Longoria     A side note there are no addresses in American Samoa. All right great. Thank you so much. I am sorry I got lost.  Lene Tuaua         Okay.  Julia Longoria     Which makes it virtually impossible to find anyone. But I found him. One-story modest house green trimmings white bricks. Hello.  Lene Tuaua         Hi Julia.  Julia Longoria     How are you doing?  Lene Tuaua         All right.  Julia Longoria     Lene's got white hair purple floral shirt on taking a drag from a cigarette. What is your name?  Lene Tuaua         Leneuoti Tuaua. I am a retiree um taking care of family matters here at home. I am not working anymore.  Julia Longoria     Lene was actually a police officer in America Samoa. He moved to California and lived there for awhile and he wanted to be a police officer there too but-  Lene Tuaua         As soon as they uh they came across my uh my status they said Well I am sorry. You know you are not a U.S. citizen so therefore you cannot become a California Highway Patrolman.  Julia Longoria     They told him he would have to become a citizen first which involved paying hundreds of dollars and taking a test.  Lene Tuaua         I simply responded Hell no. I am not going to do that. I am not going to spend a penny. I am not an American. Period.  Jad Abumrad        And that is why birthright citizenship is so important. It solidifies that if you are born on U.S. soil you are equal to everybody else.  Julia Longoria     So in 2012 with the help of Charlie and a lawyer from Guam named Neil Weare Lene sued the U.S. Government saying they violated the Citizenship Clause of the 14th Amendment.  Lene Tuaua         And so I ended up in Washington D.C. right on the footsteps of the U.S. Supreme Court.  Julia Longoria     Lene says he just wanted the court to give some kind of explanation for why American Samoans had been treated this way.  Lene Tuaua         Why I mean why give us the runaround?  Julia Longoria     But when it got to the Supreme Court they declined to hear the case. And he was-  Robert Krulwich   When was that that they they got to the Supreme Court?  Julia Longoria     2016. They just refused to make a decision on it.  Lene Tuaua         Why are they so afraid to come out? There is nine of them.  Julia Longoria     Today Charlie and Neil have another case going with some American Samoans in Utah.  Lene Tuaua         And hopefully this second time around the Supreme Court will uh will grant our position. Or at least consider-  Julia Longoria     And so at this point in my trip I was curious how other American Samoans even ones who are not in the States trying to get a job how they felt about this case and about citizenship. I assumed that they would be behind it because who wants to live in this like foreign but domestic but foreign limbo space? But-  Dan                The following is a Public Service Announcement from the American Samoan Humanities Council and the Office of Political-  Julia Longoria     Then I talked to this guy.  Dan                Have you ever read the Constitution of American Samoa?  Julia Longoria     His name is uh Tapaau Aga. He goes by Dan. He is on the radio reading from the American Samoan Constitution all the time. Um which is kind of weird.  Jad Abumrad        He is on the radio reading from the Constitution?  Julia Longoria     Yeah from the American Samoan Constitution.  Jad Abumrad        Wow.  Julia Longoria     Yeah .  Jad Abumrad        That is kind of cool weirdly.  Dan                The Constitution tells us about the branches of government. How are laws made? To help us answer these questions-  Julia Longoria     And actually when he heard I was looking into the citizenship question he got ahold of me. Okay hold hold on one second. Okay go ahead.  Dan                So you will be coming west on the main road.  Julia Longoria     So I hopped in my car. So I just... I I made a I made a left uh because that... On a Hail Mary. But I I think I uh made the wrong left. So... I got a little bit lost again.  Dan                So you can see it is the land where there is a little similarity where they do not need street signs. You just got to kind of know where your coconut trees are and you will be all right.  Julia Longoria      But eventually I did find his house. Where should I part? Is here good? Oh you want to come in?  Dan                Yeah. Are we going?  Julia Longoria     Yeah yeah let us go.  Dan                Okay.  Julia Longoria     Great. And as soon as I arrived he jumped in my rental car because he wanted to show me what they call Fa'a Samoa.  Dan                I would I would suggest uh just going around. Make it easy.  Julia Longoria     Go around? So we drove down to the center of the Village of Leone.  Dan                It is one of the larger villages.  Julia Longoria     It is about 2000 people and it is on the southwest coast of the island.  Dan                Let me talk to them-  Julia Longoria     Okay.  Dan                ... before you come out.  Julia Longoria     Okay great yeah. To meet the high chiefs of the village or um matais as they are known. I will come out? There we go. Hello .  Dan                This is uh Chief .  Julia Longoria     Hi. Very nice to meet you. Can I get out? Is that-  Dan                Yeah if you want. Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. Great. Chief Rapati Opa nice to meet you.  Rapati Opa         Hi. Welcome.  Julia Longoria     Thank you.  Rapati Opa         My name is Rapati Opa.  Julia Longoria     White hair broad shoulders kind smile.  Rapati Opa         So now I am the mayor of the village.  Julia Longoria     And  high talking Chief . He is got a buzz cut and a white V-neck.  Rapati Opa         What brings you out here to our ugly village?  Julia Longoria      And I asked the Chiefs like Would you want to be citizens straight up? Um would you would you want to be... Are you a U.S. citizen?  Rapati Opa         No.  Julia Longoria     Do you want to be?  Rapati Opa         I want to be a U.S. uh citizen myself.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Rapati Opa         I want it.  Julia Longoria     And Chief Rapati Opa was like-  Rapati Opa         My answer is-  Julia Longoria     ... Yeah.  Rapati Opa         ... yes.  Julia Longoria     Duh. Why?  Rapati Opa         Because this is the part of America. So I want to be uh a real American .  Julia Longoria     Like My kids all lived in the States. I served in the U.S. Military. Thank you so much.  Rapati Opa         Yeah.  Julia Longoria     I really appreciate it.  Rapati Opa         Okay. So now you are going to ask him-  Julia Longoria     So Dan kind of like steps in and starts talking to him in Samoan for a minute.  Dan                .  Julia Longoria     And I was like What is going on? And then...  Rapati Opa         Okay now I understand. And I do not want to answer that question until I prepare myself to explain to you uh before you go . I want a-  Julia Longoria     You want a minute to think about it and then-  Rapati Opa         Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Yeah? Okay. And I was not really sure what to think about that but then this bell started to ring. And Chief Mayaba explained that they have a curfew in the Village of Leone on Sundays at 00 PM. For 15 minutes everyone has to stop what they are doing and pray or meditate.  Jad Abumrad        Wait. That is the law? This is-  Julia Longoria     Yeah I mean. It is it is not quite law but it is the rule in this village and some others and it is enforced.  Jad Abumrad        Hm.  Julia Longoria     And I was talking to the Chief when 00 PM rolled around and the bell rang and I was like Oh what happens now? And he is like Well I just drive around and make sure that everybody's following the curfew.  Rapati Opa         Do you want to go take a ride or do you want to go by yourself to-  Julia Longoria     Let us go. I will take a ride yeah.  Rapati Opa         Okay.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. And then he asked me if I wanted to come along with him and I was like Yeah. And he was like Okay great.  Rapati Opa         Where is your car?  Julia Longoria     We will take your car. So we literally got into my car. Sorry about that. And I am holding the microphone for the Chief as we are doing the ride along. All right so you tell me where to go.  Rapati Opa         Okay. We can go start from that side.  Julia Longoria     Okay. And we just went up and down the main street. It took like a little over 15 minutes. It is a very small village. Oops sorry. I did not realize that was there. And along the street there are young men. They are called the  uh the young men's uh club. So they... These guys just line the streets here?  Rapati Opa         Yeah they just line the street.  Julia Longoria     Lined up and wearing red shirts and red lava lavas which are like skirts.  Jad Abumrad        Okay. And they did... What do they do? They just yell at people?  Julia Longoria     They just stand there kind of watching.  Rapati Opa         .  Julia Longoria     And so there were some people who got caught.  Rapati Opa         Uh they... This guy's stuck here.  Julia Longoria     Oh they are stuck?  Rapati Opa         Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Oh they just have to stop. So they are just sitting there on the side of the road for 15 minutes until it is over.  Robert Krulwich   Do they have to pray?  Julia Longoria     They do not force them to pray but they are just supposed to have quiet time just sit for a minute . For 15 minutes.  Jad Abumrad        What happens if you do not do that?  Rapati Opa         So if anybody cross this board and everything in the old days you would have some penalties.  Julia Longoria     Chief Mayaba told me that back in the old days like the 1800's you would just immediately get kicked out of the village.  Chief Mayaba       Yeah we do not want to see them no more.  Julia Longoria     Which meant you had no food no protection.  Chief Mayaba       It is almost like a uh like a death penalty those days. You know but you know nowadays we do not do that. We would do the light ones.  Julia Longoria     And when I was talking to Chief Rapati Opa he told me that these days a pretty common punishment would be like making the person feed the whole village.  Rapati Opa         Feed the village. So that means we cook a lot of food and  50 case chicken 50 case uh turkey tail 50 case of uh .  Julia Longoria     But Chief Mayaba told me you know if you keep breaking the curfew over and over again you can still get kicked out of the village which he is seen happen a few times in his life.  Robert Krulwich   So so... Okay interesting.  Julia Longoria     So so one of the arguments that is made is like this would not pass muster under the U.S. Constitution.  Jad Abumrad        Yeah it definitely would not.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. But the thing is like these guys are not really the government. If you look at it one way it is kind of like a gated community or a country club. You opt into living there and you opt into you know living under these rules. But the fear is that if everyone born on the island were automatically granted citizenship then a bunch of other U.S. laws might start getting applied here too. And they would not be able to do things like these curfews.  Dan                The reason why it is such an existential threat to American Samoans to become U.S. citizens-  Julia Longoria     This is Dan again.  Dan                ... by birth is because the 14th Amendment also guarantees equal protection under laws.  Julia Longoria     He thinks if all American Samoans become birthright citizens it is not long before everyone born on this island is given that equality under the law.  Dan                But that word equality historically and even now it... That is such a difficult complicated word to get around. Because U.S. citizenship is not something that is applied in a pure way.  Julia Longoria     He is saying that historically-  Dan                It is mixed with free market-  Julia Longoria     ... the ideal of equality it actually gets mixed in with other realities. Capitalism and the interest of people in power.  Dan                And the artificial population of lands that were peopled by native peoples.  Julia Longoria     And the result has been time and time again that indigenous people have ended up losing their land or cultural practices.  Dan                And Samoans we have a saying . Careful that you are so eager for the fish that you end up losing your net. Okay? Let us be careful that that we do not go after U.S. citizenship and forget that we have so much to lose. Our net being our land and our natural resources and our culture and our language things that have been lost by so many other native peoples.  Julia Longoria     And um so are you a U.S. citizen?  Dan                Yes.  Julia Longoria     Yeah?  Dan                Many people here are U.S. citizens. They are they are... So are you saying... Well I am sure you are saying if you are a U.S. citizen why should not everyone else become a U.S. citizen?  Julia Longoria     Well yeah I guess I guess like what is the law? Do you feel as a U.S. citizen do you feel like you have lost something?  Dan                I as an individual have not lost something because I am part of an extended family that lives on family lands.  Julia Longoria     So so could they not live on family lands as U.S. citizens?  Dan                Yes technically speaking. Here I am a U.S. citizen. There are many of us who are U.S. citizens. We could live on family lands. We do live on family lands.  Julia Longoria     Right. So so what... I I want to understand like what is it about granting U.S. citizenship birthright U.S. citizenship to-  Dan                Okay let me... I guess I have to paint the picture a little more.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Dan                so-  Julia Longoria     And then he explained to me that there is a law in American Samoa that says you have to be 50 blood Samoan blood to own land.  Robert Krulwich   Oh.  Julia Longoria     Like even if a Samoan person wanted to sell me or like give me their land they could not by law.  Dan                So someone from some country say uh... I mean everyone picks on China these days so maybe I will... Someone from China moves here. Uh and uh the laws changed and it... The law says anyone born here is a U.S. citizen okay? So this person here from China you know builds a business becomes a wealthy businessman from China and one day he wants to buy land. And the laws say Well no we cannot sell you these lands. Okay but he says No I want to buy that land and I have the right to buy that land. Okay? That is what I am talking about. That is the threat.  Julia Longoria     Finally he was like Think about it. Like if everyone born here is a birthright citizen and everyone has equal rights here it is not long before a Chinese person is born here that is a U.S. citizen. They have equal rights to the land as Samoans do. And Dan thinks they could sue to make that blood Samoan law illegal. So maybe not in one generation but in a couple of generations blood Samoans would lose their land.  Dan                That is the threat. I guess you have to imagine what would Hawaii be like if they did not lose all their lands the way that they had. See we... To us Hawaii is what we never want to become. You know you land at the airport in Hawaii who do you see? Where are the Hawaiians? You know for us to look at Hawaii is to look at a sad story. You know so uh um but everything I say you have to also remember we are loyal and patriotic people.  Julia Longoria     It is worth pointing out that American Samoa has one of the highest rates of military enlistment of any U.S. State or territory. They say the Pledge of Allegiance at school in the morning. They learn U.S. History learn about the U.S. Constitution.  Dan                But this is still our home right? And and we still have to protect it.  Julia Longoria     Do you think what is happening here the land the curfews this sort of thing do you think it is unconstitutional?  Dan                Uh I can give you literature that says it is uh repugnant to the U.S. Constitution.  Julia Longoria     So you do think you do think it is unconstitutional you think it is unconstitutional where people say it is-  Dan                No I I I... I am not saying it is unconstitutional but we do understand that there is a view that it si considered racist and unconstitutional. But it is also... It gives us a chance to survive.  Jad Abumrad        Coming up um that balancing act that he is doing that sort of weighing of things which I am pretty uh-  Robert Krulwich   They are pretty uh-  Jad Abumrad        Tough.  Robert Krulwich   Pretty pinched right?  Jad Abumrad        Yeah. Well it is going to get a lot more personal after the break.  Megan              Hi this is Megan and I am calling from cloudy Ithaca New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Jad Abumrad        Hey this is Jad. Radiolab is supported by IBM. Problems. It is human nature to hate problems but why is that? After all problems inspire us to mend things bend things make things better. That is why so many people work with IBM on everything from city traffic to ocean plastic new schools to new energy flight delays to food safety. Smart loves problems. IBM let us put smart to work. Visit ibm.comsmart to learn more.  Molly Webster      Hey this is Molly Webster. Radiolab is supported by Luminary a podcast subscription service that gives you access to more than 40 original shows you cannot find anywhere else including the latest season of Spooked from Snap Judgment. Spooked haunts you with true life supernatural stories told firsthand by people who can barely believe it happened themselves. Get your first two months of access to Luminary's premium content for free when you sign up at luminary.linkrl. After that it is 7.99 per month luminary.linkrl. Cancel anytime. Term apply.  Ilya Marritz       Hello. It is Ilya Marritz co-host of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent president to not release his tax returns the only president you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.           He did not care what records was. He tore up memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like Look you cannot do that.  Ilya Marritz       Trump Inc an open investigation into the business of Trump from ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad Abumrad        Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich   I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad        Radiolab.  Robert Krulwich   We are back with Julia Longoria's story about... Well the question before us is should people born in American Samoa be automatically citizens of the United States of America. That is the question.  Jad Abumrad        Right.  Robert Krulwich   Just because they are born there.  Jad Abumrad        Exactly. And uh before the break we heard uh about some land ownership laws that are-  Robert Krulwich   Hm Constitutionally-  Jad Abumrad        Questionable.  Robert Krulwich   Yes.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. And the more people I talked to the more tangled the reality of blood laws for land ownership got. Hi how is it going?  Genevieve Greg     Good. And you?  Julia Longoria     Can I get in or-  Genevieve Greg     Get in.  Julia Longoria     All right . Because you kind of run out of people to marry. So okay there is just like... Uh say your name.  Genevieve Greg     Genevieve Batina-Greg.  Julia Longoria     I talked to this one woman Genevieve Greg who was runs a tour company there. And how long have you worked here?  Genevieve Greg     Um my whole life except for seven years. I lived in California.  Julia Longoria     And one of the first things she told me was...  Genevieve Greg     It is... I have a feeling that I am like... This island is so small. Who are you going to marry? Right ?  Julia Longoria     So basically there has to be intermarriage .  Genevieve Greg     Uh yeah. There you go. Well the running joke here is like when a family... When I get two invitations for the same wedding then we know Oh there we go. That is a family member and a family member . Yeah incest is the best they say do not they? I am just kidding .  Julia Longoria     Oh man.  Genevieve Greg     Okay. This is like that show Cash Cab Confessional.  Julia Longoria       Genevieve Greg     I will tell you what we are doing right now.  Julia Longoria     Now Genevieve herself-  Genevieve Greg     I am only 25-  Julia Longoria     Percent Samoan?  Genevieve Greg     Yes.  Julia Longoria     Her mom is half-Samoan.  Genevieve Greg     And my dad is Canadian. But when I was younger I never knew I was white. Nobody... Like I never knew I was white until I went to California after high school.  Julia Longoria     She says she like realized she was white one time at a bar in California when someone was like...  Genevieve Greg     You are like the whitest girl in the bar. Like okay nevermind . Whatever that means let us go .  Julia Longoria     And it is funny. At one point we pick up her friend.  Genevieve Greg     What is up?  Ma'i               I told you I look like crap !  Genevieve Greg     Okay so this is Julia.  Ma'i               Hi.  Julia Longoria     Hi. Whose name is  Snow. Goes by Ma'i.  Genevieve Greg     We call her the white girl. We do.  Julia Longoria     Ma'i is actually way darker-skinned than Genevieve but she grew up in California and talks like she is from the States.  Genevieve Greg     She barely speaks Samoan and she is white. She is so white.  Ma'i               I do speak Samoan. .  Julia Longoria     What does that mean?  Ma'i                 Genevieve Greg     Thank you very much.  Ma'i               Thank you very much .  Genevieve Greg     We laugh because she is so... Like she is... You are the darkest  .  Julia Longoria     That is the Samoan word for white person.  Genevieve Greg     And I am the whitest Samoan.  Jad Abumrad        Wait a second. I am a little confused. Who is who is who now?  Julia Longoria      The point is Ma'i is 100 blood Samoan but she is not that culturally Samoan. She does not speak the language very well. She is only spent a few years there. Whereas Genevieve is very culturally Samoan. Has spent most of her life there speaks perfect Samoan but because she and her sisters are only 25 Samoan blood-  Genevieve Greg     Because we are not 50-  Julia Longoria     She cannot technically own land in American Samoa. Her mom recently passed away and tried to  the land to her and her sisters.  Genevieve Greg     Even if I was written in a will that it was us inherit it... We inherited it we cannot get it because we are not 50.  Julia Longoria     And this blood law affects Ma'i because of her son Samuel.  Genevieve Greg     Samuel are you having a rough day?  Julia Longoria     Who she brought along in the car. Ma'i took away his video game and he freaked out.  Genevieve Greg     What is going on? Having a full on meltdown over here.  Ma'i               Oh my gosh. Yes my son he is drama. So ... As you can see.  Julia Longoria     Anyway it affects her son because his dad is American without one drop of Samoan blood.  Ma'i               This is kid afakasi right now.  Genevieve Greg     Afakasi is half.  Ma'i               Half.  Julia Longoria     So Samuel's kids will only be able to own land if he has them with a half or a full blood Samoan.  Ma'i               So like I made a joke. The other night I am like Well I guess he is going to have to marry a Samoan . I am like Just have Samoan kids. You can marry a white girl if you want .  Genevieve Greg     Like Mom I got my classmate pregnant. Is she Samoan?  Ma'i                 Genevieve Greg     That is okay .  Julia Longoria     And then another thing that came up is that Genevieve interestingly is she is a lesbian. And she has a partner who she wants to marry.  Genevieve Greg     Yeah it is my first my marriage so kind of cool.  Ma'i               Are you planning on a second?  Genevieve Greg     I do not know. We will see how good she is .  Julia Longoria     But same-sex marriage is not legal in American Samoa.  Genevieve Greg     We could not be public affectionate with each other or be a couple. My mom still was like Whatever you do you need to do it inside the bedroom. Like we could not even be in the house and like give each other a hug or something. So it was really tough. We went through a couple years of really rocky relationship. And then um you know...  Julia Longoria     So here you have got Genevieve and Ma'i. Two people who if the Constitution applied here the way it does in the States it seems like their problems would be solved. Genevieve would get her land and Ma'i's son could have kids with whoever he wants to. And maybe Genevieve down the road could marry whoever she wants to.  Julia Longoria     Do you wish you could get married here?  Genevieve Greg     Um yes and no. I mean see I do not have the same views as other gay people. Like I am a Republican and people always ask me How can you be gay and a Republican and a female? Right? I have certain views. Like I would rather have financial stability at the end of the day than be able to get married to someone. You know I would rather be rich and with someone than poor and married because in the end we are going to divorce either way right?  Julia Longoria     Like this is my first time in American Samoa and I do not know like I do not know anything. What do I know ? But but but I am like trying to think about like... Growing up I am like Oh being a U.S. citizen like matters and it is like... It it comes with all of these rights like freedom of speech freedom of religion freedom of like equality under the law and stuff like that.  Genevieve Greg     Right.  Julia Longoria     So-  Genevieve Greg     That does not matter here. Out here it is... We have a matai system.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Genevieve Greg     So all that stuff is out the door. It does not matter. There is freedom speech until they say Shh.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Genevieve Greg     I am speaking . Do not speak. Go get coffee for everybody . So that... Yeah that does not take pace here dude.  Julia Longoria     Now even birthright citizenship would not necessarily change all that I still expected them to want birthright citizenship for American Samoans but they both told me no. So are you a U.S. a citizen or are you-  Genevieve Greg     National.  Julia Longoria     National?  Genevieve Greg     Yay. And proud of it .  Ma'i               We have land that an American cannot get.  Julia Longoria     What if... So what if the lands were to be preserved and then things like same-sex marriage things like free speech fundamental rights that you have in Constitution would be enforced? The matais and government could not deny you those things.  Genevieve Greg     Who would enforce it?  Julia Longoria     People could sue in Federal Court.  Genevieve Greg     And enforce that?  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Genevieve Greg     I do not think that really matters here. That is like U.S. problems .  Ma'i               See that is the thing. Uh our... Like so granted-  Genevieve Greg     I do not think people would care about that shit here dude.  Julia Longoria     Before Ma'i moved here she was living in California she married an American bought a house.  Ma'i               All those things that I once thought were so important when I was living in in in the States is nothing here. Nothing.  Julia Longoria     What changed? Like-  Ma'i               What changed?  Julia Longoria     Yeah like in you. Like did you notice something changing in you?  Ma'i               Oh yeah. I love this place. I will never move back to the States. What changed? My kids my kids my kids being raised out here changed. I get to spend more time with my kids. I think that... And we get to spend more time as a family you know our own our our our own business. We would never be able to do that in the States. You know people who buy a house in the States like Oh man you you you know-  Genevieve Greg     You made it.  Ma'i               ... you made it. Or whatever You bought a house you are a homeowner. Fuck that. I am like No way. That... We have learned that that was such bullshit. We do not use credit anymore we do not use none of that fucking shit that they have out there. We do not. We do not. We are not in debt. We are content with what we have here. We are happy.  Genevieve Greg     Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Great.  Ma'i               I was so blinded. So blinded by what life truly should be. Just live life. We live life every day here and I love it. I love it.  Julia Longoria     And it... Like a lot of that... Is a lot of that like the fact that you do have land like you own land and-  Ma'i               Mm-hmm .  Julia Longoria     Yeah yeah.  Ma'i               Yup. All of it.  Julia Longoria     But at the same time they did both agree that these land ownership laws about blood are kind of messed up. And Charlie Alailima the layer on that citizenship case that we mentioned that is what he thinks too.  Charles A.         And they all know it is stupid. I mean I had one case-  Julia Longoria     Genevieve actually asked him to help try to get her mom's land.  Charles A.         That is this whole citizenship case again you know? That somehow you are special down here that you are entitled and you are able to do a lot of these things that are patently unconstitutional and and and even even worse in my mind is un-Samoan. That is not-  Julia Longoria     He actually does want to preserve Samoan ownership of lands but just to do it in some other way because he thinks the blood rules are just illegal. And that they are basically a kind of Jim Crow law. So there was a case actually two uh two years ago.  Genevieve Greg     Mm-hmm .  Julia Longoria     This guy um... And I tried to explain to Ma'i and Genevieve that you could see the fight for citizenship as a fight against the Insular Cases in which the Supreme Court Justices called territories like American Samoa Possessions inhabited by alien races. And said they were unfit for Anglo-Saxon legal traditions. He thought it was very racist and he wanted the U.S. Government-  Genevieve Greg     Get over it. Go ahead. I am sorry. Finish. Go ahead.  Julia Longoria     Yeah to to to explain like what that... Because he feels like Samoans are in a limbo a little bit legally.  Genevieve Greg     Well let us go back to the 1900's-  Ma'i                I will tell you about the government dude. They are sleeping.  Genevieve Greg     ... and to figure out what the U.S. Government has to say about this.  Ma'i                 Genevieve Greg     Jesus Christ.  Ma'i               Move on with your life. What is he doing? Is he at home right now .  Genevieve Greg     Yeah let us go let us go... Cash Cab Confessional. Another person to pick up.  Ma'i               Is he working?  Genevieve Greg       Julia Longoria     And honestly leaving the car with those two it did make me wonder how common is their perspective on the island. So my name's Julia Longoria. What is your name?  Julia Longoria     So I spent a bunch of time wandering around over the next couple days taking a very informal poll. Do you mind if I um ask you a couple questions? Is that okay?           Oh yeah go ahead.  Julia Longoria     If it were put to a vote would you make American Samoans automatic citizens? Would you vote to become a U.S. citizen?           No.           No.  Julia Longoria     And at first it seemed like it was just a lot of no.           No because I I always got to be mindful of what happened to Guam when the States took over Guam. Which we are really blessed in a sense that we were able to culture our land.  Julia Longoria     This one Samoan veteran-           My name is Chief .  Julia Longoria     ... with a Make American Great Again baseball cap.           I support the President of the United States.  Julia Longoria     Told me-           I do not I do not want to be a U.S. citizen. I would I would rather be a U.S. national. I do not want a Japanese or Chinese or um... It is the same you know U.S... I would rather be a Samoan you know?  Julia Longoria     What did you order here?           A fish filet.  Julia Longoria     And then interestingly at McDonald's. Like at birth you know like to automatically become citizens? What do you think of that idea?           I think that is a great idea because that is going to be fair.  Julia Longoria     I got only yeses.           Um I think that would be great because um gay marriage-  Julia Longoria     One fa'afafine as they are called which are men at birth but end up dressing like women-           Here we do um partners we do live with them but-  Julia Longoria     ... who are kind of accepted in society but they are just not allowed to marry who they want to marry.           It is not recognized by law so... But that is totally okay in the U.S.  Julia Longoria     And in particular when I talked to immigrants-           I am Korean you know-  Julia Longoria     ... from Korea China the Philippines Tonga most of them wanted citizenship.           It is easier better when the citizenship is automatically granted.           Yeah yeah.           Of course. Why not?           I wish-           I wish I wish I wish. Maybe God help me .  Charles A.         For the non-American nationals that are... You know they probably can go Oh wow. That would be great if uh if we... If they become citizens because-  Julia Longoria     And this is something that Charlie Alailima brought up with me. I guess you had kind of started to talk about injustices here that are kind of swept under the rug without citizenship.  Charles A.         I think mostly it is how immigration will be handled.  Julia Longoria     In American Samoa he told me You have immigrants coming to the island for work. And because American Samoan controls its own borders and because he says there is lax enforcement of immigration laws some people talked about corruption. You have some situations where immigrants end up here on questionable visas stripped of their rights to wages and fair working conditions.  Charles A.         Uh and in some cases it has not been very good you know for some of the foreigners. There is a lot of abuse in that but if you do become a citizen then... And if U.S. immigration service comes and actually enforces the laws and the requirements of farmers coming to work here right? Then you would probably see change.  Jad Abumrad        Hm. I am just curious as you were doing these interviews how were you processing all this?  Julia Longoria     You know I was kind of making my way across the island and there were some people for whom this was a really personal thing. Other people had these high ideals of rights others you know high ideals of Samoan culture. Um but I did meet one person who kind of held all of these ideas in her mind at once.  Candyman           Welcome.  Julia Longoria     Thank you.  Candyman           I am Candyman Tisa's partner.  Julia Longoria     Very nice to meet you. Her name is Tisa Faamuli.  Tisa Faamuli       Hello. I am the infamous Tisa woman from the famous Barefoot Bar in the South Pacific.  Julia Longoria     She runs Tisa's Barefoot Bar. It is a series of fales or grass roof wooden structures on stilts.  Tisa Faamuli       This structure I built this me and Candyman built this.  Julia Longoria     It is beautiful.  Tisa Faamuli       Thank you. Do you like it?  Julia Longoria     Yeah. It is pretty magical . And they are right on the water of this beach Alega Beach which is a marine reserve. And I actually stayed in one of the fales overnight and you step out onto the sand in the morning and every shell moved. It was bursting with life. She has-  Jad Abumrad        Oh is there where the pictures came-  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Jad Abumrad        Those pictures are crazy.  Julia Longoria     It is incredible. Do you spend most of your time here just-  Tisa Faamuli       No I travel a little bit. I have been around.  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Tisa Faamuli       I have tested out many trails to see how far I get .  Julia Longoria     Oh yeah?  Tisa Faamuli       Trails of life .  Julia Longoria     Yeah. Where where where have the trails of life taken you?  Tisa Faamuli       Oh they have taken me to foreign land you know on the West Coast.  Julia Longoria     She has flags from different countries and states hanging up in her bar. And she has a unique perspective on American Samoa.  Tisa Faamuli       I do not know. I I just am so disappointed that that we ended up this way. We are very content with what little we get. And there is no waves being done about it. People do not know what their rights are. People do not know they do not speak up. I appreciate these guys speaking up about the citizenship because at least that is a bold move showing that maybe somebody's thinking. I have tendencies to think  as you can hear in my voice my tone.  Julia Longoria     Tisa told me she went to the U.S. mainland for the first time when she was 16 years old.  Tisa Faamuli       I was not necessarily looking for anything better. I was just curious about what the other... What the world really looks like coming from this tiny little dot.  Julia Longoria     So she went to live with her aunt in San Diego to go to high school there in the late '60s.  Tisa Faamuli       I ended up um following the Black Panthers.  Julia Longoria     The Black Panthers had arrived in San Diego by that time.  Tisa Faamuli       I was curious. I said Okay what are these people... Because all I hear is bad stuff.           Black Panther Party is simply the Vanguard of the Revolution.  Tisa Faamuli       I went to the meetings often. Newspapers were passed out posters posted where the black people were gathering.           And we uh plan to teach the people the necessary tools to liberate themselves.  Tisa Faamuli       You tell them about what they can do to improve their lives and they were actually sitting down encouraging all the kids. Black kids blue kids whatever color kids to go including Samoans like me to go to college and I did.  Tim                Sisterhood is powerful. Line up now.  Julia Longoria     And she says she also sat in on meetings in the Women's Movement.  Tisa Faamuli       The Women's Movement was full on.  Gabriel            Equal rights. Equal rights to have a job to have respect and not be viewed as a piece of meat.  Tisa Faamuli       My whole purpose of hanging around whenever these big rallies I listened I watched. Just learn and make a note learn and make a note.  Julia Longoria     And sitting there in the back of those meetings inevitably-  Tisa Faamuli       I keep thinking about home. I come from a little tiny island.  Julia Longoria     She began to think-  Tisa Faamuli       Men control their wives their children their daughters. They have no right to speak up.  Julia Longoria     The way things work at home just is not just.  Tisa Faamuli       So there was so much injustice here for women.  Julia Longoria     The fact that women were not chiefs.  Tisa Faamuli       Women were abused and young girls domestic abuse out of frustrations. And this is why a lot of Samoans go away and they never want to come back here.  Julia Longoria     But Tisa in her 20's decided she would come back.  Tisa Faamuli       I never felt that California was my home. I was just a student of California. And uh I learned a lot. I learned a lot about my rights as a women and I learned my right to speak up.  Julia Longoria     And she brought those lessons back home.  Tisa Faamuli       When I came back I was very vocal. I spoke out I never backed up from any man. And so my... When I ran for governor-  Julia Longoria     So she ran for office.  Tisa Faamuli       We have our campaigning for political office the Samoan way. You do not speak out against anybody and we still do not. But I went against all that. And I spoke up. I spoke about rights. You have these rights that you can advocate for but no one would do it because people were afraid.  Julia Longoria     And the chiefs-  Tisa Faamuli       My dad's cousins. They... He was a governor and he brought all the clan in a big who is who. The big chief the big boys you know. They came to dad and asked uh asked him If you will please tell your daughter not to run for governor because that is what chiefs do. And my father told them Well she is her own person. She is going to do whatever she wants and she can do that. She has those rights and I am not going to tell her no. I loved him forever for that. But he he did not like me because I was because I was not the daughter that I was supposed to be. I was very vocal. A very strong voice in... And they hear me.  Julia Longoria     Right. Did you win?  Tisa Faamuli       Oh no. Are you serious? I would never win but I was very vocal. I was just out there. I did not care. I wanted... Because I learned from America you have the right to speak. And that was very big for me.  Julia Longoria     And so she believed... She is like The one reason why I am proud to be an American is that we have rights.  Tisa Faamuli       Because some part of the Constitution protects our rights.  Julia Longoria     So again here we have a person who you would think would absolutely support Charlie's fight to get American Samoans U.S. citizenship but...  Tisa Faamuli       No I hope not. It is not a good idea. At the end of the day it is still the wrong thing to address.  Julia Longoria     She said it is not worth it.  Jad Abumrad        Wow. No way. So-  Julia Longoria     Yeah.  Jad Abumrad        So it is not worth it because?  Julia Longoria     For one she thinks you know American Samoans are already running off to the U.S. to find like what they think is going to be a better life. And U.S. citizenship would probably make that dream on the island even worse. And then for life on the island.  Tisa Faamuli       There are other parts of my culture I need to protect. And it outweighs my need to be a U.S. citizen. It is not about me at all. It is about my island. It is about my people. It is about my family. It is about my village. It is about this wonderful community. So I will never go up and try to change anything if they are not with me. I have learned that the hard way. I have learned that and I am humbled by it because our communal system our chief system it is the very system that is keeping us alive and together.  Julia Longoria     I guess I am wondering like what what about the communal system do you think would would definitely go away? Do you know? Like what what is it about the communal system like that is completely incompatible with being a citizen?  Tisa Faamuli       The Western ways is individual... It is about individual's rights. Mine my real estate my land. But for us it is about protecting all of us our communal rights. So it is complete opposite of the American system. If you bring in a whole bunch of immigrants it is going to disrupt that village. It is already doing that. Why? People who move in and and and uh cite their rights I have the rights. I have my freedom to do this. But that is that is not what it is about. In the evening we have a bell for everybody to enter their home and do their meditation. When these people come in they look at us like we lost our minds and there is conflict there. It clashes. Everything foreign is clashed already with us.  Julia Longoria     But but I mean like the people who are coming... Like they are already coming right? And they are already having kids here who are becoming nationals right? Like maybe that ship has sailed?  Tisa Faamuli       Well a lot of them come home and they realize what is here. They pass through transients a lot of transients.  Julia Longoria     Yeah. But if the land was still preserved you know what I mean?  Tisa Faamuli       It is a joke. I have seen all the land that has been preserved. The government turn them over and sell it and make profit . That is been proven.  Julia Longoria     All right.  Tisa Faamuli       You have some interesting things to put up there.  Julia Longoria     Yeah yeah.  Jad Abumrad        Wow. She spent time with the Black Panthers ran for office and still feels that somehow the uh existential threat to the island's culture overrules those those rights?  Julia Longoria     I do not know. It is... I mean it is a calculation in her head but I remember sitting there on the beach and just not being able to wrap my head around it.  Julia Longoria       Julia Longoria     I spent two Sundays in American Samoa. I went to church services. Not everybody goes to church but the island is about 98 Christian. And many people told me it is the center of Fa'a Samoa. And sitting in those pews watching people of all ages sing and interact with each other they all know each other they are looking out for each other it is a feeling of belonging. And citizenship is about belonging but belonging to the U.S. tends to come with it is own set of rights and responsibilities. And it struck me that that these set of ideals which I hold so dear so many of us hold so dear that people here would see them as a threat to to their survival.  Julia Longoria     So I went back to Charlie Alailima. So I actually talked to Dan Dan Aga.  Charles A.         Yeah what was his position?  Julia Longoria     Yeah yeah so he he uh... Do you mind if I turn this off?  Charles A.         Yeah.  Julia Longoria     Um and I told him what Tisa had told me and Dan Aga had told me. Dan Aga was like basically like Hawaii is a cautionary tale. Like-  Charles A.          Hawaii is a cautionary tale. Yeah it is it is interesting because you know that... What he means then is I do not trust America. That is that is what that means you know?  Julia Longoria     And he told me he does not think that this community would necessarily have to change.  Charles A.         Cautionary tale of a history that happened 100 years 110 years ago. Okay that was 110 years ago America was like that. Have they changed? Significantly . You know is Jim Crow around anymore? Are the ideas you know you know uh... But the real question is do you trust the the U.S. Government to do the right thing? Do you trust the Federal Courts to do the right thing? And for me I personally believe that well if you do not trust the government that you belong to then get out of that government .  Julia Longoria     He was like We Samoans need to make a decision about who we are if we want to be part of the U.S. or not. There should not be this in between.  Charles A.         I have trust in the government. I have trust in you know ultimate trust in uh you know that the Constitution is a document that is something that we should all you know aspire to. We may not reach that but we all aspire towards it and that is why we still believe in it. You know I still have faith that you can go to the courts and get any problems rectified but if I lose that faith then I am just going to say Oh forget it . Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. Julia Longoria     You think... What would make you lose that faith?  Charles A.         What would make me lose that faith? I do not know. We will see with this election . We will see over the next few elections .  Charles A.           Jad Abumrad        Producer Julia Longoria this uh story was reported and produced by Julia.  Robert Krulwich   Also special thanks to Sam Erman whose book Almost Citizens tells the story of Isabelle Gonzalez.  Jad Abumrad        Doug Mack author of The Not-Quite States of America which helped inspire this story.  Robert Krulwich   And to Belinda Torres Mary and John Torres and the Torres Family for welcoming us to their home.  Jad Abumrad        And thank you to Pago Pago Tours.  Robert Krulwich   I would like to say thank you again to Pago Pago Tradewinds Tours.  Jad Abumrad        Oh yeah. Yeah I forgot the Tradewinds.  Robert Krulwich   Yeah.  Jad Abumrad        And uh and  and her family.  Robert Krulwich   And to Justin Mauga.  Jad Abumrad        Professor Daniel Holland David Herdrick.  Robert Krulwich   Neil Weare and Equally American which is his organization.  Jad Abumrad        Yeah.  Robert Krulwich   And it is it is time to sail off I think. Right?  Jad Abumrad        It is.  Robert Krulwich   Okay.  Jad Abumrad        Okay.  Robert Krulwich   So we will see you the next time.  Jad Abumrad        Yeah. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich   I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad        Thanks for listening.  Jad Abumrad          Tim                My name is Tim and I am calling from Cleveland Ohio. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Nora Keller Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Julia Longoria Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Audrey Quinn and Neil . Out fact checker is Michelle Harris.  Gabriel            . This is Gabriel from DSW in Texas. Radiolab is supported by Dell Technologies Autonomous cars comedy writing and poker. What do these things all have in common? Artificial intelligence. In the new podcast  Hype vs. Reality from Dell Technologies hos Jessica Choba goes out into the field to find out just how close we are to fully realizing the potential of AI in various industries. Search for  Hype vs. Reality on your favorite podcast app or visit delltechnologies.comhypevreality. 