 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Casper. You spend one third of your life sleeping so you should be as comfortable as possible when you drift off. Get 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comradiolab and using code Radiolab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.   Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Audible. As we learn more about the dark side of the Earth check out Endurance A Year in Space A Lifetime of Discovery by Scott Kelly the astronaut who spent a record-breaking year aboard the International Space Station. Go to audible.comradiolab or text RadioLab to 500-500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audio book.   New York City. We have got a live show coming up May 16th we are doing a taping for a new show about sex. Specifically sex ed. All those bad memories we are going to turn them into good memories. Join longtime producer and host Molly Webster along with a bunch of uh writers and comedians and thinkers for a night of debate a night of stories a night of nervous laughter. That is Wednesday May 16th. It is going to be good. I am going to be there. For tickets go to radiolab.orgsexed. That is radiolab.orgsexed   Wait wait --   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening-   Listening-   To RadioLab   Radio lab from.   WNYC.   Si?   Yeah.  Astronaut All right. Howdy.   Hi.   Astronaut Wow are you actually in space right now?   I am. Let me see if I can prove it to you. Here's a demonstration.  Astronaut Oh  wow! That is so cool!    Okay we believe you.    This is RadioLab  Robert.   That guy that we were just talking to is named Mark van der High and what he did is he showed us where he was. He he tucked his neck down into his chest and spun.   Like a space flip.   He did a space flip.   So we should explain like so this is one of the weirder things that has ha-ever happened to us. Um.  Astronaut Are you gonna be okay?    A couple weeks ago we actually got to talk to this astronaut Mark van der High while he was in the International Space Station. Apparently each astronaut at the space station can make one request to talk to an earthling of their choice. And ah for some reason he chose us.  Astronaut  It is really exciting to talk to you. I have really enjoyed your program.   We actually got initially contacted by NASA uh they told us to dial in to Mission Control at a certain time and we did and they then connected us to him 200 miles up and we could see him on our iPad as he was in space.  Astronaut    And so we spent I do not know like and hour.   An enchanted hour I would say.   Talking to and asking questions about what is like up there? But mostly looking over his shoulder back at the Earth.   He invited us to this little place that they have on the spaceship called the Kepula.  Astronaut  There is a really big window here.  Let us see if I can get you a good view.   It is basically a giant room with giant windows looking right down at the earth.  Astronaut Straight down. So our best windows are ones that look straight down. So we just passed over the southern edge of Australia.   At that time it was night time in Australia.  Astronaut We are already on the night side of the Earth right now.   And you could barely see the Earth. It was just this big pool of black.   No contours. No edges.  Astronaut I will check to see how long it will be before the sun's shining on the Earth below us. So we can open up one of the shutters and that horizon that you are seeing out there?   He pointed out the window at this band of light that had just appeared in the dark.  Astronaut That is the sun coming over the horizon.  That is the horizon of the Earth. It is kind of blasted out in this    But then all of a sudden like a few minutes later-  Astronaut Sam  changes really fast.   The Earth just lit up.   All the lights went on.   You know because they were going 17000 miles an hour and when you are going that fast sunrise is basically instantaneous.  Astronaut Oh wait. Look there is definite  here. I do not know if you can see it out there. See it?   As we were talking we zoomed over Australia over the Pacific.  Astronaut Yeah we are definitely over North America. In fact uh I cannot tell what state but we are in the uh mid mid Rockies right now on the United States.   Within just a couple of minutes it felt like the scenery out his window went from Rocky Mountains to somewhere near New York.  Astronaut Due north of New York. Somewhere out there is where you guys are. Um  we are gonna hit New York City soon I am sure.   Then we were over the Atlantic.  Astronaut The fact see that. The sun's breaking up the ocean there?  the ocean is really neat. You can see these patterns of white.   He is pointing out all these sort of shimmering patterns on the ocean and these swirling cloud masses. And uh as we were sort of screaming across the face of the Earth you know we were asking him all these mundane questions like How do you eat rice in space?  And things like that. Well at a certain point we we asked him like wh-when you first got up there what was most surprising to you? And uh he started talking about the Earth's atmosphere.  Astronaut I think so the first impression that I got up here was that it that that big layer of atmosphere is shockingly thin from up here.   He says that it is funny to him now that he is been up there for a while to understand how close we all are to deep space. That the people who live on Earth are all actually under a very skinny protective wrapper. It is been described as less thick than the skin of an apple around an apple. All of us just a few miles from the darkness.  Astronaut So it makes this layer of space that we live in seem incredibly thin. The Earth in that chapter was how intensely black the blackness in space is compared to the sun and the Earth. It makes the Earth seem very very isolated. It is  feeling that  towards this spot.   He says when he looks down at the Earth and he sees just that thin layer that separates us from space and all the blackness around it. He feels uh protective. We just kinda wanted to share that because it was just this weird thing that happened to us randomly just a few weeks back.   Well actually i-i as cool as that was it is a it is a it is an hor d'oeuvres to what another astronaut once told us   Yes.   Who was not a listener.   Definitely.   He I do not think he knew  I do not think he had the faintest idea who we were. That was in more of an official formal-   Right right.   Sort of thing.   So for the rest of this podcast we are actually gonna play you another astronaut story that we actually ended up taking on stage as part of our In the Dark tour which was  12 y 2012 I think. Went to about 20 cities. This particular recording uh happened in Seattle I believe.   Mm-hmm .   And uh I do not know.  We should just play it. So here it is.   So for our final segment we were thinking through the show we thought you know Who would have a really interesting perspective on darkness?   Somebody who works in in a rich dark environment. Astronauts for example.   Yeah. So we called up uh NASA and talked to an astronaut. We connected our little studio in New York to uh their studio in D.C. to uh talk to an astronaut but he was a little late. And uh here's the funny thing. When you are on hold with NASA this is literally what you hear. This has a blast off feel to it. This is amazing.   This probably is literally the case. You dial 1-800-NASA or whatever and this is the go-to-the-moon music.   And uh-oh. Hello? I hear someone breathing.   2nd Astronaut It is probably I am breathing.  Well that is an interesting way to meet.   So yeah this is our guy uh Dave Wolf is his name. He is a NASA astronaut.  2nd Astronaut I have been since uh 1990 over 20 years.   He was not really sure why we had called him.  2nd Astronaut Wh-what is our topic here?   So we explained to him that you know uh we are doing this show called In the Dark. We are gonna do it on stage in front of some very nice folks uh do you have any stories that relate? And right off the bat he says.  2nd Astronaut You have triggered an interesting darkness story I have.   Well that is why we are calling you up.  2nd Astronaut Okay. You are you are taping you are writing?   Yep.  2nd Astronaut Darkness is an interesting theme in space. Because there is nowhere where the contrast between light and dark is any more extreme.    dozens of space wax and he says there have been times when he is just sort of out there floating in space next to the craft and maybe the uh the ship tilts a little bit and the wing blocks the light that is coming from the sun or the moon. And it creates a shadow and he says the darkness of that shadow-  2nd Astronaut Is blacker than any black you thought it could be. Out there in space the shadow has no light lin it. There is no reflected light from dust in the air the Earth around you or clouds.   It is just pure absolute dark.  2nd Astronaut And you can reach into a shadow so deep so black that your arm can appear to disappear.   Wow.  2nd Astronaut Right in front of your face. Your head is in the bright light and your arm is in this depth of darkness.   And it is just gone? Like it is been cut off?  2nd Astronaut Yeah.   Wow.  2nd Astronaut But I do want to tell you uh an experience I had in my first space walk. Late '97 I had this experience.   Okay.  2nd Astronaut It was from a Russian spacecraft. You might remember the Mirror.   Yeah sure.  2nd Astronaut Spacecraft.   So Dave is up there. He was with two Russian cosmonauts. And he and Anatoli Solovief they were suited up and getting ready to make their first walk into space or his first walk.  2nd Astronaut And we get all the preparations to get the suits ready and we are in the airlock and-   The door opened and they floated out.  2nd Astronaut We took our tethers on outside.   And he and Anatoli gently float to the work site.  2nd Astronaut And it was dark out and dark up in space means you are on the night side of the Earth in the shadow of the Earth and there were no external lights on this spacecraft. This was really really dark. We were over the ocean and at night that basically means you do not see the Earth.   You do not see it at all?  2nd Astronaut Not at all. When it is uh a moonless night you do not see the Earth. In fact all it might look like to you is the absence of stars.   Now I want you to imagine this with me. He is up there in this darkness and the Earth with all of us on it somewhere far far below him but he cannot see it. And all the while and this is really important for what happens next he is shooting through space. He is rocketing across the dark shadow of the Earth at five miles a second. That is 16 times the speed that we are all moving right now because we are on the Earth. But he says at that moment he did not feel any of that. It just felt like he was suspended in this cocoon of black.  2nd Astronaut Floating gently.   He thought fine.  2nd Astronaut No problem.   This is kind of peaceful.  2nd Astronaut 'ecause it was just me and the spacecraft and blackness. And suddenly this blazing bright-   Blasting from below.   What was it?   It was the sunrise you know because he and the ship are moving so quickly that the sunrise which normally happens here on Earth very slowly calmly. That speed up there? The sun comes screaming from the eastern edge of the Earth straight across the Earth lights up everything in seconds.  2nd Astronaut And the Earth lights up below me. Suddenly I can look down 200 miles and see that we are moving at five miles per second.   Oceans whoosh. Clouds whoosh. Deserts whoosh. And he is like daaa-  2nd Astronaut And I clutched onto these hand rails like there is no tomorrow white-knuckled in my spacesuit gloves because I suddenly had this enormous sense of height and speed.   He says it was sort of like if you were just standing comfortable on the ground and and and then some-someone just flips on the lights and suddenly and you realize actually I am not on the ground I am on a 400000-foot ladder.  Crazier still in that sunrise moment-  2nd Astronaut The temperature al-also increases by upwards of 400 degrees.   I-I-in the moment?  2nd Astronaut In the moment.   Really?   This is the most extreme thing I have ever heard.   Are you air-conditioned or whatever? Are you?  2nd Astronaut You are. You are totally dependent on that spacesuit. But the colors what you are seeing on that Earth is so spectacular that-the greens and blues and the delicate pastel-like colors and the contrast of brights uh are just uh are not present in anything I have ever seen other than up in space.   Dave and his Russian buddy Anatoli they are out there for hours doing repairs on the ship so they are because of their speed they are going in and out and in and out of these days and nights.  2nd Astronaut So it is 90 minutes of a light-dark cycle. So you have uh 16 nights and 16 days for every Earth day.   Which means as they are working this change is happening over and over and over every 45 minutes they go from blazing light to quiet dark. Blazing light to darkness.  2nd Astronaut You can get lost. You get stories of people doing spacewalks that lost their orientation or feel like they are falling.   So he says the only thing to do in that circumstance is just to focus on your job. Look straight ahead. Only at the screw. Only at the screw.  2nd Astronaut Do not look down is kind of the it is it is real in this business.    So we would have been perfectly happy to uh end the story right here 'ecause Dave and Anatoli finished the repairs job well done they get ready to come back into the spacecraft but we cannot not tell you what happens next.  2nd Astronaut Yeah this  with a very different kind of darkness.   Yeah. We will continue with that story right after the break.   Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Casper talking about dark side of the Earth reminds me of another dark place that would be your bedroom with the lights off while you are sleeping. Very little feels better than crawling into a Casper bed knowing you are gonna get a deep restorative night's sleep. Casper offers 100 nights risk-free trial and you will get 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comRadioLab and using code RadioLab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.   Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Audible. As we continue listening to this episode of Dark Side of the Earth check out the stunning memoir Enduring a Year in Space A Lifetime of Discovery by Astronaut Scott Kelly. He spent a year aboard the International Space Station and in this candid account Kelly shares the experience few have and he takes us on his journey navigating the extreme challenges of long-term space flight. Go to audible.comRadioLab or text RadioLab to 500-500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audio book.   This is RadioLab. Let us continue now with our story from astronaut Dave Wolf that we performed live as part of our In the Dark tour in front of an audience of about 2500 people. Uh where we left off Dave and his uh cosmonaut friend Anatoli they had just been out in space doing a spacewalk repairing the uh International Space Station and they are about to come back in.   So the two of them pull themselves by their tethers to come back into the airlock to go back in.  2nd Astronaut But when it was time to come back in-   They could not get back in!   You were locked out of your spaceship?  2nd Astronaut You could call it locked out. We we were trapped outside yes.   Essentially their airlock was busted. They could not repressurize it and if you cannot get it at the right pressure you cannot reenter.  2nd Astronaut And we worked on it for four or five hours and ran our our resources and-   Wait a second. Ran out of-  2nd Astronaut Oh yeah.   Of like oxygen or what?  2nd Astronaut We got plenty of oxygen it turns out but what you run out of first is your carbon dioxide scrubbing unit that takes the CO2 out of your suit. And now the problem with this one is usually in a space accident you figure it will only hurt for a moment. But when you die of CO2 intoxication that drags out. That is not that is uh that is a miserable way to go.   What does he mean? Did you uh.   I looked it up. What happens is first you get a headache. And then your muscles start to twitch. Eventually your heart beat starts to accelerate faster faster faster you go into convulsions and then you die.  2nd Astronaut Luckily the life support system has an extra cartridge. That gave us an extra six or so hours. We used all that and uh trying to fix the hatch and we could not get it to hold air and uh we were done.   Did you know you were done? I mean you were-  2nd Astronaut Yeah yeah. Pretty much.  And-   You mean done like in over.  2nd Astronaut Yeah yeah no more ideas.    Done like in dead? So they decided okay we gotta do something last-ditch maneuver. If we cannot get our usual airlock to work maybe we can make a new one. Because see on the Mirror space station it is this big cylinder with these rectangular modules that jut out and one of those modules is the airlock. But there are these adjacent ones which are normally just uh living quarters. They thought well if we cannot get our usual airlock to pressurize at the right you know pressure maybe we can go to the next one over and uh try and pressurize it.  2nd Astronaut Essentially treating that next module in as a airlock and we opened the hatch into that next module and in order to go into it we had to disconnect our umblicals. 'ecause you cannot close the hatch over your umbilical right? And the umbilical was providing our cooling to our suits so as soon as we disconnected well that gives you maybe five eight minutes at max-   Before you before you what?  2nd Astronaut I do not wanna talk about it. It is so bad.   Did you did you look that up?   Yeah I looked this one up too. Um essentially what happens is you boil inside your spacesuit.  2nd Astronaut In a very ugly way.   So Dave and Anatoli think okay they have gotta get through this tiny hatch into this room and they have gotta do it fast but they also know-  2nd Astronaut If you struggle hard and go too fast you will not get much time at all in that suit before that heat builds up on you.   So he thinks okay hurry hurry but slowly slowly.  2nd Astronaut What I did not anticipate was as soon as we disconnected our umbilicals that that visor would fog up and we would now be have to feel your way.   You are blind?  2nd Astronaut Yeah. You can spit and kind of get a little area through the fog so I am in the airlock trying to make my way into the next section and I was crawling along the wall moving into the next section and uh I spit on my visor you know to make a little hole to look through and get a hint and it was an area I had been sleeping in some weeks before and I had left a picture of my family taped with Scotch tape on the wall. And I spit on the visor and I my helmet light went there and there was this picture of my family. Right here in this moment as I was scooting across the wall in what was likely my last minutes. So this is how it is gonna end. So this is it. And  it is so strange there they are. And I look back at that and I shudder.   Of course Dave and his partner made it back into the space station. Barely.  2nd Astronaut But it did not strike me really until months later on Earth uh how how close I had been and what a strange uh situation this-   This Russian guy must be your best friend like like he-  You probably call each other and say like 20 years later you go uh.  2nd Astronaut Well not many people have been through anything like that together and and are there to talk about it. And you just reminded me of something-   So we are gonna leave you with one last story from Dave. He is kind of the story sheet. Um this is uh from that same stay in space involves the same friend Anatoli. They were out there doing some work on the ship you know floating in space again and then uh mission control radios in tells them to pause for a while.  2nd Astronaut We had a period where we had to wait through the night to go on with our work so he says Look David you know all in Russian of course I wanted to show you something. And we hooked our tethers on pushed ourselves about six feet away we on-we had about six feet of tether. So our eyes could not see anything but out in space and I I I turned my air conditioner down a little so it was kind of warm and I was floating in this spacesuit just looking out into the blackness of space and I felt like I did not have a spacesuit on. It was so comfortable. The air temperature was just right. I felt like I was just out in the universe in the start. I could not see anything but stars. All around me I could not feel anything. Outside a spacecraft going five miles per second out in the universe.   Is that what he wanted to show you?  2nd Astronaut Yeah. I think so.   This is his rocking chair on the front porch thing.  2nd Astronaut Uh a hammock almost. He did not want to talk he said Let us just be quiet. Turn your helmet light off so you do not get any reflected light. Just uh uh relax.  Relax. Relax. Relax. Relax. Relax.   Now had you been there in the theater this is the moment where we gave everybody a little pinpoint of light. A little hand-carried star that they could put over their heads and wave together.   It was like this canopy of stars.   Yeah.   A special thanks to the musicians that were here playing with us on stage.  and Jason Soda. And uh that is it for now. I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   Thanks for listening.   This is Valerie calling from Washington D.C. RadioLab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria Matesarpedia is our managing director. Our staffing clues Simon Adler Maggie Bartolemeo Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Hobte Tracie Hunte Matt Kealty Robert Crovitch Annie McEwan Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Marley Webster. With help from Amanda Aronchick Shima Oliaee Jake Arlow and Reed Cayman. Our fact checker is Michelle Harris.   Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Casper not only do they make outrageously comfortable mattresses they also offer pillows and sheets and duvets and more all to make your bed even more inviting and more comfortable. Get 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comRadioLab and using code RadioLab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.   Hi I am Robert Krulwich. RadioLab is supported by Audible. Check out this stunning memoir in Endurance A Year in Space--A Lifetime of Discovery by Astronaut Scott Kelly. He spent a year aboard the International Space Station and in this candid account Kelly shares the experience he had and he takes us on his journey navigating the extreme challenges of long-term space flight. Go to audible.comRadioLab or text RadioLab to 500-500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audio book.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 