 Listener-supported WNYC studios.  Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From...  WNYC.  See?  Yeah.   Could I ask when this might air?  Yeah.  I am four months pregnant today.  Congratulations.  And I just got a - yeah no it is super exciting. And I was diagnosed with Hashimoto's six months ago. So it was just like...  Wait. Is Hashimoto's an autoimmune disorder?  It is.  I am Molly Webster.  And I am Lulu Miller. This is RADIOLAB.  And today we are looking into one of the biggest medical mysteries which is why a body sometimes turns on itself.  And Molls you are going to lead us through this one.  Yeah. And it is something I got pulled into when I first was working on gonads.  Gonads.  Gonads...   Gonads. Gonads. Gonads.  ...For anyone who has not listened is the romp through sex-freaking-ed you did not know you did not know. What was the actual tagline?  The parts of us that make more of us.  The parts of us that make more of us. That is good.  So gonads was all about like sex development right?  Right.  So I was like deep in Xs and Ys and when do we kind of divide off on these paths that are called you know gender in like the top-level world. And while I was in that space one of the things that came up was that there are sex differences in how we get diseases.  OK.  And one of the places this is like very apparent is in autoimmune disorders. It is very puzzling.  Why does autoimmune disease occur eight times more often in women than men?  Is it that big of a difference?  For rheumatoid arthritis it is yeah.  Wow.  And of course in MS it is two-thirds to three-fourths.  Hashimoto's disease - 95 are women.  That is like almost the entire case study.  Yeah. Is not that crazy?  Wow.  So I just - I fell into this like series of conversations with interestingly like very provocative women scientists who are like trying to answer this. And we are going to circle back to each of them. But first a little basics in autoimmune disorders. Your immune system - it starts attacking you. And there is like various ways it can do that. It can be anything from you have skin rashes to patchy skin to infertility to - you have neurodegenerative like MS like breaks down your brain and your nerves so you end up having trouble walking and cognition. Some of them you die earlier from. Some of them you know are just like an itchy patch on your skin. So it really is the gamut. And honestly on top of all this it seems like incidences of autoimmune disorders are going up. And so you have this real question of like - why?  Yeah.  Like what is happening here? So this has to be genetics. This has to be at the genetics. And so Lulu Miller we are going on a journey.  OK.  Go to the bathroom now. We have three stops to get through. Starting with...  Montserrat Anguera.  An immunologist.  And I am at the University of Pennsylvania.  And her way into this mess is by looking at one of the most well-known chromosomes.  I am absolutely fascinated by the X chromosome. I love this chromosome. And -  sounds so silly does not it ?  No. And while we all know this chromosome for sex Montserrat knows it for this other thing.  The X chromosome has the highest density of immune-related genes of all the chromosomes.  Oh my gosh.  And so now this is interesting because everyone on the planet has one X. But typical females have two. And so Montserrat wondered - like could there be something going on with this extra X packed with all of these immunity genes that is leading females to get autoimmune disorders more?  Exactly. Exactly.  Now traditional wisdom is that if you have a second X or a third or a fourth it will get turned off or something called silenced.  Fifty percent of the cells are going to silence mom's X. The other 50 are going to silence dad's X.  And the way it does this is actually a really physical process because wrapped around any extra X are these long strands of RNA.  We can look using a microscope at the nucleus of a cell. And we can use probes that are specific for the long noncoding RNA and we can light them up in pink. And what we see is that RNA will form this beautiful cotton candy cloud structure that completely envelops the inactive X chromosome.  Wow. So it is like muzzled.  Yeah. It is like yeah swaddled.  Swaddled.  It is absolutely beautiful.  Beautiful. And scientists assumed durable. The thought was - is that once an X was silenced and this starts in an embryo it would stay silent.  Absolutely.  And not just that experiments have shown that in cells where this does not happen...  The cell will just start to like die.  So Montserrat was like OK I am just going to take a look at this extra X and see what is going on.  So in lupus 85 of patients are women.  And so she looked inside cells - immune cells of people with lupus. And what she saw...  No cotton candy cloud. Instead of being the fluffy cotton candy on the inactive X chromosome they had dispersed patterns of RNA.  When she looked inside she saw little pinpoints of hot pink all over the nucleus.  Whoa.  So it is not muzzling. It is like shredded - it is like - it is just all around.  Right.  OK. And so it is like - what does this mean? What Montserrat is thinking is that maybe this X being unsilenced is allowing extra immune genes to turn on which is throwing the immune system into like this turbo charge. And that could be contributing to autoimmune disorders.  So she is saying more Xs able to unsilence means more genes firing off?  Yeah. Obviously there is a ton more research to do. And this is just a working hypothesis but there is one more piece to this which is that as she was seeing these Xs become unsilenced she was just like - you know what? I am going to poke around in the cells of healthy folks too in like their immune cells. And she found that in those cells also X can sometimes get unsilenced.  So is that like a prewarning sign that they might be about to get sick?  Not necessarily because like 30000 things contribute to autoimmune disorders. But it might account for this other pretty rad sex difference you see in humans.  OK.  Which is that if you just look at like stereotypical females and males who are healthy on the baseline females have stronger immune systems than males.  OK. So you are sitting next to Soren. You are - like you are on guard. You are ready to fight. I mean does that then - does that reflect in those disparities? Like do men have more like thing - like I do not know viruses.  Well yeah yeah yeah yeah. Well this is why the COVID numbers are so skewed right? The guys have three times greater likelihood of going into the ICU and they have a greater chance of dying than women.  Is that why? I mean it is not - like lifestyle part of it really may be a part of the puzzle might...  Part of the puzzle of why is just that like women have stronger immune systems that do stronger initial responses and so can often fight back viruses or bacteria better.  Do people know this? Like is this - that is so - I - that is so cool. Like women just run...  I know. This is what I am - yeah.  ...Around with better immune systems all the time?  On any given day a female walking around on the street is ready to fight off a pathogen in a way that like men are not.   It is just - I am picturing like...  Yeah.  ...Spears like . Like we just got this whole army that men are like - like their warriors are like...  Yeah.  ...Filing their toenails and like...  Yeah. And you are like this is such a crazy cool super power.  Yeah.  And then I have this like one moment where I am like I will get less flu but I may get rheumatoid arthritis.  Right.  Like so there is like this...  Right. There is always the whole evolution tradeoff thing. You cannot just get a gift it seems.  That is true. It is very hard to be excited about the super power if you are worried about the back end of it. I am just going to think about my little toxic Xs inside of me.  They are a little ticking time bomb yeah.   I do not know why I am giggling.  So - .  That just is not what I expected. It struck me as funny. OK.  Yeah.   When RADIOLAB comes back we are going to learn how the heck we got here and a possible way out. Molly.  Yes Lulu. Hi.  Hi. This is RADIOLAB. We are back from a quick break. Today we are talking about - what are we talking about Webster? We are talking about why it is beautiful and terrible to be a person with two or more X chromosomes.  Yeah.  Because on one hand like maybe you are a little bit better at fighting off viruses. But that same immune system can also turn on you. So I do think sometimes this just happens. There is accidents. There is imperfect innovations in evolution. But is there any sense of like why this might be advantageous why this might be the case that we are the unfortunately or fortunately chosen ones?  Yeah. There is probably a few different ways into why but I talked to one scientist who gave a really - I do not know - almost like haunting beautiful why.  Haunting and beautiful all right.  Let us just circle all the way back.  And that is our second scientist.  Melissa Wilson.  She is a geneticist and...  Professor at Arizona State University.  And Melissa is taking us all the way back to about a hundred million years ago to when the placenta evolved. And so as you will remember from our last episode...  Recently met and got to know intimately.  We did so I will not go deep into it here. You all should go listen. It is called Everybody's Got One. But what you need to know here...  The placenta is not the DNA of the pregnant individual.  It is like a foreign object. And so your body naturally wants to fight off something that is not part of it. But the placenta was pretty wily. And it started doing things to essentially get the mother's body to let it stay and to not attack it.  Right.  And so one of the things the placenta does is it quiets the mom's immune system.  The placenta itself is blubbing off signals to downregulate the pregnant person's immune system.  And it is like just shushed.  So the pregnant person's immune system has to say OK sure. You know what? We are going to downregulate components of that. That is fine. But you know what? If I downregulate everything I do not have sanitation. I do not have antibiotics. This is over most of evolutionary history. If I downregulate everything...  Dead.  ...I will die right? And so the pregnant person's body has to do this kind of tightrope walk. It has to take those signals from the placenta to downregulate components of it. But it also needs to say - you know what? No I cannot downregulate everything. I have to upregulate some things to be able to not die of parasites and pathogens.  So Melissa's hypothesis is like while we were all co-evolving - right? - like the human mammal and our ancestors were starting to get a placenta. And the placenta and the fetus and the human ancestor mammals were all trying to figure out how to live with each other. In this big dance one of the things that happened was if the placenta is going to drag down the immune system...  Yes right.  ...To shush it then the mom is going to start evolving an immune system that is actually stronger...  To be overexpressed?  Yes yes so that when it is dragged down it is not dragged down to like a death level it is just dragged down to like a moderate level.  Oh wow. Wow. OK. So essentially it is all the placenta's fault. Like we double-Xs have to walk around with these amped up immune systems to just survive its presence?  Theoretically yes. And you actually might be able to see this play out really today because in some women who have autoimmune disorders...  Their symptoms will go away during pregnancy.  They have -  like they have symptoms and then it just goes away?  People with rheumatoid arthritis who become pregnant - it is as if their autoimmune disease is gone. This also happens with MS multiple sclerosis.  What does go away mean like if I - we could talk specifically about MS or rheumatoid arthritis or both?  The inflammation that people have in rheumatoid arthritis around their joints around their spine - it literally disappeared. For a subset of people for a large subset of people it is as if - it is the best possible treatment.  And rheumatoid arthritis - you know for 75 of people symptoms will go away. And in multiple sclerosis it is like an 80 reduction in flare-ups.  Geez. I mean...  And not even just a reduction in the symptoms but in some cases you actually get cognitive ability back.  No no way.  It is huge. And so I had just you know these experts all telling me that like they have these anecdotal stories of women who just...  Yeah yeah.  ...Want to be pregnant at the time because they get such relief in their symptoms or such a slowing of disease progression.  Yeah.  I mean obviously it is not a slam dunk for every individual or even every autoimmune disorder. Some of them actually get worse when you are pregnant some say the same. Some we just have no data on and we do not know. But it does make you wonder.  The first OB-GYN that I met with...  You will remember Melissa at the top of the episode told us that she is pregnant and that she recently developed Hashimoto's.  He said oh my colleague was just telling me about this paper they read about pregnancy and how it shaped the immune function. I was like that is me .  And now that she sort of like stepped into her own research in this pretty novel way she is actually quite curious to see if pregnancy alleviates her own autoimmune symptoms.  And so I am actually going to be going hopefully to get testing in the next few months to see if the antibodies that my body is making to my thyroid have actually changed during the pregnancy.  OK. So there is one more part to her hypothesis and it could offer an explanation for not only why females get autoimmune disorders more than males but why the incidence might be going up.  So for nearly all of human history we did not have contraception. And you could be pregnant for your entire reproductive career.  We now live in a world where at least in Western or industrialized nations people are getting pregnant way less. So we are not going through the cycle of having our immune system dragged down. So if it is on high all the time maybe that in and of itself the less pregnancies is actually contributing to why women today are getting autoimmune disorders more than in the past.  It is like there is just more time that you are spent turbocharged.  There is more time spent at 10. And then your body is just like I am constantly at a 10.  Yeah.  Maybe I should go do something.  And so we think it is like I have got nothing to do. Let me just start eating this body.  Wreaking havoc.  There is this weird thing where I am like oh crap. I should get pregnant. Like - it is like - oh and it is funny because one of my colleagues was like you know there is already so much societal pressure on women to you know follow to conform. And now like really biology is telling us that 'ecause we are not getting pregnant you know we are fing ourselves essentially.  No no no.  Yeah.  No keep going though.  No but then the funny thing is then I think like the reverse of that is - like you know how many kids would be enough kids?  Yes.  You know?  We do not know right? We do not know yet. We do not know if it - we do not know if it is more important that you start reproduction as soon as you are reproductively active or whether you maintain it over the whole course or is two enough if you have one 10 years apart or - we have a zero idea.  So Melissa was basically like OK slow your roll. First off there is so many things that can contribute to an autoimmune disorder. I do not think this is going to be your solution. Also like do you have one? Do you know you are going to get one? Like we do not know...  Right right right.  ...Anything about them really.  Science is not saying go get pregnant. It is not a hundred percent not. What it is saying is that pregnancy may have shaped our immune systems. So let us figure out what components of our immune systems respond to the placenta what components of our immune systems act independently of that. And then we can narrow in on the treatments.  Is anyone trying to study it?  Absolutely yes.  OK.  What is the factor?  Which brings us to...  Hi my name is Dr. Rhonda Voskuhl.  ...Our final scientist.  I am a professor of neurology at UCLA.  So Rhonda's out there in California working to understand what specifically precisely is happening during pregnancy. And she is narrowing in on something that is being produced by the placenta at levels the body just has not seen before.  Something happens during pregnancy whereby the fetal placental unit makes a kind of a novel estrogen. And this estrogen is called estriol.  And that is an estrogen called estriol.  Now all of a sudden you have this burst of a new estrogen a different estrogen. And it is at a very high level.  And at the end of pregnancy your body is flooded in estriol. And the baby's body is flooded in estriol. It is like a primary hormone that just skyrockets during the third trimester.  Wow.  And then after delivery it drops abruptly. Well of course it is made by the fetal placental unit.  Aka the placenta who has been manning the estriol dials has left the building. And I could probably tell you some boring things that would not actually help you understand estriol more. It is just like a different-shaped molecule than other estrogens. It has particular functions for the fetus. It could be used in neural development. It is also used by the placenta to turn down the mom's immune system. And so she starts clinical trials. And she is been doing them since like 2007 and 2011. She takes nonpregnant women who have MS and she gives them estriol.  And we showed that it reduced these enhancing lesions by over 70.  Symptoms go away. They see disease progression slow.  Whoa.  The other thing that is pretty cool is as we were doing these trials in humans there was an improvement in cognition. It is neuroprotective.  I basically was like can I get some estriol you know?  Yeah I mean well I was Google - as you have been talking I was like - are there estriol pills?  So it would be a pill except it is not approved anywhere yet for MS. In Europe I think some people might give it off-label because it is been approved for menopause.  Just for XX...  Just for...  OK.  Just for XX individuals or X-plus individuals.  And would this work? Could estriol work on a guy or an XY person?  That is an interesting question. I mean theoretically yes because it is a natural hormone. Rhonda says like you would have to keep an eye out for different feminization things. Like would it act on their breasts in a certain way. It works in XY mice.  Oh. So meaning like the XY mice given some estriol. And they...  Yeah they...  Wow.  They saw a reduction in inflammation. Yeah yeah yeah. But they have not done any clinical trials on XY humans.  OK.  There is a strong case to be made for estriol in MS women and probably rheumatoid arthritis. I think there is a case to be made in psoriasis. There is clearly a role for a pregnancy level of estrogen as a treatment for these autoimmune diseases in women who have already got the disease. I think there is clearly a role for further investigation into that.  And also really quick you said at the very beginning...  Yeah.  ...That like this is the work of provocative women. Why did you use the word provocative?  Because they are looking into stuff - like when I talked a Montserrat she said that at the time she was the only scientist in the world looking at X-inactivation in autoimmune disorder.  Really?  And do - that is stupid. That is like - that is insane to me. And Rhonda Voskuhl - like she is - the studies that she is doing like nobody else was doing. And Melissa's pregnancy compensation hypothesis just came out two years ago. So I used the word provocative because they are asking questions and doing work that like nobody else is doing. And they are actually like upending science. Like Montserrat's paper that showed that X-inactivation is not constant from time of embryo onwards is like upended.  Like 17 textbooks had to be like oh we got to scratch out this dogma of how it works .  It is like the Earth is cracking and they are the ones that caused the quake. Does that make sense? I do not know. I have no idea where this ends .  Yeah. But this - it sounds like what you found is like this very substantial start. It is - yeah.  That is the thing. That is - you know Rhonda's getting paper after paper after paper that says we are seeing estriol make a difference. And then we have got this X-inactivation stuff. Then we have got this pregnancy hypothesis. And it is like it feels like we are at the - whether we like it or not the very beginning of a story. So there really is no ending yet.  Hey whatever happened to Melissa.  Oh yeah. OK. So you know how she asked when the story was going to air?   That was two years ago. Oh hi baby. And when I jumped on the phone with her recently...  That is the 15-month-old and the 3-month-old is sleeping.  ...I found out it has been quite the two years.  I have two pandemic babies. And one of them has gotten to be home with me 247 for his entire life .  Well then I will just say - OK. So maybe you can just tell me then about the pregnancy and what did end up happening 'ecause I feel like that was like a cliffhanger...   ...In the interview where for months I was like I wonder - I do not know what her symptoms are. And if she was having symptoms like I wonder if they went away.  So any symptoms that I would have acknowledged would have been tiredness some hair loss and getting cold. But then when you are pregnant your hair does wonky things and...  So her hair did get better when she was pregnant. Great. And she did feel less tired.  But...  But one thing did jump out at her. Before she was pregnant as part of her disease her thyroid was acting really wonky.  Occasionally my thyroid antibodies which is part of the way they diagnose it - they just spike up to like thousands of times larger than they should be. It is just like they give you the test. And they say like oh the range should be you know single digit to double digit. And when yours is in the thousands you are like...  Wow. That is what it was actually in the thousands.  Oh yeah.  And then while she was pregnant...  My thyroid and my thyroid antibodies and everything was just normal.  ...Her numbers stopped spiking.   Yeah yeah.  Did you - I remember you said to me - there are - I have talked to women who have been like I just wish I could stay pregnant 'ecause I feel so much better. That is not the reason for your back-to-back pregnancies. It was not like I feel so much better. I am going to stay pregnant.   No no. It was that we wanted a second baby. And we are - and the universe saw fit that they should be so close together.   Molly Webster. This episode was produced by Sindhu Gnanasambandan and Molly Webster.  And the Gonads theme song that you heard at the top of this episode was written performed and produced by Majel Connery and Alex Overington.  Thanks for listening. Bye.  RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick W. Harry Fortuna David Gebel Maria Paz Gutierrez Sindhu Gnanasambandan Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Alex Neason Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Candice Wang. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 