                    Hey this Jad. Radiolab is supported by Rocket Mortgage by Quicken Loans. Home plays a big role in your life. That is why Quicken Loans created Rocket Mortgage. It lets you apply for a mortgage simply and understand the entire process fully so you can be confident that you are getting the right mortgage for you. To get started go to rocketmortgage.comRadiolab.              Wait wait you are listening...  Okay. All right. Okay? All right. You are listening to Radiolab Radiolab Shorts!  From WNYC And NPR.                     Hey I am Jad Abumrad.          I am Robert Krulwich.                     This is Radiolab          The podcast.                     And today on the podcast a story about death incarnate. Incarnate?          Incarnate I think.                       I think incarnate.          Incarnate. That was Tim Howard our producer.                       Oh I am sorry am I in here?          No you are not supposed to be in yet wait.                     Yeah just wait you are coming you are coming.          Just wait.                     A story about death incarnate.          And the man who well who thought he could beat death.                     Yeah.                        Are you Ann?                              Yeah.                       Nice to meet you.  I am Tim.                              Nice to meet you Tim.                     Comes from our producer Tim Howard but you are already here so just start.                       Okay. So late last year I took a trip out to Wisconsin.                              Test one two.                       It was like that first weekend of November when we were out there for the live show. And I met this woman.                              Ann Giese.                       To talk about her daughter Jeanna. Do you mind telling me just like where you are sitting what room?                       Crazy story.                              I am sitting in the kitchen of my home in Fond du Lac Wisconsin.                       Alright. So anyway back in 2004 in September of 2004 her daughter Jeanna was 15 a sophomore.                              I remember it was homecoming week so they had all activities each day and dress up days and                       Jeanna's a volleyball player and one morning she just starts to feel kind of crappy.                              She started getting a tingling in her left arm.  We thought maybe she had a pinched nerve or something thought nothing of it.                       Then she goes to the volleyball game somebody I guess sets the ball to her to spike and she looks up and she sees two of them and she does not know which is the volleyball.          Double vision?                       Yeah.                              About a week later she started getting flu-like symptoms.                       She has headaches and she feels really sluggish.                              Each day she just got more tired.                       One of those days she does go to school take the PSATs. But then the next day she cannot even get out of bed to go to the doctor and he says                              Well--                       It is not the flu.                              So we went home and then she just kept getting worse. Her arm started to involuntarily jerk her speech started becoming real slurred her body kind of stiffened up. Like we would get her up to go to the bathroom and she just... It was just really scary weird how her body was just stiffening up.                       Ann and her husband John took her to a neurologist for some tests.                              Just trying to get down to the bottom of this you know? And what is going on with her because the meningitis came back negative everything else they were testing for came back negative.                       Were they running out of things to test for?                              Yeah. They pretty much did not know what else to do and                       A day later on a Saturday Jeanna's hospitalized. And then on Monday when her pediatrician who had seen her on Friday came in and saw her.                              And saw how much worse she was.                       In just two days.                              He was like frazzled.  Like What is going on here? And then something just made me tell him about the bat.          Bat?                       Yeah. So this was a month earlier. Jeanna and her family they were at mass.                              It was St Patrick's Catholic Church you know old big church.                       And a bat was flying around and it was just kind of bothering everybody.                              It would just land on behind the alter the stained glass windows up high. It just seemed like it wanted to get outside. And there were open windows.  It is like Go!  They are right there go. But it just-- and then it would swoop down and it started getting lower to the people's heads and stuff and there was an usher he hit it to the floor I do not know what he used but Jeanna kept looking back at it and being the animal lover she is she thought she had to help it.                       And so she jumps up runs over to the bat grabs it by the wings and takes it outside. And as she does the bat bites her on the index finger of her left hand.          So it breaks the skin?                       Yeah. They washed it and then thought nothing of it. But when Ann told the pediatrician about this                              His face turned white. He walked out of that room and he says I will be right back. But he never told us what it was.                       They immediately rush her to Milwaukee to this other hospital.   Children's hospital Wisconsin.                       To be treated by this guy.   I am Rodney Willoughby. I am an infectious disease consultant.                       And at the point when Rodney met Jeanna   She was what we call stuporous.                     You mean like she could not talk?                       She could but barely.   She was talking only single sentences could only follow a one-step command.                       She was in a wheelchair.   Because she could not physically stand.                       Her left arm would twitch and spasm.   She would apologize say Sorry. And then try and get back into position for the exam.                       And she was literally getting worse by the minute.   Within two or three hours she had to have a breathing tube put in. She was essentially becoming comatose. The way she looked I was not sure she was going to survive. And of course if she had rabies I pretty much she was not going to survive.                     Rabies?                       Yeah.          But if you are diagnosed with rabies then what do you do?                       You die basically.          You die?                       Yeah.          Well what all of the time? Some of the time?                       All of the time.              It is a really deadly disease.                            In terms of the percentage of people who come down with the symptoms of rabies who die it is the deadliest disease in the world.                     The deadliest?                       Yeah. Here's the bottom line              If we say there are 55000 cases of rabies a year then you also have 55000 rabies deaths a year.          Meaning it is 100 fatal.                       Yeah and by the way this is Monica.              Monica Murphy. I am a public health veterinarian.                       And this is Bill.                            Bill Wasik. I am a senior editor at Wired magazine.                       And they wrote a book called Rabid where they trace the history of rabies all the way back to the beginning.                            There are references to rabies going back as far as we have human writing. In the Sumerian literature in the Acadian literature.                       For thousands of years we have been throwing everything and anything we can think of at this disease and failing.                            One like real--                       I mean from the start--                            You see these very very weird cures.                       Desperate. For example in Roman and Greek times if you are Jeanna and you got bit by a bat you might have tried                            Eating a cock's brain. Goose grease mixed with honey. The flesh of a mad dog salted. The skin or old sluff of a serpent. A clod from a swallow's nest applied with vinegar. And then we have the dung of red poultry provided it is of a red color is very useful.                       If those did not work you could                            Pull out the feathers from around a live rooster's anus and apply the anus to the bite wound on the theory that said anus would suck the poison up out of the wound.                     Wait a second. How would a rooster's anus cure ever catch on in the first place? I mean it would not work.                       Well yeah but if you think about it not every rabid dog or bat bite is actually going to transfer the virus.                            In the sense that you know the saliva will just fail to get the virus where it needs to be.                       So every so often the healer's gonna come along with his rooster's anus and you know put it on your wound and--                            Sure enough--                       It works.                            Case closed.  We have our rabies cure.          So you are saying that Plinys list is a lot of lucky accidents by sorcerers.                       Yeah I think that lucky accidents were kind of probably what kept some of these things kicking around long enough to become accepted.                     What do we know about rabies for real? I mean what do we actually know about the disease?                       I mean not much. We know it is a very unusual virus.              Yeah. The way a typical virus travels is it has a port of entry it replicates locally it makes it into the bloodstream it circulates widely it finds its target tissues and then it replicates there.                       Right exactly.  So you get a wound it gets infected that goes into the blood. But rabies?              It enters the body at the bite wound site.                       So in Jeanna's case the tip of her finger.              It binds to a nerve right there.                            To a particular receptor.              And then crawls its way up the nervous system.                            One to two centimeters per day.              I think that is right. To attack the brain.                     It literally grabs onto the nerve and climbs up?                       It is like hand over hand. It might take a few days to go the length of a finger maybe three weeks to go the length of an entire arm.              It is during that slow climb that we could administer a vaccine and help the body mount an immune response.                       If you give a person the vaccine before they see symptoms while the virus is still climbing its way up to the brain they should be okay.                            But once the infection has taken root in the brain then it is too late for vaccination.                       The moment you have a twitchy finger the moment you have like the slightest little flu-like symptom which will later progress into rabies that is the moment that you know you are going to die of that disease.                     Well what does the virus do when it gets to the brain?                       Well it is very much not known specifically what happens in the brain. It might start shutting parts of your brain down.  In about 30 of the cases the muscles might start to kind of get paralyzed. It is called paralytic rabies. Eventually their entire body will get paralyzed and they might just slump into a coma. Or more often it is that clich of the rabies death is what actually happens where people have these like spasms of rage.     There are videos online where you can see people in this state.              Yeah YouTube.                       I find them impossible to watch.     People you know just screaming and writhing in convulsions.     And from the virus' perspective it is trying to drive its host to be more aggressive so that it bites somebody else and spreads more virus. The other thing that is I find really perverse is that they will get this fear of water a really powerful fear of water.              The human victim of rabies tries to drink wants to drink.                            But then they will bring the cup to their hands and it will just shake and overflow.                       The muscles in their throat seize up.              The gag reflex.                       And they cannot.                     They cannot drink water?              Yeah you can imagine though again from the virus' perspective why that would be advantageous. You are trying to transmit virus through biting so an animal who cannot swallow his virus-filled saliva.                     They are gonna be like a loaded gun.              Right.                       And eventually after a few days in these late stages a person might lapse into a coma have a heart attack. There is really any number of ways they could die.                     That sounds awful.                       And so when the official results came back and Rodney took Jeanna's mom and dad Ann and John Giese into a room and told them.                              We are sorry but she has rabies.                       And it is definitely too late for the vaccine.                              John and I both started crying. You know Was there anything that could be done? And one of the doctors said there is nothing we can do. We can either put her in a dark room and let her die you can take her home and let her die. And we are just This cannot be happening.   They said What else do you got?   And they said Well we can do standard intensive care.   Well does that work?   Well no.  What else do you have?                              And then Doctor Willoughby said   Okay well                              Well I do have an idea. I would like to try this I do not even know what he called it.                       Okay so the night before while they were waiting for the test results hoping it was not rabies Rodney started calling around.   You know I actually called the CDC asking if there is anything that was unpublished but promising.                       They say No.   And then I essentially headed to the library. What I did is I pulled-- I do not know-- about 20 years worth of case reports.                       Started reading.   Sounded pretty hopeless. But--                       But he does notice one thing. He sees mention in this one kind of obscure paper.   I read one article they said Well this might be this sort of nerve transmission.                       That maybe what is happening in the brain during rabies is something called excitotoxicity. Excitotoxicity.          Excitotoxicity.                       Yeah.                     Sounds exciting and maybe toxic. What is it?              Well excitotoxicity-- and this is tricky stuff and it is controversial.                       Yeah this is the kind of thing that actually makes rabies researchers at conferences get into fights with each other. Here's a basic idea. You might think that a brain infection just physically destroys the brain. But under this theory the brain is not physically destroyed. It is just that the neurons themselves are getting overstimulated overexcited and then that part of the brain is disrupted and it all just kind of shuts down.              Just making impossible for the brain to function properly and so the sort of life-sustaining functions of the brain like                            Breathing and circulating blood.                       They stop working because the neurons that control them are just overwhelmed.              Right.                       In other words                            Rabies does not destroy the brain it disrupts the brain.              The brain itself is spared.                     So it is like a software problem not a hardware problem.                       Yeah and what Rodney read is that people had died of rabies and in the autopsy their brains looked totally fine.   Entirely normal.                       Moreover   The virus was gone.                       You could not even detect the rabies virus in their brain.   The brain no longer had rabies in it.          Really?                       Yeah it was like there was no weapon at the scene of the crime.   So that was my clue.                       What that suggested to Rodney is that the immune system does eventually turn on.          Right.                       And it kicks in and it starts fighting the disease but it just gets there too late.   So the immune system had all the tools but essentially this virus beats your immune system to the punch. It would kill you faster than your immune response could eradicate it.          Cause the virus moves what more quickly than the immune system?                       Way faster.   And to me it was like Well you know the solution there is obvious.                       If you could buy Jeanna's immune system some time.   Enough time you could clear the brain and the brain would not be damaged.                       She might survive. So what he suggested to Ann is that he put Jeanna into a coma.   Put her into a coma                              Induce a coma and if an anesthesiologist is controlling routine brain stem activities like                       Breathing circulation                              Then                       No matter what the virus is actually doing inside her brain he might be able to keep her alive.   Long enough for the immune system to make a response which would take normally about seven to ten days.                       And this is still kind of a guess?   This is entirely improvised yeah and lots of things can go wrong and when they go wrong they typically go wrong badly.                       He knows there is a huge risk that she is gonna end up being brain-dead or maybe locked in.   And that is worse than death I think in everybody's eyes.                       Were you nervous about the possibility-- like he said she could end up being a vegetable just like she would survive but not--                              I do not think I thought that far ahead. I thought more of Let us just keep her alive get the disease out of her.                       So they put Jeanna into a coma. Rodney figures We will give her a week and then we will check to see if she has an immune response.                              And once they had her hooked up with the coma she had the pole with all the IV stuff on and the different medications and stuff.                       Ann stays with Jeanna in the hospital room and spends her time                              Praying and calling people and asking them to pray and                       She repeated this one prayer                              Psalm 91.                       Over and over again.                              It talks about basically the devil not getting a hold of you.                       He is my refuge and my fortress my God in whom I trust. Surely He will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence.   And so we were just waiting.                       He will cover you with his feathers.   Waiting.                       And under His wings you will find refuge.   It was probably the most uncomfortable feeling I have ever had in medicine.                       Seven days in they sample her spinal fluid send it in for testing and then they get the results which say...   Her antivirus response is in and going up.                       So her immune system is working?   Yeah it was working and in fact we now had rabies antibody and we had a fair amount of it and it was in the spinal fluid meaning it was around the brain. And so essentially the plan worked. So we said Well okay let us start waking her up.                       But as they are waking her up she has a fever.                              And they could not figure out what was causing the fever.                       So they put her back under for another week. And then finally they start to wake her up again.                              And she gradually you know woke up.   Her brain activity looked great and she had nice pupils but physically she did not move a muscle.                       They pinch her they poke her.   She had no movement anywhere other than her pupils.                       So she was responding to light and that is it?   Light that is it.                       And this was the one thing that Rodney was most afraid of. That Jeanna was   A lock-in. Essentially locked inside this box of a body. And it was the worst day of my life. Because it looked like she probably would survive and we would actually done worse than death.                       And as Rodney drove back and forth from work he kept repeating this one prayer.   Jesus Christ Son of God have mercy on me a poor sinner. Jesus Christ Son of God have mercy on me a poor sinner. Jesus Christ Son of God have mercy on me a poor sinner. And then about two days later                       Rodney's in the hospital he is looking over Jeanna's charts.   Just checking her exam and                       Another doctor was finishing up her shift and she comes over to Rodney.   Said Oh did you know that she had reflexes today? And I said No!                       Rodney grabs reflex hammer   And then sure enough she had knee reflexes.                       Next day   Her eyes started fluttering a little bit.                       Within a week                              She was back.                       For a couple of weeks after I woke up I still had no memory.                       This is Jeanna Giese the first person to survive rabies without the vaccine.                       My first memory was actually Thanksgiving Day                       A couple weeks after she woke up from the coma.                       Back in 2004. I just remember being with my family and playing board games with my brothers and just them being there and then going down to the cafeteria for dinner. Having fish. I remember we had fish.                     How long was she in the hospital for?                       About two months.                       I had to learn how to stand and then to walk to turn around to move my toes. I was really after rabies you know a new-born baby who could not do anything and then I had relearn that all.                       Do you remember that? Do you remember that feeling?                       Yeah I-- mentally I was there you know? Mentally I knew how to do stuff but my body would not cooperate with what I wanted it to do and it was frustrating and it definitely took a toll on me psychologically. You know I am still recovering I am not completely back. Stuff like balance and I cannot run normally.                       She cannot play volleyball anymore but she finished high school went to college.                       I graduated with a degree in just General Biology.                       And now Jeanna is really into bats.          She is a bat-lover?                       Yeah.                       If I ever go down to the zoo you know they always-- the let me go behind and in with the bats and I can pet them and stuff.                       Really?                       Yeah. I will feed them I will pet them. I have been going to bat festivals here in Wisconsin so I have no fear of bats.                     That would be the last person I would expect to go to a bat festival.          Oh this girl is a saint that is all.                       She is the poster child for what became known as the Milwaukee protocol.                     That is the name of Rodney's thing that he did with her?                       Yeah.          You mean this has been tried again?                       This has been tried all around the world by different people and different versions of it but it is been tried around 30 times.          With what result?                       So everything I am about to say forward there is debate about every single little bit of it but he says five survivors.          Five survivors?                       Yeah.          Out of how many people?                       Out of about 30 people. Which on the one hand is-- that seems like a terrible percentage for a treatment for a disease-- 5 out of 30. But on the other hand this is rabies and for all of human history it was zero out of 30.          Was there anything about the five that separates them from the others?                       Well this brings us to the really murky territory.                        You know rabies has been one of those just really interesting pathogens to me. The more you think you know about it the more you do not know about it.                        This is Amy.                        Dr. Amy Gilbert. I am a research biologist at the National Wildlife Research Center here in Fort Collins.                       So this gets to your question Robert. A couple years ago Amy actually went to study rabies in Peru. With this guy.            I am Sergio Recuenco. I am a physician by profession.                       Just so happens Sergio is also from Peru.            I was born in Lima.                       And he now works as an epidemiologist at the CDC.            So going to                       But in 2010 they traveled deep into the Amazon jungle.            First from Lima we have to travel to Tarapoto and from Tarapoto we go                       I mean we are talking remote.            Three hours from  was the San Lorenzo.                     What were they looking for?                       Well they were studying bat-borne diseases and in that part of the world people have a lot of contact with vampire bats.            So we choose two towns.                        Truenococha and Santa Marta.                       So they arrive and                        Have a pretty lengthy discussion with the community leaders.                       They explain what they are up to then go door to door.                        Household to household.            We visit each house and talk with one member of the family.                       And theyd ask you know Have you been bit by a vampire bat? Have you had any illnesses? Then they take a blood sample and what they found is basically rabies front-page news.                        11 of the blood samples that were tested                       7 people out of 63.                        Had what we call evidence of virus-neutralizing antibodies.                       They had rabies antibodies in their blood.                     Uh okay?                       Well you know how I mentioned that sometimes the body will mount a response to rabies but it is just too late?                     Yeah.                       So you might see those antibodies but only when somebody's dying. Right? And these people in Peru they had the antibodies.            But we did not have any evidence there was any neurological disease in any of the cases.                       They did not seem to have rabies.            We were really very surprised.                     I am sorry why?                       Well think about it. The only way they could have gotten those antibodies in their blood was            By contact at some point with the virus.                       Theyd come into contact with rabies and yet they were fine. It was almost as if they were immune to rabies.                     Huh.                        Well I                       But Amy will not use that word immune because                        The data are sort of inconclusive as to whether there was any entry into the brain.                       Like they did not know if the virus made it all the way into these people's brains and so did they come down with full-blown rabies or not they do not know. But it is possible that these people are special. Some people even argue              That there are special individuals who are able to survive rabies.                       And not just in Peru. Monica told me about another case.              The Texas wild child. Rabies case laboratory-confirmed in a girl in Texas.                       17-year-old girl.              A runaway.                       She shows up in 2009 at a hospital in Houston. She has a headache her neck hurts and she is really agitated. They confirmed that it was rabies but she              Did not receive the Milwaukee protocol or any critical care measures.                       As far as we know they just figured she would die. But then three weeks later this girl              Went on to walk out of the hospital.                       She just got better.                     No drugs no coma nothing?                       On her own.          Hmm. Wow.                       And this actually brings us back to Jeanna.   She is pretty close to normal.                       Because at the point when she arrived at the hospital to see Rodney   She actually was diagnosed as having small amounts of antibody in her.                       She already had antibody in her blood like those people in Peru?              She did not have recoverable virus.   We could not isolate virus from her.                       Which is unusual.              It does seem that she is immunologically special.                       In fact if you look at all the people who have gotten the Milwaukee protocol and survived they all have that profile.              Like the girl in Texas like Precious Reynolds.                       That is another girl who got the Milwaukee protocol and survived.              They have had similar labwork come back. Those patients have extraordinary labwork and extraordinary outcomes.                       And so some researchers in Canada and Thailand have argued that Rodney's protocol actually had very little if nothing to do with Jeanna Giese surviving. They would say she survived              Despite Dr. Willoughby's treatment rather than because of Dr. Willoughby's treatment.                     Oh so they are accusing him of basically pulling a rooster's anus kind of number?                       I do not think they would really put it that way exactly.  They say that the Milwaukee protocol should be discontinued and that we should not be wasting time and money on it.              You know they-- in Bangkok-- are acutely aware of the fact that to do one Milwaukee protocol case you could vaccinate I think it was all of the kids in Bangkok preventatively against rabies.                            Tens of thousands of slum kids in Bangkok could be preventatively vaccinated against rabies.                       So these critics would say you know Give people vaccines but do not induce the coma and do not use these untested drugs that Rodney administers. And if somebody comes in with an advanced case of rabies well unless you have evidence that they are one of these immunologically special people you just need to accept the fact that they are going to die.            I think no. Calling not to do anything I would definitely disagree. We have to do something.                       According to Sergio the idea that Rodney somehow just got incredibly lucky when he was treating Jeanna Giese...            That is very unlikely.                       Jeanna was basically at death's door.            So there are some things might not be fully understanding in Jeanna Giese's case but it was obvious that if she was not given this alternative she might not have survived.                       And you could argue that if Jeanna's part of this immunologically special group of people who can just survive rabies without the vaccine then how come nobody did before Rodney came along?   You know this is really not science. This is right now storytelling. There is something right but we still do not know and we will not know until we figure out which parts work and do not work.                       You know for now Rodney's forced to evaluate and try to improve the protocol just one patient at a time without the funding or research that he wants so no clinical trials no animal models.   So we are left learning the hard way which is an awful way to learn.                       But he says you cannot just give up hope. In the early days of cancer treatment they were not having any success but they did not just stop.   And I have seen treatments for cancer evolve over my professional career from being zero percent survival to being 85 survival.                       And now he puts the success rate of his protocol at about 20   That is a lot better than zero.                       And it could go up.                     Or it might not go up.                       It is true. So if you are a doctor now though and a kid comes into the hospital has not had the vaccine has a full-blown case of rabies what do you do? Do you just throw up your hands say Sorry he is not gonna make it. Do you check and see if maybe he is immunologically special?          Put him in a coma?                       Do you put him into a coma? That you do not know is gonna work. Whatever the case you have actually gotta be glad that Rodney gave Jeanna a shot because whether or not you think he saved her life or she saved her own life the fact is that at least we know that rabies is not quite the killer that we once thought it was. He took it off of its throne of death even if just a little bit maybe.              And when we say you know rabies is coming off its 100 throne it is down to 99.999. You know like it is                     And it might be that it was never quite on that throne exactly ever.              Yeah right.                     Alright well we have certainly cleared things up.     Thank you Tim.          Thank you.                       Sure thing.                     Thanks also to Ashvin Shaw for research help and to you guys for listening.                                      Hi this is Claire calling from Beijing. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.