Robert We want to finish the night with a salute to a guy who is been on our program and part of our family pretty much from the beginning I have known him for more than 35 years. Early on when Radiolab started I asked him if he would help us out and send us a few story ideas he did not send us a few. He sent us bushels tales of chemistry and medicine hallucinations music people so many extraordinary people that he knew or found or helped because the guy just does not run out. Dr. Oliver Sacks a neurologist   He is a guy who notices everything. He is deeply interested in everything that happens around him and to him. Tonight we are bringing him back on tape for what alas may be his final offering for us. As many of you know Dr. Sacks recently was diagnosed with liver cancer and he wrote about this in the New York Times. He said he plans to spend the time that he has left writing being with friends not doing interviews but he did agree to share his thoughts exclusively with us tonight for you gathered here because he is one of our family. As I have done for decades now I went over to his house in Manhattan with my mic and I said to him We just need to know what just happened. A month and a half ago you were fine and then what? Oliver At the beginning of the year I was fine. On the 3rd of January I felt a little queer and I passed some dark urine. I thought I had a little gallbladder attack and did not pay that much attention but thought I better get things checked. The x-ray which was expected only to show a couple of gallstones showed hundreds of cysts in my liver. Although my doctor said he did not know what these were and I would need further tests I knew what they were. I said It is happened. Robert He was right. The doctors eventually confirmed that a cancer that had been found in his eye nine years ago had spread to his liver. Were you frightened or relieved or consoled? or what? Oliver No I think my first feeling was one of overwhelmed sadness. There are all sorts of things I will not see and I will not do. One or two people have written to me consoling me and said Well we all die but fuck it it is not like We all die. It is like You have four months. Robert What is your prognosis at this moment? Because I know you had an  Oliver It gets revised. It depends of course on how the cancer responds to treatments or how quickly it spreads. So far the metastases from my eye are only in my liver. I am told they love liver. Actually I love liver as well. One of the magical things I did was to go and have liver and onions soon after the diagnosis and thinking That liver looks better than mine . Robert See this is what he is like. Instead of being frightened by the thing that is trying to kill him he is thinking about loving liver and liver lovers and looking for connections and wondering. He does not stop. He just notices it. Case in point a few months ago his doctor said to him We are going to run a line up your liver and in effect we are going to try to shave off or starve some of the cancer cells first on one side then on the other to see if we can give you a little more time but they warned him. Oliver As the metastases die they put out various unpleasant chemicals- Robert That may exhaust you tax your system badly. Oliver At one point- Robert Shortly after the procedures. Oliver -I started talking a little strangely and as I was talking I was also writing. You will be the first person to see this. Robert He showed me a notebook and we are showing it to you in just a moment. You can see there is writing there on the left. He is writing a book actually a children's book about the elementary table but as he was writing if you look to the next page if you can see that it gets a little bit wobbly the letters. Oliver Then there was some crossing out there and then rather dramatically the writing changes. Robert Actually there is a large slash across it and then it seems a little incoherent at the bottom and then it turns to pure scribble. Oliver That is delirium. It crept up on me. All this happened in the course of 10 minutes. Robert See what he is doing here he is figuring Okay I am writing at a constant speed. I know pretty much how fast I write and so I can time this out. I can figure out exactly how long it took me to slip into delirium and then out of this delirium. He is doing this very very sick man It is science all the time. Oliver If I had to write it out in a more medical way I think this would form a lovely illustration you put on a timeline of delirium just coming like that. Robert Unusual for any doctor and a man of science you do not seem to worry at all when things become incoherent or strange. You are now showing it to me as it is like Ooh how interesting? I was crazy here for a little bit. The truth is Oliver is fascinated by what goes on in the human mind no matter how strange he gets up there. One time when he was a young resident in California driving his bike-- By the way I should show you what he looked like back then when he was driving his bike. This I think it is him in New York a   In the 60s he was also a champion weightlifter they call them Dr. Squat. In this picture that I am showing you here that is him raising 600 pounds in order to win a trophy. He was a champ. You can see more pictures like these because we have signed copies of Oliver's new memoir out for sale in the lobby. It is a pretty good book too by the way.  In any case at this time  in the 1960s in addition to being all muscled out Oliver was a serious recreational drug taker. Because he is Oliver he was extremely curious about his highs no matter how weird they were. One time for example he took 20 pills that he should not have- Oliver Then to my surprise there was a spider on the wall which said Hello. It had a voice like Bertrand Russell. Robert A famous mathematician. Oliver It asked me a rather technical question as to whether Russell had exploded Frege's paradox and we had this conversation- Robert You answered the spider? Oliver Sure I answered the spider. Robert You discussed Frege's paradox with the spider? Oliver I did indeed because you trust your perceptions. Many years later when I mentioned this to an entomologist friend at Cornell and the philosophical spider he said Yes. He said I know the species.  Robert Thinking Oliver's way taking it all in talking spiders whatever the generosity of his curiosity becomes profoundly moving and transformative when he is treating his patients. I want to tell one story here really quickly to demonstrate what I mean. Oliver once had a patient whom he called Mrs. OC. She was an old woman. She was 88 years old living in a nursing home. One night she was awakened jarred awake by a loud sound.  It was a song.She thought Well somebody has left the radio on but when she looked the radio in the room was off her roommate sound asleep which was odd because the song was really loud. After that it was another song and then another song. This is what she thought Maybe my roommate cannot hear these songs because the songs are coming through the fillings in my teeth. I have heard that is possible but no Her doctors told her This is something in your head. You need to see a neurologist which led her to Dr. Sacks. When he met Mrs. OC she could barely hear him the song sung by the female voice were coming and coming. She was frightened and justifiably worried that she was going crazy but Oliver said No no no I am going to do some tests. When he was done he said he would found a slight stroke or condition that had triggered musical epilepsy the sudden production of music in her brain. Now a normal doctor might say Okay we have got the diagnosis and he thought that the songs would probably fade and it will pass so they would be done but Oliver did not stop. He does not stop.  He kept talking to her. She told him she was born in Ireland in the 1890s. Her father died before she was born her mother when she was only five. Oliver Orphaned alone she was sent to America to live with her rather bidding maiden aunt. She had no conscious memory of the first five years of her life no memory of her mother of Ireland. She had always felt this as a keen and painful sadness this lack of forgetting of the earliest most precious years of her life. Robert We asked her about the songs. What are they like? Mrs. OC said Well I think they are lullabies. Can you sing them for me? She did. Then after checking and I am not sure who Oliver figured out that these songs happened to be popular Irish ballads from the 1890s when Mrs. OC was a little baby and that gave him an idea. Now what he does next is not science. It is not in any traditional way medicine. He just told her a story and it goes like this. You know how nobody remembers anything that happens to you when you are one or two or three? There was a theory once not honored much today but it said that those earliest memories get locked away deep in our brains in a special safe that we can never open. Let us suppose Mrs. OC that your stroke by some crazy chance opened the lock that none of us can break and release those first memories in you just for a little while. That the voice you are listening to.  Maybe that is not a radio voice. Let us think that it is your mother's voice. That is your missing mother. At the ripe old age of 88 you finally get to be back in your mother's arms. You get to be a baby again. Mr's OC thought and said Okay it fits. Oliver I am an old woman with a stroke in an old people's home but I feel I am a child Ireland again I feel my mother's arms. I see her I hear her voice singing.  Robert Shortly thereafter the songs began to fade the pauses widened. Mrs. OC who had been so frightened by this music in her head was now sorry to see the songs go but it was Oliver who noticed how those songs had touched her who noticed that the songs might become a comfort to her because that is what he does. He listens closely. He can hear another person's heart. This is really the profound puzzle for me of Oliver because reading the new autobiography you see that while he was so full of heart as a doctor in his own life and in the relationships that really mattered it turns out he did not get a whole lot of affection. He was for a long time a lonely guy. I would say he was very lonely. He is talking about that now for the first time. Let me talk about love for a minute. In this book you tell the story of your very first love a fellow by name of Richard Selig. Can you just tell me what happened with him? Oliver Yes. He was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford and a poet handsome and beautiful beyond belief. I fell for him although I did not say anything because I was very haunted by my mother's accusations. Robert What did your mother- Oliver To go a couple of years back then my father had opened a conversation that I was about to go to Oxford a father-son conversation. He said You do not seem to have many girlfriends. I said No wishing the conversation would stop. He said Something wrong with girls? I said No they are fine. Perhaps you prefer boys. I said Well yes I do. I said I have never done anything but I do. Robert You knew that then? Oliver I knew that then. I had known it for six years probably since I was 12. I said Do not tell ma. She will not be able to take it. My father did tell my mother the night and the next morning she came down with I somehow want to say a face of funder and raged at me and among other things said You are an abomination. I wish you had never been born. Then she suddenly shut up and said nothing for three days. That was never mentioned again in her lifetime. Then two years later I found myself for the first time in my life falling in love. Robert This was the young guy Richard. Oliver at the time was in college. Oliver It was a very positive feeling where I did not know whether it was one which I did express but I did say so with my heart and my mouth to Richard. Robert Do you remember what you said? Oliver I said I am in love with you. Richard gripped me by the shoulders and he said I know. He said I am not that way but I love you in my own way. I was glad I had said that. I am glad that it had been received in such a warm friendly way. I thought we might be friends for the rest of our lives but then one day he came into me he said he would been bothered by finding a lump in his groin and he was worried could I have a look at it? I looked at it and I felt it it was hard and tethered. It turned out to be a particularly malignant form of lymphoid tumor what was called a lymphoma sarcoma. He never spoke to me again after that. I do not know whether since I would been the first to recognize the ominous import I do not know whether he saw me as a harbinger of death or a messenger of death whatever. Robert You were left with that silence? Oliver Yes. Robert A few years later Oliver met a man named Mel. He was young he was a sailor. Like Oliver he was into weightlifting. They became close friends and they began living together. Oliver I adored him was in love with him and loved physical contact with him. Robert They would work out and they would wrestle and ride motorcycles tightly. They never talked about what might or might not be happening between them. One day they were together and Oliver was giving Mel a back massage which Mel often asked him to do. Oliver I loved doing that. Robert Oliver says sometimes he would get a little excited. Oliver So long as I gave no explicit indication it was okay. One day things went a bit too far and I went over the brink and settled just  the brink. Mel immediately got up and had a shower and said I cannot stay with you anymore. I found that very cruel and upsetting and heartbreaking and it made me feel I do not want to have anything to do with people. I must not fall in love. I cannot share lives with anyone again. Robert He did not share his life with anyone for a long long time. In fact he told me a story about something that happened to him maybe eight years ago. Oliver I was just joining the faculty at Columbia and I was having an interview. At one point the interviewer said to me she said I have something rather private to ask you. Would do like Miss Edgar your assistant to leave? I said No she is privy to all my affairs. I then said thinking she was going to ask me about sex I said I have not had any sex for 35 years. In fact she was going to ask me my social security number.  She burst into laughter and said Oh you poor thing. She said We must do something about it. Robert The truth is Oliver did not do anything about it because he did not think he could. He would chosen Richard lost Richard chosen Mel lost Mel it was not the point he was thinking. Then finally and who knows when or why these things happen to people but a man came along who for the first time chose Oliver. Oliver I had met Billy as I meet a number of people because I would been sent a manuscript or a proof for a book and an intimacy grew between us. I do not think I quite realized how deep it was but then there was a particular episode in Christmas of '09 when he came up and in a serious way he has a serious careful way he said I have conceived a deep love for you. Robert I have conceived a deep love for you? Oliver Yes. Robert That is got a few extra words. I have conceived- Oliver Yes.   Robert Was he scared to say I love you.? Oliver No he likes the English language. I think it could not have been put more cautiously and yet more strongly. I think it was a beautiful way of putting it and then I realized at that moment with his saying that I had conceived a deep love for him. Among other things I thought Good God it is happened again I am in my 77th year- Robert That is amazing. 77. Oliver -what next? Things basically have gone happily ever since and surprisingly  because then again I am not dealing with a what I am dealing with a who. I am dealing with an individual. I am not dealing with a condition defined by medicine or law. Robert Oliver still does not know how much time he has left but for the moment as you can hear his mind is totally intact. He is still writing. He has two books in addition to the one you will find in the lobby that he is writing and the children's book a bunch of New Yorker stories in the last few months and a New York review of books story. He is got energy to spare. I want to do one last thing before we close. This comes from yet another conversation I had with him. It is a story I know Oliver would hate because he is not a Religious guy. He is somebody who definitely embraces mystery. For a long time he is been mystified by a color called indigo. Oliver Indigo which Newton had inserted between blue and violet. No two people seem to agree as to what Indigo was like. I built up a chemical launch pad. Robert Meaning he took a lot of drugs.  Oliver A base of amphetamine for general arousal then some acid and a little cannabis. When I was sufficiently stoned I said I want to see Indigo now. As if in reply and as if drawn by a giant paintbrush there appeared a huge trembling pear-shaped blob of what I instantly realized was pure indigo on the white floor in front of me. It had a wonderful luminosity. In particular although I am not a religious person I thought This is the color of heaven. I leaned towards it in ecstasy and then suddenly it disappeared. Robert He says he had one more moment like that this time no drugs. He was in a museum staring at an Egyptian artifact. He sees this brilliant color back again just for a beat. Oliver I was given five tantalizing seconds of radiant ineffable beauty. Robert Then again it vanished. Oliver That was in 1965 and I have never seen Indigo since. Robert Who knows? Someday I like to think Dr. Sacks may get to see that color again.    Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.