 Wait wait you are lis-    Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening-   Listening-   ... Radio Lab. Lab. Lab.   Radio Lab.   From-   WNYC  Andrea All right so tell us who you are.  Nivee I am !  Andrea And I am Andrea Nivee's mom. We are in Hopkinsville Kentucky for the great American eclipse. We are about a minute to totality.  Nivee Oh look I can see it. Even when I am uh even when it is not on.  Andrea We can hear the cicadas?  Nivee And we and look I do not even have my sunglasses on and- and I can still.  Andrea No you cannot look at it without your sunglasses on. You are just holding them up?  Nivee Yeah.  Andrea What do you see if you look this way? Is it looking dark?  Nivee Yeah it looks like a storm coming in.  Andrea It does look like a storm coming in.  Nivee I know.   Jupiter!  Nivee Jupiter? Where?  Andrea Oh my gosh. Oh oh my god. Oh.  Nivee I see nothing.  Andrea Are you looking up? Oh my god. Oh my god. Can you see the ring?  Nivee Yeah. Totality.   Holy Toledo.   Yeah yeah.   Oh my god Stella look. Look up there.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumarad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. All right so these last few weeks on planet Earth on this corner of planet Earth have been a little confusing a little crazy. But then there was yesterday and we all got a reprieve we just got a chance to look up.   Look at that look. Look up at the sun.  Jad Abumrad Couple hundred people sent us recordings from all over the place.   I am in Greeley Colorado.   Helen Georgia.   Nashville Tennessee.   Kenmore Washington.   Carbondale Illinois.  Jad Abumrad Sent us recordings of themselves watching the moon pass right in front of the sun.   That is the moon in front of the sun. The moon is blocking the sun.   I see Venus.  Andrea Oh my god that is wild.  Jad Abumrad And I got to say you hear these recordings and you cannot help but think think we are going to be all right.  Nivee I can only see black.  Andrea Here stand up. It is beautiful.   Oh my god.  Jad Abumrad So in honor of this celestial miracle. Today we are going to keep looking up. But not in the direction of the sun.  Robert Krulwich Well you know when you look up at the sun you have to put on these glasses to to to protect yourself from the sunshine. The sunshine is very powerful and it it stretches across vast vast vast vast distances in space. But what were going to do with the  is we are going to leave the sunshine behind. We are actually going to escape the sunshine where humans have never been before.  Jad Abumrad Right and we are going to start with a story that I have been following pretty much my entire career at Radiolab. You are going to have to rewind back 1977 I mean that is not when I started following the story that when the story itself started. In August of 1977 NASA launched a spacecraft and on the craft was a gold record. And the record carried a message this was a message from us to them out there. Our story now it was Carl Sagan...  Carl Sagan The cosmos is all that is or ever was or ever will be.  Jad Abumrad That led the team that made that record. And that team included actually it was headed by a woman named Ann Druyan. And about ten years ago I spoke with Annie and uh we made this story that you are about to hear.  Jad Abumrad I visited Annie at her home in Ithaca New York and we sat in the back yard near a waterfall. In the same spot she says where Carl himself would sit and become so absorbed in what he was reading that he would not notice a deer standing right next to him.  Ann Druyan My name is Annie Druyan and um I was honored to be the creative director of the Voyager Interstellar Message Project which began in early 1977.  Jad Abumrad Now how did this come about? I think about the project now and its so exciting to think about. I mean it is such a romantic idea. Did you know that at the time?  Ann Druyan Absolutely. We felt first of all that this was kind of a sacred trust that here we were half a dozen and very flawed human beings with uh huge uh huge holes in our knowledge of all of these subjects building a cultural Noah's Ark. It was a chance to tell something of what life on Earth was like to being of perhaps a thousand million years from now. Because the the Voyager engineers were saying This record will have a shelf life of a billion years. If that did not raise goosebumps then you would have to be made of wood. Uh it was also the the the season that Carl Sagan and I fell so madly in love with each other. And here we were taking on this mythic challenge. And knowing that before it was done two spacecraft would lift off from the planet Earth moving at an average speed of 35000 miles an hour for the next thousand million years. And on it would be a kiss a mother's first words to her newborn baby.   Oh come on now good girl.  Ann Druyan Mozart Bach Beethoven greetings in the 59 most populous human languages.    Hello from the children of planet Earth.  Ann Druyan As well as one non-human language the greetings of the Humpback whales. And it was a sacred undertaking. Because it was saying We want to be citizens of the cosmos. We want you to know about us.  Jad Abumrad Tell me about the moment you fell in love with Carl Sagan. You said it was during the Voyager compilation.  Ann Druyan Yes it was. It was on June 1st 1977. I had been looking for some time for that piece of Chinese music that we could put on the Voyager record and not feel like idiots for having done so. And um I was very excited because I had finally found a ethnomusicology a composer at Columbia University who told me without a moment's hesitation that this piece Flowing Streams which was represented to me as one of the oldest pieces of Chinese music 2500 years old was the piece we should put on the record.  Ann Druyan So I uh called Carl who was traveling he was in Tucson Arizona giving a talk. And um we had been alone many times during the making of the record and as friends for three years. And neither of us had ever uh said anything to the other we were both involved with other people. We would had these wonderful soaring conversations. But we had both been completely just professional about everything and as friends. And uh he was not there left a message.  Ann Druyan Hour later phone rings pick up the phone. And I hear this wonderful voice and he said I get back my hotel room and I find this message and it says Annie called. And I say to myself Why did not you leave me this message ten years ago? And my heart completely skipped a beat I can still remember it so perfectly. And I said For keeps? And he said You mean get married? And I said Yes. And we had never kissed we had never you know even had any kind of personal discussion before. We both hung up the phone and I just screamed out loud. I remember it so well because it was this great eureka moment. It was just like a scientific discovery.  Ann Druyan And then phone rang and I was thinking Oh . You know like... And the phone rang and it was Carl and he said I just want to make sure that really happened. We are getting married right? And I said Yeah we are getting married. He said Okay just wanted to make sure. And um the spacecraft lifted off on August 20th and August 22nd we told everyone involved and we were together from that moment until his death in 1996 in December.  Jad Abumrad Wow talk about romantic my god.  Ann Druyan It was so romantic. And part of my feeling about Voyager obviously and part of what I was feeling in the recording of my brainwaves my heart my eyes everything in that meditation on the record. I had asked Carl whether or not it would be possible to compress the impulses in one's brain and nervous system into sound and then put that sound on the record. And then think that perhaps the extraterrestrials of the future would be able to reconstitute that data into thought. And he looked at me in beautiful May day in New York City and said Well you know a thousand million years is a long time you know? Why do not you go do it and... because who knows you know who knows what is possible in a thousand million years.  Ann Druyan And so um my brainwaves and REM every little sound that my body was making was recorded at Bellevue Hospital in New York. This was two days after Carl and I declared our love for each other and so what I often think is that maybe a hundred million years from now you know somebody flies that record down and I always wonder because part of what I was thinking in this meditation was about the wonder of love and of being in love. And to know its on those two spacecraft even now in my... Whenever I am down you know I am thinking And still they move. 35000 miles an hour. Leaving our solar system for the great wide open sea of interstellar space.  Jad Abumrad Billions of years from now the sun will have reduced this planet to a charred ashy ball. But that record with Ann Druyan's brainwaves and heartbeat on it will still be out there somewhere intact. In some remote region of the Milk Way preserving a murmur of an ancient civilization that once flourished on a distant planet.  Jad Abumrad So that is how we ended the original story uh with that quote from Carl Sagan. And um it happens to be actually the 40th anniversary of the Voyager probes launch. I mean we are sort of in between the two dates were probe 1 and probe 2 were launched. And so we were thinking about the anniversary and uh our producer Amanda Aronczyk called Ann Druyan again. And they got to talking about the fact that we still... scientists are still talking to those probes.  Ann Druyan That is the thing that gets me. Here we are 40 years later and Voyager 1 we are still in contact with Voyager 1. We still know where Voyager 1 and 2 are. We were able to build something so well that with the energy which is essentially more feeble than the energy in a toaster we can communicate with Voyager as she leaves to wander the Milky Way galaxy intact with the message intact. Well those same engineers said it would work for dozen years it is 40 years and it is still working.  Jad Abumrad So coming up we are going to ask Where are they actually? Where specifically are those two probes now?  Robert Krulwich And the answer is they are in a very very very undiscovered place. I mean they are learning things that we have never known.     Becca Hey this is Becca I am calling from Dallas Texas to let you know that Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan www.sloan.org  Ilya Marritz Hello it is Ilya Marritz cohost of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent president to not release his tax returns the only president you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.   He did not care what records was. He tore memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like Look you cannot do that.  Ilya Marritz Trump Inc. An open investigation into the business of Trump. From ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab.  Robert Krulwich And now we are going to ask Where are those Voyager probes like right now?  Jad Abumrad I mean again this is a story we have been following forever. And about five years ago producer Lynn Levy began to ask herself that question where are they. Because at that point news starting to bubble up that the that the Voyager probes were about to tiptoe their way across a truly amazing threshold.  Robert Krulwich And at that moment it was not completely clear what was happened. So so here's what we reported then.  Jad Abumrad We are break in at a certain point and update things even further but Lynn began this story where the last one left off.  Lynn Levy Okay so like in... the point of the mission was not really to deliver this record it was to go out and look at all the planets in the outer solar system.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm   Lynn Levy So starting in 1977 these two little spaceships...  Merav Opher Two spacecraft Voyager 1 and 2-  Lynn Levy Went racing away from Earth snapping pictures.  Merav Opher And so every time Voyager would reach another planet you know all of the Voyager people would get together go into the imaging room and see the pictures come from the outer solar system.  Lynn Levy Do you remember seeing them?  Merav Opher I remember as child seeing Life magazine you know I was seven when the Voyager was launched so.  Lynn Levy This is Merav.  Merav Opher I am Merav Opher professor at uh Boston University.  Lynn Levy As a grown up she became part of the Voyager team.  Merav Opher All the pictures that you know as a kid you look at the books and to see what how Neptune look how Jupiter look.  Lynn Levy You know just complete revelation-  Merav Opher Saturn.  Lynn Levy The image of Saturn.  Merav Opher Technicolor.  Lynn Levy Like pink and-  Merav Opher Like reddish.  Lynn Levy Turquoise colors.  Merav Opher Yellow.  Lynn Levy And those rings. Just spectacular. They could see active volcanoes on one of the moons of Jupiter.  Merav Opher Finally that vision of Neptune of this like blue jewel.  Lynn Levy Really blue.  Merav Opher It is all came from Voyager. We had no idea how they look like before Voyager.  Lynn Levy Neptune was the last big cool planet. And it was the last thing they were supposed to photograph.  Merav Opher After that the cameras were going to be shut off to save energy.  Lynn Levy But-  Merav Opher Carl Sagan convinced them to turn Voyager back to Earth and take a final picture.  Lynn Levy So on Valentine's Day 1990 uh one of the ships slowly rotated so it was facing back to Earth and it snapped picture.  Merav Opher One last picture.  Jad Abumrad Describe it.  Lynn Levy So it is mostly empty um it is it is pretty dark. You can see sort of streaks of light coming from the sun. And then you honestly would not notice it if it was not pointed out to you. But down in one corner kind of uh suspended in a sun beam...  Merav Opher There is a very small dot blue.  Lynn Levy A pale blue dot. That was us. In Carl Sagan's words...  Merav Opher Everyone you ever knew everyone you ever loved every superstar every corrupt politician just everyone in all of history everything the sum total. Think of the rivers of blood that have run so that one indistinguishable group could have momentary domination over a fraction of that pixel.  Lynn Levy It was one of those really rare images.  Merav Opher Every single day I hear from people who take that pale blue dot so deeply to heart and-  Lynn Levy It was it was a complete reframing.  Merav Opher After that the cameras were turned off.  Lynn Levy But here's the thing the ships kept going going going going. Drifting through the darkness going going going going. Even though they were not taking pictures anymore they were using like their other senses. Little instruments that detect like how many particles are around what the temperature is. So they were hurdling through this empty space really fast measuring sending that data back. And scientists like Merav were there listening and waiting.  Jad Abumrad For what?  Merav Opher It was not clear.  Lynn Levy But they knew at some point these capsules would get to the edge.  Jad Abumrad The edge of what?  Lynn Levy The solar system.  Jad Abumrad The solar system has an edge? I thought it was just big spiral.  Lynn Levy It has an edge it is a it is like a bubble.  Merav Opher See the the sun has a wind. Every star has a wind but the sun has it is own wind.  Lynn Levy That blows out through the solar system.  Merav Opher It is very fast it can be between uh 400 to 800 kilometers per second.  Lynn Levy Anyway it blows out from the sun past all the planets and uh it keeps everything else out.  Jad Abumrad Oh so its like blowing up a balloon.  Lynn Levy Yeah exactly.  Jad Abumrad The wind gives it a shape.  Lynn Levy Right. So these little things are cruising out towards this edge wherever it is. Scientists do not quite know where it is or what it is. The guys in the control room are like pinging the ships and like Hey what is what is up. What do you see? And the ships are like Nothing. Well how about now? Not much. Now? Nothing.  Jad Abumrad And how long before they actually see something?  Lynn Levy 14 years.  Jad Abumrad Oh man that is like driving through Kansas but like a million times worse.  Lynn Levy But there comes a day...  Merav Opher End of 2004...  Lynn Levy Where they stop listening for a little while because the antenna... NASA only has so many antennas and they have to use them to listen to everything.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm   Lynn Levy So for a little while the Voyager team's like Okay you guys over there can use the antennas we are going to lunch.  Jad Abumrad Yeah I mean it is not like anything is going to happen.  Lynn Levy Nothing's happening anyway its been 14 god damn years.  Jad Abumrad Knock yourself out.  Lynn Levy You guys it is cool. And they come back a few hours later start listening again. And...  Merav Opher It is it is happened very sudden.  Lynn Levy Everything is totally changed. All of a sudden boom.  Merav Opher The speed of the wind dropped from around 380 kilometers per second to 100.  Lynn Levy Instantly like all at once.  Merav Opher Instantly.  Lynn Levy And then everything out there started to get messy.  Merav Opher Very turbulent. Much more turbulent than before. Particles are also um behaving in a very different way. And the fields are very um weird.  Jad Abumrad The fields?  Merav Opher The magnetic field.  Lynn Levy So just like the sun has a wind...  Merav Opher The sun has a magnetic field as well.  Lynn Levy The field starts at the sun and then curves out in this kind of graceful arc through the solar system.  Merav Opher And uh how the sun rotates create what people call ballerina skirt.  Lynn Levy You know how like a skirt will flare if you spin around real fast?  Jad Abumrad Uh-huh .  Lynn Levy That is apparently kind of what this field looks like.  Jad Abumrad Huh  Lynn Levy But way out there it seems like this skirt had started to fray. Maybe tear a little. Threads had broken off. And seemed to be floating around on their own not connected to anything.  Jad Abumrad So what does this all mean? I mean if the fields are breaking down and the wind is dying down and you said the wind is actually what creates the space of the solar system. Does this mean we are out?  Lynn Levy No. I kind of thought that is what was happening but no. It is not out and it is not quite in. It is in the edge of the bubble.  Jad Abumrad It is in the edge?  Lynn Levy Yeah but it is not um not like a little thin edge. It is a thick thick edge.  Jad Abumrad Huh so the edge is not just a little line that you cross it is a place.  Lynn Levy Yeah. And while we listened the two Voyager ships moved through this edge for several years.  Merav Opher Then something very interesting happened. Um that the wind on Voyager 1 stopped.  Jad Abumrad Like completely stopped?  Lynn Levy Yeah.  Jad Abumrad So now we are out?  Lynn Levy No.  Merav Opher No.  Lynn Levy I mean-  Merav Opher This is what people thought. But the other measurements-  Lynn Levy Like temperature number of particles the magnetic field-  Merav Opher Does not tell us that we are out of the bubble. Nature surprised us again.  Lynn Levy So now we think there is a place at the edge of our solar system-  Merav Opher Right at the edge-  Lynn Levy The edge of the edge. That is utterly still. No wind at all. A pause.  Merav Opher People are calling it the stagnation layer. And there is a big discussion why this layer exists and how thick it is.  Lynn Levy And by how thick it is she means when will it end? Because once we get past this... So has anything ever crossed this boundary before?  Merav Opher No this will be the first manmade object to leave any star. And uh Voyager is like right there smelling touching that boundary.  Lynn Levy You know you only do those things first once. Like your first kiss your first taste of alcohol your first time driving a car the first time you see the ocean. These things open up a whole new world. First time out of the solar system.  Jad Abumrad So when is it going to freaking happen?  Lynn Levy It might have happened while we were talking.  Jad Abumrad Ah.  Merav Opher We are thinking from now any moment now next couple months or three years from now four years from now. It is close.  Lynn Levy Every day I open my Google alert for Voyager and I look and see did it happen today?  Jad Abumrad Do you really?  Lynn Levy Because if it happens before this show goes out I am going to be pissed. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Every day?  Lynn Levy Yeah.  Jad Abumrad It is the first thing you do in the morning?  Lynn Levy No.  Jad Abumrad All right good.  Lynn Levy Like the third thing.  Jad Abumrad Okay so when uh producer Lynn Levy left that story at that point five years ago it seemed like the Voyager probes were in this weird liminal space kind of stuck somewhere in the edge of the edge of our planetary neighborhood. And that out moment that transition moment could happen at any time. That is where we left it. Which seemed honestly kind of frustrating. Like we did the story too soon you know like that happens every so often. So we decided to call Merav Opher back she is the scientist you heard in the story who was part of the Voyager team. And we asked her to to pick up the story like what happened?  Merav Opher Okay so since then we were waiting right?  Jad Abumrad Right.  Merav Opher And this story is fascinating and a little complicated too. Because this was back in 2012 right?  Jad Abumrad She says shortly after our story was released-  Merav Opher Couple of months later so was in August around August 2012.  Jad Abumrad About six months after our story.  Merav Opher The particles this was fascinating the energetic particles from the sun um dropped.  Jad Abumrad So some people thought Oh no sun particles that must mean we are out.  Merav Opher But couple of days later they came back.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Merav Opher And then there was the same intensity as before and then they dropped again. It is almost felt that somebody had opened a window and then closed the window and then opened a window and then closed a window.  Jad Abumrad Oh wow.  Merav Opher So it was kind of weird.  Jad Abumrad That is weird.  Merav Opher You expect the classic crossing it should be sudden.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm   Merav Opher It should be Oh you are in or you are out.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Merav Opher You do not have this intermediate I am in I am out I am in I am out.  Jad Abumrad  I know.  Merav Opher And so so this was not the classic textbook. And was very like uh what is going on? And there was very heated discussions because you know you are waiting to say the public are we really across the solar system for the first time or not? And we can not say.  Jad Abumrad That must have been frustrating.  Merav Opher Super frustrating.  Jad Abumrad And she says scientists started arguing. I mean there was a bunch of uh conferences and meetings where they got together and the scientists essentially broke into factions. Like you had one faction that was like We are out. Another faction was like No no we are in. And she says at one of those meetings...  Merav Opher There was a vote are we in or are we out. And I and I just felt this is crazy this is such a major milestone   Jad Abumrad  you cannot vote on it it has nothing to do with that.  Merav Opher Exactly. It was almost like Christopher Columbus right? Did we really arrive to America a vote. And it was just crazy.  Jad Abumrad But she says they did vote.  Merav Opher And the vote was still we are inside.  Jad Abumrad So towards the end of 2012 that is what they though we are still in. But-  Merav Opher Something changed. And and this something is the sound we were hearing.  Jad Abumrad Around the time of these arguments the Voyager was sending back sound.  Merav Opher The Voyager does not have a lot of energy on board right? So they have a tape recorder so-  Jad Abumrad Wait there is a tape recorder? Really?  Merav Opher Yes. I think it is an 8-track.  Jad Abumrad What? Like an 8-track 8-track?  Merav Opher Jad I think.  Jad Abumrad It turns out it is true. There there are 8-tracks on both of the probes that are capturing ultra low frequency plasma waves.  Merav Opher Two to three kilohertz.  Jad Abumrad Which you can actually hear. Now that whoosh...  Merav Opher That is just the background of the power supply.  Jad Abumrad That is just the sound of the Voyager itself idling basically. Cruising through empty space. But she says when you listen to the following recording this what you are about to hear is eight months of time from late 2012 into 2013 eight months collapsed into a tiny clip. What you hear are these little swells. And there is one. And there is another.  Merav Opher You have those ramps.  Jad Abumrad Now this part gets kind of confusing but essentially Merav says those swells that is the Voyager spacecraft colliding with some new galactic stuff.  Merav Opher So you are hearing there is a ramp of density as you go in to interstellar space.  Jad Abumrad I had thought that those sounds one of those two sounds is the Voyager bursting out of our solar system but she told me-  Merav Opher No no.  Jad Abumrad What it is is the sound of the Voyager already on the other side. It is the Voyager basically saying I am in a new space now. And after some analysis and this part I cannot explain uh NASA pinpointed the ejection moment the crossover moment to just before the first of those two swells. So this is the first swell. Its just before that. Maybe right there. Like right there. That is when we left.  Merav Opher Its so undramatic.  But we finally escaped.  Jad Abumrad Official exit day-  Merav Opher 25th of August of 2012.     Robert Krulwich So now we have a human manufacture that has left the sphere of the sun. You know that is on the other side in the other ocean.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Merav Opher It is like I am I am I do not know its bittersweet to to see all this incredible data that Voyager is giving us and I want more I would like another mission there.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Merav Opher It is almost like somebody give you like a taste. Look how interesting this data is and whoop they are leaving.  Jad Abumrad Speaking of leaving Merav says that we can expect to communicate with the Voyager probes for about another eight to ten years. But then eventually they will lose power and go dark.  Andrea It is recording.  Nivee What time is it?   It is 33.   One more minute.   Like one minute we are getting close.   It is getting so dark.   Just a sliver of a sliver left.   About 30 seconds.   It is getting dark it is okay.   Whoa.   Whoa look at all the the lights are turning on.   Yeah   The street lights have turned on.   We are about 10 second from total eclipse.   There it goes there it goes.   Oh my god. Whoa its almost gone.   Look at that look. Look up at the sun.   Emma look up!   What the-   That is it.   We have hit total eclipse.   Oh my god. Wow.   I can see the corona.   Oh my god look at it.   Oh my god its incredible. Oh my I am crying.   The big black dot in the middle of the sky with white halos coming from it  Oh my goodness the stars. Look at the-   Stars. Stars.   Look at the stars Max.  Nivee Look how beautiful that is.   Look at all the stars. Stars. The stars.   There is Venus there is a plane and then there is uh-   Look at Venus.   Its so pretty its so pretty.  Jad Abumrad Thank you to everybody who sent in their recordings. Big thanks to producer Lynn Levy To scientist Merav Opher Amanda Aronczyk for producing this update and Annie Druyan.   To play the message press two.  Merav Opher I am Merav Opher professor of astronomy at Boston University. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and it is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design our staff includes Simon Adler David Gebel Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack and Molly Webster. With help from Rebecca  Nigar Fatali Phoebe Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.   End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 