Dear All Ive decided its time for me to retire from Radiolab. Not because anything bad has happened more like the opposite. When we set up shop years ago the idea was to create a space where hard hard subjects that nobody would think of as entertainment could be  well entertaining. And disturbing. And Absorbing. Against the odds and against our expectations the thing took off. If someone had said to us 15 years from now tens of millions of people will be listening to what we made wed have howled that aint happening. Our first time up at 2 oclock on a Monday afternoon we hoped to get a few thousand  listeners and after we went off the air the emails that trickled in most of them were from people wondering what had happened to the usual show Fresh Air normally on at that time. Was Terry Gross sick? Had she been fired? Hardly anyone mentioned us. We were those two guys who werent Terry Gross thats what they noticed and thats what they wrote  Wheres Terry? Wheres Terry? Wheres Terry? But we knew we were good. We told each other that . We just werent sure if anyone would notice. Eventually when they did notice the next question we asked ourselves is whats Radiolab to become other than the two of us delighting each other? It has to go somewhere no? And the answer came literally through the door as one wonderfully talented person after another came and joined us until we now have pretty much the strongest bench in the business a gang of people who in their very different ways have learned to tell stories that grab audiences sort of like we did but more and more in their own voices with their own musics and their own styles. About a year ago I was sitting in an editorial meeting and it dawned on me  that I was no longer crucial to what was going on. The room was rich with back and forth ideas percolating and if I had tiptoed out the place would be every bit as vivid as if Id stayed. Im not being overly modest here. I was crucial for a long time but in a healthy system you make way for the new the fresh the untested. From the beginning Ive been the oldest 25 years older than Jad who is now almost 20 years older than our youngest reporters. There comes a time  and I think it has come  when you get out of the way and let the future come flooding in. We have a flood of people who are ready to step up and that they came to us chose us that we got to teach them what we knew with Jad and Soren and Suzie guiding them  that Im now thinking may be our grandest achievement  that what we started just might endure with different voices different forms but true to the idea that complexity can be delicious. Im not leaving immediately. Im working with a producer on a show for next week and Ive got a world population puzzle Im trying to unravel with Jad once he finishes with Dolly Parton after which I will start hanging out with new folks doing new projects a documentary a global warming interactive and more grandpa duty with Wesley 3 and Zachary 3 months who will need me to blow bubbles at pigeons and teach them secret greetings for shrubs. So thats my plan that and taking this moment to give you all a huge warm thanks for wandering our way for staying for listening for telling your friends about us for reading our credits and for no longer writing in to ask what happened to Terry Gross  -- who is doing fine by the way. Im told that at the end of her long days in Philadelphia worn and wan from all that interviewing she heads home nestles in and listens to something lively unexpected and well --- I dont have to tell you who shes tuning into. You already know.  With great great affection Robert Krulwich   Hey everyone I want to sing the praises of my dear friend Robert. I guess the most overwhelming feeling I have facing Robert's retirement is sadness. Sadness because Robert has been my collaborator and co-host slash soul-mate slash play-mate slash studio-mate for 17 years. But hot on the heels of that sadness is another feeling which will surely win over time the deepest level of gratitude. I am so grateful to Robert  for being the co-pilot on this show that weve built together for alternatively challenging me and rescuing me at every turn for being the best companion to our audience for mentoring our staff and for being the truest friend. Here is the real deal though Radiolab will not ever really let Robert go. You will still hear him on the show from time to time  and youll most certainly hear his influence -- his unbridled curiosity and wonder -- in each and every Radiolab story yet to come. Radiolabs incredible team of journalists look forward to impressing and delighting our newest audience member for years to come. We love you Bobby. Jad