Robert Krulwich Wait wait you are lis- .   Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.   Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Robert Krulwich .   You are-  Jad Abumrad Listening-   To radio lab lab lab.  Jad Abumrad Radio lab-   From-  Robert Krulwich WNYC.   C.   C?  Robert Krulwich Yeah.   .  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab.  Robert Krulwich And what we are gonna do in this particular uh show is we are gonna um-  Jad Abumrad This is one of my favorites.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Favorite.  Robert Krulwich It should be because you really you certainly gave it your all.  Jad Abumrad Exactly. Um I do not know. What what do we say here? I mean-  Robert Krulwich Well-  Jad Abumrad ... this is like this is a little bit of a tussle. We sorta wanted to bring it back 'ecause you know winter's approaching things are kinda heavy right now. We could use a little lightness.  Robert Krulwich What... So this begins with a very very successful uh film editor with uh... Well you will you will meet him in a moment uh comes to us with an idea which Jad loves I hate and things go from there.  Jad Abumrad  Perfect. Can you hear us now?  Robert Krulwich Hello hello? Hello hello?  Jad Abumrad Starts with Walter my hero.  Walter Murch Walter Murch. I am a film editor and sound designer and I have been working in film since the late 1960's.  Jad Abumrad Resume includes-  Soundbite I am gonna make 'em an offer he cannot refuse.  Robert Krulwich The Godfather?  Jad Abumrad Apocalypse Now.  Soundbite I love the smell of napalm in the morning.  Jad Abumrad Ton of other films.  Robert Krulwich The thing we are talking about-  Walter Murch Yeah.  Robert Krulwich ... so you should know is the-  Jad Abumrad One of the more spectacular stories I have ever heard.  Robert Krulwich  How did you bump into this?  Walter Murch Well I was in Leon in France.  Jad Abumrad Doin' a film.  Walter Murch Uh Unbearable Likeness of Being.  Jad Abumrad This is back in 1986.  Walter Murch I was supposed to be there for a week and it wound up I was there for a month and I ran out of things to read so I went down the street from the hotel and there was a bookstore and um I was interested and still am in cosmology so I picked up a book by the uh Carl Sagan of France. A man named Hubert Reeves.  Jad Abumrad Hubert.  Walter Murch Hubert.  Jad Abumrad Actually he is French Canadian.  Robert Krulwich He translates this Carl Sagan.  Walter Murch .  Jad Abumrad Anyway. Murch ends up buying Reeves' book goes back to the hotel finds a cozy spot.  Walter Murch So I was happily reading aways and he was trying to explain with some difficulty because it is a difficult topic how did matter condense out of the sort of cork soup that we believe happened right after the big bang? And uh he tried various uh attempts scientifically but then he said To give you a sense of uh the poetry of this moment the best thing is the story that Malaparte tells.  Robert Krulwich Who is Malaparte?  Walter Murch Well he was a journalist a poet a diplomat soldier-  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Walter Murch ... prisoner film director-  Jad Abumrad .  Walter Murch ... and somebody who uh-  Robert Krulwich Got around.  Walter Murch Yeah.  Jad Abumrad And speaking of getting around in 1942 a Melanese news paper-  Walter Murch Corriere della Sera.  Jad Abumrad ... sent Malaparte-  Walter Murch To report um on the eastern northern fronts of the war.  Jad Abumrad Specifically the Russian Finnish border.  Walter Murch And he had a front row seat of the Siege of Leningrad the agony of the Nazi bombardment of that city.  Robert Krulwich And it is from there that Malaparte tells his story.  Walter Murch So this one day this was in the winter.  Robert Krulwich Malaparte was posted with a Finnish army who were fighting along with the Nazis and they were perched just north of Leningrad.  Walter Murch On the shores of Lake Ladoga which is this big lake uh abutting the city.  Robert Krulwich And on this day...  Walter Murch The Nazis bombarded the area around the lake. This started a forest fire. Everyone ran for cover.  Jad Abumrad Soldiers ran every which way and in the middle of the forest there were Soviet horses that were locked up in a stable.  Walter Murch And the horses panicked and broke out of the stables. Hundreds of 'em.  Jad Abumrad And they just started running.  Robert Krulwich Rushin' to get away from the fire.  Walter Murch Right.  Jad Abumrad So you have hundreds of horses bolting through this flaming forest-  Walter Murch Heading towards the open space ahead which was the lake.  Jad Abumrad And all at once they burst out of the forest and go barreling into the lake stampeding one on top of the other as they all get deeper and deeper-  Walter Murch Up to their heads.  Jad Abumrad And it is at this moment when they enter the lake that according to the story something very weird happens. In the blink of an eye-  Walter Murch The lake... Snaps them shut.  Jad Abumrad It just freezes.  Walter Murch Suddenly turns to ice-  Jad Abumrad With a bang. It goes from water to ice with this violent snap and suddenly the horses are entombed. Malaparte writes that even the waves on the lake were gripped in midair and sort of suspended there.  Walter Murch Fade out.  Walter Murch The next morning when Malaparte and the Fins woke up they discovered the forest fire had burned itself out and look at that! The lake has frozen solid overnight. And his Finnish friend said Yes that sometimes happens. And then they look and see what are those bumps uh on the ice over there? They go to investigate and they find themselves in this uh horrific sculpture garden of horses' heads sticking up out of this solid marble-like floor of ice.  Jad Abumrad You said hundreds so hundreds of horse heads-  Walter Murch Hundreds of horse heads.  Robert Krulwich These are... these are not gonna decay right 'ecause it is freezing cold? So they will they are-  Walter Murch They s... Those horses stayed there all winter and uh Malaparte was there in that region of the world uh during that winter and uh so often he and the other soldiers would go and have a smoke and they would go into the sculpture garden and wander around looking at this miraculous uh thing.  Jad Abumrad So this image of the horses frozen in this lake.  Walter Murch This image beautiful and strange and disturbing and uh profound in some way.  Jad Abumrad Made us wonder. Well made me wonder I should say-  Robert Krulwich I told you at the time-  Jad Abumrad I-  Robert Krulwich ... do not trust this story it is not-  Jad Abumrad And I-  Robert Krulwich ... it is scientifically impossible-  Jad Abumrad And I-  Robert Krulwich ... for a whole lake.  Jad Abumrad ... keeping an open heart-  Robert Krulwich You you thought-  Jad Abumrad ... thought Could this possibly be true? Could could there be a grain perhaps several grains perhaps a lake's worth of grains of truth-  Robert Krulwich Your heart though-  Jad Abumrad ... to the story.  Robert Krulwich ... just your mind is like loos like a siv.  Jad Abumrad .  Robert Krulwich Anyway I... We have argued-  Jad Abumrad Truth be told-  Robert Krulwich ... about this for a year.  Jad Abumrad Yeah and you know what? We are gonna we are gonna reconstruct that argument right now and take this uptown.   All right. All right. Let us do this.  Robert Krulwich To a real scientist.  Jad Abumrad Ugh to a real scientist. Wait and then course of our argument we ended up ended up going uptown to Rockefeller University to meet a couple people who know about ice so we are going to go play with some super cool ice. Among them this fellow.  AlexanderPetrov Um I am Alexander Petrov. I am the Raymond and Beverly Sackler .  Robert Krulwich Do you... Have you ever wondered Who are Raymond and Beverly Sackler?  AlexanderPetrov They occasionally almost show up and I almost meet them but I never have.  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad .  AlexanderPetrov Yeah.  Jad Abumrad By the way the Sackler family has recently come into a bit of controversy. We all know that now. We did not at the time. In any case... Alex who must be said is an amazing dude graciously agreed to demonstrate that you can in fact create the conditions of that massive lake inside a tiny little test tude.  AlexanderPetrov Okay uh could somebody hold this sort of in here-  Robert Krulwich Yeah yeah.  AlexanderPetrov ... and I will get the tube set up.  Jad Abumrad He reached inside his freezer grabbed his trusty falcon-  AlexanderPetrov Yeah this is called a falcon tube.  Jad Abumrad It is just a plastic tube filled with water. Now this is not normal water.  AlexanderPetrov This is the really nice water.  Jad Abumrad It is very very pure water. No minerals no dust in there. It is like super distilled. And he says when you take water like that and you cool it down you can get it far below its freezing point and it will not freeze!... Unless that is you happen to have a horse.  AlexanderPetrov You have a tiny horse here?  Robert Krulwich We have a tiny horse.  AlexanderPetrov And we are gonna drop that into the falcon tube and do that.  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad .  AlexanderPetrov That is gonna be awesome!  Jad Abumrad So he handed us the tube. I am holding a little vile of super cold water. What eh Alex what temperature do you think this is-  AlexanderPetrov Oh minus 20.  Jad Abumrad ... that I am holding right? This is min... minus 20?  AlexanderPetrov Uh C.  Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich Wait when does water freeze? A-At zero.  AlexanderPetrov Zero.  Robert Krulwich So it is 20 degrees below freezing point and it is still water.  Jad Abumrad But not for long 'ecause we unscrewed the cap. Are you p... are you filming? We held the little plastic horse over the tube.  Robert Krulwich Countdown or something.  AlexanderPetrov Okay on the count of three . All right three two-  Jad Abumrad One.  Group Woo!  Robert Krulwich Oh my God!  Group .  Robert Krulwich Oh my God!  Group .  Jad Abumrad Point for Jad! Because the moment that little plastic horse hit the water the water slammed into ice.   I get excited  .  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad Suddenly that little guy was trapped in an ice cube.  Jad Abumrad Oh my God he is... the horse is frozen! That is amazing! .  Robert Krulwich . Please remember the horse was plastic. No animals were harmed in this experiment.  Jad Abumrad This is honestly breathtaking. Like it happened so fast.  Virginia Walker Catastrophic ice formation just like that.  Jad Abumrad Did you hear that C word Robert? Say it again. Catastrophic.  Virginia Walker Catastrophic.  Jad Abumrad This is Virginia Walker.  Virginia Walker And I am in the department of biology Queens University.  Jad Abumrad Virginia was one of the many people that we called up to ask like what the hell? Like why does this happen? Like should not this water just freeze gradually the way that most water does you know at 32 degrees fahrenheit or whatever?  Virginia Walker No! Actually so you see this is why we have to start at the beginning. As Julie Andrews says a very good place to start right?  Jad Abumrad .   .  Virginia Walker All right. So the only reason that water freezes normally at zero celsius and 32 fahrenheit is that there is something there that makes it freeze. We call that a nucleator.  Jad Abumrad Sound like a superhero.  Virginia Walker Yeah all right so it is a nucleator.  Jad Abumrad A nucleator is like a seed right? Did not know this but it turns out water almost always needs a seed in order to grow ice.  Erin Pettit As it turns out water by itself is not actually that good at remembering how to become ice.  Jad Abumrad That is Erin Pettit she is a glaciologist.  Erin Pettit At the University of Alaska Fairbanks.  Jad Abumrad And what she means is that when water cools down the molecules start to slow their movement.  Erin Pettit They get a little bit closer together.  Jad Abumrad And at that point they want to all hold hands and become ice-  Erin Pettit But the water molecules do not quite remember very well how they are supposed to be organized.  Jad Abumrad They are like Wait. Do you stand here and I stand here? How do we do this again?  Erin Pettit They need to be shown what combination of angles work the best to create a nice stable structure.  Jad Abumrad What they need is say a speck of dust. That is the nucleator. If you throw in some dust into otherwise pure water now they have a guide.  Erin Pettit Because ice can start to mimic whatever the the the shape of the dust particle is.  Jad Abumrad But what happens is that the water molecules start to form a K around the dust particle and that K shape is very similar to the shape they need to make ice. And suddenly they are like Oh that is how we do it! So in a sense the dust particle is reminding the water molecules how to freeze!  Erin Pettit Well no I do not think it... of it like that.  Jad Abumrad Virginia says it is actually uh not quite so gentle. Really what is happening is the dust particle is forcing the water molecules into the right shape around it. It is like a it is like a command.  Erin Pettit It is nothing about memory it is it is it is a physical thing. They just get jammed in there.  Robert Krulwich Wow that is just like Julie Andrews like a Nazi .  Jad Abumrad .  Erin Pettit  So then these these these ice-  Robert Krulwich Now let us start at the very beginning. It is Ah!  beginning! Nah!  Erin Pettit .  Robert Krulwich Everybody...  Jad Abumrad Okay so if as we just learned water needs a catalyst a nucleator in order to freeze does not this at least raise the possibility that that Finnish Russian lake had reached a super cold state? Along come these horses and they were the nucleators. Maybe they had dust on their hair or whatever . I do not know. But whatever it was it started a chain reaction. Ice spread outward from these horses shot across the entire lake and froze the whole damn thing at once.  Soundbite .  Robert Krulwich Now if you will excuse me for just a second because this is like a touretting like impulse I have .  Jad Abumrad .  Erin Pettit .  Robert Krulwich 'Scuse me. Now we can continue.  Jad Abumrad Hold your horses there Krulwich but we are gonna take a break uh and we will continue this meaningless tussle in just a moment.  Robert Krulwich .  Alicia Bridges This is Alicia Bridges calling from Saskatoon in Saskatchewan. Radio Lab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Commercial Listen to your favorite podcast on any device with Pocket Casts. You can start an episode on your phone during your commute pick up where you left off on your laptop at work then finish at home on a smart speaker like Alexa without missing a beat. Download the free Pocket Cast app today for android or iOS. Find us online at pocketcast.com or use the app on Alexa Chrome Cast Sonos Apple Watch and Car Play.  Jad Abumrad Okay so Jad Robert Radio Lab. Before the break we posited what I thought was an interesting theory. Robert not buyin' it.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad We will get to your skepticism in a moment but I wanna talk a little-  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad ... bit more uh about nucleators for a second because when we were talking with Virginia she told us something kinda cool. Uh we asked her like What else uh nucleates ice? Like we learned about dust but what else can do it?  Virginia Walker Okay so the best nucleator is ice itself.  Jad Abumrad She said if a little bit of snow falls into some water or a little bit of ice forms in the water organically the water molecules will rush around that and bam.  Virginia Walker If you do not have ice what is the second best thing to nucleate this ice? Happens to be bacteria.  Robert Krulwich Hmm.  Jad Abumrad Turns out she says there are three different kinds of bacteria that can generate these special proteins.  Virginia Walker Big honkin' protein.  Jad Abumrad That can instantly turn water into ice.  Robert Krulwich In fact when we were reporting this story a video started circulating on the internet that showed a scientist taking a bottle of water squirting out a little bit of this bacteria in and then the thing just shocked into ice.  Virginia Walker And the cool thing is these bacteria are actually plant pathogens.  Jad Abumrad Plant killers.  Virginia Walker So you have probably seen grass growing in your backyard or whatever and it can be all covered with frost but then you know the frost can melt and it is still green.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Virginia Walker But if those bacteria are present-  Jad Abumrad She says they will spit out their proteins onto the plant which generates these ice crystals.  Virginia Walker The ice crystals-  Jad Abumrad Then slice the plant open.  Virginia Walker And expose the inside of the plant and the bacteria say Mmm! Yummy. Here's lunch and they eat the uh eat the insides of the plant.  Jad Abumrad It is a good strategy but that is not the cool part. Virginia says she has also found these proteins in bacteria that do not kill plants.  Virginia Walker So that made me think-  Jad Abumrad Made her wonder why like why would they need to make ice? And that is when it occurred to her and a few other researchers Maybe it is about transportation.  Virginia Walker Exactly.  Robert Krulwich What?  Jad Abumrad Well think about it. These bacteria are just sittin' on these plants-  Virginia Walker And what happens is the wind comes along blows up these little bacteria i-into the upper atmosphere.  Jad Abumrad Blows them literally up into the clouds.  Virginia Walker They are not particularly cold-hearty.  Jad Abumrad So now they have a situation. They do not want to be all the way out there.  Virginia Walker They gotta get back down to the earth and un... And let us say hitch a ride on those horses that you keep talking about.  Jad Abumrad .  Virginia Walker They are so light they might not come down to earth.  Jad Abumrad So what they do she suspects is they use the plant trick. They spit out these proteins into the cold wet cloud which galvanizes the water molecules around them to form... a snowflake around their body. So now they have got this little hovercraft that they can use to coast on down.  Virginia Walker If they make ice they can get back down and they can get back down in a different place and start a new colony of bacteria somewhere else. And so but this way they get dispersed around the whole earth.  Jad Abumrad Think about that the next time it is winter and it snows.  Virginia Walker Apparently if you melt each snowflake you will find a little bacterium inside it.  Jad Abumrad You are saying all of them? All the snowflakes?  Virginia Walker I I have not looked at every single snowflake.  Jad Abumrad  Of cour...  Virginia Walker But it makes perfect sense does not it?  Jad Abumrad But that is ama... that is a very very cool idea.  Virginia Walker Yeah.  Jad Abumrad I suddenly like the bacteria movie a hell of a lot better than the horse movie.  Virginia Walker .  Jad Abumrad So at least I have I have you know. And it and and it at least has a shot at being true.  Jad Abumrad Yeah the horses. So when we were reporting this story and talking to Erin Pettit and Virginia Walker and a bunch of other scientists when we asked them Could an entire lake have flash frozen in an instant trapping all those horses? Uniformly the answer that we got was-  Erin Pettit No.  Robert Krulwich Did you hear her no there? Did you here the sound of it?  Jad Abumrad .  Robert Krulwich It seems somewhat somewhat... Let me ask it to you a different way would you say absolutely not?  Erin Pettit .  Robert Krulwich Uh or is it just a kind of a gentle no?  Erin Pettit I would say that is an absolutely not .  Robert Krulwich Okay. Because as Erin told us when you are talkin' about freezing an entire lake well you have got a lot of problems to consider. First-  Erin Pettit The process of freezing actually is a source of heat itself.  Robert Krulwich Because like when water molecules form bonds to make ice that is a lot of activity and activity produces energy and now that is gonna make things a little bit warmer. Not to mention the fact that horses are warm-blooded animals so they also would slow down the process of freezing.  Erin Pettit Right.  Robert Krulwich Also the water would never have been pure enough to super cool in the first place.  Erin Pettit Because there is there is too many things in the lake that would provide that initial nucleation plants organisms dirt-  Jad Abumrad Damn it.  Erin Pettit Did somebody actually see this? What is the actual evidence that-  Jad Abumrad Um...  Walter Murch No. Nobody saw any of this as it actually happened.  Jad Abumrad When we told Walter Murch what the scientists told us in typical um Walter Murch fashion he was icy calm. And he reminded us that he never told us it was true that Malaparte often mixed fact and fiction and that the real reason he was attracted to this story was because it offered a metaphor for cosmology.  Walter Murch Right. The beginning of the universe.  Robert Krulwich Really? I mean we... I feel excuse me if a small bit of skepticism-  Jad Abumrad .  Robert Krulwich Now Walter thinks it is true for the universe?  Jad Abumrad Metaphor metaphor.  Robert Krulwich I even so-  Jad Abumrad It is a metaphor.  Robert Krulwich Even so-  Jad Abumrad Come on!  Robert Krulwich Well what does he mean?  Jad Abumrad Well he-  Robert Krulwich What does he mean?  Jad Abumrad Here's what he means. And if you are a physicist listening right now just turn off the radio .  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad So-  Robert Krulwich We are just talking among ourselves here.  Jad Abumrad Right. So you can think of it in one of two ways right? The first is that idea of super cooling that we saw at Rockefeller where under the right circumstances water can cool down way below its freezing point not freeze and then all of a sudden...  Robert Krulwich Ah! Oh my God!  Jad Abumrad Oh!  Robert Krulwich Oh my God!  Jad Abumrad Then it can suddenly do that which we saw at Rockefeller in the test tube. Now according to Janna Levin-  Janna Levin Professor of Physics and Astronomy. Bard College Columbia University.  Jad Abumrad The metaphor holds because that bizarr-o flash freezing phenomenon actually happened repeatedly she says in the moments after the big bang.  Janna Levin Yes. Super cooling is definitely something that happens in the early universe.  Jad Abumrad She says right when the universe got its start it was still small like the size of a grapefruit. Inside that grapefruit it was extremely hot.  Janna Levin Back then it was probably a million trillion trillion trillion times hotter .  Robert Krulwich A million trillion trillion trillion time-  Janna Levin Ten to the thirty times hotter.  Jad Abumrad But as the little grapefruit began to expand the temperature started to drop and it dropped and dropped to a point where the universe-  Janna Levin Should freeze.  Jad Abumrad So to speak. But it did not and it is waiting and it is waiting to freeze and you are like What is happening? Why are not you freezing? Then suddenly!  Robert Krulwich Pow!  Jad Abumrad  There it goes phase change.  Robert Krulwich Right so-  Jad Abumrad This happ-  Robert Krulwich Go ahead.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Robert Krulwich I do not know exactly what you are saying but keep going.  Jad Abumrad All I am saying is there is a lot of phase changes some of them were super cool. Do not worry about it.  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad There is another parallel which I think is actually even more interesting. Um it has to do with those seeds we we talked about. So if you go back to the grapefruit...  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad Inside it is very very hot. You have got this wash of energy and this energy is uniform right? It is all womh the same thing spread evenly everywhere the same but then as things cool you begin to get these-  Janna Levin Tiny fluctuations.  Jad Abumrad Little variations in temperature and density.  Janna Levin Right it is a little bit hotter and denser in one point-  Jad Abumrad Than another. We are talking about clumps. Like maybe over here there is a little bit more matter and heat than over there. And these are our seeds.  Robert Krulwich Okay I do not think that you are describing seeds like I understand seeds. Seeds are little things-  Jad Abumrad I have a-  Robert Krulwich ... little things that attract other stuff.  Jad Abumrad No no but these behave just like seeds. Because as the universe cools down and expands and begins to add all these new forces and all these new particles-  Janna Levin Gravity electron photons atoms.  Jad Abumrad Those little bits of variation from the beginning are still there and now they are growing bigger 'ecause now we have gravity right? So a little concentrations of stuff are now attracting more stuff and then more stuff and then more stuff and as the universe expands they expand until ultimately those little blips have become these massive objects.  Janna Levin Amazingly the largest structures that we know about in the universe have their seeds in these tiny fluctuations.  Robert Krulwich Does that mean when you go on a on a Star Wars kinda voyage so you are in your spaceship and you are going at some incredibly high speed you are rushing through the universe and you see huge clouds of gas with nurseries for stars and you leave them and you go to a galaxy and then another galaxy. There is a galaxy over here and a galaxy over there and a galaxy over here. You are saying these massive structures walls of galaxies neighborhoods of stars  are reflections of a very early moment when something went weeoow weeoow in the initial broil of stuff like the-  Janna Levin These beautiful structures that you are describing are like the snowflakes around the little bit of dust.  Robert Krulwich So does that mean that the empty spaces that we see when we gaze at the current universe are actually filled with something that has not cooled yet or that has not qu... or is not visible to us or is working under different rules?  Janna Levin Well if I can hijack your question I can say we might not have seen the last of the phase transitions. Our universe is absolutely continuing to cool.  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad Is it really?  Janna Levin Yeah. It is-  Jad Abumrad It is cooling down?  Janna Levin ... it is very cold right now. We have this uh dark energy driving the universe to expand at an ever-accelerated rate and it is conceivable that in the future that energy will endure some phase transition and it will go away or or decay to something else and this new state of matter it might do something different to the evolution of the universe.  Robert Krulwich Oh.  Janna Levin So we might have a phase transition in our future.  Robert Krulwich Huh. Suddenly I feel a little... Oh dear.  Soundbite .  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad Hello.  Robert Krulwich We have many people to thank who helped us on this particular podcast.  Jad Abumrad Totally. Producers Matthew Kilty Molly Webster-  Robert Krulwich Oo!  Jad Abumrad Uh also Amanda Aronczyk-  Robert Krulwich Aktish Batcha Fashur and Maureen Goudo.  Jad Abumrad The super cool people at Rockefeller University.  Robert Krulwich Absolutely.  Jad Abumrad Uh Jeanie Gabarino Philip Kid and of course Alexander Petrov. Thanks also to Jeffer Sanstrom Inger Herberg Mark Martin Martin Truffer Mark Tuckerman.  Robert Krulwich And Jason Wexler and sincere thanks to all the listeners from Facebook and Twitter who helped us translate Russian and Finnish books.  Jad Abumrad Oh and uh certainly last but not least Walter Murch for being my hero.  Robert Krulwich Chad loves you!  Jad Abumrad I love you! And more importantly he released a book translating Malaparte from uh Italian to English uh which is where we got the story of the uh of the horses falling in the lake. It is called The Bird that Swallowed Its Cage The Selected Writings of Curzio Malaparte.  Robert Krulwich All right. So that is that is us saying-  Jad Abumrad Oh oh oh oh wait. One more thing one more thing. Go to our website radiolab.org and you can see videos we shot at Rockefeller of water turning into ice in a flash. Super cooling right in front of your eyes. It is amazing. Radiolab.org. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.   This is Stephanie calling from Bushwick Brooklyn. Radio Lab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keef is our director of sound design. Maria Matasar-Padilla is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becka Brestler Rachael Cusick David Gabel Bethel Habte Tracy Hunt Matt Kilty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwan Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Amanda Aranchek Sheema  David Fukes Nygard Fitally Pheobe Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 