 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Before we start I just want to let you know there is a moment or two of strong language in the story.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK.  All right.  OK.  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB...  RADIOLAB.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  Hey. I am Jad Abumrad. This is RADIOLAB. And today...  Hello.  ...Matthew Kielty.  Hey hey hey.  A story from our producer Matthew Kielty.  Heather's also here.  Hey Radke. How is it going?  Good. How are you doing?  And reporter Heather Radke. Where do you guys want to start?  So...   From The New York Times I am Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily.  Rewind back to the early days of the pandemic.   Today...  Mid-April...   ...As President Trump...  ...I was listening to The Daily. It was one of these episodes about the pandemic. And on the show they had...   Science reporter Donald G. McNeil Jr.  Don McNeil Jr. I remember in those early days of the pandemic when Don McNeil came onto The Daily you sort of knew you were going to get some bad news and that he was going to just sort of tell you how serious this thing was.  Do not they call him like Doomsday Don or something?  I mean I have never heard that but I would not - I am not surprised. Because like back in February...   The portraits of the future that you have painted for us have been strikingly accurate.  He was telling us that the schools were going to close that we were all going to be stuck in our houses for weeks or months...   Those happened.  ...That there was not going to be enough personal protective equipment.   Just about everything you said would happen has more or less happened.  Well look. I am not some dark angel who is simply looking into the future.  But he kind of is . I do not know. But anyway so in this show...   I am talking to experts.  ...Which was in April they are talking about - like they are kind of playing out the future of the pandemic and what our world might look like...   You know we are not going to be able to let people sit next to each other in football stadiums...  ...About what sports might look like...   Let half the kids go to school this week.  ...How schools might work...   Next week the other half of the kids get to come to school.  ...Eating out.   A restaurant that had 100 customers before now has about 10 customers in it.  Eerily prescient.  Yeah.   And how long...  But then Barbaro's like...   At some point do we just get to go back to normal?  And then McNeil says look. This pandemic will end...   ...When we have a vaccine that we can all take.  The vaccine's the thing that is going to end this.   But the record we have ever had for producing a vaccine is four years.  The fastest vaccine we have ever made was the mumps vaccine.   Yeah the fastest human vaccine ever made was mumps - four years from start to finish.   Now if you are a person who consumes information you are probably well aware of the fact that like we are going to break that record. Like we are probably going to obliterate that record. We are going to have a vaccine much faster than four years. And I mean that is because COVID is a completely world-altering destructive pandemic that we have devoted millions upon millions of dollars to. Thousands and thousands of people have been working day and night to come up with a vaccine. But - and maybe you are wondering at this point where I am going with this. But when Heather heard that episode of The Daily she and I got to talking. And we started to look into this story about mumps about what will soon be the second-fastest vaccine we have ever made. And what we found is standing in the center of it is weirdly just this one guy...   ...A scientist named Maurice Hilleman a guy who somehow embodied all of what ridding the world of a disease requires of us. But before we get to Maurice...  What are the mumps?  Exactly. Can you hear me there?  I can hear you yeah.  So we talked to this guy Paul Offit...  ...Director of the Vaccine Education Center...  And a professor of pediatrics at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine.  How are things going in your world right now?  They are pretty busy. I have actually never been busier in my life. And I am older you know?   Paul's on an FDA advisory committee for the COVID vaccines.  We had a meeting last Thursday which was a nine-hour meeting. It was shown on C-SPAN.  Oh.  Wow.  That is a long meeting.  But anyway so we asked Paul...  What is mumps and how is it contagious?  In the same way that SARS-CoV-2 is contagious which is it spreads by small respiratory droplets that emanate from the mouth and nose.  So like coughing sneezing talking kissing.  And mostly the virus infected children.  And the main symptom of mumps is that your face kind of swells up.  Like your cheeks swell up and around your jaw.  So you have this chipmunk-like appearance.    I want to be loved by you...  So kids who got mumps just looked like these like cute little chipmunks...  ...Which meant the mumps was great for things like the plotline in The Brady Bunch.    The doctor thinks I may have the mumps.  And...    The mumps?  ...In...    Good times.  ...Good Times.   Hey hey hey.   .  ...Some old German cartoon.   .  There is a Coasters song...   ...Called Poison Ivy.    Measles make you mumpy and mumps will make you lumpy...  Ask your parents about it.  . I found this old vaudeville song about a kid getting mumps that I...   ...Tested out on my flute.   Did not see the flute coming.   Like mumps is like the cutest disease you can have.  Is it fatal?  Not really.  No.  I mean it causes - it can infect the lining of the brain and spinal cord...  Which could cause deafness.  But it does not really kill you no.  So it is not really...  You know Matt I got to say one thing I wish I was in here was the real problem with mumps which is that men lose their virility. I feel like you are avoiding sort of ...  I am not avoiding it Heather.  .  I am just saying the big problem with mumps is that men's testicles become enormous and they cannot walk and then they sometimes cannot have children. And it scared everybody in the Army. And that is why mumps was a big deal.  It is - yeah.  Add that in.  .  It is in. It is...  But wait. Are you saying seriously that the big push for like why this particular vaccine happened so fast is because it was very male-centered and it worried a lot of Army guys?  No.  No. Because this is actually where we get back to our one guy Maurice Hilleman.  Maurice Hilleman I think is the father of modern vaccines.  I mean he is one of these guys that...  He is the vaccine master.  ...In all of his bios and obituaries you will read something like he might be the greatest biologist of the 20th century.  Right. He is estimated - his work is estimated to save about 8 million lives a year.  Whoa.  Then you will read something that is like he was the greatest scientist of the 20th century.  We live longer because of him. We live 30 years longer than we did 100 years ago largely because of the efforts of Maurice Hilleman.  Oh my God.  And then you will come across something that says he may be the greatest scientist that is ever lived.  I wish he was alive today.   So Maurice Hilleman died in 2005 of cancer at the age of 85. But just months before his death Paul actually interviewed him.  I just wanted to get his stories down.  They knew each other pretty well.  And he was nice enough to let me interview him for 60 or 70 hours or so in the last six months of his life.  And also...   So getting back to...  ...A film crew interviewed Maurice before his death and they were generous enough to give us some of that tape.   Well I am Maurice Hilleman and I had a long career in science - about 60 years - doing basic research and the development of a large number of new vaccines.  So give me a little bit of your personal history.  Well you might ask well how did you ever become a Montanan?   So go back - late 1800s. Hilleman's great-uncle a scout in the Army ends up settling in Montana in this little town...   ...Called Miles Town...  ...Now called Miles City.   ...Engaged in illicit businesses. I think it was largely prostitution .  Eventually more of the family came up settled alongside him.   It is a rich farmland there.  Big wide-open spaces.  His mom and dad worked a farm. They had seven kids. And then Maurice was born.  Around the time of the great flu pandemic.  1919.  So he was born right in the middle of second-wave flu.  Mmm hmm. And his mother got really sick right after he was born. And he had a twin sister. And both the twin sister and the mom actually died and he was the only survivor of the birth.  Whoa.  And Maurice's father actually gave Maurice away to his aunt and uncle who lived right next door. So he had this very kind of strange childhood where he would work the farm with his siblings and his biological father. They would go to the same church all of them together. But then at the end of the day he would go to be with his aunt and uncle by himself.  And I think he always wanted to be seen. He would mention that that he wanted to be seen by his father.  Offit said it was a sort of driving force in his life.   So it is the '20s in Montana.   You really became a workaholic to survive.  By age 4 he is going to town to sell strawberries at the market.  Back on the farm...   We had a blacksmith shop. We had a machine shop.   There were all sorts of animals.   And...  As he got older...   ...One of my jobs was to take care of the chickens.   He fed them and he corralled them and collected their eggs.   I got to know chickens.  And then there were these stories about how like before he is 10 he...   ...Is almost hit by a freight train.  Literally a train was coming in the other direction.  He almost suffocates from diphtheria. He like...  Oh my God.  ...Somehow like follows a hobo into a waterfall but he cannot swim and he almost drowns.  This kid is cursed.  Yeah. Life in Montana was tough.  And so he saw himself as a remarkable survivor.  And he becomes a pretty tough person because of it. But he also becomes very interested in science. So Hilleman's biological dad - he was like super Lutheran really really devout.  He was an avid prayer. He believed in faith healing that God could cure disease.  And Paul said that maybe as sort of a reaction to it...  ...Or of a rejection of it...    When onboard HMS Beagle as naturalist...  Hilleman fell in love with Darwin.    ...I was much struck with certain facts.  He literally - like Darwin is what drew him to the dark side?  Yeah.  I mean he told me the story with glee about how he would sit in church and...    ...Seemed to me to throw some light on the origin of species...  ...Read Darwin's On The Origin Of Species.    ...That mystery of mysteries.  Unlike his dad's religion that was all about mystery and faith...  This was logical and ordered and reasoned and based on things you could see.  And he kind of becomes enraptured with this other kind of Bible.   And he goes from reading Darwin to...   ...Paul Ehrlich and von Behring and Pasteur...  ...These great microbiologists...   ...Who had done groundbreaking research in this still new emerging field.   Virology.   The science of viruses.   The whole business of viruses as the branch between the living and the dead - I had really gotten interested in this.  Now when he finished high school he actually did not plan on going to college. It would take his brother coming back from seminary school to push him to keep going with his education.   So I did go to Montana State.  He studies microbiology.   Worked pretty hard.  There are stories about how he would spend his weekends in the lab.  About how he had four experiments going at once.  And in 1941 he graduates.  Goes to the University of Chicago.   The intellectual center of its time.  Starts his Ph.D. work.   On chlamydia.  For years people have been looking for a vaccine to chlamydia which everybody thought was a virus.  And in a year Hilleman discovers it is actually not a virus at all.  It was a bacteria.  And it could be treated with antibiotics. That is what he did as his Ph.D. thesis when he was 25 years old.  Wow.  A huge accomplishment. Then...   1944.  He graduates.   From a pretty damn good school and was wooed by academia.  To become a professor.  Which was what he was expected to become.  That is what you did.  You went off and followed the path of those who came before you in the pursuit of knowledge in these vaunted public institutions where you would burrow in do your research for the good of the public.   And Hilleman was like no.   I wanted to go out and see how the big world operated the big world of the practical.  He wanted to make things much as he had made them on the farm. He wanted to produce things.  So he goes to work for this small pharmaceutical company in New Jersey. Then he gets drafted.  Well but first I mean do not sleep on the Japanese encephalitis.  Oh yeah.  So he creates this vaccine for Japanese encephalitis which is this horrible disease that causes brain swelling and had been killing people in Asia for a really long time. And then the Army asks him to develop a vaccine so that soldiers do not die of it when they are there they are not affected by it. And he does.  And that is the first vaccine that he makes.  Does he do the Hong Kong thing when he is in the Army? I think he does.  Doot-do-doo . In late '40s institutions  - modern strains of influenza. Yes in 1948 he goes to Walter Reed.   Yes. When I went to Walter Reed it was - my assignment was very simply learn everything you can about influenza.  You know 1919 is not that far away from the mid-'40s. The pandemic is really in everyone's memory.   So my job was to prevent the next pandemic.  To figure out how to prevent another one.   So what I did...  Basically he goes through - looking through all these samples of flu that they have at Walter Reed and he discovers that the flu virus changes every year. And he figures out how it does that and why and then helps to...  Whoa.  ...Create a system for making a new vaccine every year.  So he is the reason that we have to get a new flu shot every year?  Yeah.  Wow.  He is also the first to discover how viruses shift when they jump back and forth between humans and like birds or bats.  Wow.  Which allows him in 1957 to become the first human being ever to avert a pandemic because he is able to see it coming. It was coming from Hong Kong. He is able to tweak the flu vaccine. People are inoculated. He is able to save at least like a million lives in America.  Wow.  He is given the presidential medal for science.  This guy's just like - he is on quite a run.  Yeah.  After his miserable child years.  I know. I mean you have really...  Do you...  Oh go ahead.  OK sorry. No no no. I was going to ask a question but I think it is coming. So maybe I will - maybe do not answer it if you are about to. How does - I am searching for some way to understand why he was so gifted at this particular corner of science. But maybe there is something in a story you are about to tell me that'ill kind of get at that.  Yeah Jad. It is the mumps story.   The whole reason we are here.   All right so...  Oh wait. Can I - can you guys hold on one second? I might have to run and get the door.  OK.  I will be right back.  Sure.  I am going to have some water.  It is a good spot for a break.   I can never find the app. Type it in type it in type it in.   You guys have a real - a lot of people who work with you. It is sort of a fun little family here at the end. All hands on deck.  All hands on deck.  Like we are putting on a play.   Jad - RADIOLAB. Back to Heather Radke and Matt Kielty and their story about Maurice Hilleman aka the father of modern vaccines aka the vaccine master.  One other thing - he also was a profane man.  Oh really?  Yes.   There were so many fucking things that could happen. You did not hear a goddamn... They loved this guy. Well I thought he was a piece of shit. A fucking ice-cream truck stopped there.  By the way these are recordings Offit made with Hilleman in order to write a book on him.  But it was hard in writing the book because often I would have like the F word in the same sentence as polymerase chain reaction which is probably the only time that is ever happened.   So anyway in 1957 Hilleman joined the pharmaceutical company Merck to run their vaccine division. And when he got there pretty quickly the company put him through management training.   Charm school.  Or what he called charm school.   We could not cuss so much right? So that is bullshit.  At a certain point he was lectured about creating a more fulfilling work environment for his employees.   Enjoyment was your job. I said that is a lot of  shit you know?  He was a tough guy.   What the company should be doing is kicking ass.  And he suffered fools poorly.   I tell you the fucking advice that I got from bosses...  In a large part this is because when Hilleman showed up to Merck he had this like grand vision.   And my vision was that I wanted to conquer the pediatric diseases of children.  His goal was to eliminate any viral or bacterial infection that infected children.   Measles mumps rubella chicken pox.  Which was a ridiculous goal. But he came pretty darn close to meeting it.   OK so let us finally actually go to...   Yeah let us go to mumps. You ready to go to mumps?  Yeah.  ...Mumps.  All right. Yeah so let us go back to the very beginning.  Oh absolutely.  This by the way is Maurice Hilleman's daughter Jeryl Lynn Hilleman. How old were you when you came down with mumps?  I believe I was 5.  Philadelphia is that right?  Outside of Philadelphia in a suburb outside of Philadelphia.  OK so it was March 23 1963.  It was probably in the middle of the night very late at night. I would gone to bed. I woke up. I was not feeling well.  So she gets out of bed goes across the hall.   So she comes in to you at 1 in the morning?  Yeah.  Wakes up her dad.   And she says my throat hurts.  So the first thing he did is he got out this book.  Very thick book maybe 3 or 4 inches thick hardback.  A kind of diagnostic book.  He thumbs through it looks at his daughter.   I said holy shit. You got mumps.  But see - I cannot have him cursing in front of a 5-year-old daughter. So I did not do that. I think I said oh goodness - or something like that.   And then what he did was something no father does. He laid her back down in bed. Now there was - his wife had recently died. And so he had a housekeeper who also stayed in the home in the evening. So...  At 1 in the morning he got dressed got in his car and he drove down to the lab.  Got a swab came back gently woke up his daughter.  Swabbed the inside of her mouth and he pulled out a little bit of her mumps virus.  And he said in this interview that he did with Offit...   This is the time to get a mumps virus strain. Who knows?  Like at this point he did not have a good strain of the mumps virus at Merck. And so he is sort of just like if an opportunity presents itself...   Take every opportunity.  Get yourself a virus.  OK so now he has a sample of the virus and he is going to try to use Jeryl Lynn's virus to make the vaccine.  OK.  Let us see. So...   This is - like this is crazy. It turns out making a vaccine's insane.  Yeah this is the part where I am like OK demystify it. So what does he do?  So the first thing he does is he puts Jeryl Lynn's mumps virus into this lab flask with a bunch of chicken embryo cells.  Why?  Fair question. So basically he is going to use these chick cells to transform the virus. So what he does is he has the virus in with these chick cells in a lab flask and he basically just starts watching the virus grow in these cells. And as it is growing what it is doing is it is killing cells. That is what a virus does when it grows. And he is looking for clumps of dead cells. And if he sees a flask that has a lot of dead cells he is like oh that one. He takes the virus out of there plucks it out puts it into another flask with chick cells and he is watching to see if it kills even more cells this time. And if it does he takes it out puts it into a flask again. And he is just - he is basically trying to get this thing to be better and better at killing chicken cells. And the idea here is...  And why - what - and why is - oh yeah. Sorry. You are about to answer my question I think. Keep going.  Well the idea is that by passing it through animal cells these chicken cells again and again what you are doing is you are - essentially you are weakening the effect of the virus on a human. It is still a virus and it is still a virus that you can actually then take and put inside of a human. The thing is it is just not going to cause the same sort of disease that it would if it were like really virulent and very strong. It is essentially weakened. This is called attenuation.  Interesting.  You are kind of like turning down the knob or something the volume on this virus as you pass it through chickens.  Yeah it is like you turn down the...  Oh that is so interesting.  ...Knob on the human virus and up the knob on the chicken virus.  And so what is he looking for exactly? Is he looking for a virus that is super good at getting into chicken cells and therefore terrible at human cells? Or is he looking for something else?  I mean I think that is sort of the art.   This is a judgment call.  Hilleman described it as a judgment call.  It is guts and judgment. It is just absolute trial and error. I mean there is no formula for this. This is not written down anywhere. You just try.  And Offit told us...  He really just had a sixth sense for how one did that.  You know different people would make different choices about that and he is good at making the right set of choices. So you do not want it so chickeny that humans do not - like you know a human body does not recognize it at all. But you do not want it human-y  to the point where anybody is going to get sick. And that is the real fear in making a vaccine...  I see. I see.  ...Is that people will get the disease you know. So...  I see. Oh so you just put your finger on it. So he is looking for a - he is trying to - or attenuate it so that it is right at that perfect fault line between being chicken-y enough that it does not hurt the human but still being human-y enough that the human immune system will recognize it and see it as a threat.  Right.  Right.  And Paul explained to us that doing this process - because you end up with an actual live virus that is the vaccine that you put into people you - this process leads to like the most robust immune response that a vaccine can create.  That is the gold standard of vaccines. And that same strategy is being used to make a COVID-19 vaccine as well.  Oh really? We still do that?  We still do that yep.  Sometimes they ask you if you are allergic to eggs when you get a vaccine. That is why.  Oh. Before we leave this part of the process quick like how long did it take him to do this pass-it-through-the-chicken-cell thing?  It probably took about two years to do that.  Two years?  That is right.  Which sounds slow but it is fast.  Because with e hundreds of scientists all over the world all of the resources they could possibly imagine. And it is taken us at least a year. This is one guy with a couple of lab assistants and a bunch of chicken eggs. So two years is actually pretty fast.  Right.  So yeah.  All right. So then what?  So that is just the beginning. So once he has a decent vaccine he has to do tests on people.  And this part of the process - it is a different thing than growing things in a lab. There is like a whole other landscape of questions and judgment calls and risks. Like the vaccine if it is not right can actually just give you mumps.  And also when we test vaccines we are not only testing to make sure that they work and that they will not give you the disease. We are also testing to make sure that there are not other unknown side effects.  Yes.  Could you just walk us through what exactly Hilleman's doing in this trial process?  Sure. So he starts with adults. Then you work your way down to children.  And what he is doing is he is just - he is injecting his vaccine and just being like do you die or are you OK?  Yeah. Well yeah. Not quite that grim.  .  But yeah it is just - is it safe and is it inducing an immune response which is likely to be protective?  OK.  So you give them the vaccine. You check back in. You draw their blood. And then you look for antibodies.  Right.  And the thing is back then you could do this with a lot of speed.  Because these are kind of the Wild West days of vaccine-making and research.  For example to do a trial...  Offit explained to us to do a vaccine trial now you have to sign a 15-page single-spaced consent form.  Then it was a 3x5 card that said I allow my child to participate in a blank vaccine trial. And you just filled in you know mumps measles German measles. And then you signed it.  Wow.  That was the consent form.  So what Hilleman and his team did is they went to the suburbs...   ...Set up studies and Havertown which is West Philadelphia...  They basically had these community meetings.   ...Through the churches some of the schools.  It would be clergy people teachers parents who were mostly white middle class. And Hilleman and his team would meet with these people and - in particular with the parents they would explain to them what the vaccine is what they hope the vaccine can do and then hand them a 3x5 notecard and ask them...   ...To volunteer their kids...  And a lot of them did volunteer.   Thousands of children.  About 5000 or so children.   Well I think it is wonderful that they have this. And I am thankful my child is participating in it.  I actually found this old documentary from when these tests were being done. And it is just a room full of these kids getting a vaccine shot crying and then these mothers...   I am here because I feel that if this will help children this will be a wonderful thing.  ...Explaining why they decided to participate.   Oh I hate to see any child suffering. I am a mother of six and I am for anything that can help any child in the world. I am a mother through and through.   We owe such a huge debt to the people of that West Philadelphia area. The parents - they had to keep their records at home for what their children - take their temperatures come in and go through all of this annoying business bled. They had to be inoculated to participate in what was regarded as a humanitarian quest. Boy I will never forget that.   Now as Hilleman was conducting these tests on children who had been volunteered by their parents he was actually also testing the mumps vaccine on another group of children - children who were living in state homes and had intellectual disabilities.  They were essentially volunteered by the state.  So until the law changed in the early '70s this is how a lot of drugs and particularly vaccines were tested.  And this is actually something that comes up in Offit is interviews with Hilleman.   It was a big ethical issue. I worried about that like you know hell you know? I think we have a hell of a responsibility. And what are the ethical standards that we are using and following?  And Hilleman says at the time the two sort of guiding ideas were...   Do no harm.  Do no harm.   And do good.  And do good.  In those days in the 1960s the thinking at the time - when you were in these chronic care long-term facilities the level of hygiene and sanitation in those areas was terrible.  It was crowded. Disease was rampant.   Yeah well they all developed epidemic disease these institutionalized kids.  So the justification at the time was that because these kids were the most likely to get these diseases they were also the most likely to benefit from the vaccine.   But I am telling you these were judgment calls scientifically and ethically. There is no question about it.  What Hilleman was doing - testing his vaccine on children with intellectual disabilities in state homes - was part of a bigger thing that was happening all over the place across the country. And a lot of kids got sick and some even died. There was a situation in Staten Island where a group of kids were given live hepatitis. Another situation in Massachusetts were a group of children at a state home were given radiation were just exposed to tons of radiation. And although what Hilleman was doing was not that he was part of a system where children who were under the care of the state were used for scientific experimentation.  Right. Well did - before we leave this point did anyone protest to or about Hilleman in the moment? Or was it just so commonplace that people did not think anything of it?  No they did not. And it was very commonplace. And nobody got sick because the vaccine worked. So in 1967 four years after he would swabbed Jeryl Lynn's throat Hilleman had made his mumps vaccine. It was the fastest anyone had ever made a vaccine from start to finish.  And we will say quick that Hilleman seemed pretty tickled that...   This was her virus.  Oh yeah. My God that is your virus.  ...He got to name it after his daughter.   Can you imagine that?  Called the Jeryl Lynn strain. It still is.  And he thought that was a nice thing. But it was not. Something that is just one of those facts of life .  Jeryl Lynn told us after he was done with mumps he was just off to the next thing.  And you know he carried around a list at times.  This list he kept in his pocket.  List of diseases that still had yet to be conquered. And I think it was a reminder that you know for him his work would never be done.  And what - he would say this. He would say it was like putting up a fence. And you know then you take a break and you know everybody gathers around and they drink from - you know from this bucket of water and they pass the ladle around. And then you are done and then you go back to doing it again. He was never ever satisfied.  Well so after mumps it was measles.  And with measles there is actually already a vaccine in existence.  And I mean that vaccine worked. But it was not quite attenuated enough.  Like it was not weak enough so you would have to get another shot at the same time in your other arm so you did not get sick.  Maurice then just took that virus and very quickly attenuated it so that it was perfect. That virus bounces off you. It is a remarkable vaccine. And so we eliminated measles the most contagious of the vaccine-preventable diseases because it was so incredibly effective.  Wow. Damn.  Yeah. So here's - so this is a...  Yeah you got a list?  Yeah it is a - this is vaccines that Hilleman developed.  OK.  OK so chicken pox.  Chicken pox.  Yeah.  Yeah chicken pox was a late latecomer.  Wow.  So chicken pox adenovirus measles mumps rubella - which he combined into the MMR vaccine that we all get - Japanese encephalitis meningococcus hepatitis A hepatitis B pneumococcus Haemophilus influenzae type B and then others.  Damn.  By the end of his career he developed over 40 vaccines.  Forty?  Including eight of the 14 that we all get as children.  Wow.   Well looking back on one's lifetime you will say gee what have I done? Have I done enough for the world to justify having been here you know? That is a big worry to people from Montana at least. And I would say I am kind of pleased about all this. I am not smug about it but I am pleased because there is a great joy in being useful. And that is the satisfaction that you get out of it.  And just to quick give you like context to Hilleman's work Paul actually helped to create one of the 14 vaccines we get as kids.  Oh really?  Yeah. And it took him 26 years. So he says when he first learned about Hilleman and what all he had accomplished...  It was like trying to imagine another universe.   But he was humble. As rough as he was and as crude as he could be  and how - as profane as he could be he was a humble man. He never promoted himself. So he just always flew below the radar remarkably enough given his accomplishments. I honestly think he was the single most-accomplished scientist in history. And when he died I was at a - I gave a talk at the University of Pittsburgh. His son-in-law called me to say that he had passed away. And then after I heard that news I walked in among a group of 35 to 50 pediatricians and say you know here's this man Maurice Hilleman who just passed away. No one heard of him. No one - zero. And these are pediatricians who give his vaccines.  Did that surprise you in that moment?  Yeah. Yes it did.  Did it sadden you?  Yes.  Do you think his humility which is - you are saying is part of the reason we do not remember him is also part of what made him good at his job?  In some ways I think - he was never stopping to take a bow. But to be honest I think it is all wrong. I mean I think no one should be taking bows. I mean I really - every time a CEO opens his mouth I really shudder to hear what they say because they are always beating their chest about how quickly they are doing this and how well it is going.  Paul was talking about some of the CEOs who are at the companies who are at the forefront of manufacturing the COVID vaccine. And when he says he shudders it is not just because of all the ways the development of the vaccine could go wrong but also because it seems like they are not really recognizing the cost even when it goes right.  Because there has never been a medical breakthrough in history that has not been associated with a price. When Thomas Francis did the polio field trial in the mid-1950s Jonas Salk had made his vaccine but he did not know whether it worked or not. So they chose to do a big field trial. Four hundred and twenty thousand children were given his vaccine over a year period funded by the March of Dimes. Two hundred thousand were given placebo - first- and second-graders throughout the country. And then after it was over Thomas Francis stood up on the podium at Rackham Hall at the University of Michigan and said safe potent and effective. That is what he said. Those three words were the headline of every major newspaper in this country. I mean church bells rang. Synagogues and churches held special prayer meetings. Department stores stopped. Trials stopped you know so the judges could hear that announcement. It was announced over the Voice of America. Well the question is how do we know that it worked? We knew that it worked because 16 children in that study died from polio all in the placebo group. Thirty-six children were permanently paralyzed 34 in the placebo group. But for the flip of a coin those children could have been alive and well today. Those were first- and second-graders in the 1950s. I was a first- and second-grader in the 1950s. I mean those people suffered or died because they just happened to be in the control group. That is what knowledge takes. And that was - that statistic never really rang. I mean we were so busy celebrating that that I think we did not really stop and take a look at just how one comes to acquire knowledge.  Yeah I just came across this quote from Jonas Salk who sent a letter to a man named O'Connor who - I do not know who O'Connor is or was.  He headed the March of Dimes program.  OK. And Salk wrote I would feel that every child who is injected with a placebo and becomes paralyzed will do so at my hands.  That is right. That is what I was alluding to.  And that those who argued - those demanding a placebo-controlled trial he argued took the position in order to reach a statistical endpoint because quote values in which the worship of science involves the sacrifice of humanitarian principles on the altar of rigid methodology end quote.  Yeah that is good. Yeah. No I think Jonas Salk was always heartbroken when that trial was done because he knew that there would be children who would intentionally not be given the vaccine. I mean the one thing is to say as you roll out a vaccine - like the Ebola vaccine when it rolled out into West Africa not everybody got it at once. And so some people got it some people did not and some of the people who did not get it obviously were not saved. But it is different than when you actually purposefully do not give a vaccine for a period of a year. You are making the choice. You are asking a child to participate in something and you know that half of them half of those children are not going to be getting the vaccine. It just feels different. You are actually doing a trial where you know there are children who may die and be paralyzed in that other half because they have not gotten the vaccine. And the truth be told that is the only way you are going to know that.  And Paul told us that this is actually what is happening with COVID now. A while back - I do not know if you remember this - but there was a guy in Brazil who was part of a COVID trial who died.  You know we all held our breath to see whether the person was in the placebo group or the vaccine group. And everybody breathed a sigh of relief when the person was in the placebo group because now you know that the vaccine did not kill them.  But now what you know is that COVID killed him.  And had he been in the other group he probably would not have died. I am just saying you are constructing an experiment where by definition you are not going to learn unless people suffer or hospitalize or die. That is the experiment you are conducting.   There seemingly always is some sort of cost and someone gets sacrificed to progress. And there is a question of who bears the burden of that sacrifice and I think oftentimes it is marginalized communities. But yet inevitably there - like blood is sort of shed is what it feels like.  Always.   Reporters Heather Radke and Matt Kielty.    I as not been to school now for almost a week I got a big lump on my left-hand cheek. Teacher said not to come back again till the doctor made it better. Ma said oh what ails my child? His face is full of lumps. And Pa looked at me and said oh bejebs  our angel has the mumps. I have got the mumps. I have got the mumps. Ma gave me...   And do not tell Pa... OK special thanks to - well a huge special thanks to Donald Mitchell the filmmaker who passed us a lot of this audio of Maurice Hilleman. His movie is called Hilleman A Perilous Quest To Save The World's Children. You can watch the film online or parts of it at The Vaccine Makers Project. Also to Elaine Icanus  and to Anna Vichuk  and Andrew Backer  who performed this lovely rendition...    I said I have got the mumps.  ...Of the Mumps sheet music Heather found.    Do not get up for breakfast till it is nearly 10. For a nickel I will rub up again you and then you have the mumps.  All right. That is it for me. Jad?  OK. I am Jad Abumrad. Thank you all for listening.  Hi. This is Stephen  phoning from Calgary Alberta Canada. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. And Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 