Robert Uh wait you are listening...  Tracie Okay.  Jad All right.  Tracie Okay.  Jad All right  Tracie Your listening...  Jad Listening...  Tracie To Radio Lab lab lab...  Robert Radio Lab...  Tracie From nu nu nu nu...  Jad WNYC  Tracie C C C... C?  Jad Yes.  Robert Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Jad Robert Krulwich.  Robert This is RadioLab.  Jad And today...  Robert We are going to hit the phones.  Martin Hello.  Robert Hi can I speak to Mark?  Jad Starting with this guy Mark Morrison.  Mark M. This is me.  Robert Hey Mark this is Jad calling from RadioLab.  Mark M. Hey Jad good to hear ya.  Jad   Robert Got a hold of him of him at his home in Olympia Washington.  Mark M. I am hanging out on the front porch. The kids ar running around so you might hear some traffic.  Jad Okay gotcha.  Robert Um all right maybe we should just jump in and you should just tell me the story.  Mark M. Okay so I was DJ-ing a wedding out in Lacy which is the next town over. It was the the hot like late spring kind of feeling like summer kinda day. And we were in a little a rented facility that had like windows on all sides and then all of the sudden the power starts flickering and it starts raining really hard.  Robert Okay.  Mark M. Then trees are falling over. The wind is gusting and it... the sky turns to night.  Robert Whoa.  Mark M. And this is like 30 in the afternoon.  Jad So Mark takes off goes back home.  Mark M. My in-laws are visiting in town to hang out with the new baby and we open up the curtains turned off all the lights and we are just kind of marveling at the insane power of this storm that is happening. My wife is sitting on the couch. My 2-year-old is watching Charlie Brown or something on the Ipad and then all of the sudden there is just a loud snap like the sound of a whip cracking or like a 2 x 4 being snapped in half and about a foot and a half to two feet in front of my face right next to my mother-in-law and the baby there is a little sphere of light white light just a little orb the size of like maybe an orange or a grapefruit kind of blurry edges around it floating in midair as bright as like the sun like the bright... it lit up the entire room.  Jad Oh...  Mark M. We all screamed.   Robert   Mark M. Everybody in the room   Jad And Mark says this sun orb just sort of hovered in front of his face.  Robert Kind of going whom whom whom... for maybe a second.  Jad When all of the sudden poof. It was gone.  Mark M. Yeah.  Robert That is some x-file  right there.  Mark M. Yeah none of us had any idea what the heck happened.  Jad Well did you go around the room being like Did you guys see that? Did you see that?  Mark M. Yeah. Everybody saw it. Everybody saw it. My mother-in-law thought that I had like taken some kind of like fireworks and thrown it up in the air.   Jad   Robert   Mark M. She is like What did you do? I am like I did not do anything. So what I did was I started trying to Google it and there is you know... I mean imagine trying to Google that. You are not gonna find anything.   Jad Wha what what did type into Google?  Mark M. Sphere of light floating indoors.   Jad   Robert   Mark M. I did I did not get very far. Yeah...   Robert   Mark M. But um I just I just wanted to get to the bottom of it.  Jad And so what Mark did is he sat down on a computer and he typed up this email basically saying...  Mark M. Like what the hell is this thing?  Jad And then he sent that email into the void.  Robert Which would be us.   Jad Which would be us.  Robert We are the void. Yes.   Jad To our email inbox and uh you know it sat around for a while because we tend to get these kinds of questions...  Robert A lot.  Tracie Are there more stars in the universe or grains of sand on earth?  Robert A lot.  Jad A lot.  Tracie Is it clean beneath the sticker of the apple?  Robert Why do some birds walk and others hop?  Tracie How do fish hear?  Jad Why are horses special?  Robert We get things like...  Tracie What is up with traffic jams?  Jad Random questions like...  Robert Helium is a finite resource why are we wasting it on balloons?  Jad A lot of poop questions.  Tracie Why is different animal's poop shaped differently?  Jad Yep a lot of poop.  Tracie What happens when you flush a toilet on the equator?  Jad And they just sort of pile up. We sort of put them in this bucket.  Robert Yeah...  Jad And then feel guilty about not answering them and over the years...  Robert Well they keep coming so the bucket gets fuller and fuller.  Jad And fuller.  Robert So finally today we decided okay lets just dump the bucket out.   Jad And so we are going to try and answer some of these questions today a bunch of us.   Martin Hello...  Jad Beginning with the question about the orb. Can I speak to Martin please.  Martin You are talking to him.  Jad Trying to answer Mark's question I called up a guy named Martin Uman.  Martin Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Florida.  Jad Thank you. Is this still a good time to chat?  Martin Uh. It is about the only time because I am gonna go to dinner in about ten minutes.  Jad All right excellent. Uh so we will just jump right in.  Martin All right. How long we gonna talk?  Jad Well uh uh so I ah told Martin the story of thunderstorm boom glowing orb poof glowing orb gone.  Martin Yeah.  Jad So maybe I will just put the most basic question to you. Like what is that?  Martin Well that observation is not uncommon and it is called generally called ball lightning.  Jad Ball lightning?  Martin Yeah. That is what it is called.  Jad And according to Martin ball lighting is timeless.  Martin  and Greeks described exactly this same thing and and the ah 19th century and 18th century they used commonly come down the chimney come out the fireplace.  Jad Oh wow. But now says Martin we are living in an electronic world and so these balls of lightning...  Martin Sometimes come out of a wall socket sometimes out of a telephone.  Jad Huh.  Martin And they happen in airplanes. They happen in submarines.  Jad Whoa...  Martin They they...  Jad That actually... that is been reported?  Martin Yeah. Lightning strikes outside an airplane and a ball comes through the windshield and floats down the whole plane.  Jad What? If I am in that plane I am thinking...  Martin You are gonna hope you have your diaper on right?  Jad   Martin Wear your Depends.  Jad   Martin Any time you have got electrical stuff going on you can make a ball of fire like that.  Jad So do we know anything about what causes... what it is exactly. Is it just another form of lightning that somehow manages to ball itself up and hang around?  Martin Well probably.  Jad Martin is actually one of the few people who has studied ball lightning in the lab. He actually got funded by DARPA to try and figure out how it works was not quite able to. He says what is likely happening is that when a bolt of lighting strikes it might hit something.  Martin Soil water tree...  Jad Whatever it is some substance...  Martin Gets lit up and somehow forms itself into a sphere like a balloon or a bubble or something.  Jad Like if you imagined lightning hits some dust shocks the dust changes its chemistry so that it forms some kind of spherical scaffolding and the lightning sticks to the scaffolding or something?  Martin Maybe that is what is happening but you cannot prove it. I mean there is some theory which indicates that that might happen but if you go into the laboratory and you try to make it you cannot make it so you cannot prove it. And if you get a book on ball lightning or you get my book and look at the chapter on ball lightning you will see probably a list of fifty different theories that people have come up with.  Jad Huh.  Martin Uh from ah all the way to black holes and and discontinuities in time-space and things that are just you know completely almost out of this world. So they remain a mystery but a well-observed mystery.  Jad Hmm...  Martin Did you know that people do not have any good maps for how lightning gets started in a cloud?  Jad Really? I did not know that.  Martin We we do not know how what how lightning can can get started. It should not be able to.  Jad It should not... really? Be-ya... Based on what? The math says there is not enough...  Martin Based on all the measurements that have been made of the conditions in clouds.  Jad Huh? So you are saying...  Martin The world is full of things that are not understood. Almost nothing is understood.  Jad   Martin We are floundering around.  Jad  Does do you find yourself thinking about ball lightning and then suddenly you just tip toeing into an existential crisis-  Martin   Jad ... about how lil how little we know of the world.  Martin Well so how I make my living is trying to uncover little little more bits by little more bits but yeah there is lots that is not known about everything.  Robert Next up producer Tracie Hunte goes on a field trip to some very hallowed ground.  Tracie Man I think I have finally reached the library.  announcer The New York Public Library-  Robert The New York Public Library.  announcer ... within it is white marble walls is stored the sum of man's wisdom.  Robert Which in its glory days.  Tracie Okay so right here in the grand hall is like beautiful chandeliers all over the place these gorgeous columns.  Robert Is filled with-  announcer Seven floors of stacks-  Robert ... millions of books.  announcer ... in every field of human endeavor.  Robert Row upon row upon row of shelves.  announcer Eighty miles of shelves close to fifty centuries of human thinking and experience.  Robert And every year millions of visitors like Tracie would walk through these hallowed halls-  announcer Each has a question.  Robert ... with questions fueled by curiosity the desire for truth for knowledge for wisdom people trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe.  Tracie I came here to ask them a question about catnip.  Mark M. Catnip?   Tracie Yes catnip.  Mark M. Wh-wh-why? Why catnip?  Tracie  we actually got like 500 questions from our listeners so I thought it might be a good idea to take some of them to the library.  Tracie Hi Rosa?  Tracie So I met up with woman.  Rosa It is nice to meet you.  Tracie I am Tracie. Nice to meet you Rosa.  Tracie And she walked me into this office. There is about like I do not know twelve people sitting at their desks.  Tracie Why do not you just introduce yourself   Rosa Okay sure. So my name is Rosa Lee. I manage Ask NYPL and I have been in this department for about five years.  Robert Ask NY-what?  Tracie Ask NYPL. It is 917-ASK-NYPL. I am putting the phone number out there. And if you call them and you ask them a question it is their job to answer it.  Rosa Yes so we are like a call center so our typical day starts with questions.  Tracie Like in your typical day how many phone calls do you get?  Rosa Um typical day about 150-200.  Tracie And Rosa was telling me that most of the questions they get are-  Rosa What will the weather be like this weekend?  Tracie ... very boring.  Rosa Hey my library card expired or I want to renew this book.  Tracie But you know also they get some weird ones.  Rosa We take them all.  Tracie Yeah um so I got a list right here and in the past they have gotten things like What kind of apple did Eve eat? Is it proper to go alone to Reno to get a divorce? Any statistics on the life span of the abandoned woman? Do Camels have to be licensed in India? What is the natural enemy of the duct? Can I get a book telling me how to be mistress of ceremonies at a musical orgy? What does it mean when you dreamed you are being chased by an elephant?  Robert And do they answer all those?  Tracie They will try to.  Bernard So you know I was maybe a little dismissive for a few of them. I mean all the questions of course are very important. We welcome all questions please.  Tracie This by the way is Bernard.  Bernard Bernard VanMarsavene...  Tracie He has been working for Ask NYPL since about 2001 and so the question... He did answer my catnip question which is...  Bernard Do large feline species like tigers and lions have the same reaction to catnip as domestic cats? Yes.  Tracie Yes. All cats like catnip.  Bernard Apparently tigers at least.  Tracie But um you know I had all these questions so I actually had them pick one that they thought was super interesting.  Bernard Yeah.  Tracie Which one did you pick to to answer?  Bernard Let me get the exact wording on it.  Tracie Yeah yeah yeah.  Bernard So yeah so here we go. Could you play a meaningful game of Frisbee on the surface of Mars?  Tracie Yeah.  Bernard And-  Tracie Yeah I really like that one.  Bernard Yeah that was a good one.  Tracie   Bernard And I think the word that makes it like just really shine is-  Tracie Meaningful.  Bernard ... meaningful.  Tracie So um the first thing he does-  Bernard You wanna get me kinda doing some some searching you know  kinda stuff here.  Tracie And he... I guess I was a little disappointed that we did not bust out any like books.  Bernard I am just looking up uh Frisbee aerodynamics.  Tracie He literally just turned to his computer and started Googling.  Bernard How does a Frisbee behave here on earth the spin of the Frisbee of course the lift drag...  Tracie So he looks all that stuff up.  Bernard Let us see.  Tracie Then he looked up like aerodynamics.  Bernard On Mars-  Tracie On Mars.  Bernard ... it is very thin the air there so-  Tracie Because the air is so thin on Mars you would not get that spinning lifting thing that you always get with Frisbees-  Bernard It might not have the same sort of hovering effect that a Frisbee does here on earth. It would be more like just throwing a ball.  Tracie It would just go-  Bernard Ten feet away 15 feet away.  Jad I do not think that that counts as a meaningful game of Frisbee.  Tracie But you know you can can still throw it back and forth.   Robert But meaningful?   Tracie Well...  Jad To me the question is like you are playing Frisbee on Mars. I mean that is just inherently-  Tracie So it is already it is already meaningful.  Jad ... meaningful.  Tracie Oh oh okay.  Jad You know growing up I remember seeing uh rebroadcasts of you know like the astronauts on the moon.  Astronaut  looking up. You might recognize what I have in my hand is the-  Jad Playing golf.  Astronaut ... just so happen to have a  six-iron on the bottom of   Jad And I am sure that they were not playing like you know PGA golf.  Astronaut   Jad They were just you know amateur golfers but they were golfing on the moon.  Tracie   Astronaut  one more. Miles and miles and miles.  Jad I mean to me that is pretty great.  Tracie That is pretty that is pretty impressive.  Jad So th-th-the the venue kind of makes the whole endeavor meaningful I think in it is in it is way.  Robert Thanks to producer Tracie.  Tracie Uh wait. I I actually did ask them my dragons question.  Robert Oh oh well then next up Tracie Hunt and dragons.  Christina Hi this is Christina.  Tracie Hi-  Christina Yeah.  Tracie ... this is Tracie. Hi. This is Tracie.  Christina Oh hey hey. Oh you called me back...  Tracie This question is from Christina Hardquist.  Christina I am native of Navato.  Tracie Out in Northern California.  Christina Um and I was born and raised here so yeah. Love this place.  Tracie And you... and what was your question to us if you remember what it was roughly?  Christina Yeah so I came across this article about these creatures called olms that I guess were being you know washed out of these caves in Eastern Europe.  Tracie What are they called?  Christina Olms O-L-M. They are sort of like blind cave-dwelling amphibians. They are total white. Their skin is translucent very other-worldly. The article touched on the idea that you know folklore thought that these little creatures were actually like dragon babies being pushed out of of these caves where where these huge dragons lived so I started digging into a little bit and of course you can only find so much on the internet but there was this idea of dragons being a sort of like a universal myth across you know different different cultures.  Tracie And Christina started to wonder why it seemed that so many cultures all over the world all had myths about dragons.  Christina What is about like humans that cause them to believe in these like huge scary fire-breathing animals?  Jad Is that true that cultures all over the world-  Robert Yeah.  Jad ... have dragons?  Tracie Well sorta. You have Northern European dragon that we are all familiar with.  Robert Uh-huh.  Tracie Then there is the uh Chinese dragon which is a little different. It does not have wings. It does not breath fire. Then there is um other dragon-looking sorta things. The Nanabolela among the Besotho people of Southern Africa. There is the Amaru associated with the Incan empire.  Adrienne Yeah I think there is no doubt that we have fabulous awesome creatures like dragons in almost every culture in the world...  Tracie So this is Adrienne Mayor.  Adrienne I am a research scholar in the classics department at Stanford and I am int- most interested in is what sorts of things found in nature might have led pre-scientific people to believe that dragons or monsters or other fantastic creatures really existed at least in the past or even maybe in the present...  Tracie Adrienne actually wrote a book called The First Fossil Hunters that lays out this theory that a lot of these stories were actually based on uh people finding old you know fossils and bones.  Adrienne Fossils bones or teeth or claws or footprints embedded in stone.  Robert So they would see uh uh a set of old bones that they could not explain with any modern creatures so the creature they go to is this dragon-shaped thing?  Tracie Yes but...  Adrienne I do want to point out though that we can never know for certain which comes first the observations of mysterious traces of unknown animals or the stories of dragons. We do not know which comes first.  Tracie She says it could be that the story about the dragon was already there and then when they found some bones they just sort of applied those bones to the dragon myth.  Jad Well if if the dragon came before the bones where did it come from?  Tracie Well there is another theory.  Adrienne Some scholars have said they are like monsters of the Id. They arise from ancient memories of very real predators that were faced by our ancestors-  Tracie Basically dragons are composites of the-these creatures that used to eat us and hunt us and kill us like crocodiles-  Adrienne ... saber tooth tigers and-  Tracie ... lions-  Adrienne ... cave bears gigantic serpents-  Tracie ... snakes-  Adrienne ... pythons-  Tracie ... condors.  Adrienne ... giant raptors.  Tracie So you can take like the scaly skin of the crocodile the claws of the saber tooth tiger and its saber teeth the wings of the raptors put them all together...  Jad Oh...  Robert So this is all the old terrors rolled into one like boom together.  Tracie Yeah. They tap into all those fears that already are already inside of us in theory.  Robert I am gonna go for that one.  Jad Yeah I like that. That works. That feels like an answer.  Paula Well you know like like they are very powerful. I mean they could be very scary. They could be very destructive but what is kind of magical in Game Of Thrones is that the intimate scenes also melt your heart and bring you closer to these creatures that should be you know burning your face off  Tracie Okay I-I-I should admit that I actually just used this whole dragon thing to talk to this lady at from Game Of Thrones.   Her name is Paula Fairfield and she makes all the dragon noises for Game Of Thrones.  Jad Oh she makes dragons.  Tracie Right.  Robert What did you ask her I guess is the real question. What did you want to know?  Tracie I wanted to know like I wanted to know like how does she make these sounds and it was really interesting 'ecause you know were talking a little bit uh com- you know how dragons are composite creatures and she basically uses composites to make these noises.  Paula Oh yeah yeah. I absolutely...  Tracie She takes the noises from birds-  Paula ... reachy shrieky bird sounds-  Tracie ... insects-  Paula ... different kinds reptilian recordings and stuff...  Jad Is it always the scary animals?  Tracie Well it depends on what dragon that she you know which of the dragons that she is trying to actually um create a performance for.  Paula I have sounds on might choose simply by certain personality traits that I might want to push forward. Um so in the case of Drogon...  Tracie So on the show there is Daenerys who is this dragon queen. She has three dragons and one of them is named Drogon.  Paula And she named that dragon after Khal Drogo her hot late husband.   Tracie   Tracie And so to sort of push forward this sort of like dragon sexual tension I guess she uses sounds of...  Paula Two giant tortoises you know mating.  Jad Oh that is...  Robert Giant tortoises... what does that sound like?  Jad Wow.  Tracie Well um you know. I will just play it.  Jad Whoa.  Robert Oh.  Paula The groan of the male actually became with some work and you know adjustments and stuff became the source the basis for Drogon's pur with her.  Tracie With Daenerys.  Paula The funny thing about the pur with Drogon was watching people watch it and giggling when they heard it but not really knowing why. To me it is because it had that essence that kind of sensual sexual essence that purr. Yeah yeah I use from all kinds of things and you know I also used for dragonfly wings to make that kind of funny flutter of the thorns it is moving like especially on the end of his tail this year. As he moved through there was like a chitter and that was like dragonfly wings.  Jad Dragonfly wings?  Tracie Yeah.  Robert Really?  Tracie  I-I was wondering if you ever had a question about dragons that you would like to have answered?  Paula You know no it is curious because I think that differentiates the dragons from creatures and makes them slightly other-worldly is the fire thing. Where did the idea for that come along?  Jad That is a good question.  Robert Yeah where did that come from?  Adrienne Well there are many theories about that...  Tracie Actually I threw that question back to Adrienne Mayor.  Adrienne The one that I like is connected to the devastating weapon called Greek Fire.  Tracie It was this unquenchable fire.  Adrienne It cannot be put out by water. In fact it burns in water and so it was a naval weapon and I believe that scholars have found that some of the nozzles for blasting Greek Fire were shaped like dragons so that the boat looked like it had a dragon on board breathing fire at the enemy ships-  Robert Oh.  Jad That is so cool.  Robert Wow.  Adrienne ... and just stories of... they had dragons that breathed fire would make it back to uh to Northern Europe. That is the best theory I have heard.  Jad Oh that is interesting. So it is like if the dragon is a composite of all the things creatures that have scared us now we are a part of that composite.  Robert With our technology. It b-b-b-becomes part of the creature that frightens us.  Jad Thanks Tracie.  Tracie You are welcome.  Robert Who is...  Tracie What is ah...  Jad What is ah ah b-b-b-b  Tracie Um what is...  Jad Huh...  Tracie Who is... Uh...  Robert Hm...  Jad Uh... Uh...  Robert Anything coming to mind?  Jad What is ah...  Tracie Oh...  Jad Oh... Say something. Hurry.  Robert It is a fedora.  Tracie Should have known that.  Robert You should have known that. All right were gonna take a break.  Marnie This is Marnie Campbell from the beautiful banks of Lake Washington in Seattle Washington. RadioLab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology and the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  announcer  Great podcast deserve a great platform. That is why Pocketcast delivers a beautifully designed simple but powerful experience that offers more control. It is the premium app for podcast listening search and discovery and it is now free. Download Pocketcast today at pocketcast.com or find us in the apple app or Google playstore.  Jad Jad.  Robert Robert.  Jad RadioLab.  Robert And we are back.  Jad With more questions.  Robert Next one comes from producer Rachel Cusick.  Rachel So this question comes from Liam Humburger from Denver Colorado.  Liam I was browsing on my Instagram feed a-and there was this scene where the picture was of the husband and wife trying to go to sleep. The wife was looking away and she was like looking irritated and then the husband was looking like just kind of confused  and the caption above her was He is probably thinking of other girls and then him I wonder if I have ever bought milk from the same cow twice.  Robert What'd he say?  Jad I wonder what?  Rachel So he said I wonder if I have ever bought milk from the same cow twice. So if I go to the store I buy a gallon of milk and then I go back maybe a week later and get another gallon of milk. What are the odds that the same cow is in both of those gallons of milk.  Jad I see.  Art I would say the answer is almost certainly yes 100.  Rachel That is Art Benjamin. He is a math professor.  Art At Harvey Mudd College in Clairmont California and I am also a mathematician.  Robert And how is he so sure it is 100?  Rachel According to Art Benjamin it all comes down to ah...  Art Probability statistics and dare I say calculus.  Rachel So take a farm like Dale's here...  Dale Okay here we go. My name is Dale Madone Pine Hollow Dairy.  Rachel Dale has about 1000 cows and 20 at a time these cows walk into a milking parlor. They line up. It looks like a wishbone-  Dale All day and all night long-  Rachel ... and they get hooked up with these black rubber hoses.  Dale ...  here and every once in a while is the guy putting the machine on a cow and he hits the button and it turns on the vacuum and he-  Rachel ... pumps the milk out of the udders into this big hose along the bottom of the floor-  Dale ... running through the hose down into this line-  Rachel ... and it is meeting up with the milk from the other cows and then it goes from that room into another room where it gets cooled down.  Dale This is the milk out. Put your hand on this pipe.  Rachel Oh my gosh it is cold. There is condensation on it.  Dale It is very cold...  Rachel Once it is cooled down it goes into this rocket ship-looking thing outside called a milk silo where all the milk from Dale's farm is just hanging out together. The silo gets filled up and up and up until it is full.  Dale We are sending out over 8000 gallons of milk a day on a tractor trailer.  Rachel This truck comes along picks up that milk and it stops at another farm and another farm and another farm until the truck is full.  Dale Right full.  Rachel It goes to the processing plant and once you are at the processing plant all that milk is just mixed around even more with milk from all the cows in the region. And-  Art On a second look I still have my back of the envelope that has the calculation here-  Rachel Here's where the math comes in.  Art ... there are about 90000 drops of milk in a gallon and oh I do not know 100000 cows who are contributing to a particular processing plant-  Rachel ... when you run the odds a drop of milk from any one cow getting into any particular gallon-  Art ... it is probably the case every gallon of milk contains most of the cows contributing.  Rachel ... and here's the thing. In one drop of milk you could probably have a bunch of different milk molecules from a bunch of different cows.  Art ... and so one glass of milk might have thousands maybe hundreds of thousands of different cow molecules in my glass of milk.  Rachel Wow that is crazy. Oh my gosh.  Art   Rachel So going back to Liam's original question uh Art's argument is that when you are drinking a glass of milk there is like so many different bits of milk from so many different cows-  Art That it is probably the case that after just two glasses of milk you are almost certain to have a cow that was represented in both of them.  Rachel So you are bound to run into at least a little bit of one of those 100000 cows again.  Art This is the point being that every glass of milk has thousands and thousands of different contributing to it.  Robert   Jad A little bit of 10000 cows in every glass. Wow.  Robert In every glass of milk.  Rachel   Jad I love that.  Robert I do not know that I do.  Jad No it is great. It is like you are enjoying the collective efforts of this entire species almost.  Rachel   Robert No no. I think it should be the product of one or two cows that you can picture in your head and maybe pat on the nose.  Rachel   Robert Thank you you could say.  Rachel Yeah I do not know. I am with both of you. I feel like it weirds me out but I also think it is kind of cool at the same time.  Robert Well you know b-but come to think of it what happens if you drink a glass of milk in New York get on a plane fly to Atlanta then have another glass of milk. Are you getting the same 10000 in each glass or are they a different 10000.  Rachel Yeah so I tried to calling around a little bit to answer that question and it seems like no one really wants to pay to ship milk that far and so basically a different processing plant might mean a whole different group of cows.  everybody Oh...  Rachel Yeah.  If you really want to figure exactly which plant your milk is coming from you can go to whereismymilkfrom.com  Robert Really?  Rachel Yeah. And you input a little code on the top of your carton and see how often that number comes up again. Each processing plant has its own code.  Jad Thank you Rachel.  Rachel Thank you and just a big thanks to dairy farmer Dale Madone over at Pine Hollow Dairy.  Rachel Are you a big milk drinker?  Dale Oh yeah.  Rachel How often do you drink milk?  Dale Oh well I have it on my cereal in the morning and I have a glass or two for lunch and a glass or two for dinner probably two glasses each meal. If I do not drink milk I do not feel good. Like if I go away on vacation and a lot of times you go...   Matt This next one came from a couple-  Marie Hello.  Matt ... hello is this Marie?  Marie Yep.  Matt This is Matt Kielty calling from RadioLab. How are you?  Marie I am the same. I have you on speakerphone and Zack is right here.  Matt Oh hey Zack.  Zack Hi Matt.  Matt How is it going?  Zack Good.  Marie Good.  Matt So Zack and Marie it was years ago actually they sent us an email about what I think is one of the most confounding perplexing mysterious devices that you can find inside of anybody's home. Okay so the microwave. I guess I guess what I wondering is how one why were you microwaving peppers? And two do you remember the moment this happened?  Marie Oh I know what it is. I know exactly what happened. So...  Matt Okay so quick scene set Portland Maine kitchen around dinner time.  Zack I think we were like cooking ah tomato sauce...  Matt Zach was on bell pepper duty.  Marie Trying to take shortcut stick them in the microwave to make them a little warmer or soft or something and I said Oh Zack do not put those in the microwave they will spark.  Matt And Zack was just like...  Zack Hm...  Marie You are crazy.   Zack Hogwash. I do not believe you at all and ah...  Matt He is like no no no.  Marie I remember seeing it as a kid.  Matt She said there was a couple times her mom put some peppers in a microwave and they sparked.  Marie Yes.  Zack My first thought was that-  Marie My memory was wrong.  Zack ... that is what I thought that your memory was wrong.  Matt Like there must have been a piece of metal in the microwave you just do not remember that.  Zack And that is what was sparking out 'ecause vegetables would not do that.  Matt And this is going back and forth and yes and no and sparks and nothing until...  Zack I think it was we have the ability to find this out and ah prove that it is wrong...  Matt So that was like five years ago in the past so we decided that we would actually do our own experiment in the present to get to the bottom of this. Do green peppers spark in the microwave. Maserati... first things first. I actually went and bought a microwave.  Craigs-L dude  Hey how is it going?  Matt Off the guy on Craig's List. Ah yeah so fifty bucks?  Craigs-L dude Fifty bucks.  Matt Fifty bucks all right.  Craigs-L dude Ah baby.  Matt Then carried it like eight blocks back to work. Holy . Also bought a bunch of groceries because we were going to do more than just the peppers test and for reasons I would rather not get into I decided not to start with the peppers.  Matt Baby carrots.  Annie Baby carrots just little carrots?  Matt Yeah. Producer Annie McEwen  Annie I used to work in a kitchen.  Matt Really?  Annie Yeah.  Matt Could not tell.  Annie   Matt Carrots... And as the great Ronco says of infomercial fame.  Annie I do not know who the great Ronco is. Great Ronco?  everybody Set it and forget it.  Matt All right two minutes let us see what happens. And all the sudden...  Annie My god.  Matt This little yellow spark just shot from one of our slices of carrots.  Annie That was crazy. This little spark. Oh yeah there.  Matt You see another one?  Annie Yeah. I just saw a little flash. Wow a little tiny spark.  Matt Mm... carrots.  Annie Mm... carrots. Okay next.  Matt Kale.  everybody Set it and forget it.  Matt This is where it gets a little crazy 'ecause the kale... oh...  Annie There.  Matt Same thing.  Annie What?  Matt Boom-boom-boom. Sparks.  Annie It is smoke. It is there is smoke. Let us stop it th-th-th-th there is smoke I smell smoke smell that. Jesus.  Matt Delicioso.  Annie That is smoke.  Matt Um we are gonna try blueberries.  Annie Ready set it...  everybody And forget it.  Matt Whoa.  Annie Whoa it is hot.  Matt We started to draw a bit of a crowd in the studio.   W-why was electricity coming out of the blueberry?  Matt Up next.  Annie Grapes grapitos-  Matt Grapes.  Annie ... grapatiti's grapanini's.  Matt Ready?  Annie Ready.  Matt Time cook. You set it.  everybody And forget it. Whoa.  Annie Whoa my god. Look at it go...  Matt All right what is up next?  Annie Okay jumbo franks.  Matt I got turkey franks. Set it.  Annie Spread it.  everybody And forget it.  Annie Oh oh I saw one. Oh my gosh.  Matt Oh okay pepper. You set it.  everybody Oh whoa.  Matt Okay both red and green bell peppers. Green was crazy.  everybody Yay peppers.   Matt We also through in some diced up tomatoes pears decretive gourd...  Annie Are we gonna get buyer for this...  Matt And also a Flaming Lips CD.  everybody There we go. Who needs fireworks when you got a CD in the... this is crazy.  Matt Stop stop everyone stop.  Annie Yeah 'ecause I do not wanna yeah. Is it gonna it looks like it was on fire.   Is it smoking in here?   Yes it is definitely smoking   Whoa that smells really bad.  Matt All right let us take a break.  everybody  Yeah we want to keep this door open...  Matt What did you say to Marie after the peppers sparked in the microwave?  Zack I think I was I do not know I was probably speechless.  Marie   Zack I was ah cannot believe that you are right about this.  Matt And Marie did you say anything in return?  Marie Um probably something to the affect of I told you so.  Matt So peppers spark in the microwave. That was settled but then there was the debate about...  Zack Marie does not believe my understanding of how microwaves work.  Matt Why?  Zack Maybe it is just that pepper has a lot of moisture in it?  Matt Zach maybe it is you put the pepper in the microwave. All that water gets really hot.  Zack The skin acts as like tinder and that lights on fire quickly.  Matt But Marie...  Marie We always have peppers in house and I think that the green ones taste a little bit metallic.  Matt To her it is maybe these peppers just have like some little bit of metal in there that is sparking.  Marie Yeah. So is your next step to find the appropriate scientist?  Matt Oh yeah. I am definitely gonna try and put this case to bed.   So just give us one moment.  Matt I ended up tracking down this woman. Is it Caroline or Carolyn? Is it...  Caroline Caro-It is Caroline.   Caroline okay.  Matt Her name is Caroline Ross.  Caroline I am a professor in the department of Material Science and Engineering at MIT.   An experienced microwaver?  Caroline I have done it with roast potatoes.  Matt Oh you have seen sparks.  Caroline Yeah I have seen sparks from roast potatoes.  Matt Huh.   All right so yeah. Maybe we should just like...  Matt So I asked her in the case of the peppers or the roast potatoes or the grapes like all the different food that we tried like what happens in a microwave that makes the food just go like .  Caroline Right.  Matt So let us say I got some pieces of pepper put them in the microwave I press start like what happens next?  Caroline Okay so there is a gadget in the microwave oven that produces the microwave. It is called a magnetron and it is an interesting thing in itself.  Matt Okay quick side note. It is basically like this hunk of metal that makes the microwaves but Caroline told me this really cool thing which is this used to be used in WWII for radar.  Caroline That was in the 40's an in 1945 there was an engineer Raytheon who was working on these devices and he found that some candy bar he had in his pocket got hot.  Matt He is like Oh this cooks food. So eventually a magnatron got thrown inside of a metal box and thus was born the microwave.  Caroline So it is an interesting thing in itself but it produces the beam of microwaves and they bounce around inside the microwave oven moving at the speed of light.  Matt And what are they... are they pounding into the pepper or maybe they not pound but like like shooting into the pepper.  Caroline They are being absorbed.  Matt Absorbed.  Caroline Yeah they are being absorbed and these microwaves they are the right kind of frequency to cause the molecules in food to osculate back and forth.  Matt Oh.  Caroline You have put a pepper in there so the pepper's got a lot of water in it. It is got other things as well. Um and those molecules start absorbing the microwaves and dancing back and forth and hitting each other and heating up. And then that bit gets even hotter and even hotter and eventually it could burst into flames.  Matt But that is not what we are seeing with our pepper or any of the food in the microwave. It is not.   No because as Caroline explained to me a flame is very different than a spark.  Caroline So one thing to keep in mind is that the pepper is fairly conductive. It is got all this water in it. We know that water can conduct electricity-  Matt Mm-hmm   Caroline ... and the water is not pure. It has a lot of salts dissolved in it-  Matt Ah okay.  Caroline ... minerals things like that. In that sense it is a little bit like a piece of metal. Metal as we know absorbs microwave energy rather well.  Matt As we all know.  Caroline Yes.  So...  Matt Okay let us say you get these pieces of pepper in a microwave and they are heating up. Now the thing is the microwave like the wave itself-  Caroline It has an electric field which osculates back and forth at rather a high frequency-  Matt ... so when these microwaves shoot into these pieces of pepper what happens is this electricity starts-  Caroline ... swishing back and forth-  Matt ... through the bits of pepper-  Caroline ... so there is a current flowing-  Matt ... and as more microwaves are absorbed into these bits of pepper-  Caroline ... you can get quite big currents-  Matt ... currents so big that they create electric field around the food-  Caroline ... and that electric field builds up and up and up and eventually it is big enough to cause the air to glow around the food-  Matt ... because now there is actually electricity coursing through the air-  Caroline ... like a florescent light bulb-  Matt And Caroline says at this point you can start to see-  Caroline ... these glowing balls of gas floating.  Matt ... it is actually the air turning into plasma. Now back in the center of the microwave are little bits of pepper where there is still this electrical current-  Caroline ... swishing back and forth through those bits of pepper and if you have sharp corners-  Matt ... like the corners of a pepper or even on the skin like these tiny microscopic little points the electricity in the pepper the electricity in the air-  Caroline ... can bet concentrated at those sharp corners like a lightning rod-  Matt ... and at those corners the electricity will just build and build and build until...  everybody Whoa.  Caroline You got a mini-lightning bolt.  everybody Why why why...  Matt And then Caroline said that everything in the microwave just sort of calms down.  Caroline Until the electric field builds up again and it does it all over letting loose these mini-lightning bolts. So it is a very dynamic process. You have got things being ionized. You have got things recombining. You have got charge flowing. You have to light being emitted. Things get hot. There is a big current flowing all for that tiny fraction of a second. A lot of quantum physics in there.  Matt   Caroline   Matt And then we hear a little ding-  Caroline Yep.  Matt ... and then-  Caroline We are done.  Matt ... and then we are done. But I just had one last job to do.  Matt How you two doing?  Marie We are good.  Zack Good.  Matt Okay all right so I think...  Matt Called up Zack and Marie and told everything I learned about their sparking pepper and that even though both of them did not have the exact theory like Zack was right water's an important part Marie was you know kinda on with something with this metal thing.  Marie Yep.  Matt It feels like it is almost like a little bit like ah a marriage of sorts pardon the pun between both your ideas that ah kind of of is what is happening inside this black box.  Zack Right.  Matt So yeah.  Zack So I think we were we had some some of the elements there.  Matt Yeah. Yeah.  Zack Yeah.  Matt Um so that is ah that is about it.  Marie Okay  Zack Excellent.  Matt Oh there was one thing that I actually thought was kinda interesting in all these questions we were getting in there was this tiny little pattern of of married couples sending us in ah-  Annie   Matt ... arguments that they got in . There was one couple that was like... they were arguing about the nutritional value of microwaving a potato um-  Annie   Matt ... there was another couple that sent in a very long email about how they would been debating about how we perceive color um-  Annie We have actually had a similar dispute.   Yeah that is true.  Matt Oh. Over color.  Annie Ah it was the couch.   Oh yeah.  Matt   Annie There was a couch that we had and it was some sort of like drab tone that I thought was green and you thought was brown.   Gray I it was-  Annie Gray ah okay.   ... yeah. I think I... yeah we had that couch for like between different houses and different combinations for probably like five or six years and maybe seven years ten years and ah-  Annie Put a lot of life in it.   ... and I was yeah I always thought it was gray still do but apparently you and your sister thought it was green. You are like we had that for years and just never realized you are seeing something completely different...  I am like What do you mean our green couch? I had no idea we even have a green couch.  announcer Producer Matt Kielty.   So that is just a few of the questions you asked us which we tried to answer but that is just the first part of our effort. We have another whole sequence of questions and answers coming up.  Matt So if your question has not been answered yet um hang tight.   You never know the next batch-  Matt You never know.   ... could include your question.  Matt And it is coming very very soon.   Why do humans have two feet?   When are we going to be able to fax a pencil?   Do the little leaves go through the little headphone string? I do not know...   announcer  Hi this is Marie Mueller calling from Portland Maine with Nora Mueller and Calvin Mueller in the background. RadioLab was created by Jab Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design Miara Matasar Pailla is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wac Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Amanda Aronczyk prema oliaee David Foxx Nigar Fatali EB Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact checker is Michelle Harris. Thanks RadioLab.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 