   Recording. Walking into NYU. This building is huge!  Hello.  Hello.  All right. How are you?  I am doing well. Good. I do not know. Do we shake hands? I do not know. I have nothave not done this in a really long time. So ...   Okay. Let me see. You ready for the Radiolab?  Yes ready.  Yup everybody come on in.  Awesome!  Hi I am Lulu Miller.  And I am Latif Nasser. This is Radiolab. Today we have a story about a medical breakthrough ...  ... that is going to break the heart of one of our all-time favorite humans and guests on the show.  Hello.  Hi guys!  Hello!  Hello!    Comes to us from our producer Sarah Qari who you just heard wandering the halls of NYU's Langone Health Hospital.  So this is really exciting.  As well as our executive editor Soren ...  Wheelie Wheelie ...  Wheeler.  I can give us a start if you want me to.  Yeah. Actually yeah. You should tell us how you even had the idea.  Yeah. I mean I had the idea by someone else having had an idea that I saw their idea in a newspaper.  It is called reading.  No but like I do not know what a month ago maybe? I was reading the news. The news I was reading was the New York Times.  Heard of it.  Yeah.  Heard of it.  It was like a science section news thing and the article was basically announcing this big breakthrough.    Basically a group of surgeons had managed to put a pig kidney into a human beingand it worked.   For the first time ever the person's body did not reject the kidney which when you think about all the people waiting on kidneys you know ...  Game changer.  Yeah.  Yes.  Totally. So I am justI am reading through this article but then in the middle of it there is just a couple lines about a particular pig that they used for this kidney that drew this very weird line back to a story we had told here on Radiolab. That is when Iso I brought in Sarah to like report this whole thing out.  So I actually went to talk to the doctor who did this transplant.  Hi how is it going?  Nice to meet you. How do you do?  Good. How are you?  His name is Robert Montgomery. He is at NYU Langone Health and he is the head of transplant surgery there.  So when did it first occur to you that transplanting a pig kidney into a human would even ...  I just started with like the most basic question which is like why would you do this?  Because we do not have an adequate supply of organs for the people who need them when they need them. And so a lot of people die waiting. And so the idea of a xenotransplant ...  And he just made the argument that using animal kidneys was the best way he could think of to ...  Make a dent into that waiting list of 90000 people. And beyond that 750000 people who are on dialysis.  And do you know is this person still walking around? And is the pig still walking around?  Mmm. Good questions.  So no.  We did this transplant. And someone who had been declared brain dead who had wanted to donate their organs but were unable to donate their organs and so their family essentially donated their whole body so that we could test a xenotransplant.  Like we are gonna try this crazy thing that is never been done and see how it goes.  And determine whether this was gonna be safe to move into living humans.  I guess a proof of concept type thing.  Right.  Yeah. But the family agreed and the doctors did the transplant. And they could see you know like that it worked and the body was not rejecting the kidney. The kidney was doing it is kidney stuff. But the sort of amazing thing is ...  Actually as we sit here today the same thing happened yesterday.  While we were sitting there talking he told me ...  You know weat two in the morning we did our second xenotransplant.  We actually just did the second one. You want to see?    What?  Like happening right now?  That is happening right now. And if you wanna you know come down with me I will show you what we are doing. So ...  Whoa!  And I was like Um yes? And he took me downstairs to this big room.  Oh wow. It is like a conference room. Okay.  It was totally silent. There was like a window looking into this operating room.  Okay. Can we walk up to the glass?  And you could see just like the jumble of machines and medical equipment.  What are we looking at?  All right. So there is a ventilator over here.  And in the middle of the room you could see this person.  That is the recipient.  Lying on the table covered by this blue surgical shroud.  You can see the patient's body sort of rising and falling as they breathe.  Yeah that is the ventilator.  And they actually attached the kidney at the person's thigh because they sort of want to be able to watch it and they are not worried about the person getting up and walking around. So there is this incision at the thigh. And in that oval incision you could see the pig kidney kind of like poking out. It was like covered by plastic. And Dr. Montgomery told me that you know when a body rejects a kidney ...  The kidney will literally turn black moments after the blood goes into it.  But you could see like with this one it was bright pink and kind of amazingly just like the first one ...  Within moments it started to make urine believe it or not. And so we knew right away that it was working.  Wow!  See right where it is dripping in?  Yeah.  See how fast it is dripping? All that urine is coming out from that kidney. And you can see ...  So you know this was just the second one that worked but eventually Dr. Montgomery and his team want to get to the point where they can do clinical trials on people who are walking around and doing things and living their lives and who would hold on to this kidney.  Wow.  Allow me to presume that you have two questionswhich I think you do even if you have not said them yetwhich is like one why did this never work before?  Mm-hmm.  And then two why are we even telling you this? It is not our usual schtick to just pick up a New York Times science news article and relay that to you.  Fair.  Which brings me back to that little part of the article that piqued my interest in the beginning because the pig that they got the kidney from to do this was a very special pig. Normally pigs and other mammals that are not primates have a sugar in their body that our bodies do not have and so we do not like it or see it as foreign. And that is why usually an organ from another animal would get rejected. But this pig had been genetically modified. It had had the gene that makes that sugar removed so it did not have that sugar. Which is part of the reason this worked. And that sugar just so happens to be called alpha-gal.  Alpha-gal!  Gaaal!  Hey our old friend!  There it is! There is the Radiolab connection.  Our old frenemy.  Yeah. So here's what we are gonna do. For those of you who are not nodding along with our knowing noises we are gonna play the original alpha-gal piece. But even if you have heard it stick around because after the piece we are gonna dig more into this special pig find out how it connects back to this story in a very particular and almost maybe sort of disturbing way.  All right.  Cool. Let us do it.  Here's the original.     Good. Okay.  Is your mic on?  Yeah. I am gettingthis is making me nervous. Maybe I should get my EpiPen.  Are you allergic to radio greatness?  Not that I know of. I have not been really exposed to it yet.    Anyway let us go!  Are we rolling? We are good? We are going?  We are rolling.  Okay.  I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab. And today we are gonna begin with a conversation between Dan Pashman   Okay.  Host of a podcast here at WNYC called The Sporkful. It is about food. And Amy Pearl.  Amy?  Yes.  A digital producer here at the station who likes food.  Mmm.  And the conversation they had was about something that happened to Amy which she never expected certainly did not want and yet it could happen to any of us at any time.  So years ago before any of this happened to you just tell me what was your relationship with meat?  My relationship with meat?  Yeah.  Well you know how when you are little and your mom is like You can have any special dinner for your birthday? My dinner was meatballs. And she was like Except meatballs. They are so hard to make. So it was pot roast.    And then Peter Luger you know Peter Luger's?  Famous steakhouse in Brooklyn.  Yeah. I used to go there quite often and I live there. And I have a Peter Luger credit card.  Are those hard to get?  You know I do notI do not know how they give them out but nobody seems to have one. I do not think they give them out anymore but I mean I was very into Peter Luger. I was living in Williamsburg and it justit opened at like one oclock every day and you could just walk in at one. They had an amazing bar. There is no tablecloths on the table. These old German waiters they would bring out your porterhouse for three. They would put a little plate upside down and then put the big platter on top of it so it is tilted and all the juice runs to the end. And then they like have this special double spoon thing that they somehow like scoop juice onto your steak. And oh so good!  And also like the smell of burning fat from a hamburger.  What about hot dogs?  Oh my God. I love hot dogs so much. When you bite into them and they are like klack and have like a snap. And like having a weenie roast out in the open air it is justit is like theoh God it is so good. Anyway I was always very into meat.  What changed?  Oh my God. It was terrible. It waswhat happened was I was having this beautifulit was springtime. I was having a beautiful leg of lamb with some neighbors and we like put it on the grill and it was just a delicious beautiful dinner. And I had served with it some ramps that I foraged in my mom's yard.  A ramp by the way is just a wild onion.  And so we had this delicious meal and then you know I went home and I was going to sleep at like midnight like a few hours later. And I just felt weird. I was like Ooh God. Something's wrong. I feel like really anxious like something's wrong with me. And I went in the bathroom and I like look in the mirror and my face was like all weird looking and I was like I kept laying down and be like I will just sleep it off whatever it is. But every time I laid down I felt like I was gonna faint. So I was like prop myself up. And I was like Ugh! God I was having terrible like stomach cramps and just like a weird feeling of impending doom you know?  But just like anybody I am just like Just get a good night's sleep. This will pass. I like splashed a little water on my face. I mean I do not know what made me think this but I thought like maybe a snail a tiny snail was on one of the ramps that I ate and it was like poisoning me somehow. You know snails I mean they probably poison us.    So I called my friends in the morning and I was like Hey how you guys doing? How was dinner? And they were like Oh it was so great! And I was like Really? It was so great? Nothing weird? Like ...   No horrific panic attacks?  And they were likeand they were like Oh that was so lovely. Thank you so much. Let us do it again. Blah blah blah. And I was like Wow I really had a rough night. But I did not think anything of it and I went on with my life you know? Just like whatever. And then about a week or two later I made some cheeseburgers. And I ate a cheeseburger and I was watching Goodbye Mr. Chips a really tear-jerking movie and a good book too. And about a couple of hours after I ate I like started to feel really weird. Again I was like feeling like I waslike had to stand up. I was like I think I am gonna faint. I feel really lightheaded. I cannot catch my breath. I feel like really woozy. But any time I laid down I really felt like I was gonna faint. So I was like trying to stay sitting upright and I was like Oh my God this is very similar. And I ran into the bathroom and I was like looking in the mirror and lo and behold I had hives all over my stomach and then they started coming out on my hands. And I was like Oh my God something's happening. And at one point I did get up and unlock my door because I did feel like I am gonna pass out call an ambulance and then they are not gonna be able to get in. So I mean I was a little bit afraid of what was happening.  And when I woke up in the morning the first thing I did was Google Sudden meat allergy because I was like This seems like an allergy and the only thing that was the same was meat. And I am going through and like the second thing that came up was this article that was like Florida Man Has Sudden Meat Allergy. I was like Oh my God I think is it possible I could have this? And so I made an appointment with my doctor. I brought in the article. I am like I am going to be this person but I can do it. I had the article in my pocket.  What person?  You know the person who goes to their doctor with something I found on the internet.    So I brought the article. It was in my pocket and like I got through the whole like checkup and I was too chicken. I wentwhen I was paying the receptionist I pulled it out and gave it to the receptionist and I was like Could you give this to the doctor? So that was like the best I could do. And then I did call my doctor and had a conversation with him on the phone asking him if I could get tested. And he was like No there is no such thing as a meat allergy. Blah blah blah.  So some people think allergies are just like in your head.  This is science writer Peter Smith. We got in touch with him after we heard Amy's story because Peter is an investigator of many things including strange allergies.  And people are like mushrooms hurt them or they think ...  Wi-fi hurts them.  Yeah wi-fi hurts them. And I do not know ...  And when our producer Latif Nasser and I got into the studio and we told him about Amy's story. He said ...  Yeah. All right.  I know exactly who you need to talk to.  Hello?  Yeah hi!  Thomas Platts-Mills.  This is Thomas Platts-Mills. That is right.  How are you?  I am very well.  Dr. Platts-Mills is down at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. He is a professor and he works at an allergy clinic.  In an allergy clinic we are constantly sifting through stories which not only you do not believe but are actually nonsense. It is simply ...  And he told us in the last 10 years or so he started hearing lots of stories just like Amy's.  Right.  Somebody shows up at the office convinced that they are allergic all of a sudden for no apparent reason to red meat.  The first time I heard it was probably as early as 2004.  And every single time he heard the story he would tell the patient exactly what Amy's doctor told her.  No.  No way.  No no no.  It is not possible.  Right.  So what was wrong with these complaints you know in an orthodox medical way?  Oh everything.  Everything.  Adults do not become allergic to something they have eaten for 40 years out of the blue and certainly not red meat.  So you are basically saying to these patients I think you must be making this up because I cannot explain it  I do not use language like that.  I say There there.  I was trying to give you your inner voice.  Oh you do not want to know what doctors are thinking in their inner voices. You know you often think in the middle of an interview Is it possible that he is got you know some ghastly disease?  Mad cow.  Yeah you know?  The point is that when he would hear a story like Amy's he just ...  Did not believe it.  But then everything changed. Thanks oddly enough to a cancer drug.  This new cancer drug called cetuximab.   This is the very drug that got Martha Stewart in all that trouble for insider trading.  You remember that? And went to jail for six months?  Yeah.  Anyway very promising exciting new drug. But then ...  Doctors were giving people this injection and they would just like end up on the floor of the doctor's office.  In shock?  Yeah they would be in anaphylactic shock.  Their hearts would start beating faster they would get short of breath they would get stomach cramps. Their immune system would start to overreact to something new and alien that came in with the drug. Basically a classic allergic reaction.  So the mystery lands on Thomas Platts-Mills's desk.  Yes. So we were asked to look at cetuximab.  To see if they could figure out what was causing the reaction.  And he tests two groups of blood a control sample and then people that have this allergy.  And he quickly zeroed in on a particular molecule a sugar that was part of the drug.  This sugar galactose-alpha-1 3. Galactose or alpha-gal.  Alpha-gal?  Yeah.  As in a particularly great lady? Better than the Beta or Gamma gals?    Yeah it is like alpha male but alpha female did not quite have a ring to it.  Anyway it seemed like alpha-gal was the culprit.  Yeah and if you would told me four years earlier that there is a whole lot of people out there who are allergic to this sugar I would have thought you were smoking you know vaping again.  Because not only does this sugar alpha-gal show up in the cancer drugand this is where we get back to Amyit also shows up in the blood of mammals.  All non-primate mammals.  So every time you eat ...  ... lamb ...  ... or ...  ... beef goat camel.  Even ...  Tripe.  Or ...  Pig's kidneys.  You are also eating alpha-gal.  So I am reading this article and it says like it is this thing called alpha galactose or alpha-gal or whatever.  So it made no sense that someone like Amy who would been eating meat all her life would suddenly somehow be allergic to alpha-gal.  I just was like this was so stupid.  So one day ...  It is getting to be barbecue season. I usually have like a couple of barbecues where I just do a whole pork butt and a brisket like hang out all day doing it. And I was like very wanted to do that. And I was like I am just gonna not eat meat and not even know? So I was like Forget it. My doctor will not test me. I am gonna test myself. So I was gonna be very careful. I got a thing of Benadryl. And I was like I am not gonna do it alone. I will do it with my mom. My poor mom.  And so I went up to my mom's and she is like really into food too. So she was like Oh this is so exciting! I got two porterhouse steaks on sale at Stu's.   Did you explain to her what you were testing?  Yeah I did because I had talked a little bit about it with her. So like fire up the grill do the porterhouse. I even think I like Instagrammed it as a joke. Like Ha ha ha. This might be the last time you hear from me. But you know we are having a nice summer day just me and my mom having our steak. I only ate like a couple bites because I was slightly nervous. And I was like sitting in the grass with my dog and reading a book and trying to think like do I feel normal? Which try it folks. It is hard to figure out. When you start asking yourself Do I feel normal? Does thisam I breathing? Does my stomach hurt? Is something wrong? And I was like after a while I was like I feel pretty good.  And the neighbor came over and was like chatting with us and it was in the middle of that conversation where I was like I kind of feel like I have to go the bathroom. But maybe I just have to go the bathroom. So I went to the bathroom and I was sitting there and I was like Oh God something feels bad. I am and then I was like Oh God I definitelythis is not right. Something's wrong. And I went in to get the Benadryl and I took the Benadryl and I went on my bed in the guest room at my mom's house. I was like sitting on there and I was like I just do not feel right. Maybe if I just take a deep breath. I will just stand up. Maybe I will just put my hands over my head like this. Oh that does feel slightly better I think. Then I was finally like I think we should go to the hospital.  And I went outside. I was like Mom I think you have to drive me to the hospital. She was like talking to her neighbor like What? Oh my God honey! What? Oh let me go change my clothes. Change my clothes. Like Mom you know she is not wearing the hospital-level clothes. So I am like Okay Hurry up mom. Mom are you ready? Mom? And then I was like while she was changing her clothes I suddenly was like Oh my God. Got my wallet out and my cell phone and I like threw it towards my mom's bedroom door. And I was like Here's my insurance card. Call an ambulance! And I just like hit the floor.  Eventually the ambulance arrives and I got stabilized. I was strapped to the thing. I was in the emergency room. Like they were shooting me full of I do not know what epinephrine and adrenaline. And the little like 12-year-old emergency room doctor runs in and he was like I looked it up on the internet. Alpha-gal. Fascinating! What? That is terrible. I have never heard of that. Could it be true? Yes it is true. Like they are all having this discussion there. Then when I went back to my doctor after that I was like Hey just got out of the emergency room because they tested me for alpha-gal and I am allergic to meat.  So this is an allergy.  Yeah.  So all of a sudden you are looking at the quote crazies and they are not so quote crazy anymore.  Absolutely. We suddenly had a blood test. And of course what turned out is all these patients who would been telling us this story were allergic to alpha-gal.  But ...  But ...  ... it is still like a mystery.  Right. There are patients ...  Thomas Platts-Mills could not figure out why people like Amy who had lived for 40 years eating porterhouse steaks at Peter Luger's with a credit card why would she suddenly develop an allergy now? There has got to be some kind of trigger.  Yes. So we were looking for anything that could explain it.  It could be a mold. It could be a nematode.  A worm or a fungus.  But then he looked again and noticed that all the people who had had bad reactions to the cancer drug ...  They were in a particular area of the country. It was Virginia North Carolina Southern Missouri Tennessee Arkansas. No cases in Salt Lake City. No cases in Denver. Just smatterings down the West.  So he turned to his technician Jake and he said ...  I said You have got to Google every map you can find and say what matches that area?  Creatures or diseases that appear wherever the allergy appears. So Jake starts Googling.  Googling and Googling and Googling. And ...  And eventually he comes across a map that ...  Matches where the cases are very beautifully. The maximum area for Rocky Mountain spotted fever.  So he made this little map and it is like the shaded dark areas of the country are places with Rocky Mountain spotted fever. And then there is like some stars where you know this allergy had appeared.  Yeah.  And they overlap.  Ah very interesting.  And then all of a sudden it clicks. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a tick-borne disease.  This is the distribution of the lone star tick.  And actually just a little before this it turns out an allergist down in Australia Sheryl van Nunen ...  First name Sheryl. S-H-E-R-Y-L. Van Nunen. V-A-N and then N-U-N-E-N. And I am from the Tick-Induced Allergies Research and Awareness Center in Sydney Australia.  She says she was now being visited by all kinds of people who claim suddenly to be allergic to meat.  And whenever I take a history so for example I would ask them was there a family history of rhinitis eczema asthma stinging insect allergy and they would say they have all been bitten by ticks.  When we started asking patients we suddenly heard the stories just out the kazoo.  But at this point Dr. Platts-Mills all he has is a map some stories and a hunch.  Right.  So ...  So what does he do?  He decideswell maybe I will just do this to myself.  He does what?  He decides to test it on himself.  Oh my God!  He sort of like denies that he did it intentionally.  I know I had no intention.  I mean heI think he also likes to walk and amble and think about things.  Right.  So he goes for a long walk along the Blue Ridge Mountains.  And I knew I wanted to be off trail because I am actually rather allergic to humans.    So he is walking and walking and walking and along the way ...  Ah.  ... he bumps into a whole bunch of ticks.  And if you walk into a nest of those things ...  Oh my God this sounds like a nightmare.  Yeah absolutely. I got 200 seed ticks.  Oh boy.  And then in November of that year I was taken out to dinner. And the lamb chops were particularly delicious and the French wine was delicious. And six hours later I woke up covered in hives.  He is got an allergy to red meat.  All just because of a ...  Tick bite.  Tick bite.  That is right.  We will bite you right back after this.   I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab. Now we go back to Amy just when she is discovered that the allergy to meat that she is developed comes from a tick bite.  A tick bite? Hang on a second. Because like a few weeks before all this started happening as I said I was foraging for ramps in my mom's backyard and I had a tick on my arm.  Now it turns out that not only was that tick bite a terrible thing for Amy it was a kind of double tragedy.   And I think it is only right at this point to back up ...   ... and consider the story from the tick's point of view.  Okay so I am Graham Hickling. I am a wildlife disease ecologist at the University of Tennessee.  So I was wondering if you could help us tell the story of in this case of the lone star tick that bit Amy.  Oh yeah sure. So they start off in this little pile of eggs perhaps a mass of 2000 eggs under the leaves.  The proud mom who just gave birth ...  At that point she is just a kind of a withered husk.  Meaning dead. But anyway ...  A few weeks later those eggs will hatch and this mass of 2000 baby ticks emerge from under the leaves.  And could I see them with my naked eye?  If you ran into a mass of them all up together you would feel like you have got a little smudge of dirt and then the dirt starts walking.    And so they will just climb up and they will you know potentially all be on the same leaf or the same twig looking for something to feed on.  Now one teeny little tiny problem for these teeny little tiny ticks ...  Is that they dry out.  So when they come up from under the leaves they come up ...  ... briefly ...  ... and then they go back down get a little water come back up get thirsty go back down ...  ... and rehydrate.  So they like commute?  Exactly. And we refer to the behavior as questing.  Oh questing!  Questing.  So if you were one of these little baby ticks up questing for food ...  While you are up there you are essentially Velcro.  Because on each one of your little legs ...  You have little kind of hook-like structures. And so you are flat against the leaf.  Sort of sniffing in the air with your two little front legs.  That can detect CO2 heat movement.  So let us say one day you are sitting there on your leaf and you pick up the scent of a nearby mouse.  Mice are the potato chips of the ecosystem. Everything eats them.  Which means you might be about to have your very first meal. So you ...  ... basically stand up ...  ... stretch out all your little legs ...  ... and do a tick dance. And so it is kind of interpretive dance-like movements.  ... while you are waiting for that mouse to come just close enough that you can grab onto it. So you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting.  To be honest you are probably going to wait your entire life and die unfulfilled because there are 2000 of you starting off and a stable tick population there is only going to be two of you that survive.  Oh my gosh!  So 1998 little baby ticks are born ...  ... and then that is it for them.  But let us say that you are one of the lucky ones. And one sunny day there you are hanging out on your little leaf when you detect two incoming mammals. One is a 40-year-old hominid the other is her dog. So you perk up you thrust your legs out ...  ... wave do the tick dance.  And say that you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and slowly the dog's getting closer and closer and closer. And you reach out with one of your tiny little limbs so you can grab on and eat and survive. But ...  But the reason that tick ended up on me was I slept in bed with my dog naked. I mean she is always naked but I was also naked. I mean that is not gross. I mean does that sound weird?  No but how do you know that is when it happened?  Because I know that like I did a good tick check on myself and I took a shower and everything. And then in the middle of the night I woke up with an itching sensation. And I went to the bathroom and I could not really see what was onlike something was on the back of my arm and it was a tick.  So as the tick is biting into Amy what is it giving Amy that is gonna make her allergic to meat?  Well actually I need to stop you there Robert.  Hmm difficult one Robert.  I do not know the answer to that. Hmm.  That is Peter Smith and ...  Well ...  ... rejoining us is Sheryl van Nunen the scientist.  It is all up for speculation.  We do not really know. But here's the theory. So ...  Normally when you eat a piece of meat you put alpha-gal in your stomach and your stomach digests it and it is in your body and it is no big deal.  But the tick cunningly ...  ... will drill into you poke into you ...  ... and injects ...  ... its saliva.  We will call that tick spit.  ... tick spit into its victims.  Straight into its victim's largest organ ...  ... the skin.  And tick spit has an anti-clotting factor an anesthetic anti-inflammatory compounds.  And ...  ... we think ...  ... the alpha-gal.  Now Peter says the thing about the skin is ...  ... the skin is like this enormous like surveillance system.  It is always on the lookout for invaders. So when the alpha-gal comes through your skin covered by all that bad bad tick spit stuff ...  That is gonna really like set off your immune system.  The immune system freaks out.  Like oh! Uh-uh!  And the alpha-gal covered now in bad spit almost sort of ...  ... by mistake ...  ... gets labeled bad. And now it is on the bad guy watch list. So ...  ... therefore ...  ... the next time you eat meat ...  ... the meat comes in ...  ...and then ...  ... the body unleashes wave upon wave upon wave of chemical attacks ...  ... to do battle against this alpha-gal.  And this reaction gets way out of hand. You got so many antibodies multiplying multiplying multiplying multiplying making yourather in this case Amy feel just horrible.  Right.  I mean it is very weird. It sounds like a science fiction movie. It sounds like the beginning of a science fiction at least kids' book let us not go to movie. But like it is just strange.  Which all goes to say that this really is a kind of double tragedy for Amy and her tick.  Yeah because ticks did not evolve to bite humans.  Right. We are a mistake.  Like we have opposable thumbs.  We are either gonna pull them off ...  I actually woke my mom up and she helped get it off.  ... or if they drop off they are gonna drop off in an airport terminal or a Walmart car park or somewhere like that.  Or a shag carpet.  Or a shag carpet indoors. Andand they are doomed.  And for us well we lose something that historically anyway is a big part of who we are.  Yeah because we havewe adapted in the grand evolutionary scheme of things to like eat flesh to eat meat.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean I am actually sitting here picturing a steak. But actually the thingI mean hot dogs. Like wrap ramps around a weenie and roast. Yum that sounds so good my mouth's watering.  Weenies and ramps.  Yeah.  But I am going to my allergist tomorrow because I didyou know I was reading about this allergy a lot when I first got it and I read that for some people the allergy can fade away. So I am gonna get a blood test to see what my blood level of alpha-gal is. So I am a little ...  So what are you hoping for tomorrow?  I want to be normal again.  That was the end of the Dan and Amy conversation. She was gonna go to the doctor get herself tested find out whatever. So we asked her back in ...  Okay.  ... to find out what happened.  So I actually did get an appointment with my allergist. Dr. Corn.  Her name is Dr. Corn. She is really nice. So I got the appointment I got the blood draw whatever. And a few days later my doctor called me and she said that my numbers were still really high. And I was like Well how high are they? And she was like Three. And I was like Three? That is not high. And she is like They are supposed to be like one or something. So they had gone down but they were still you know many times more than they should be. So ...  But when you left and you were waiting for the call were you waiting with the hope that you would soon be eating a bit of hot dog?  I mean honestly I was hoping no.  No?  No.  Wait a second you are the big the great ...  No I was afraid that she would be like Oh my God your numbers are so low. I think you could probably eat meat. And let us do a food challenge. And I would be like Ahh! Because like that is such a scary memory. Yeah I do notyou know actually just the other night I was eating at an Indian place and I was eating vegetarian but like I felt something and I pulled it out and in the dim light of an Indian restaurantlike why are they all lit like that? I was like Was this bacon? And I suddenlyyou know like you just get this drop in your stomach and I am like What time is it? Four hours from now if I and you know because there is something about it being delayed that makes it so difficult. It just is like ...  Like a suspense movie where you are the victim.  It is like it could happen in the next three hours. Or maybe not. I do not know. I mean honestly the only thing thatthe real reason I want to be able to eat meat is so that I will be prepared to eat it in case of emergency. I mean I went on a canoe trip in the Adirondacks and I was like Well what happens if I get stranded out here? And like what if I have to hunt but I cannot even eat meat? I would have to hunt fish. But then when the lake freezes over what would I eat? I cannot survive. Something's wrong with me! I feel evolutionarily challenged. This is what I think about before I go to bed every night would I be able to survive if I had just what is on me right now a pen underwear my dog? And so I mean that is a real issue. It is not a real issue obviously. It is never gonna happen I live in Brooklyn. But I do for some reason I always think like I want to be prepared in case. But I do not think I would go back to eating meat necessarily.  Like you are still more frightened than game so to speak.  Well also like I wish I could be a vegetarian for ethical reasons because it is not so much just the eating meat but just like you know the factory farming and that kind of stuff so I feel like morally superior now. I can be like Well I do not eat red meat. Of course I am forced to not eat it but at the same time I would if I had theif I had the willpower I would probably go that way anyway. And then also I think it is great. It is like we are all evolving to be on this planet which is getting harder to be on. And we know that meat takes a lot of resources. And like now I do notnow I am not doing that. So like the tick is helping me evolve into a better human being.  Like so one could instead of thinking of the tick as your teeny weeny irritating enemy you could think of it as a guiding light making the world safer to share with your fellow Earthlings.  Yeah.  So you may have lost your relationship with meat but at least you have your moral superiority.  Yeah. I mean I am superior.    Yeah.  So huge thanks to Amy Pearl for telling a story which never stoppednever stopped being scary and wonderful. And to the fellow who brought her into the room Dan Pashman whose podcast The Sporkful it is all about food in every conceivable way. Like he talks about eating it preparing it worrying about it as you have heard getting sick from it getting fat from it whatever. And you can find his show on iTunes or Stitcher or on the internet at Sporkful.com.  And this story was produced by Annie McEwen and Matt Kielty with reporting help from Latif Nasser. See you next time.     All right. So that was the original piece. We are gonna take a quick break now but when we come back Sarah and Soren are gonna follow the thread from Amy's allergy to this brand new genetically-modified pig that can help a human who needs a kidney and also maybe solve Amy's problem.  Or maybe make it worse.  Stick with us.  Latif.  Lulu.  Sarah? Soren?  Yep.  Yep.  Okay so as we learned at the top of the show five years after we ran that story some doctors at NYU successfully transplanted a pig kidney into a human patient. And one of the reasons that worked was because the pig that the kidney came from had been genetically modified to not have alpha-gal the alpha-gal sugar in its body.  It is really only the food that was kind of eluding us because we have known and have also been pursuing various medical device applications of the GalSafe pig. You know we have had conversations ...  So I actually called up the company that makes this pigthey call it the GalSafe pig. The company itself is called Revivicor.  Started out as the US division of the Scottish company that cloned Dolly the Sheep.  Oh!  Oh!  The UK company that did Dolly the Sheep this is sort of like their American offshoot.  Got it.  Yeah.  Okay.  And from there we actually cloned the world's first pigs.  So anyway I talked to David Ayares. He is the company's chief science officer. And also John Bianchi.  Lead product development enterprises at Revivicor. And I also am in charge of regulatory affairs.  So at what pointand either of you can take thisat what point did you guys realize okay ...  And I just wanted to ask them like okay you made this pig for all these medical transplant reasons but did you know about the whole food side of things?  I will take this one Dave unless ...  Sure.  I am the poor sap that had to work with the FDA. I should not say that. It was a very collaborative effort with the FDA.  And they told me that while they were in the middle of getting FDA approval for this pig to be used for medical reasons they heard a certain radio show.  After listening to the Radiolab episode the original episode and listening to Amy Pearl we thought Hmm why not just expand the application to include food?  We realized that the pigs we had developed so that their organs would not be rejected would also be a food source for these patients that have the alpha-gal allergy or the red meat allergy.  Okay wait. So hearing Amy Pearl on our show had something to do with thinking Oh we should make this a food product?  It was absolutely a motivation of mine after listening to Amy.  What?  No!  Yeah. Totally.  Yes. So now because of Amy Pearl and her story this pig is now FDA approved for medical devices and things like that and transplants but also for food. To use the meat of those pigs to make pork products that like people with alpha-gal syndrome can eat.  Wow!  So of course we immediately called up Amy Pearl and were like ...  Amy Pearl Amy Pearl Pearl Pearl Pearl.  Hi!  Hello.  We got something to tell you.  Look at this!  Oh no.  Oh my God!  How do you always have like tiny little bundles of cuteness in your life?  When we talked to her she had a couple of really small foster kittens scrambling up and down her shoulders and mewing in the background.  So we explained to her the whole deal. There is this pig that does not have alpha-gal that is being used for transplants.  From which you could make meat that would be safe to eat for people like you Amy Pearl.  Ah. That is kind ofI mean I justI feel kind of disgusted.  Hmm.  Because it is been a long time long time since I have had pork or beef. I have found plenty of delicious things to eat that are not bacon.  And she said that you know even if there is now some pork that is totally safe she still feels sort of the same way she did at the end of the original show which is that she is kind of just over red meat.  I have kind of moved on from it honestly. And ...  And happily it sounds.  Yeah. I feel like it is better for my peace of mind it is better for my health it is better for the planet's health. And I feel lucky and happy. It is kind of like ...  But then of course you know we had to tell her that you know we talked to the guys at Revivicor and that she and her story were sort of an inspiration for this meat becoming available to people.  I will just play you a clip of something they said to me.   Oh God. Great. I mean it is so funny.  Oh well. But it is fine. I mean I guess he sounds like such a nice guy.  Say more. Say more in what you are feelwhat were you thinking as you heard it? You sort of like hung your head.  I mean I was thinking that ...  Never should have gone on Radiolab?   No I am just like always thinking misanthropic things. But I was thinking like here's a person who is like hears me just like talking about how delicious meat is and juices and they are like Yeah! I love meat too! And they are like She seems sad! I am gonna make meat for her! And then it is like But I actually do not reallyI actually Anyway I can make it for you! I figured it out! I have the hammer! But I actually do not want It is okay I am making it! Here it is!  I think she felt like because of her they would gone and solved this problem that she did not even really want solved.  It is just kinda like you would like go to some kind of special FDA store to buy some special genetically-modified pork just so you could have a bite of some kind of meat. I mean it just was likeI do not know. Do you guys ever get into philosophy? You everit is just like immediately when you say Oh they created this pig that you canthat alpha-gal people can eat my next thought is like What is the meaning of life? Why am I here?    Wait. Why?   Do you think you could close the gap between those two for us a little bit? Like what are some intermediate steps?  Yeah.  Because it is like well is that good or bad? Well I guess it is good for people who want to eat pork but it is bad for the pig. It just immediately brings to mind you know how to live. Do you live to satisfy your desires and be happy? Or do you live to not harm others? Or why are we even here? Are pigs below us? Are they above us? Is it okay to put a pig first? Like what if someone's kid is dying of kidney cancer?  Well see thatthat is now how like you know this question has another whole layer because it is not just that they made a pig for people who got bit by a tick but wish they could still have a hot dog. They also then it turns out made a pig that like could maybe have a kidney that could save a life where there is no other kidney available. Or maybe in the future more and more and more things like that.  But it is justit is just like when you start thinking about breeding animals just for organs for people it is like re-deciding all over again like should we be eating another animal that might be intelligent? It is like you are just answering all those questions again but for another purpose because like you can get organs like kidneys out of other people and they areit is like safe and ...  I mean yeah that is a good point. And I asked this guy this doctor about this. And you know was sort of pushing him on like whylike you have just opened the door to like a whole new way of exploiting animals. And I think his thingwhich I am convinced by honestlyis like look there are 90000 people right nowright nowthat need a kidney. And when it comes to like making the decisions for yourself or for a loved one if you are like They need a kidney. And you have the option to put a pig kidney in them? You are like That is not even a question. You know we eat millions of pigs anyway. I guess on balance I feel okay. You know ...  I mean I totally agree with you why do not they just make a fake kidney?  Yeah I mean I ...  I mean if somebodylike imagine humans did not think like Oh it is okay to taketo like kill an animal just to get its kidney for someone else.  Yeah.  It was like not even something that crossed their mind. We would have invented a plastic kidney by now probably.  So at this point in the interview unfortunately we actually had one more thing that we had to tell Amy that we learned from the guys at Revivicor.  Also Amy I do have to tell you something that you might like even less.  What? They named thethey named the pig Amy before they hit it with the hammer?  Yeah. Yeah they did.  What?  Yeah.  Are you kidding us? Are you kidding?  No.  No I am not. I am not kidding.     What did they name? The one who donated the kidneys?  No no. So the first ...  The first one that they ...  The first one that they slaughtered for meat.  I see. I see.   They named it Amy. And unofficially. But theyou know.  Okay.  They did yeah.  I mean I can see why they picked something that was like motivating for them. Like humanizing and motivating in their like quest to solve this thing that they decided was a good problem to put their thoughts behind.  Mm-hmm.  I mean it cannot bother me. I cannot let myself think about that poor poor poor poor poor living creatures that suffer.  Yeah. But I do think it is goodI am grateful that like you are holding the position of making all of us think twiceincluding me. Like I think I have been part of the like Oh this is a breakthrough! And look at the pig kidney in the human and the heart is beating! And everything is working! It is so cool! And I do think that it is really helpful that you are reminding me there is a cost to this that we should not ignore and thatyou know that we should challenge our imaginations almost to imagine a world where we do not have to exploit these pigs and find another way.  There could be some young budding scientist that'ill listen to this version of the story and come up with an artificial kidney and name it Amy.  That would be great. That would be great.   Yeah I think that is the only way to make this right.  It is funny to think that there is likeI mean how big was this pig at the end? Like usually pigsI guess when they slaughter them for meat maybe they are smaller. But like I met a pig in Vermont that was like 800 pounds. And I gave her a whole watermelon. And to her it was like ...  Like a gumdrop? Gulp. Thanks.  Yeah. I mean it wasshe was just giant. I took a hoe. I was like scratching her back with a hoe and it just looked like a little toothbrush on her and she was like Ah that feels so good! I mean I wonder if Amy got to be that big.  I do not know.  I wonder.  800-pound Amy. Pretty formidable. Watch out!  .  I am just like now wishing I could change places with her and then I will have done my time. And like I would have now be like left the mortal coil and she would be sitting here in this interview with her pig intelligence which is plenty for this probably.   Do you think she could raise those kittens? And then she would end up on like one of those unlikely friendship calendars where it is like Look at the pig raising the kittens!   Exactly.  Yeah.  I wonder if there is a resemblance?  What an incredible turn of events.  What are you thinking?  I am just thinking about like Amy the pig going about her business you know with no thought to any of this. Just imagining like Oh it is so warm here in the mud I am gonna stay here for a little while. Oh I am hungry. I am gonna go check out the trough for a while. Just like that kind of ...  Mm-hmm.  ... that kind of living. I do not know. When your brain hurts you just have to like retreat to your body.  Hmm.  Yeah.  Thank you Amy Pearl for coming on the show again and making us think more deeply than we were. Again.  This update to the episode was reported and produced by Sarah Qari. And also thank you to Amy the pig.  Thank you Amy the pig. I am Lulu Miller.  I am Latif Nasser.  Latif I just wanted to say before they cut us off here that that whole story was a real oink uroboros of a tale.  That is not a joke that people are gonna get I think I am afraid.  It is like a uroboros is this snake that is eating its tail.  It is partly because I have always pronounced it Ouroboros.  Okay. Well oink ouroboros of a tale. Pig tail.      Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of programming is the audio record.