 01 Hi everybody this is Craig from Washington DC. Radio Lab is supported by HSS the number one hospital in the country for orthopedics for nine straight years according to US News and World Report. With locations in Nassau Westchester Bergen and Fairfield Counties the best is now nearby. Learn more at hss.edu.  22 WNYC Studios is supported by the Metropolitan Opera presenting their new podcast Aria Code. The neon-lit production of Verdi's Rigoletto returns followed by Falstaff with Ambrogio Maestri. Also on stage Mozart's Don Giovanni and Kathleen Turner in La Fille du Regiment. And soon Wagner's complete Ring Cycle. Metopera.org.  48 You are listening to Radio Lab from Public Radio WNYC and NPR. Louis Garcia 55 What we have over the criminal is the criminal actually thinks he is destroyed all the evidence. It is never all destroyed. Ever ever ever never. Robert Krulwich 05 This is Lou Garcia. Louis Garcia 07 I recently retired from New York City Fire Department as the chief fire marshal. So I have spent 25 years of my life looking at fires and investigating the causes of fires. Robert Krulwich 18 How many fires do you think you have seen? Louis Garcia 20 Oh tens of thousands of fires. Robert Krulwich 22 You have seen tens of- Louis Garcia 24 Yes absolutely. Robert Krulwich 24 You you you? You yourself? Louis Garcia 26 Yeah. Robert Krulwich 27 When he tells me a story ... Louis Garcia 28 There was this is a true story I am not going to get too many details about it but there was a fire in an area of New York City. Robert Krulwich 33 It was in an apartment building in the South Bronx. Louis Garcia 35 As I pulled up to this building- Robert Krulwich 36 The fire was already over when Lou got to it. Louis Garcia 39 There were people in the street and we are questioning people. Robert Krulwich 43 People are saying Well in the apartment where the fire was there was this brave guy. Somehow he would gotten in there and he was pouring water- Louis Garcia 49 ... Pouring water on the fire- Robert Krulwich 51 ... Trying to get the fire out. This guy was really something. Louis Garcia 53 You know and he is a hero right now. Everybody's telling me what a hero he is. Everything they were saying in the street about this man was wrong. Robert Krulwich 05 So he walks into the apartment he looks around and he knows right away- Louis Garcia 08 ... Where the fire started. Robert Krulwich 11 How? Louis Garcia 11 Well you just look at the fire patterns. Robert Krulwich 15 And he could tell that the fire started first of all in the bedroom with a mattress. Louis Garcia 20 The mattress the mattress. Now mattresses go up if you put a match to it. Robert Krulwich 24 Really? Louis Garcia 24 Yeah. Robert Krulwich 25 Do not you have to put gasoline on the mattress? Louis Garcia 26 No no no. Robert Krulwich 27 You can just put a match onto a mattress and it will catch- Louis Garcia 30 Fire yes if you hold it there long enough yeah. Robert Krulwich 32 And he also knew that the mattress had been placed upright against the wall. Louis Garcia 35 You could tell by the fire pattern that it was standing on end. Jad Abumrad 38 Wow he can even know what position the mattress was in? Louis Garcia 40 Yes absolutely. Believe me. Robert Krulwich 41 So he meets the woman whose apartment this is. Louis Garcia 44 She shows up- Robert Krulwich 45 And he says to her So do you know this fellow who was putting out the fire? She says Yes as a matter of fact I do. Louis Garcia 50 It just so happens that- Robert Krulwich 51 He used to live with me but I kicked him out. Louis Garcia 55 And he still had a key by the way. And- Robert Krulwich 58 She now says I have a new boyfriend. So Garcia naturally goes and finds the hero. Louis Garcia 05 So now I am questioning this fellow. I said By the way did you buy that mattress? And he said Yes I did. And you were not sleeping on it anymore. Was someone else sleeping in the mattress in your place? And he says Yeah well she had a boyfriend. I said Boy I would be pissed. How much did it cost you? Like four 500 dollars? He said No more than that. It was like 800. Louis Garcia 24 I said So now she is screwing somebody else on the mattress you bought? I would be pissed. I said You know if it was me if I were in your place I would want this mattress to burn. I would probably stand it on end I would take matches matches and I would put it to the mattress. That is what I would do. And in fact I am an expert on fires and I know that is what you did. You really did do that did not you? You can talk about it. I do not blame you. I mean at least you tried to put it out. That'ill work in your favor in court. Louis Garcia 58 And he looks at me and he said Well you are not so smart. I said Why? He goes I used a lighter. Louis Garcia 08 I said Oh you are right. I am not that smart. Then they put the cuffs on him. Jad Abumrad 16 Okay so that was an easy one. We are going to have some harder ones coming up. Louis Garcia 19 Yep. Robert Krulwich 19 The point is the whole hour we are going to be addressing the same problem. We will walk into one situation after another and discover that something is not right here. Jad Abumrad 27 That is right. Something's not right with my son. What do I do? Something's not right with my pancreas. What do I do? Something's not right with the very phrase Something's not right because it presumes that I know what is right and maybe I do not. Have we confused you enough? Robert Krulwich 40 Well there is a whole lot of abnormal things coming your way. This is Radio Lab. Jad Abumrad 45 I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 46 And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 47 Stay with us. Jad Abumrad 53 Okay so this first story is about delivering a diagnosis. Comes to us from producer . It is about two doctors. Start with that phrase Something's not right here and end up going on a crazy adventure after a cure for a deadly disease. Robert Krulwich 08 Which is that? Jad Abumrad 09 Pancreatic cancer. Robert Krulwich 10 Oh that is not good. Lu Olkowski 12 It is the most deadly cancer. This is the one that people have nightmares about. Jad Abumrad 16 Why? It is deadly how? Lu Olkowski 18 Well it is rare but it is deadly. It is the one where something's wrong you go to the doctor and they say you have six months to live. Jad Abumrad 26 Wow is it that fast? Lu Olkowski 27 It usually is that fast. Jad Abumrad 29 And how did you find this out? Lu Olkowski 32 I found this out because my friend Amy said I have got a friend named Doctor Teri Brentnall. She made a big scientific discovery and you should go to her press conference. This will be amazing. Like go. And I go to the press conference. Teri Brentnall 45 It is just a tremendous pleasure to be here today. Lu Olkowski 47 It is not like press conferences are kind of never amazing. Teri Brentnall 51 And I hope to unfold a story for you. I hope it will capture your attention. It is a fascinating story. Lu Olkowski 57 Then I heard this incredible story. Teri Brentnall 59 About 10 years ago- Teri Brentnall 01 One morning- Teri Brentnall 02 A 40 year old guy came into my clinic. Teri Brentnall 05 Mr. X. Teri Brentnall 06 He is just finishing my- Teri Brentnall 07 Very healthy looking. And he comes into my clinic and he says I am worried I am going to get pancreatic cancer. That I am going to get the curse in my family. It was like good gooby what are you talking about? And he said Well in my family my father got pancreatic cancer and my grandfather and my four uncles and my three cousins. Jad Abumrad 29 Wow four uncles three cousins father grandfather all die of pancreatic cancer? Lu Olkowski 34 And this guy was sure he was next in line. Teri Brentnall 36 His uncles and his father looked like the healthiest people in the world and six months later they are dead. Lu Olkowski 42 He was terrified. Teri Brentnall 42 He came to me as an act of desperation. Lu Olkowski 48 I mean it is not a feeling I guess that maybe I know or you know but what happened when he walked in is Teri she knew exactly how he felt. Teri Brentnall 56 You cannot even process anything. You are just almost in a trance. Lu Olkowski 01 She would gone through that before. Teri Brentnall 03 Completely and utterly alone. Lu Olkowski 05 She was diagnosed with breast cancer when she was 34. Teri Brentnall 07 It is a sense of falling it is truly a sense of falling. The world slides away from you. You literally ... It is almost like it disappears from underneath you. Lu Olkowski 19 When she got the news the first thing her doctor did he was a friend of hers ... Teri Brentnall 23 He pulled out the whiskey and he put it on the table and we each had a shot. Which I was like Thank God he did that. Then he said I am not going to quit on you. We are going to fight this thing you are not alone. That is all I needed to hear. Lu Olkowski 42 When she was sitting there with patient X she knew exactly what to say. Teri Brentnall 46 You have to step forward. You cannot step back you have to step forward. Teri Brentnall 53 I was young then and so I felt like I had fixed this thing. I will take that on. I can help you I do not care how horrible it sounds. Jad Abumrad 02 What happens next? Lu Olkowski 04 Teri runs back to her office an office she shares with another doctor Mary Bronner. Mary Bronner 09 I am Mary Bronner. I am a pathologist. Teri Brentnall 12 I was like Mary Mary. Lu Olkowski 13 Says You will not believe this. Teri Brentnall 14 This guy Mr. X walked into my office- Lu Olkowski 16 And he has this outrageous this crazy family history. Mary Bronner 19 This horrible problem ... Teri Brentnall 21 Was floored ... Lu Olkowski 22 Teri had never heard- Teri Brentnall 23 That Pancreatic cancer could be inherited in families. I would never heard of anything like that. Lu Olkowski 28 Teri comes in and she is like- Teri Brentnall 29 I have got to help this guy. Lu Olkowski 30 I have to figure out what is making these people sick and Mary I need your help. Jad Abumrad 35 And Mary? What did she say? Lu Olkowski 36 Well she is a pathologist. Jad Abumrad 39 What does it mean to be a pathologist? Lu Olkowski 40 Well she is the person who physically does the diagnosis. Mary Bronner 44 When your surgeon does an operation on you or your internist takes a biopsy of you they send that tissue to me and I make it into glass slides to look at under the microscope. Lu Olkowski 58 She spends her time looking at tiny pieces of Teri's patients smeared on little slides. Mary Bronner 04 I love the emotional distance that you have in pathology. You are a step removed from the misery and it makes it so much easier for me to handle it. Jad Abumrad 16 Does she interact with patients? Lu Olkowski 18 Almost never. Mary Bronner 19 Teri was right up against the misery and she was just relaying the story to me but I can sit very comfortably at my microscope and be very objective and just look at the tissue and decide where the cancer is because I do not know these patients. Lu Olkowski 34 So you are like I have got to go do this- Teri Brentnall 35 Come with me. Mary Bronner 36 As she usually does. Lu Olkowski 38 How did you decide that Mary should join you? Teri Brentnall 42 She is my science partner. That is it. Mary Bronner 46 And I hopped in the car. Lu Olkowski 50 They decide in order to help this guy they need to go to where his family is. Teri Brentnall 54 Drove across the mountains of Washington state. A long drive. Lu Olkowski 01 They wanted to get the family together draw their blood look at their blood to see if there is something in there that is making all these people sick. Mary Bronner 11 We arrive at the little tiny town in Eastern Washington. Lu Olkowski 14 This little town called Elmo. Mary Bronner 16 They did not even have ... They are so small they do not have a single medical facility. In order to do the blood draw we basically had to use a Subway sandwich shop in town. Jad Abumrad 28 Why Subway? Lu Olkowski 29 Well it had great sandwiches. Mary Bronner 30 One of the family members worked there and asked the boss if the family could all come and these doctors could come and draw their blood and could we use the shop as the meeting place. All I remember is walking in and thinking this is small. Teri Brentnall 47 We set up a little corner booth with our box of blood drawing supplies and they sort of come in waves. Lu Olkowski 54 Uncles cousins nieces nephews- Mary Bronner 57 And they brought their kids. Teri Brentnall 58 We filled that Subway sandwich shop. Jad Abumrad 00 How many in all? Lu Olkowski 00 About 30. Mary Bronner 01 It was funny because they had not seen each other in a long time. So their like oh my God I have not seen you in ten years. It is like wow you guys only live like five miles apart. Teri Brentnall 11 We would bring them over to our little tiny booth and we would introduce ourselves. I am Teri Brentnall ... Mary Bronner 17 I am Mary Bronner. Teri Brentnall 18 I am a GI doctor. Mary Bronner 19 I am a surgical pathologist. Teri Brentnall 20 The purpose of our work today is that we are trying to find the cancer gene that causes the disease in your family. With your permission today we would like to take a small blood sample. It is about the size of two tablespoons. Mary Bronner 34 You will not get any results back from this blood test. I want to be really clear about that. It is all for us to try and find the gene. I cannot even promise that we will definitely find the gene. Here's your sandwich and now may I have some blood. Teri Brentnall 50 As we were waiting for most of the family to show up Teri and I were sitting in this one booth with one of the family members who we had already identified as having the disease. Mary Bronner 01 He was young. He was in his 30s. All I could think was you have a time bomb inside your body. Then this little boy comes running into the Subway sandwich shop just runs up to this guy that we are talking to this patient of family X. Throws his arms around his daddy's neck and kisses him and then all I could think was oh my God this beautiful little child he has a 50 chance of having this hideous disease. I was so upset about that. I was just so torn apart inside but I could not really start bawling right there in the restaurant. That would not have been professional. I held it together until we were driving home and I was telling Teri how sad I was about that little boy and how it just really hit me. She said Oh him do not worry about him. He is adopted. Lu Olkowski 14 You have to remember Mary does not come face to face with patients very often. Mary Bronner 18 It is not something a pathologist does very frequently. Pathologists have a ... I do not even know if I want to tell you this. This is sort of like the black side of pathology. Lu Olkowski 31 Black humor to get you through or what do you mean? Mary Bronner 34 Yeah. Really black humor. You know we will say things like somebody better tell this patient not to buy the big tube of toothpaste. Teri's laughing but that is why we do it because it is so horrible. Lu Olkowski 51 I spent an afternoon with Mary going through slides looking at pancreatic tissue. Mary Bronner 56 This looks pretty- Lu Olkowski 56 Trying to figure out if this person has cancer or not dozens of patients. Mary Bronner 02 Now this is another case with a terrible terrible cancer. Lu Olkowski 06 That is when I really kind of got it why she would want to keep herself distant. Mary Bronner 12 Oh this cancer is even worse than the last one. This person if they can should go to a beautiful place on planet Earth and just stay there till it is over. Jad Abumrad 31 What happened after Subway though? I mean were they able to figure out what is causing this thing? Lu Olkowski 35 Well once they got the blood they worked on it for about five years. Jad Abumrad 39 Five years whoa. Lu Olkowski 40 They went chromosome by chromosome collaborated with all these other researchers and at the end of the day they discovered that the thing that causes familial pancreatic cancer comes down to a mistake. One little mistake on one- Mary Bronner 54 One molecule. Lu Olkowski 55 ... molecule. Teri Brentnall 56 That is all it comes down to. Lu Olkowski 57 One tiny molecule yes. Teri Brentnall 00 Our discovery is ... We are titling it Paladin Mutation Causes Familial Pancreatic Cancer and suggests a new cancer mechanism. Lu Olkowski 09 So they write a paper they have a press conference. Teri Brentnall 11 First of all I want to acknowledge- Lu Olkowski 12 And they celebrate.  13 A little about me. Congratulations. Mary Bronner 17 Thank you. Jad Abumrad 18 So in the end do they find a cure? Lu Olkowski 20 Oh no not yet not yet. They are working on it though. Jad Abumrad 22 Can they at least test for it now? Lu Olkowski 24 Well they can test but ... Jad Abumrad 28 What? Lu Olkowski 29 Most pancreatic cancer is not hereditary like this. This is actually a small subset.  33 Roll up your sleeves dig out the dirt. Jad Abumrad 34 Huh. Lu Olkowski 34 Mm-hmm . Yeah. Jad Abumrad 41 So where does that leave Mary and Teri? I mean where are they now? Lu Olkowski 44 Mary's really glad that the research phase is over and that she does not have to be with patients anymore. Teri knows they have more work to do and they cannot really give up. Jad Abumrad 59 Mm-hmm . Lu Olkowski 00 But she is really tired and thinks about it a lot. Teri Brentnall 02 The stakes are so high in this. Sometimes it is almost unbearable sometimes I think I should quit. Lu Olkowski 08 Really? Teri Brentnall 10 Yeah totally. I have talked to Mary about it. Mary Bronner 11 Yeah. She has but you know what I know she will never stop doing it. Right Teri? Teri Brentnall 20 Sometimes it is just too much. Mary and I love to garden so sometimes we think about being landscape architects. Mary Bronner 32 Yeah. Teri Brentnall 32 Then the worst thing that does is oh I killed the bush. We are like you loser you killed the bush. Yeah. Jad Abumrad 57 Thanks to Lu Olkowski for reporting that story. Robert Krulwich 59 The next story concerns a dad and his little boy. There is something about this little boy that is not quite right. There is something about the dad that does not want to say so. Jad Abumrad 09 That is coming up in about a minute. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 11 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 12 Radio Lab will continue. Mary Bronner 15 Radio Lab is funded in part by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the National Science Foundation. Vera Devinye 27 This is Vera Devinye calling from sunny Denver Colorado. Fresh out of an appointment with my dentist and a wee bit numb. Radio Lab is supported by what the constitution means to me starting March 14th for 12 weeks only. Named the number one play of the year by The New Yorker and New York Magazine this boundary breaking new play breathes new life into our founding document and imagines how it will shape the next generation of American women. The New York Times says it is electrifyingly topical and Rolling Stone calls it bracing and unnervingly relevant. What the constitution means to me written by Obe award winner Heidi Shrek. Get tickets now at constitutionbroadway.com. Robert Krulwich 08 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by Capital One. With the new Capital One saver card you can earn 4 cash back on dining and entertainment. That means 4 on checking out that new restaurant everybody is talking about and 4 on watching your team win at home. You will also earn 2 cash back at grocery stores and 1 on all other purchases. So now when you go out you cash in. What is in your wallet? Kathy 34 Hey folks it is Kathy and Toben here from the Nancy podcast. Toben 38 And we want to tell you about a really exciting project we have been working on. Kathy 40 All this week we are running a series called Queer Money Matters. It is about how the economy is built for cisgender heterosexual people and what us queer folks have to do to navigate it. Toben 49 We will be covering topics like healthcare family planning marriage and retirement. Plus financial experts and our listeners weigh in. Kathy 55 So tune in on Apple Podcasts Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts. Toben 59 Or you can head over to nancypodcast.orgmoney. Thanks. Jad Abumrad 08 Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 09 And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 10 This is Radio Lab. This hour our topic is diagnosis. Robert Krulwich 13 This next story begins with a dad two sons and a question. What do you do when you notice somebody's different? I heard it from reporter Gregory Warner. Robert Krulwich 22 Hello. Gregory Warner 23 Hi. Bryon Frowner 23 Gregory? Gregory Warner 23 I am Chronicle's Gregory Warner. Bryon Frowner 25 Nice to meet you. Gregory Warner 25 Nice to meet you. Gregory Warner 27 Okay just so you know it took me over a year ... Gregory Warner 28 All right you can sit down and- Gregory Warner 29 To finally get an interview with Byron Frowner. Robert Krulwich 32 Yeah. Gregory Warner 32 Well let me start telling you I am wondering if the air conditioner- Bryon Frowner 33 I can turn it off. Gregory Warner 34 He is the dad in this story and I am up in his apartment in the South Bronx. Bryon Frowner 38 You will have to excuse all this loose paper work. Gregory Warner 42 Are you moving out or are you- Bryon Frowner 43 No it might look like that. Robert Krulwich 45 It was that messy? Bryon Frowner 46 I do not want to- Gregory Warner 46 Yeah. Gregory Warner 47 No that is good. Gregory Warner 48 Boxes everywhere crates piles of stuff. Bryon Frowner 50 Oops okay. Gregory Warner 52 Oh no do not let go. Bryon Frowner 52 Do not worry about it. Gregory Warner 53 Are you sure? Bryon Frowner 54 Yeah. Gregory Warner 54 I am sorry. Bryon Frowner 55 I will clean it up. Gregory Warner 55 It is in disarray. There is- Robert Krulwich 57 So who is this guy? Bryon Frowner 57 I am a retired electrical engineer. Gregory Warner 00 He worked for the subway most of his life. Bryon Frowner 02 Now I consider myself a science researcher. Gregory Warner 07 At 71 years old he is basically teaching himself- Bryon Frowner 10 Quantum physics. That is what all the books and stuff you see around. I love that stuff. Gregory Warner 15 He is written this book called- Bryon Frowner 16 Einstein's Error. Gregory Warner 18 Criticizing special relativity Einstein- Bryon Frowner 21 I sent it to the New York academy of scientists Caltech MIT Harvard Steven Hawkins. Still waiting for him to get back. Gregory Warner 28 Most people just ignore him. Bryon Frowner 29 These are the ravings of a maniac. Gregory Warner 31 Then he points to this letter on the wall from- Bryon Frowner 33 Neil Degrasse Tyson. Gregory Warner 35 I know that name. Gregory Warner 36 This major scientist. Robert Krulwich 37 Yes. The head of the Hayden Plantarium in Manhattan. Gregory Warner 40 Exactly yeah. It says- Bryon Frowner 41 How dare you. You are just an engineer. Gregory Warner 46 And he is beaming. Robert Krulwich 47 Why? Gregory Warner 48 Why do you smile when you talk about that letter from Neil Degrasse Tyson? Bryon Frowner 52 Because I know how foolish it is. Einstein they did not even want to read his paper. They said Who is this guy upstart he is just a patent examination clerk in Bern Gregory Warner 04 Byron Frowner is a man who is proud to go against the grain. Bryon Frowner 09 What other people do I do not really do. Gregory Warner 13 That is especially true with how he raised his sons. Bryon Frowner 16 Now Gregory you are going to do some kind of a story on Emmanuel? Gregory Warner 21 His youngest son. Gregory Warner 22 Right. Gregory Warner 22 Emmanuel. Bryon Frowner 22 Okay. Gregory Warner 23 That is why I am here. Gregory Warner 24 Mostly focusing on- Gregory Warner 25 To question him about how he raised his son. Bryon Frowner 27 All right. I would be glad to. Gregory Warner 30 Okay great. Gregory Warner 30 So here's Emmanuel. EmmanuelFrowner 30 Hi I am Emmanuel Frowner. Gregory Warner 32 Emmanuel could you take a drink of water for me. EmmanuelFrowner 34 Okay. Thank you. Gregory Warner 37 No do not thank me yeah. Take as many drinks of water as you want. Gregory Warner 40 He is 28. Gregory Warner 41 So what things are you good at Emmanuel? EmmanuelFrowner 44 Writing essays and making sure they are grammatically correct. Gregory Warner 50 Mm-hmm . EmmanuelFrowner 50 Bowling. Gregory Warner 52 As you can hear- EmmanuelFrowner 53 Analyzing stuff- Gregory Warner 54 There is something going on with him. EmmanuelFrowner 02 ... and not talking that much I guess. Gregory Warner 05 Now if you ask dad he will tell say- Bryon Frowner 08 Emmanuel's an excellent student our future Nobelist. Gregory Warner 11 He is going to win a Nobel prize. Bryon Frowner 12 You never know. Gregory Warner 13 But if you ask Blaire. Blaire Frowner 14 I am Blair Frowner. Robert Krulwich 16 Who is that? Gregory Warner 17 Emmanuel's half brother. Blaire Frowner 17 I am about 20 years older than Emmanuel. Gregory Warner 20 He will tell you that even as a little kid- Blaire Frowner 22 Very little. Gregory Warner 22 Like 5 years old- Blaire Frowner 23 There was something odd and I just did not know what it was. Gregory Warner 26 It was a bunch of little things. Blaire Frowner 27 Yeah. Gregory Warner 28 Like he would look at you really weird. Blaire Frowner 29 Kind of like a doll face expression. He could stare at me without blinking for 15 minutes at a time. I would notice because you did not blink once. There was the speech. EmmanuelFrowner 42 I did not talk as much as other people. Blaire Frowner 45 There was something going on with Emmanuel but I did not have a word for it. So I pushed several times to get speech therapy. Gregory Warner 54 But every time he did dad would just say- Bryon Frowner 56 Are you kidding? He may have trouble stumbling and stammering but- Blaire Frowner 00 He will grow out of it. I stuttered too Blaire you also stuttered. Bryon Frowner 04 Einstein he did not speak a word till he was six. He was considered retarded in school. Blaire Frowner 09 He would say that this was some temporary problem that would pass. Bryon Frowner 14 I did not see anything that was screaming out for attention. He was doing his work. He was interested in the Nicks we would go out endlessly in cold weather to the park and it seemed like things were okay. Robert Krulwich 28 What about Emmanuel? EmmanuelFrowner 30 Well I knew that I was a nicer person. Gregory Warner 34 A nicer person? EmmanuelFrowner 35 Yeah and that I was sensitive and I do not automatically look people in the eyes the face and stuff. Gregory Warner 50 So as long as Emmanuel was a little kid this was not such a big deal but then he got older. Blaire Frowner 56 He was around 10 years old- EmmanuelFrowner 58 It was I think at the point where other people would point it out. Gregory Warner 04 What did they say? EmmanuelFrowner 04 Well I have been called retarded and idiot savant the N word and stuff. Bryon Frowner 13 They lost the innocence of the elementary school. Gregory Warner 16 Emmanuel would come home with bruises on his arms. EmmanuelFrowner 18 Yeah. Gregory Warner 19 Yeah. EmmanuelFrowner 20 It was something that I constantly thought about and worried about. Blaire Frowner 23 I said Yeah well it would be really good for him to get professional help with that. Gregory Warner 27 If you ask dad he said the problem was not Emmanuel. Bryon Frowner 30 No. Gregory Warner 31 It was- Bryon Frowner 31 All the other people. Gregory Warner 32 The bullies. Bryon Frowner 34 The group. This neighborhood it was hard. There was fighting constant fighting right down the street over here. People involved with crack. These are big guys you know. I felt that it could have been a dangerous situation. Gregory Warner 51 So his solution- Bryon Frowner 52 I decided that I wanted to teach Emmanuel homeschool. Gregory Warner 56 Was just to pull his son out of school. EmmanuelFrowner 58 Yeah. Gregory Warner 59 And how do you feel about this at the time? EmmanuelFrowner 00 Well I really did not know ... Bryon Frowner 05 Up here- Gregory Warner 06 We are looking in a closet here. Bryon Frowner 07 I thought that whatever way he is kind of turned in ... Bryon Frowner 10 This is a binder from one of his classes. Bryon Frowner 12 ...that if he got bullied and tormented in going to school that it would turn him further in. Bryon Frowner 18 Let us see what this is ... Bryon Frowner 19 But that if he were here he could develop along his own line till he became old enough that they would not want to pick on him. Oh look what we turned to Nature Nurture. Gregory Warner 31 It was a big deal for dad. Gregory Warner 33 You had not homeschooled anybody else before right? Bryon Frowner 36 No I had to get books. I had to go meet the principal. Gregory Warner 39 He left his job submitted a curriculum to the school. Bryon Frowner 43 I had to register with the state of New York. Gregory Warner 46 Created this syllabus for his son. Bryon Frowner 49 Grade 10 integrated math course 11. Gregory Warner 51 They would wake up each morning- Bryon Frowner 52 Rational numbers geometry- Gregory Warner 54 ... do their lessons. Bryon Frowner 55 ... isosceles triangle equilateral triangle. Gregory Warner 57 Have some lunch ... Bryon Frowner 58 This is the work that he did at home. Gregory Warner 00 In the afternoon they would go bowling. Robert Krulwich 02 Bowling? Gregory Warner 05 Emmanuel was an awesome bowler. His dad would video tape him. Bryon Frowner 10 Today is Tuesday December ... EmmanuelFrowner 13 28th. Bryon Frowner 14 28th 1993. EmmanuelFrowner 15 Is it taping? Gregory Warner 17 It is weird footage. It is weird to watch because Emmanuel's such an incredibly good bowler. Bryon Frowner 24 Yeah he took it out beautiful shot. Gregory Warner 27 He is always by himself. Tape after tape of nothing but Emmanuel. Nobody else in the picture. Bryon Frowner 36 Now listen ... EmmanuelFrowner 38 I would fantasize about going on a tour and winning some titles and stuff. Bryon Frowner 43 Beautiful. Gregory Warner 46 Did you think about joining any youth league or anything like that? EmmanuelFrowner 50 Well I kind of ... Well I vaguely thought about it but for some reason my dad did not want me to. Bryon Frowner 03 I think you swung out. I think so. Robert Krulwich 11 Meanwhile his brother is just ... Gregory Warner 12 Blaire's in Canada. Blaire Frowner 13 At a distance. Gregory Warner 14 Yeah. He followed a girl there. One day he picks a book off the shelf- Blaire Frowner 19 The DSM. Gregory Warner 20 And the DSM is? Blaire Frowner 21 The Diagnosis Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Gregory Warner 26 Okay. Blaire Frowner 26 I started to do I guess what a lot of people would do who get a hold of this thing is to start diagnosing all of their friends. I diagnosed my girlfriend. I diagnosed my dad and then I saw- Gregory Warner 40 Right there in the page- Blaire Frowner 42 Marks impairment in the use of multiple non verbal behaviors such as eye to eye gaze repetitive behavior patterns problems seeking new friends problems being able to understand what someone must be thinking. Problems I went down this whole list and everything seemed to fit. Marked impairments in eye to eye gaze- Gregory Warner 02 The problem is every time he tried to call his dad- Blaire Frowner 04 Dad what do you think? Gregory Warner 05 His dad would say- Blaire Frowner 06 Just stop whining. Gregory Warner 07 Go away. Blaire Frowner 07 He will just go through this. Gregory Warner 08 And he shut him out. Blaire Frowner 09 Or he basically cut communication. Bryon Frowner 12 I know my son. EmmanuelFrowner 15 He would always tell me that whatever I had would go away when I was an adult. Gregory Warner 22 What does an adult mean? Does that mean 18? EmmanuelFrowner 26 20 maybe 20 lets say. Gregory Warner 28 Okay so you thought as soon as I reach the age of 20 then I will not have these problems? EmmanuelFrowner 35 Yeah. Gregory Warner 36 So did you wake up on your 20th birthday and think ... EmmanuelFrowner 39 I thought that maybe things would change right away but they did not. Gregory Warner 49 After that Emmanuel says he got really depressed. That is how things might have stayed until ... Dad had a heart attack. Blaire comes to the hospital finds dad unconscious on the bed and he realizes this is my big chance. Blaire Frowner 08 Because he was not in a position to intervene. Gregory Warner 12 And you are thinking? Blaire Frowner 13 I am thinking the first thing that is going to happen is that we are going to get a diagnosis because we had been waiting for it for so many years 26 or older or whatever. EmmanuelFrowner 20 I think I was like 25 maybe. Blaire Frowner 22 He is going to get help you know. He has to get help. Gregory Warner 25 New Years Eve 2005. Blaire Frowner 27 All right so where are we coming into now? EmmanuelFrowner 29 We are at 42nd street. Gregory Warner 31 Times square. Blaire Frowner 32 Times square is one of Emmanuel's favorite areas to hang out and I figured I wanted it to be on his turf. Gregory Warner 39 So they are outside the crowd is just beginning to arrive. Blaire Frowner 42 It was starting to snow a little bit. EmmanuelFrowner 45 And rain some too. Blaire Frowner 46 Yeah. Gregory Warner 47 Blaire turns to Emmanuel and he says- Blaire Frowner 49 Have you ever heard of Autism? I said I highly suspect that you have some form of Autism. I want us to find some way for you to get a diagnosis. EmmanuelFrowner 09 10 9 8- Blaire Frowner 14 Oh and I said- EmmanuelFrowner 16 ... 7 6 5- Gregory Warner 17 Do not breathe a word of this to dad. EmmanuelFrowner 17 ... 4 3 2 1. Gregory Warner 26 Doctor how do I pronounce your name?  29 . Gregory Warner 30 Pretty soon after New Years. Gregory Warner 32  and where are you from?  33 I am Greek. Gregory Warner 33 Emmanuel gets his diagnosis.  35 It was right here on this couch. I did get a feeling from our beginning of the interaction that he was going to meet criteria for Autism. Gregory Warner 43 A month later ... EmmanuelFrowner 44 She told me that I was on the Autistic Spectrum. Gregory Warner 48 It was official. EmmanuelFrowner 49 Okay Efumble ...  54 Even more air. EmmanuelFrowner 54 Efumble.  57 Great good. Gregory Warner 57 So at the age of 26 ... EmmanuelFrowner 00 Assemble.  00 Mm-hmm . Gregory Warner 00 Finally ... EmmanuelFrowner 00 Audible ...  00 More air. Gregory Warner 03 His life completely changed.  04 Audible. EmmanuelFrowner 05 Audible. Gregory Warner 05 So I gave him a tape recorder to record his life. EmmanuelFrowner 08 Hello it is me Emmanuel. Gregory Warner 10 He is meeting with a speech pathologist a couple of hours a week. Also he is joined this program. EmmanuelFrowner 15 Adaptations. Gregory Warner 16 And started making friends.  18 what do I say? EmmanuelFrowner 20 Well anything.  21 Hello. EmmanuelFrowner 22 Hey Jason.  23 Peace out. Gregory Warner 24 He got a girlfriend. EmmanuelFrowner 25 Hey it is me Emmanuel once again. Robert Krulwich 28 Oh. EmmanuelFrowner 29 There is one lady that I have not talked about yet named Norma. We went to Central Park and we took pictures and it was great. Robert Krulwich 41 But wait a sec. I thought that people who were diagnosed with Autism the definition is they do not want to socialize. EmmanuelFrowner 48 Well it is not because I do not want to but it is just hard to do you know. Gregory Warner 56 Here's the thing about Emmanuel he is got this whole new life he has not told dad about any of it. Robert Krulwich 03 Not anything? Gregory Warner 04 Not the girl the friends the diagnosis. His dad does not know anything is different. Gregory Warner 09 So how long have you been keeping it a secret? Blaire Frowner 12 It is been since 2005 right? EmmanuelFrowner 15 Yeah. Gregory Warner 16 Basically for the last two years Emmanuel's been leading this double life. Outside he is a person with Autism. Then he comes home nothings wrong. Gregory Warner 24 Why? EmmanuelFrowner 26 Well I am just afraid that daddy want really believe it. Gregory Warner 34 He knows he is got to tell his dad who he really is. EmmanuelFrowner 37 Yes I do. Gregory Warner 38 And he keeps saying he will. EmmanuelFrowner 39 I am going to say within a month. Gregory Warner 42 Soon. EmmanuelFrowner 43 I am not quite sure. EmmanuelFrowner 46 I am a little bit nervous about telling him about my Autism. EmmanuelFrowner 50 Maybe within a few minutes or so. EmmanuelFrowner 52 Let me tell him in like two weeks or so. Another day say. I might tell him after I meet Blaire. I am going to probably tell him ... Well ... Tomorrow. Maybe ... I do not know yet. Maybe I am just thinking about it a little bit too much I do not know. Gregory Warner 06 Then finally one night ... EmmanuelFrowner 09 Hi it is me. I just want to say that I told my dad about my diagnosis. EmmanuelFrowner 18 I said I really have something important to say and do not get angry. Then I told him that I was diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome. He asked me what it was and then I told him it is high functioning Autism. Bryon Frowner 36 I was shocked. That would be a good way to put it. Gregory Warner 44 Do you think he has Asperger's? Bryon Frowner 46 Yes. Yes I do. When I look at this syndrome for a lot good parts of it is Emmanuel but I never at any point felt that Emmanuel was in need of any deep psychological or psychiatric help. Gregory Warner 07 I mean what makes you qualified to say that? Bryon Frowner 13 Just being a loving parent. Gregory Warner 15 As I am talking to him we are sitting there on the couch in front of us on the coffee table is all of Emmanuel's notebooks from age five onward. Bryon Frowner 25 They are really good stuff. I mean it is stuff that you and I would write. Gregory Warner 28 He saved it all but the question that I feel like I have got to ask ... Gregory Warner 33 Byron I just have one more question on my list if I could ask you that one. Gregory Warner 37 Now that you know that there is something wrong with your son that there always was this disorder that it is incurable do you think you did the right thing? Gregory Warner 45 Do you wish that he had gotten the diagnosis earlier? Bryon Frowner 49 No. Gregory Warner 51 Why? Bryon Frowner 52 Because I think that he is better off at this point in time. Gregory Warner 56 Why would not it make a difference to know earlier why you are acting so strangely? Bryon Frowner 02 I did not want Emmanuel to get a diagnosis that would put him in a box like a label. Gregory Warner 10 Then dad says to me ... Look I mean if I had let the school give him some kind of diagnosis they would have thrown him in special Ed. Bryon Frowner 17 And say oh he is a retard. Look he cannot even talk. Gregory Warner 20 That would have destroyed him. Bryon Frowner 21 It would cause irreparable damage. Gregory Warner 24 I asked the doctor was there any truth to that? Gregory Warner 27 If Emmanuel was put into special Ed hypothetically-  30 If he was in a District 75 class ... Gregory Warner 31 The technical word for special Ed.  33 He would not have reached his academic potential. He is a graduate from Saint Johns with a degree in Psychology. Kids who graduate District 75 do not do that. Gregory Warner 43 Just to put that in perspective Emmanuel comes from a neighborhood where about 10 of the kids ever graduate college. EmmanuelFrowner 51 My GPA was like 3.4 and change. Robert Krulwich 55 Wow. Gregory Warner 55 And he is got Asperger's. Gregory Warner 56 So now what? We are kind of vindicating what his father did right?  02 Well in terms of his academic achievement his father did the right thing. The problem with his dads choice and he had no way of knowing at the time was the lack of peer groups which he missed out on. Gregory Warner 14 It seems like a cruel choice but-  16 Yeah it is a cruel choice. Gregory Warner 18 So if you were your father and you were raising your kid at that time would you have made the same choice he did? EmmanuelFrowner 25 Well if I had known what I know now then maybe I would have maybe begged him a little more for me to interact with others who were like I am who are like I am. Robert Krulwich 02 That story from our corespondent Gregory Warner. Jad Abumrad 05 Greg's reporting was made possible in part by the Roselyn Carter Fellowship for Mental Health Journalism. Thanks to them and thank you to Lulu Miller for producing that piece. We will continue in a moment. Bonnie 16 This is Bonnie calling from Boston Massachusetts. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad 39 Hello I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 41 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 42 This is Radio Lab. This hour we are talking about diagnosis. Robert Krulwich 45 Diagnosis the easy kind we are not going to talk about it no. Easy would be you come into my office and I am a doctor you have a broken arm. I take a picture I say Hey you have got a broken arm. The picture says so. Jad Abumrad 55 Yeah because you can see the break right there but- Robert Krulwich 57 Let us suppose you came into my office and you were sad. Jad Abumrad 00 Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich 01 You tell me that your sex drive is down. Jad Abumrad 03 Hey- Robert Krulwich 03 Yeah I am the doctor so you know this is just between you and me. Jad Abumrad 06 All right. Robert Krulwich 06 Well right away my learning tells me that you may be a candidate for depression but how do I know that you are depressed? Jad Abumrad 14 What do you mean how do we know? We talk about it. Robert Krulwich 16 Well- Jad Abumrad 16 You just said. Robert Krulwich 17 Well you cannot measure sadness or depression. You cannot go to a test tube and count anything. Jad Abumrad 24 Right. Robert Krulwich 24 It is not hard science. Jad Abumrad 26 Yeah because- Robert Krulwich 27 Until now. What if I put you in one of those FMRI machines that we have talked about so often. Jad Abumrad 35 Yes? Robert Krulwich 35 I snap a picture of your brain in action and I look at it. From your picture I say you are depressed. Jad Abumrad 43 You are going to tell me I am depressed just from looking at a picture of my brain? Robert Krulwich 46 Yes. Jad Abumrad 47 What? No way. Robert Krulwich 48 Look It is now here. Photographic diagnosis of mental illness. Eric Kandel 53 This is happening. There is no question. Robert Krulwich 55 That by the way is Eric Kandel a professor up at Colombia University who just happens to have won the Nobel Prize for medicine. Eric Kandel 03 Let me give you a little historical background. Robert Krulwich 05 Did you get a Nobel I do not think you did. Jad Abumrad 08 I still do not believe you. What? Just because he is got a Nobel Prize I am going to suddenly turn around and like- Robert Krulwich 12 You are not so let us do this step by step okay?  14 Step one. Robert Krulwich 17 Imagine you are slipping into an FMRI machine okay. Jad Abumrad 19 All right. Robert Krulwich 21 I want you to just look at my face. Jad Abumrad 22 Why? Robert Krulwich 23 Is that so difficult? Jad Abumrad 26 No I just want to know where this is going. Here okay I am looking at your face. Robert Krulwich 27 So now that you are looking at my face- Eric Kandel 29 Different regions of the brain they become active. Robert Krulwich 33 There are cells in your brain that are saying I know him. Eric Kandel 37 The cells are more active they need energy. Just like when you run you have to breathe fast. Robert Krulwich 41 To get the energy- Eric Kandel 42 Your heart pumps more blood. Robert Krulwich 45 ... the body sends a rush of fresh blood to that particular group of cells. Because the blood has Iron in it the magnet in the brain scanner can see the Iron and therefore see the blood flow and take pictures of it. Many many pictures in real time. Eric Kandel 04 I will show you a very nice example of this. Robert Krulwich 06 Eric's now heading off across his ample office with an extraordinary view of the Hudson Valley and he brought over a picture of a human brain with different colors and different areas and he told me when you look at a face ... Eric Kandel 17 When you image the face this area lights up. Robert Krulwich 20 You are pointing to an area of the brain. Eric Kandel 22 An area of the brain. Robert Krulwich 23 Up above your ... On your forehead kind of. Eric Kandel 25 That is right that is right. If you look at a house some other area lights up but this area does not light up. You look at another face this area lights up again. Jad Abumrad 34 Every time you see a face the same area? Robert Krulwich 35 Yep. Jad Abumrad 36 But you have not told me anything about emotions yet. Robert Krulwich 38 That is true so let us move on to step- Jad Abumrad 40 Two. Robert Krulwich 42 Because we use faces to tell what someone else is thinking or someone else is feeling looking at faces also triggers ... Eric Kandel 49 An area deep in the brain that is concerned with emotion- Robert Krulwich 52 Called the Amygdala. Very recently- Eric Kandel 55 A number of people have looked at the Amygdala looking at faces and it is extremely interesting.  01 Step three. Cynthia Fu 04 Okay. Robert Krulwich 04 I am going to take you now to London. Cynthia Fu 06 Hello? Robert Krulwich 07 Hi. Cynthia Fu 07 Yeah hi. Jad Abumrad 08 Hey. Robert Krulwich 08 Yeah that is good it is good. Jad Abumrad 08 Who is this? Robert Krulwich 10 Oh right sorry. Who are you? Cynthia Fu 12 I am Cynthia Fu. I am a psychiatrist at the institute of psychiatry Kings College London. Robert Krulwich 16 Are you like in your 30s or your 40s or your 50s? Cynthia Fu 18 Is this part of the interview? Robert Krulwich 20 Well I just ... I wanted to- Jad Abumrad 22 Rude. Robert Krulwich 23 No I wanted to establish that she came into psychiatry ... Cynthia Fu 29 I am trying to think. When did I graduate medical school? I think- Robert Krulwich 29 In the very critical time. Cynthia Fu 30 I finished my training in '97. My training in psychiatry in '97. Robert Krulwich 34 That is 1997 when the FMRI machines were first becoming available and so Cynthia was able to do a rather amazing study. Jad Abumrad 42 What? Cynthia Fu 42 In this study we produced- Robert Krulwich 46 She got together a group of people who were clinically depressed. Cynthia Fu 47 Depressed people. Robert Krulwich 49 And then another group of people who were normal. Cynthia Fu 50 Healthy people. Robert Krulwich 50 And she put them in the brain scan machine and showed them- Cynthia Fu 54 Facial expressions. Robert Krulwich 55 ... faces. Cynthia Fu 55 Ranging from more neutral expressions to more sad expressions. Robert Krulwich 59 So they saw a sad face and then a neutral face and then a sad face. Cynthia Fu 04 That is right. Robert Krulwich 05 What the person in the machine was supposed to do is ... Cynthia Fu 07 Look at these faces and decide whether it was a man or a woman's face. Jad Abumrad 11 Huh? What does that have to do with anything? Robert Krulwich 13 Because while they were doing that- Cynthia Fu 14 While they are making this decision the emotion of the face is being processed automatically. Robert Krulwich 20 The Amygdala sees the emotion on the faces at that moment and the machine ... Cynthia Fu 26 It is like tick tick tick tick. There were hundreds of pictures. Robert Krulwich 29 10th of a second to 10th of a second to 10th of a second. Cynthia Fu 31 That is right. Robert Krulwich 32 Did you see a difference between the people who were depressed and the people who were normal? Cynthia Fu 38 Yes. Robert Krulwich 39 Was it a significant difference or a just barely difference? Cynthia Fu 43 As a group it was a significant difference. Robert Krulwich 45 Now she takes the big step.  47 Step four. Robert Krulwich 49 From the pattern she sees in bunches of people she feeds all those patterns into a computer. Cynthia Fu 54 It is called machine learning. Tell the program this is a pattern of brain activity in depressed people. This is a pattern of brain activity in healthy people and then- Robert Krulwich 03 She shows the computer a brain scan of a new person. Cynthia Fu 06 New person. Jad Abumrad 06 So this is someone the computers never met before? Cynthia Fu 08 Exactly. Robert Krulwich 09 She did this a bunch of times. Cynthia Fu 10 Right a whole bunch of people. Robert Krulwich 13 Each time the computer tries to guess is this new person ... Cynthia Fu 17 Depressed or not. Robert Krulwich 19 And what happened? Cynthia Fu 20 More than 85 of the time 86 of the time the algorithm correctly diagnosed whether that person was depressed or healthy. Robert Krulwich 32 Was just a brain scan a computer and a patient. No doctor needed. Cynthia's computer got the diagnosis right 86 of the time. A computer. Cynthia Fu 43 When we saw the results it was like wow this is amazing. Jad Abumrad 47 Wait a second. Has she repeated this? Robert Krulwich 50 Well this is actually the very first time that this has been done with depression and so it is just a pilot study and like you say someone else will have to do it again and then again and again. But according to Cynthia- Cynthia Fu 03 The potential is fantastic.  03 Psychiatry is going to be absolutely revolutionized by this. Cynthia Fu 04 I think this method can be applied to any psychiatric disorder. Jad Abumrad 08 Any? Robert Krulwich 08 Autism.  09 Schizophrenia. Robert Krulwich 10 Obsessive compulsive disorder. Jad Abumrad 11 No way. Come on.  12 Why not? Everyone of these illnesses ultimately must have an anatomical basis. Every one of these illnesses. Robert Krulwich 21 This means that it will soon or one day be possible for a patient to come in and you take a picture of him in real time or of her and you will have a diagnostic tool. That is what you are saying?  34 Absolutely. Robert Krulwich 34 Absolutely.  35 Absolutely. Jad Abumrad 36 You mean to tell me that they are going to put people in machines and just go boop OCD. Robert Krulwich 40 No no wait. Wait. Jad Abumrad 41 Boop Schizophrenic. Robert Krulwich 42 Let me make this clear. This is not a casual thing. You go to the doctor you tell the doctor that you are feeling a certain way. The doctor will talk to you and then he would come to you and say well my learning and the test tells me that you are ill. Jad Abumrad 55 Okay yeah sure sure. Robert Krulwich 55 That is all that is happening here. Jad Abumrad 56 Okay okay. Robert Krulwich 56 Now I will call the medical doctor. I will say I have a test. Jad Abumrad 58 There is nothing in this that feels invasive to you? Robert Krulwich 03 Well obviously- Jad Abumrad 04 It is tunneling into the deep depths of your personhood. Robert Krulwich 07 No you are not. No this is if you believe that mental illness is a mental illness. It is a structural condition which can be fixed. It is not the deep inner you it is the broken you. Jad Abumrad 20 So it is like the broken arm thing. Robert Krulwich 21 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 21 That you started off with. You would put the two side by side? Robert Krulwich 24 I think I would. Then of course you get to the next step- Jad Abumrad 26 No come on Robert. I mean human beings are way too messy for that. We are too messy for it to be that easy. No no way. Robert Krulwich 33 So you think this is an out of sciences reach really? It is just too ... Jad Abumrad 36 There is a part of me that does think that it is out of sciences reach. Robert Krulwich 38 I think it is because you think that they are looking deep inside you. That is what you do not like. Jad Abumrad 43 I do. I mean do not get me wrong I find brain scans fascinating when it comes to questions like where is the soul? What is consciousness? That kind of stuff but do not kind of get in my head and tell me what is right and what is wrong. Robert Krulwich 55 What if you are feeling sad and sick? Do not you want to get better? Jad Abumrad 56 Yes but I enjoy the comfortable ambiguity that would come from a situation like sitting in a therapist's office and saying well how am I feeling? I am feeling this way or that way. In the messiness of trying to describe how you are feeling there is a fast landscape of thing that can happen choices you can make therapies you can pursue. Robert Krulwich 15 Let me just do it this way. Let us say you are sick you know that you are sick machine or no okay. If you are feeling badly would not it be nice if a machine could help you find the right kind of help. Jad Abumrad 26 What do you mean? Robert Krulwich 26 Well Eric took me through a little though experiment. Eric Kandel 29 A mind experiment. You have developed a psychotherapy and I have developed a psychotherapy. We each claim it is the best in the world now we have an objective way of seeing. The machine allows you to independently of any evaluation see the outcome of treatment. Jad Abumrad 46 So you can audit the doctor. Robert Krulwich 49 Audit the doctor and give you evidence that it is working or no. Jad Abumrad 52 Okay. I think I am a little bit on board. Robert Krulwich 56 Yay. Jad Abumrad 56 I can give you 10 buy in now. Robert Krulwich 58 Okay. Jad Abumrad 58 So how far off is this stuff? Is it going to come soon? Robert Krulwich 01 This is very early in the game obviously but I did ask him how far into the future are we talking about here? Soon or long after your dead? Eric Kandel 11 I am going to be around a long time. Robert Krulwich 16 But the question stands. Will you make it to see that people will actually have a- Eric Kandel 21 One cannot in medicine in all honesty give a timeline for many of these things. Imaging methodology right now is quite sophisticated but it is still primitive compared to where it needs to be. You are picking this up in status Necendy. You are become excited as the thing is beginning to emerge. We see it for the first time on the horizon. Robert Krulwich 41 So you are saying we got to this theory too early. That is what you are saying. Eric Kandel 44 Just right. It is not going to be interesting 20 years from now. It will be obvious. Jad Abumrad 47 Or in 20 years it will be obvious that we were wrong. Okay that is a real possibility because what we do not know is- Robert Krulwich 56 A lot. Jad Abumrad 57 ... vast. Robert Krulwich 58 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 59 I want to tell you a story now about just how wrong people can be. Robert Krulwich 03 Okay. Jad Abumrad 03 It begins with a mystery. Robert Sapolsky 04 Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. Perfectly healthy child goes to sleep and dies during the night. Jad Abumrad 13 It is about the worst thing that can happen to a parent. Each year it does happen about 7000 times. Still no one knows why. Oh by the way that was Robert Sapolsky. He is a- Robert Sapolsky 22 Professor of Neuroscience at Stanford University. Jad Abumrad 26 Sapolsky tells this story of the moment SIDS was diagnosed for the first time or at least classified. In a terrible mistake that was made. Robert Sapolsky 35 Around 1900 or so people were beginning to recognize this is a disease entity and nobody knew what was up so people decided let us go dissect SIDS kids. Jad Abumrad 45 Meaning when a baby would die they would perform an autopsy. Robert Sapolsky 48 Exactly. Jad Abumrad 50 You know check the baby's insides. Robert Sapolsky 50 See if there is anything different in them from normal kids. Jad Abumrad 53 That seems logical. Robert Sapolsky 54 Absolutely. Jad Abumrad 54 They would measure the size of the babies lungs. Robert Sapolsky 00 Yep. Jad Abumrad 00 That looked normal. Then they would measure the size of the heart. Robert Sapolsky 02 Yep. Jad Abumrad 02 Nothing strange there. Stomach- Robert Sapolsky 04 Yep. Jad Abumrad 04 ... kidney- Robert Sapolsky 04 Yep. Jad Abumrad 04 ... liver- Robert Sapolsky 05 Yep. Jad Abumrad 05 Those are all fine. Then they would look in the throat. Robert Sapolsky 10 They look in there and they say Oh my God these SIDS kids they have enormous thymus glands. Jad Abumrad 17 The thymus. Robert Krulwich 18 The thymus. Jad Abumrad 19 What is the thymus? Robert Krulwich 20 Yeah what is a thymus? Jad Abumrad 21 You wonder well it is a little tiny pink gland that is right here right behind your collar bone. Robert Krulwich 28 Yeah. Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 28 At the base of your throat. It is job is to help you fight disease. Robert Sapolsky 32 It makes one type of cell critical to your immune system. Jad Abumrad 35 Especially in times of stress. Any case normally this little organ is about the size of a tiny tube of toothpaste like the travel kind. In these SIDS kids it was- Robert Sapolsky 48 Huge humongous enormous- Jad Abumrad 51 Twice the size. Robert Sapolsky 52 Exactly. Jad Abumrad 53 And since the thymus is dangerously close to the wind pipe doctors came up with a hypothesis. Robert Sapolsky 58 A perfectly reasonable hypothesis. Jad Abumrad 00 Which was that maybe if you are one of these babies with an enlarged thymus and you are asleep and somehow you roll over wrong ... Robert Krulwich 06 Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 07 Well that gland might- Robert Sapolsky 08 Press down on your trachea and suffocate you during the night. Robert Krulwich 11 Oh. Jad Abumrad 12 So medical mystery solved. Robert Krulwich 16 Really? Jad Abumrad 18 No. Robert Sapolsky 18 They even came up with a name for it. It was called Thymicolymphaticus . It was in all the pediatric text books by the 1920s. You would look in there and there would be pictures of the dissected thymus' normal size and here on the right. Jad Abumrad 38 Enlarged. Robert Sapolsky 39 Abnormally large thymicolymphaticus. Jad Abumrad 42 And in no time at all doctors came up with a treatment. Robert Sapolsky 45 A perfectly logical therapy. Jad Abumrad 48 Which is that if we are going to help these babies we have got to shrink their thymus glands and to do that the best solution obviously is to- Robert Sapolsky 57 Irradiate their throats. Irradiate their throats to shrink their thymus glands. Jad Abumrad 05 Zap the child's throat with gillions of radioactive particles. Robert Krulwich 10 Really? Literally? Robert Sapolsky 10 You betcha. Jad Abumrad 11 This was considered like something every good loving parent should do? Robert Sapolsky 15 Absolutely. If you worry about your child being at risk for SIDS go and get their throats irradiated to shrink the thymus glands. Jad Abumrad 23 And did it work? Robert Sapolsky 24 Yes it shrank the thymus glands. Jad Abumrad 26 But he says it did have another effect. Robert Sapolsky 28 Decades later you have killed 20 to 30 thousand people with thyroid cancer. Robert Krulwich 35 20 to 30 thousand deaths that is a real number. Robert Sapolsky 39 Yeah that is a fairly big one. Jad Abumrad 42 So heres my question. Robert Sapolsky 43 Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 44 How could these doctors have gotten it so so wrong? Do you know what I mean? Robert Krulwich 51 Yeah I do. Well do not you know what you mean? You just answered your own question a minute ago. Jad Abumrad 54 No I did not. I am about to answer it right now. Robert Krulwich 57 They are playing with radiation. You just said that. What they did not know that radiation would hurt you. They had no ... It was a brand new technology. Jad Abumrad 10 Yeah but that is not what I was going to ... Agh. Robert Sapolsky 10 This was a couple of decades into radiation having been discovered.  14 Isotopes are performing near miracles of diagnosis and discovery. Robert Sapolsky 18 People were just tossing around radiation all over the place.  21 Iodine 131 radioactive sodium radon Gama rays neutrons. Robert Sapolsky 26 This was a period with Madam Curie like dipping her arm into vats of Uranium.  30 Radioactivity is harmless. Robert Sapolsky 32 And dying soon afterwards from cancer. People would go into shoe stores and they would have their feet X-rayed.  39 Yes X-ray is a wonderful invention. Robert Krulwich 42 I had that X-ray. Robert Sapolsky 43 You had that? Robert Krulwich 43 I did yeah. You take off your shoes and then you can look at your bones. Robert Sapolsky 47 That is exactly what they did. Jad Abumrad 48 Why would you do that? Robert Krulwich 50 That was the thing you could do at the shoe store. It was very cool. Robert Sapolsky 53 Yeah it is showing how cutting edge of a shoe store they are. Robert Krulwich 56 Yeah. That is your explanation? Jad Abumrad 59 No that may look like the explanation. I mean sure radiation played a role but if you would have let me say what I was going to say. I would have told you the real explanation- Robert Krulwich 08 Yes? Jad Abumrad 09 Preceded the radiation by like a couple hundred years. Robert Krulwich 11 What? I do not ... No idea what you are talking about. Jad Abumrad 14 I am going to tell you. Back in the 1700s okay. Robert Krulwich 16 Oh that far back okay. Jad Abumrad 18 That far back before radiation before your grandpa. Robert Krulwich 21 Well before the civil war the Eiffel Tower and Napoleon. Jad Abumrad 25 I am talking when the red coats- Robert Krulwich 28 Were still wearing red. Jad Abumrad 29 Yeah. Robert Sapolsky 29 Yeah this was shortly after the Revolutionary War. Jad Abumrad 33 Right about this time says Sapolsky the first med schools started to pop up in America. A supply and demand issue came into effect because with these med schools came med students who needed to learn about anatomy. Of course in order to do that- Robert Sapolsky 47 They needed bodies. Jad Abumrad 49 You know to dissect. Robert Sapolsky 50 This produced this whole occupation. You could be a resurrectionist. Robert Krulwich 54 A resurrectionist? Robert Sapolsky 56 Yep. They would go out and dig up bodies at night and sell them to the anatomists the medical schools. Jad Abumrad 10 I will need two more by Thursday. Dig dig. Now heres the key point since demand was so high the resurrectionist had to go where the bodies were easiest to get. Which meant avoiding the fancy graveyards. Robert Sapolsky 26 If you were wealthy you could have yourself buried in what was called a patent coffin. Jad Abumrad 31 Huh? Robert Sapolsky 33 Which was a triple layer coffin which was meant to be resurrectionist proof. Jad Abumrad 38 But if you were not wealthy. No fancy coffin for you. You would probably just be buried in a sac in some paupers field just a few inches under the soil very accessible for these resurrectionist. Robert Sapolsky 51 Not surprisingly that is where they went. Jad Abumrad 54 Dig dig. Robert Krulwich 56 Are we still on the same topic? Are you explaining why children died. Jad Abumrad 00 Yes yes. Bare with me. Robert Krulwich 01 Oh okay. Jad Abumrad 01 What I am trying to make is that the grave robbers targeted the poor. So much so that sometimes when people would catch these resurrectionist in the act and see like oh my God that is my dad you are digging up. Robert Krulwich 12 Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 12 There would be riots.  20 Get them. Get them. Stop stealing our bodies. Robert Sapolsky 21 Troops were called out rioters were shot. Jad Abumrad 22 Are we talking like hundreds of people torch bearing ... Robert Sapolsky 26 Yeah it was townies versus the people who were trying to dissect their dead relatives. Robert Krulwich 30 Okay okay. This is a lot of history and I am very fascinated in quotes but what does this have to do with kids dying of that? Jad Abumrad 39 All right let me bring it home. Robert Krulwich 40 Not that it has not been interesting but bring it home. Jad Abumrad 42 As a result of all of this hubbub over grave robbing country after country throughout Europe decided well let us standardize how science gets its cadavers. Forget all this grave robbing so they passed laws. Robert Sapolsky 54 Which formalized anyone who died in a poor house their body would be turned over to the anatomists. Jad Abumrad 00 This was like the cadaver version of direct deposit. Okay so grave robbing was gone but now all the bodies used by medicine not just some but nearly all now came from the poor. Robert Sapolsky 11 Estimates were by the end of that century 99 of the bodies used for anatomy lessons had been derived from poor houses. Jad Abumrad 19 That seemed okay until- Robert Sapolsky 21 1936 a guy named Hans Selye showed- Jad Abumrad 25 That being poor actually warps your body. And now Robert now we come back to the case of the mysteriously enlarged thymus. Because if you are poor you are worried about your job you are worried about feeding your family. You are worried about the bills. In other words you are stressed out. Robert Sapolsky 44 During chronic stress your immune system goes down the tubes. Jad Abumrad 48 And since the thymus is part of the immune system- Robert Sapolsky 51 If you were chronically stressed the thymus gland shrinks. Jad Abumrad 54 Oh. Robert Krulwich 54 Oh. Jad Abumrad 57 For 150 years doctors had been dissecting cadavers pointing at organs which they thought were normal but which were in fact shrunken from a life of poverty and stress and saying that is normal. So that when these SIDS babies show up with these gigantic thymus oh my God. In fact that was the first time they would ever seen a normal one. Robert Sapolsky 18 People had no idea what was normal and what was abnormal and they got it backwards. Jad Abumrad 26 Killing about 30 thousand people in the process. The scary thing says Sapolsky is that these doctors were not dumb. Robert Sapolsky 34 No these were the best most careful researchers at the time and these were the only logical conclusions that could have been made. None the less it produced an utter disaster. There is not the slightest reason to think we are not doing the same thing right now. Jad Abumrad 59 Robert Sapolsky is a professor of Neuroscience at Stanford University. He is the author of many great books including Monkey Love the Trouble With Testosterone. For more information on him or anything that you heard in this hour visit our website radiolab.org and you can send us an email while you are there. Robert Krulwich 14 RadiolabWNYC.org is actually- Jad Abumrad 18 That is the address. Robert Krulwich 19 Remember that. Jad Abumrad 20 Yep. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 21 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 22 Thanks for listening.  23 Message 10 moved from an external number. Robert Sapolsky 26 Okay. Radio Lab is produced by Ellen Horne and Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Lulu Miller Jonathon Mitchell Soren Wheeler Amanda Aronchek and Jessica Banco.  40 With help from Ann Boiko Wade Roxikes Srejkahn Jaraj Chi Chang Lin Heather Bradley and Sally Herschups. Special thanks to Karen Hablick Justin Paul Dr. Allen Olstrike and Taylor Dupree of 12K.com. Mary Bronner 59 Radio Lab is produced by WNYC and distributed by National Public Radio.  08 End of message.  11 Hi this is Tiffany Tang from rainy rainy San Diego. Radio Lab is supported by Upstart. Did you know that 83 of Americans have never defaulted on a loan but only 45 have access to prime credit. Upstart.com is a lending platform that is dedicated to expanding credit access to people that have been overlooked by the traditional credit system. See why Upstart is ranked number one in their category with over 300 business' on trust pilot at Upstart.comRadiolab. To find out how low your Upstart rate is checking your rate only takes two minutes and it will not affect your credit. That is Upstart.comRadiolab. 