 Wait wait your listening...   Okay.   Alright.   Okay.   Alright.   You are listening to Radiolab.   Radiolab.   From noon.   WYNC.   C.   Yeah.   At NPR.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab and today...  Robert We are going to begin in a place.  Will Roseman Robert come in here. Check out this place.  Robert Oh. Oh my god. A place full of wonderful things.  Will Roseman This is the actual sled that Henson and Peary used to first go to the North Pole. These are Napoleon's books on his conquest to Egypt.  Tamar Look at the antlers over there.  Jad Hey so wait where are you exactly.  Robert Well before I tell you that let me just explain something.  Robert My wife and I Tamar have been having an argument for roughly it is going on now 40 years and it is always about things.  Jad Like objects?  Robert Like objects. Yeah so as you know...  Jad You have a thing about things.  Robert You give me like an autograph like an Abraham Lincoln autograph I think okay.  Jad Yeah.  Robert Abe Lincoln stood in front of this very piece paper in order to write his signature in this very way. He had to be standing exactly where I am standing and therefore he and I share this space. I literally believe that I am standing in Abraham Lincoln's shadow. So to touch an Abraham Lincoln autograph is a form of time travel a form of love it is all those things and I can do that without even blinking.  Jad Right.  Robert Tamar...  Tamar Not at all. Also Robert's sense of the magic of it extends to we have a really really ugly floor lamp from a long time ago. Every time I would say Enough already let us get rid of it. He would say-  Robert It is older than me.  Tamar I have had it all my life.  Robert Which makes it beautiful.  Tamar No.  Robert You do not have that at all.  Tamar I do not have that at all.  Robert So in honor of our topic today I decided that we are going to settle this argument once and for all. I took Tamar to the Explorers Club right here in Manhattan.  Jad Ah. Wait what is the Explorer's Club?  Robert It is a little private club where explorers deposit things that they have collected.  Will Roseman Everything in this building has some historical significance in some sense.  Robert That is Will Roseman their executive director. He gave us a tour.  Will Roseman This is the actual bell from the SS Roosevelt when Peary and Henson first went to the North Pole. How cool is that?  Tamar Very cool... but not magic.  Will Roseman Cool does not cut it.  Robert No.  Will Roseman The chair over there belonged to the Empress Dowager of China the last emperor's wife.  Robert What do you mean that chair there? He points to it it looks like a little desk chair.  Robert The Empress Dowager of China sat in it?  Will Roseman Yeah that was her chair?  Tamar Does this make you want to sit in it?  Robert Yeah. Why do not you sit in it first. She sits.  Tamar Nothing.  Robert You feel nothing.  Tamar Nothing.  Robert Alright just close your eyes.  Tamar Nothing.  Robert Imagine that you are the last empress in a hugely long line of Chinese empresses going back probably a 1000 years.  Tamar I would order them to make more comfortable chairs.  Robert Wait do not get up yet. Just give it a chance.  Tamar There is nothing that is going to seep into me.  Robert Yes there is.  Tamar No there is not.  Jad I do not know man.  Robert Look this was never going to be easy. Tamar is a New York Times reporter very reasonable very sensible. After all it was just a chair this was just the beginning. Like they have things in this place. I was going to break her step by step.  Robert Will walked us to the next room...  Will Roseman These are-  Robert Where they had pieces of fabric that were framed on display.  Will Roseman You know early planes were made out of canvas and these are actual pieces of those early planes. Here's the Wright's Brother plane.  Robert What do you mean? Do you mean this is the fabric from the actual first-  Will Roseman Absolutely.  Robert Oh my. There was a small brown piece of fabric not much larger than your fist it was cut from the wing of their first airplane.  Robert So the wind rushed over that little piece of fabric for their first time.  Will Roseman Yeah.  Robert Oh.  Tamar Very cool very interesting. Happy to see it.  Robert No but when you are standing next to the fabric that lifted into the sky for this first time in America. You do not feel just a touch closer to Wilber and Orville Wright. Not even a touch?  Tamar I feel what a wonderful collection. How interesting.   I mean I am feeling it. I am feeling it. That is amazing.  Jad And Tamar?  Tamar Do I feel that? No.  Robert So...  Will Roseman I am trying to think of something that will .   He is trying to pull out the big guns.  Robert I do not see how you could get bigger than what you already offered.  Will Roseman Well there is more.  Robert Alright.  Will Roseman Maybe this will convince you. This is an actual flag an Explorer's Club flag that accompanied Buzz Aldrin Neil Armstrong when they first landed on the moon in 1969.  Robert Oh.  Will Roseman This is one of these cool things.  Robert Oh my God. That piece of cloth right there.  Will Roseman It is yeah.  Robert So it was on the moon.  Will Roseman Absolutely. It was carried by Neil Armstrong when he first landed on the moon in 1969.  Robert Oh my God. It was in a little glass box. You could see it was a royal blue Explorer's Club flag very small probably made of silk.  Robert You would let her touch it?  Will Roseman Yeah I can. You know what I have to get the key.  Robert Lets have her touch the flag that was the first flag ever. On the day that humans got onto the moon.  Tamar What do you think is going to happen. You think they will emanation will come and there will sparks-  Robert Yes.  Tamar That go into my body and some way boom.  Robert Yes. Yes.  Robert Okay we opened up the cabinet you now got it in your hands.  Will Roseman Go ahead Tamar.  Tamar It feels very nice. It feels nice.  Robert Right it is a little flag. This was on the moon.  Tamar Yes so.  Robert This was on the moon.  Tamar Yes.  Robert Brought there by the people from our planet. The first people ever to land on the moon and they brought this with them.  Tamar Yes.  Robert Touch it again.  Tamar Okay you touch it.  Robert Well I am going to touch it.  Tamar Okay.  Robert Alright here I go.  Will Roseman Pretty neat right?  Robert Oh man.   It is good Neil we can see you coming down the ladder now.  Robert One second.  Neil Armstrong That is one small step for man one giant leap for mankind.  Will Roseman  you better touch it.   I mean I am pretty pumped to touch it.  Neil Armstrong Proof of    Tamar you do not get any of this.  Tamar No I do not get a swoon.  Robert How can you not get a swoon from this.  Tamar I do not get a swoon.  Robert This is first trip to the moon.  Tamar I know.  Will Roseman That sent shivers up my spine.  Tamar I mean I do not have it. I just do not have it.  Robert That is so-  Tamar I got to go to work so.  Robert Okay.  Tamar This has been a total treat.  Will Roseman Well it was our pleasure. Thanks so much for coming.   You lose.  Robert Oh man.  Jad Look maybe she is just open to the future. She does not want to have to carry all that baggage that came up.  Robert I think that is exactly right.  Jad You know-  Robert That is what she would say.  Jad You are going into a swoon about a lamp that is clearly an ugly ass lamp.  And she is like throw out the lamp.  Robert It is not an ugly ass... Do not take her side.  Jad Give me a new lamp.  Robert No.  Jad Let us be available to the new lamps of the world.  Robert I am not going to admit or even consider anything you just said. Except that you are probably right about the future orientation.  Jad Do you know what else I am right about?  Robert What?  Jad That every story that we have in this hour is basically that argument you just had with your wife in story form.  Robert Yeah.  Jad Object form.  Robert In each of these stories there is a thing and the thing beckons.  Jad Or not.  Jad Today on Radiolab.  Robert Things.  Jad Everybody say something.  Vin Hello.  Robert Hello.  Jad Hello. Alright so what are we doing?  Vin Well we are talking about objects I believe.  Jad Yes.  Vin I understand you guys are kicking around some ideas but it seems my ideas are on a bit of different orbit than yours are. Maybe there is a connection.  Jad Yeah I do not know that we have an orbit yet. I think we have launched.  Jad Okay so our first story comes from TV producer . Long time TV guy who connected up with us because turns out he is making a documentary about this very thing people's connection to objects.  Vin My interest in objects is things that have accidentally gotten meaning.  Jad For Vin even if you have a little scrap that is gone to the moon and back.  Vin It is nothing compared to Rick Rawlings sugar egg.  Jad Rick Rawlings sugar egg.  Vin Rick Rawlings sugar egg.  Robert Rick Rawlings sugar egg.  Vin Yes.  Jad Actually the story he wanted to tell us has three parts.  Vin It is about a candy egg a box and a tree.  Jad A candy egg a box-  Robert A box and a tree.  Vin Yeah so this is what I would suggest. I have some clips some short clips and I would like to sort of weave the clips together. Maybe throw it out that way rather than telling you about them. Why do not we try.  Jad I see we are dealing with a storyteller.  Robert Yes.  Vin Wait until you hear the clips first. Right? Okay let me just play a clip. This is a short clip. This is just an intro to Rick.  Rick I love this box.  Jad Wow.  Vin It is about the size of a shirt box.  Rick It is made out of maple. Very light in color very delicate.  Vin He keeps his most treasure objects in it.  Rick One of them is this sugar egg that we were talking about.  Jad It is about a real egg.  Rick No it is molded sugar. It is hollow in the center light yellow.  Jad Something someone might eat.  Rick Someone might eat it. I have not eaten it. I have saved it since 1970 when I was given this egg.  Jad Since 1970. What? He saved it.  Vin Yeah.  Jad This is an edible egg?  Vin This is an edible egg. Yes.  Robert Does it say edible if you kept it from 1970.  Rick It looks remarkably good for a 40 year old.  Jad It has not dissolved under the weight of time and it is-  Vin No apparently it is pristine. I have seen it.  Robert What is a sugar egg? What is that? I have never heard of it.  Vin Well apparently it is a half of an egg it is hollow it is made out of sugar and you would put things like jelly beans in it. You seal the edges with frosting and then you decorate the outside of it.  Robert So there must have been some reason why he has memorialized this egg.  Vin I am glad you mention it. I just happen to have another clip to play for you.  Robert Imagine my surprise.  Rick The day that we were to leave.  Vin Oh wait can we stop for a second?  Jad Yeah sure.  Vin I am sorry. You know I did not set up because one of the things I have to say about Rick was when he was kid his family moved around a lot.  Jad Apparently Rick's dad did a lot of work for the government. So almost every year he would find himself in a totally different town.  Vin To make things worse he was a very shy kid.  Jad Kept to himself a lot.  Vin So for Rick friendship just often seemed impossible.  Jad But Vin say's there was this one moment.  Vin When he was eight they lived in Washington state only for a year. He found himself in a dilemma because he had finally made a friend and his friend David invited him to a birthday party.  Rick It happened to be that his birthday party was scheduled the very day that we were to move again. So my father was once again transferred this time from Washington back to Idaho. My parents had decided that I could not attend the birthday party because there was not time.  Rick So the moving van was sitting there everybody was ready to. I do not think I even asked my parents. I do not think they know that I left but I took off and I ran up the street to David's house. I still can picture this moment. His house was a brick house and he had a large porch that was completely empty and I know that I paused there.  Rick Even though I was only eight I must have known that our friendship really was not at the point where it demanded a goodbye especially if that meant that I had to interrupt his birthday party.  Rick I rang the doorbell and his mother answered the door. I remember seeings basically from her knees down and beyond her into the back of house which was bright and loud where the party was going on. A few seconds later David showed up. He was behind her and I do not remember saying a word.  Vin You were just standing at the front door.  Rick I was just frozen and standing there completely embarrassed and not knowing why I had done this. I was about to leave when David's mom apparently asked him to go get something and he left. A few seconds later he returned and handed me this yellow sugar egg.  Vin The very same egg here in your box?  Rick Yes. I walked back to my parents house. We were loaded into the back of their station wagon and we drove from there to Idaho. I know that I held this in my hand the entire way. I did not let go of it. I put it in a drawer and it has lived in various places for all these years.  Vin Why?  Rick Yes it begs the question does not it. You know the truth is I knew its importance immediately and it has not changed. I looked at this egg and it was proof physical proof that I had been invited to a birthday party and that there was a hope of making a friendship. I held onto it because I needed that proof.  Robert That is actually very wonderful.  Vin Yeah but wait there is the tree. The tree we did the box we did the egg but then there is the tree.  Jad Do we need the tree? The egg I am swept into the egg.  Vin No I will bring it together. I will bring the narrative threads together.  Jad I want more egg Vin. Give me more egg.  Robert Exactly.  Vin We need to play the tree.  Rick So yeah my parents bought a home in Idaho.  Jad This is right after the egg incident?  Vin Yeah.  Rick This is in the Snake River Valley in Idaho it is very flat it is very wide.  Vin Their new back yard was a barren landscape.  Rick So my family started planting all kind of things in the yard. They planted apple trees and pine trees cherry and amongst them was a maple tree.  Vin That was Rick's favorite.  Rick It grew very quickly and it enveloped the house in a certain way.  Vin In the breeze?  Rick Oh it sounded like suede rubbed together just  amplified by hundreds of thousands of leaves. It was beautiful.  Vin Rick lived there with his family for 10 years until college.  Rick I moved to Boston and I learned that my father has decided that the tree was planted to close to the house and it would damage the foundation and he chopped it down. It was a massacre it was brutal and I was very upset.  Rick So my mother knowing that she mailed me a package and I opened it to find that she had placed in it some small sprouted seedlings from the original maple tree.  Vin Rick dug a hole in the backyard.  Rick Plopped in the ground behind the garage.  Vin And it thrived.  Rick It grew really well and within a number of years it had grown to be a 30 foot tree. Reminding me obviously of the tree had loved and lost in Idaho. It became so large unfortunately that it also caught the attention of my landlord who tragically... One night I got back from work to discover that he had chopped down the maple tree.  Vin The son of the tree.  Rick The son of the tree.  Vin The same grisly end.  Rick Well you would think so. I went out into the yard that night and I salvaged the sections of the tree.  Vin Like gave the wood to a friend.  Rick A furniture maker in Gloucester Massachusetts.  Vin Who turned into a box.  Rick This box. The one right here. Made from the maple that grew from...  Vin You know the story.  Robert Yeah wow.  Rick There is this continuity I find such comfort from that. So it in turn holds all these objects that have their own individual stories and their own meaning to me.  Vin One of them.  Rick Is this yellow sugar egg.  Jad The egg the tree and the box.  Rick Yeah.  Robert That is nice.  Jad That is really nice Vin.  Robert That is very nice.  Jad Although part of me does not part of you want to smack Rick a little bit and be like-  Vin Well yeah I have certainly have-  Jad Okay it is a  tree.  Vin You are living in the past man.  Jad Move on.  Vin No I actually do not.  Robert Not me.  Vin Yeah.  Robert If he could put the box in a house made from the teeth of his dog with the thing I would say Okay just keep multiplying it.  Jad Oh how I wished we had left it there.  Lynn Levy You know the thing about objects is that you cannot really experience them unless you touch them and interact with them. That is how you get the essence of what is in there.  Jad At a certain point our producer Lynn Levy who really produces this show had this great idea for an experiment that we could do.  Lynn Levy Where we would make 3D printed versions of the objects in the stories. Then have like an exhibit where people can come and see them while they listen to the audio or even if they have access to a 3D printer they can just print a version wherever they are.  Jad So we asked Rick if we can scan his egg.  Rick I am not sure what will happen but I thought it was an intriguing idea.  Jad He was game so Lynn found a place that does that near him. We asked him to bring his egg in the technician put into the scanner.  Lynn Levy It is a machine that takes like 360 degree images.  Jad Which you can then use to print a replica.  Rick Just a little bit of melted plastic and then voila there it is.  Jad Here's what happened Rick dropped the egg off for a scan. This egg that he had been cherishing for over 40 years.  Rick I had to leave it for a couple of hours.  Jad Shortly after he does he gets a call from the scanning technician who tells him something happened.  Rick You know she said The bottom line is the egg is broken. She said I hope it was not a family heirloom.  Jad Vin met up with Rick as he was just getting back from the print shop with his bag of egg pieces.  Rick I closed this up at store. I did not really even look too much. Oh my God. It looks like it is in about seven pieces in this plastic bag. There it is. Yes.  Jad Hi is this Rick?  Rick It is Rick.  Jad How are you? This is Jad from Radiolab.  Rick Jad hi how are you doing?  Jad I just need to say that we are so so sorry about what happened.  Lynn Levy I never had my heart sink in that way from any email I have ever opened.  Rick Well thank you. It was such a strange clash to walk into this store that is devoted to the future and all these machines sitting around that are turning out almost magically these new things. I on the other hand am standing there to collect the shards of sugar egg that I have held on to for 40 plus years.  Jad Wow.  Rick It just felt a dullness kind of heavy like everything was just a little bit muddied for a while. It took a little while for that to wear off and it did with an amazing clarity.  Rick Hey Max.  Max Hi.   Good to see you. Come on in.  Max How are you?  Rick One morning I think it was two days after the egg had been broken.  Jad He says he woke up...  Rick And an I idea came to me.  Jad Thought I should call Max.  Rick Max.  Max I already finished an egg.  Jad Max is the son of a friend of his who lives down the street.  Rick So we do one half tablespoons of each.  Max Yeah.  Rick He is eight. Exactly the same age that I was when I got the first egg.  Max And a scoop of yellow sand.  Rick And so I asked him if he would help me recreate the sugar egg.  Max Go in right here.  Rick He kind of smiled and he said Sure.  Max How many drops.  Rick Maybe two now that you have got some in there already.  Max And a scoop of yellow sand.  Rick Mm-hmm .  Max Nice big scoop go in right here. Already finished an egg. Ooh.  Rick Whoa all but one. I was exactly your age.  Max So exactly eight.  Rick Exactly eight years old and I was invited to a friend's birthday party.  Max Yeah.  Rick And I could not go because my family was moving to another state.  Robert Special thanks to Vin Liotta who provided us with much of the tape you just heard of Rick and... Well pretty much the whole thing. He is doing a documentary which is why he is got all of that stuff about people who attach to everyday things.  Jad Oh and in terms of the egg breaking. We actually found somebody who does like restoration for movie stuff and we have offered Rick to have that person fix the egg with epoxy or whatever.  Robert An offer he agreed to accept.  Jad Happy to say and also interestingly enough mid-scan you know the scan that broke the egg.  Robert Yeah.  Jad Actually we have that scan because the scanning machine was actually running at the very moment when the egg broke. So we actually have a scan of the millisecond when it feel apart.  Robert Really.  Jad It is at Radiolab.org.  Vin Hi this is Vin Liotta.  Rick Hi this is Rick Rawlings.  Vin Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and...  Rick The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.  Vin The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.Sloan.org.   End of message.   I am Clemency Burton-Hill and I am here to tell you about the Open Ears Project. The new podcast from WNYC studios and WQXR. In which people share stories about the classical music that gets them through their lives. People like director Sam Mendez musicians John Baptiste and Wynton Marsalis Call Your Girlfriends Aminatou Sow and our very own Alec Baldwin. It is part mixed tape part southern love letter. Kind of like a daily musical journey into other human lives. Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts and sign up at OpenEarsProject.org.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab and today...  Robert Things.  Allison I just wanted to check in. This is the usual Radiolab style which it means that I can basically natter on forever.  Jad Forever.  Robert Whatever you like.  Jad Right so this is Allison Gopnik she is a professor of psychology and philosophy.  Allison At the University of California at Berkeley and the author of The Philosophical Baby.  Jad The reason we called her up is that you know truthfully after the egg situation...  Robert We broke an egg to make this programming if you are just joining us.  Jad We were not planning to it just happened. We feel really crappy about it frankly but it got us thinking about the fragility of objects. For me that cult mind an idea that I have always been thinking about you know being the father of two young kids about object permeance.  Jad Which is this whole idea in child psychology that when babies are really young when an object disappears from their view they think it is gone forever  Robert Right that is the peek-a-boo game.  Jad Exactly that is what makes it fun because from their perspective the thought is that you are gone forever and then you are back and then you are gone forever and then you are back. So I thought this would be a cool idea for us to explore about how like from the very beginning we are born with no concept that objects stick around. But when we talked with Allison Gopnik the first thing she told us was that...  Allison Well it is a little more complicated than that.  Robert Of course.  Allison Of course right it is science.  Jad So we got into a conversation that went in some strange directions. She began by telling us about some new research which shows that actually babies do have an idea that objects stick around. You know if you do these experiments where you show them an object behind a screen and then make it disappear. They think Whoa where did it go it should be there.  Allison Exactly.  Jad How do you know the whoa?  Allison You know the whoa because babies look much longer at things that they do not expect that are surprising.  Jad Oh I see.  Allison It is as if they are sitting there saying What the.  Robert They very rarely finish that expression though.  Jad Alright so I was wrong. Fine.  Allison Here's the really surprising thing. Now suppose what happens is a yellow duck goes behind the screen.  Jad Moving left to right and then out the other side...  Allison Instead of the yellow duck there is a little blue bunny.  Jad Now most adults if they saw thing would be like...  Allison What the... But the babies are totally blas about that.  Jad What.  Robert Oh.  Allison If a yellow duck goes in one side of the screen and then magically the blue duck appears on the other side of the screen until they are about a year old babies do not seem to be fazed by that.  Jad And she suspects that the reason for that is that the most important thing about the duck to the babies is not that it is yellow or round or duck like in any way it was its trajectory its story.  Allison What it did in the past what its history is.  Jad Like this is an object that was moving left to right and when it emerged from the screen it was still an object moving left to right.  Allison And there are experiments with adults that are kind of amazing.  Robert Where you sort of see the same thing.  Allison You take a roomful of students divide them in half. You say Okay everybody on the left half of the room is now going to get a University of California at Berkeley mug. Then you say to them Alright all of you guys who have a mug how much would you sell your mug for. and then you ask the people on the other side of class. How much would you pay to buy that mug. and you get people to write it down on a piece of paper.  Allison Well it turns out the people who actually already have the mug on their desk think that it is much more valuable than the people on the other side. So they would demand much more for their mug.  Jad Keep in mind they have only spent one minute with this mug but somehow over that minute she says that the mug gets imbued with something. Some kind of...  Allison Essence. There is something and again you can see this even with children. There is something about mind-ness there is something about possession about the relationship that I have to the objects that I care about that goes beyond just what their superficial features are.  Robert Oh I think that makes such deeply obvious sense to me. I am surprised that it was even a discovery. If I have a relationship with a thing like I am going to see my girlfriend and the railroad man gives me the ticket and it turns out to be a fabulous date. Then I put the ticket in my pocket and then I save the ticket for 40 years. Any time I want to go back to the day that I had the great date I just touch the ticket.  Jad Yeah I do not have that at all.  Robert You do not have that at all?  Jad Well no I have it a little bit but I just no... I throw yeah.  Robert You throw them away.  Jad I threw them away. You got to purge man.  Allison You know some of us are more sentimental about the past and about objects than others are.  Jad And she says interestingly for those weirdos like you Robert who get super romantic about their things. There might be a deep evolutionary reason for it. Now you always take these evolutionary reasons with a grain of salt but she says...  Allison If you look at patterns of caching for example is what it is called in biology. You know like the squirrel who hides his nuts. The squirrels keep really good track of which nuts they have and what their histories are. One possibility is that some of our relationship about at least physical objects stems from this history of being mammals who keep track of what we got and what we do not have.  Robert It is my inner squirrel.  Allison Right. You know we do talk about people squirreling things away because there is something that is got this kind of deeper evolutionary background. I think there is some evidence of that.  Jad Is not there also like a counter squirrel instinct. I mean like there is that famous thing with observation that young male baboons when they get to a certain age will get gripped by wanderlust and then just wander away from the troop. Which is good because it prevents inbreeding.  Allison Yeah I think there is actually reason to think that we all live on this kind of emotional bungee cord.  Jad You know  between the squirrel and the baboon. And she says it is interesting to think about what is going to happen to our bungee-ness now that we are entering a world where objects are becoming just information.  Allison What will happen when we have 3D printers that are going to be like the replicators on Star Trek that can just keep producing replicas of objects.  Jad It might actually mess with some of our most basic instincts.  Allison Philosophers are always great about having wonderful crazy thought experiments to try to demonstrate this so one of them is the swamp man.  Jad It is a famous thought experiment. I am not exactly sure why it is a swamp man and not some other kind of man but here's how it goes.  Allison Here's the story of the swamp man.  Jad Imagine you are standing next to a swamp. You are you.  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad And in the swamp...  Allison There is a bunch of bubbling gases.  Jad Chemical reactions.  Allison Bubbling and interacting in some weird organic way.  Jad But whatever you are just standing there. But then... A bolt of lightening comes out of the sky and kills you.  Robert Ooh.  Jad And then another one comes out of the sky and hits the swamp catalyzing all that chemistry into overdrive and somehow miraculously for just a moment the reactions come together in just the right way to form...  Robert Hi I am Robert.  Jad A man.  Allison Completely identical to you Robert.  Robert Yeah I am Robert.  Jad A brand new you.  Allison If you took every single molecule in the swamp mans body it would be exactly like yours at this very moment. So here's the question. Does swamp Robert remember that date or does swamp Robert care about the ticket?  Jad You are saying that swamp gas Robert is molecule for molecule atom for atom identical to this Robert right here.  Allison Molecule for molecule. Exactly.  Jad So you are saying are the memories and experiences of his life suddenly contained in that facsimile?  Allison That is the question. And most people intuition is...  Robert No.  Allison Nah. Absolutely not.  Robert Absolutely not. I am not even hesitating.  Allison Absolutely not.  Jad Wait why not?  Robert Because I believe that my date and the ticket that took me to that date they belong to me and not to atoms. If you ask me what is the difference between me and my atoms. I do not know but I know it is there.  Allison Right.  Jad Well because the atoms of you sitting right there actually went on that date. Whereas the atoms of swamp gas Robert were not there.  Allison Right. I think you got it exactly right Jad. It is something about the history. It is the fact that Robert's atoms really were in that place. They really were there with that person.  Jad Although I could tell a version of the swamp gas Robert that would I think solve this problem. If this Robert instead of the lightening he just got into the swamp submerged himself co-mingled his atoms with the swamp gas atoms and then he got out and went on his way.  Allison Mm-hmm .  Jad If then later even like years later the swamp-  Robert Hi I am Robert.  Jad Spat out a copy. The fact that the real Robert was there to begin with and that the copy somehow touched almost like a baton passing. I could see that the date would be in the copy too.  Robert I think you might be-  Jad Do you agree with me?  Robert I think you are right. I have always explained to myself view as a sense of touch. That is my wife has a very different view of this than me but I one day while sitting around in the office get a letter unbidden from the first man on the moon. From Neil Armstrong.  Allison Huh.  Robert Just writes something about... I had written him  and it says Commander Neil Armstrong that is very flattering. If it had come in any other form but by email I would have framed it. I would have given it a special place of honor. Since it arrived from a machine to my machine and then out of a machine to another machine to a flat piece of paper.  Jad You cannot give it to a thing.  Robert I cannot give it the ticket to the date thing.  Jad Huh.  Robert I cannot.  Jad That is weird. Why?  Robert Because Neil Armstrong never touched it.  Allison Hmm. Yeah but you and I are old Robert so maybe that is a...  Jad No with the-  Robert Well yeah so Jad you do not have that feeling?  Jad Well no the moment you said it I thought I was constructing an image in my mind of Neil Armstrong at a computer touching the keyboard and there is an unbridgeable gulf between his fingers and that paper you are holding. They never actually touched each other.  Robert Hmm.  Jad I mean if you think about it as touch then you are right I guess.  Robert He is now dead and I think if just touching the paper he would just be a little I do not know closer somehow.  Allison Well it is a funny tension I think because you know what both science and at least some philosophical and even religious traditions tell us is that the world is impermanent nothing in it stays the same. We do not stay the same our bodies do not stay the same. The people that we love and the things we love do not stay the same. That is just the truth of the matter is that there is this constant impermanence in this constant flux.  Allison Some philosophers have argued over the years we should just embrace that. We would be freer if we did not try to hold that flux for a moment. I have to say my feeling about it is part of what makes everything so precious to us is exactly the fact that we know it is going to disappear we know it is impermanent we know it will not last.  Allison What we love is this thing now. We love our... For me the most dramatic example of this is our relationship to our children. So we know that they are going to go we know that in 20 years from now if they treat us with affectionate contempt we will be doing really well.  Allison That does not change the fact that right now it is this child and not any other child in the universe. Just this one and I think there is something really deep and profound about our human lives. The fact that we can do both of those things. That we recognize the impermanence but that we feel the attachments. That seems to me to give our life its very special texture.  Robert Wow that is exactly... I could just put that whole thing you just said in a frame. Right just bow down to it.  Jad Well do not bow to soon my friend because the next segment is going to...  Robert Hurt.  Jad It is going to hurt. A Tamar wind is blowing that is all I will say.   My name is  and I am calling right before going to bed in Des Moines Iowa. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.Sloan.org.  Craig Life seems very small as it is day to day and then you just have these moments that just open it up.  Regan Ah a scorpion sighting.  Craig Into something much more complex and rich.  Regan Where is it?  Jasper Do not move your leg dad.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab and today...  Robert Things.  Jad Our next story involves one thing three people. Craig.  Craig I am Craig Childs.  Jad Who you just heard.  Craig I am a writer and traveler from western Colorado.  Jad Regan.  Regan I am Regan Choi. I am an artist and a mother and an educator.  Robert You know each other?  Regan Oh yeah we are married.  Jad And finally Dirk.  Dirk Dirk Von. I was a street cop in mostly Denver.  Jad Craig's unlikely best buddy.  Dirk I mean if we would have been at school together I would have just beat the  out of him in the playground. You know?  Craig You know we drive each other mad but in the end we can still scramble around just fine.  Dirk Part of what joined us is we were in love with wilderness.  Jad For years they would take these trips together out into the wilderness of Colorado or Utah.  Dirk No maps no GPS.  Craig No trails.  Jad No campfires even.  Craig Dirk and I would go off for weeks in the desert together. I think the longest trip we took was a month out. Just wandering looking for routes.  Jad It was on one of these trips that they made a discovery that I think is fair to say still haunts them today and recently almost killed one of our producers.  Dirk So we had been out for a couple of days.  Jad On this particular occasion the three of them are together and they are in a couple days into a hike. Where are we again? We are in Utah. Is that right?  Regan Yeah Utah.  Jad Think desert but rocky.  Regan Slick rock sand stone cliffs.  Jad Canyon land. So they are hiking through all these canyons.  Craig And we actually split up. Regan said she wanted to set her own camp and so she stayed in one canyon and Dirk and I popped over into the next canyon over.  Jad Really is that a normal thing or were you guys fighting?  Craig No that is normal.  Regan We were not fighting at all. It is one of the great things about being out together is that there is an ease with that.  Robert So separating is part of the deal.  Craig Yeah and I think Regan was looking at Dirk and me and saying You guys are going to go scrambling and get weird. I am going to stay over here. I do not know if that was the case.  Regan Well part of it was just that I was at least five months pregnant and I was just starting to have a really hard time tightening my backpack so that the weight was not all on my shoulders.  Jad And she says while she was hiking the pregnancy hormones were giving her bouts of vertigo. It was just starting to hit her like wow in a couple of months things are going to be really different. So she needed some alone time she set her own camp.  Jad Dirk and Craig meanwhile scale up this cliff face to get to the next canyon over.  Dirk We get very close to the top and there is a little flat area.  Craig This balcony of rock overlooking the canyon below.  Jad This little ledge.  Dirk So we said well okay...  Jad Let us just sit here have some lunch.  Dirk Break out the pipe.  Jad Smoke some pot.  Dirk Exactly. So we sit down and we literally both have the first lung full...  Jad When Craig decides to take his backpack off.  Dirk And he leans over...  Craig I notice as I am bending over a round object underneath the edge of boulder back under the shadow.  Dirk And he says Hey there is a pot under there.  Robert So is it straight vertically below you?  Craig I am eye to eye with it.  Robert Oh.  Craig Then I dropped to my knees and looked into this shadow and there was this beautiful red jar.  Jad Low and flat covered in maybe 700 800 maybe a 1000 years of dust.  Craig It is a kind that is called a seed jar with just thing narrow mouth on the top and it had black paint design around the mouth. We are talking about early Pueblo people. Cliff dwellers. People who lived out in that desert a 1000 years ago.  Jad As he looked closer he could see that this particular jar.  Craig It had a crack down the front of it. It had two holes drilled around the crack and then a piece of  twine had been used to tie the holes together.  Robert Oh so it was precious to somebody.  Craig Yeah.  Dirk So they might have left it there.  Craig Maybe it was during a migration.  Dirk Thinking they would return at some time.  Jad Maybe they were on the run.  Robert I mean someone was hiding it from other people.  Regan Yes.  Craig You do not know who it was. If it was male or female or what clan or any of those stories but you know it was human being in the same position that you are in right there. Doing the same thing the same gesture.  Craig You can see the hand reaching out and placing the object. You can imagine the hands and the feet and the people and the sounds they would make.  Jad They stared at it for about an hour not really saying much. Then suddenly it just hits Dirk.  Dirk Oh.  Jad Wait a second.  Craig We have got to move this thing. Somebody else is going to find this.  Dirk It just felt like if we can just kind of look into it.  Jad What is to stop some four wheel driving.  Dirk By beetle pillager.  Jad From doing the same.  Dirk Because it is an access route. I do not know I felt sort of protective of it.  Jad Because you know pot hunters were all over the southwest looting dig sites and that jar would be worth a lot of money.  Dirk Tens of thousands of dollars at least.  Jad He wanted to make sure they somehow did not get their hands on this.  Dirk So I thought well let us hide it.  Jad Craig was like No.  Craig I said Absolutely not.  Jad The moment we touch that jar.  Craig It no longer is part of that story it is now part of our story.  Dirk He is a purist.  Craig We do not move this thing.  Dirk Not move it protect it. Let us cover it. I wanted to build a corral of stone around it to camouflage it.  Craig That is exactly what I would be looking for. In fact I would not notice the seed jar I would notice the rock and I would go Ooh somebody is hiding something.  Dirk Yeah right.  Craig Dirks looking at me going You and your Yoda crap.  Dirk God damn.  Craig And he says We can give this another 700 years of life.  Dirk Hell it had been there probably 1000 years.  Robert Well so how do you resolve this?  Craig I said You know we will come back tomorrow and we will just leave it for now.  Jad Oh so you left in a draw.  Craig We left in draw and we actually hopped back over to the canyon to find Regan.  Dirk Regan is kind of this bad ass samurai chick. I thought well oh yeah I would be able to draft over into my side.  Jad So they hike back up to that ledge yelled out for her and the next day she hiked on over to where they were.  Craig I remember her hitching up her pants pregnancy style and kind of squatting down to get in there.  Jad What was your first thought when you saw it?  Regan Focus... And just being right there completely consumed in that moment. I think it went on for a long time because eventually they are like So... What do you think?  Craig I want to hear the truth what we should do.  Regan Oh you guys argued back and forth for at least an hour and a half and I just ignored you for most of it because I was just looking at the seed jar.  Regan I was not really thinking to be in the position of arbiter. I just got fed up and I was like That is enough you guys leave it alone. It is part of an ongoing story like just give it up leave it alone.  Robert Ooh and so...  Dirk So she takes some pictures and we walk away.  Jad Within a year of that moment...  Dirk Everything just like went whirlwind.  Jad Regan and Craig had a baby. Craig decides to become a writer. He writes a book it becomes a best seller.  Dirk I quit the business and got divorced.  Jad Everything changed.  Jad But even on that day they knew.  Craig This will be the center of things we talk about for the rest of our lives. The seed jar. Yeah the day we found the seed jar.  Robert You think it is still there?  Craig I think it is still there. I think it is. The route is pretty complicated.  Dirk With that particular location no I would say 5050 tops.  Robert Huh.  Jad Again if only that were the end of the story.  Craig I would think it would be in the same view.  Regan No he said he would not-  Jad Yeah we could have done the thing where you are just like Oh the narrative power of objects met up blah blah. No we were like Is the dame thing there or did someone take it. We got so curious about this that we convinced Craig Regan and Dirk to go back.  Regan Now there're here.  Jad And check. We sent our producer Molly Webster along for the ride.  Molly Half the camp has just arrived.  Regan We have been at camp for a while.  Craig Yeah we have been-  Molly I did not realize when they were giving each other hugs the first night at camp and I was there with my recorder shoved in their faces that like-  Jasper No it was.  Molly It was actually like a big moment.  Regan I guess this is a reunion trip. We have not seen Dirk in ages.  Molly Regan had said that one of the last times now that people have kids and families one of the last times they were together was this seed jar.  Craig What are you talking about.   Molly Yeah it was already here.  Regan Yay we are so happy you are here.  Molly And so they were really really excited to be together.  Jad Wait how long ago was this when they found the thing?  Molly It was 11 years ago.  Jad This was 11 years ago?  Molly Yeah so the kids were Regan was five months pregnant and the kid she was pregnant with is Jasper.  Regan Turn off the light and come on out.  Jasper Coming.  Regan Come say hi.  Molly He just had his 11th birthday.  Jasper Can I bring my backpack out?  Regan Close the door and come say hi.  Jasper Hi.  Molly Hey man I am Molly.  Dirk I am Dirk.  Jad Dirk had never met kids.  Molly Well he had but the last time he saw Jasper Jasper was a baby.  Jad Oh.  Molly The other thing is I am just going to say Craig and Dirk are like brothers from another mother.  Dirk Oh yeah.  Molly Like they are like the bestest bromance I have ever seen. They love each other so much.  Molly So anyway we get there and we drop our bags and we go to sleep. Getting in the sleeping bag. Woke up four wheel drove or drive I do not actually know how that goes out into the Mesa's. Parked the cars and then we hiked a mile and a half to the edge of the Mesa.  Jad Wow.  Molly Basically the entire landscape felt like they had just put me on a Bonanza set. It was like gnarled  trees red sandy sand stone. Then you are on this mesa and then it falls off into this canyon and then there is like another mesa and then that falls off into a canyon and there is another mesa. It is just this is unending landscape.  Craig Look we are floating up here now.  Molly Yeah.  Jad Is it just like ?  Molly There is no sound.  Jad There is no cars in the distance?  Molly No sounds no nothing.  Craig It is intranet.  Dirk I mean I know we came out the top in a cross when we went back to get Regan.  Molly Basically our objective was to go somewhere into this canyon land.  Craig We dropped down to where Regan was camped before.  Dirk Yeah and come along the-  Molly And somehow find a tine little seed jar.  Craig It is weird to go back because I like to think of it... Like this is going to change things if it is not there.  Jasper If we do not find the seed jar I am going to be so mad.  Craig I like to be out in the world and just think about it. Just go okay there is a seed jar sitting there under a boulder right now and it will be there for the longest time and its just quiet.  Craig I can imagine the wind going around it and more sand building up and it is just this really nice thought of isolation and perpetuity.  Regan Hello.  Molly I kind of want to hear it echo. So we set up camp on the edge of a mesa and then we all went to sleep.  Jad With the flute sound.  Molly I do not know. Craig apparently has a flute in his bag. Dirk calls him flute boy. It was weirdly appropriate. So anyway so we wake up like first light.  Molly Is today the day guys?  Craig Today's the day we go find out if the egg is still there in the nest.  Regan Today's the day.  Molly We start hiking we go down this 800 ft decent.  Dirk Whoa. Whoa.  Craig Watch out for those rocks.  Molly No femurs are broken.  Regan Let me strap this down. The  were some tough people.  Molly We wind around this canyon.  Regan Moving on these cliff sides.  Molly Through a saddle around the back of another canyon.  Jad How long did this hike take?  Molly To get out there it probably took six maybe seven hours.  Jad Wow.  Molly We are going pretty slow. The kids were amazing but also slow.  Dirk God damn it.  Molly It was starting to bug Dirk I think is the way to say it. Wow it is really hot.  Regan The sun is straight overhead.  Dirk I think they will end up having to park the kids somewhere.  Molly Sure enough at the end of the six hour hike.  Regan If you could leave your packs so that they got extra water and snacks.  Molly The kids need a break and so we leave them in an alcove on the side of the canyon.  Jasper I want to come.  Craig Well we will scramble.  Regan Well we will figure out where it is and then come get you so you guys do not-  Jasper Luckily I brought my book.  Regan Okay bye guys.  Molly Bye guys. Regan is like Alright boys you have your emergency whistles. Remember three times but no joking.  Regan Okay final ascent.  Craig Do you know if we went up that angle.  Dirk Yeah we went up that diagonal there. I remember it really-  Craig Okay.  Dirk Really clearly.  Craig I am all behind you.  Molly So there was this... We were slammed up against this canyon wall. We needed to get over it and the only way to do that was that there was a boulder out in front of the canyon wall and it created this skinny little shoot. We had to wedge ourselves into the shoot and like go up it.  Dirk No I think getting up on it.  Molly 60 ft.  Regan Take a breath there Molly. Hold on take a breath.  Molly I would like to get off this plant.  Regan Okay.  Molly I had to put my back against one wall and my feet against the other.  Regan Push between the two walls.  Molly And I had this moment where before I left Dylan told me not to die for Radiolab. So I paused and I was like Okay do not do this for Radiolab do it for yourself.  Craig Do not be modest just lean closer. There. There. There.  Molly Okay. Never doing that again.  Molly By the time we get done with gnarly ascent everyone is like This  seed jar is going to be there because no one else would do this.  Molly That was really hard.  Craig Dirk says he is got the spot just head down that bin.  Molly So Dirk and Craig are like okay.  Dirk This is it we did that route. I am absolutely certain we did that route.  Molly The seed jar should be around here somewhere.  Molly We are like walking around giant tumble boulders looking under.  Molly We have got like a quarter of a mile of canyon face to figure it out.  Molly Just giant tumble boulders.  Molly Craig thinks it is to the left Dirk thinks it is to the right.  Regan Anything Dirk?  Dirk No.  Molly No.  Craig It is so weird because-  Molly Does it look familiar?  Craig This is it. This is the spot.  Regan It is been 11 years.  Craig Yeah but I know this is the spot I know it. Well.  Molly We do not see the spot.  Craig It is just getting trickier and trickier.  Molly They were just going like really confused.  Craig We were not that far down. We did not...  Regan We have been looking I do not know for an hour.  Molly And it all looks the same but just everything looks the same to an untrained eye. Right? It is like where is Waldo land and we are trying to find Waldo.  Molly Go over and find Craig get his thoughts. I finally see Craig kind of far off down the canyon standing by himself just staring at the ground. I was like Hey like any luck?  Craig I went down and looked at what would have been our likely route up.  Molly Yeah.  Craig Which is right up through here.  Molly Yeah. He points to the ground like right where we are standing and he says I think it is like right here. I think like this was the place.  Craig I do not want to think about this particular possibility. See all that stuff I just walked across.  Molly That went...  Craig Yeah. That is all fresh.  Molly Oh seriously.  Craig Yeah.  Jad Wait what does that mean fresh?  Molly Well we were standing on this pile of really sharp rock. It was just all of these sharp little jagged knives. I mean it sort of did not look like any of the other areas we had been in.  Craig It is possible that the cliff has fallen here and covered everything. The top of that cliff.  Molly If you looked above us to the top of the cliff it was like someone has just taken a meat cleaver to it. It was just sliced off.  Craig This whole thing broke off.  Molly The entire cliff face had fallen off and annihilated everything hundreds of feet in either direction.  Craig Its been totally destroyed.  Jad Oh no.  Molly Yeah.  Craig I mean it would not have survived.  Molly Even the gian boulder protecting it.  Craig Like its just been wiped clean.  Molly It reminded me of like an iceberg caving. You see all those videos of the front of the iceberg just all of a sudden just cleaves off.  Jad Yeah.  Molly That is exactly what happened on this cliff.  Craig So you are talking like 10000 tons of rock falling here.  Molly Just .  Craig Yeah. I mean that is not what I was thinking was a possibility. I am not swallowing it just yet.  Molly So he calls in Regan.  Craig Regan comes toward us.  Molly And then Dirk comes wandering over.  Dirk It does kind of make sense I guess.  Craig No if the pot has been here for 700 years it does not make sense at all it would happen the last 11 years.  Dirk Well that no I mean it makes sense why it is not looking right. It was here it was right in here. I know it was here.  Craig No no no. Oh my God.  Molly Craig's like leaning against the wall. Dirk was like Wow man I guess this must be it. There was this real like they were grappling with something and I was trying to figure like what they were grappling with. Craig just kept talking to me like not actually about the seed jar but about the place.  Craig This is where I remember Regan hoisting up her pants pregnant squatting. Dirk and me on our knees looking in on this thing for the longest time. You know it was very clear in my mind. To have the place itself gone I am fine it is beautiful it is wonderful but Jesus. This is a different kind of sadness that I was not quite-  Molly Are you sad?  Craig Yeah. Yeah this kind of sucks.  Craig If it was missing if somebody had taken it that would be a sad of like oh screw you people. Why do you do this? This is gravity.  Molly Dirk's gone.  Dirk We should start moving.  Molly Yeah.  Regan That is it it is getting late.  Molly Alright.  Craig That is just too much of an irony.  Regan Why? I think it is perfect it does not seem like irony at all.  Craig Just let it go.  Regan You are going to break into song.  Craig Let it go.  Dirk Take a little taco .  Regan She likes you Dirk. She wants to hear what you have to say.  Molly It is like a mountain goat.  Jad Producer Molly Webster. Thanks also to Craig Childs whose latest book is Apocalyptic Planet.  Robert And a special shout out to Henry Wright from Minute Physics and Minute Earth. He has been spending time with us got totally fascinated by Craig's story and made a little wonderful animation of a story that you did not hear on our podcast or our radio show. It is just on the web. So that is Henry's animation and you should look for it at Radiolab.org.  Jad Yep it will be up soon at Radiolab.org.   Message to-  Dirk This is Dirk .  Craig Hi this is Craig Childs.  David This is David Childs.  Regan Hi this is Regan Choi.  Jasper Radiolab is produced by WNYC and distributed by NPR.  Regan Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad.  Craig Our staff includes Ellen Horn.  Dirk Soren Wheeler.  David Kim Howard.  Regan .  Dirk Molly Canyon grub Webster.  Regan Melissa O'Donnel.  Craig Dylan Keefe Jamie York.  Jasper Lynn Lovey Andrea Mills and Kelsey Pageant.  Regan With help from Arianna Wack Matt Kielty.  Dirk Simon Adler.  David And Lily Sullivan.  Dirk Special thanks to Mack Primo.  Jasper Everyone at make a bot.  Craig The edge of piers park museum and Paige Phelps.  Regan Hope that works.  Dirk Thanks and goodbye.   End of mailbox.  Frankie Hi this is Frankie. I have two things to destroy today. The first one is a beer stein that I painted at one of those paint your own pottery places with my stupid ex-boyfriend. It is a stupid mug and it was a stupid relationship so here it goes.  Jeremiah  This is Jeremiah calling from Chicago Illinois. That was me punching a wall.   Wow this is... Are you ready for this?  Caroline This is Caroline Gleeheart from Brooklyn New York. I made this globe of the world puzzle. I did it when I was in high school because I would spend a lot time in my room.   Oh my God this is...  Caroline I do not know things are getting better now and maybe it is time to-   So you are willing to destroy it?  Caroline Let go of that part. So let us destroy it.  Mary My name is Mary and I am going to destroy a picture of me and my ex-boyfriend.   I am cleaning up all the paperwork from my classes and this is the sound of me ripping them up.   This is on of my father's computers.   And this week it is three years since the stroke that killed your father so we are going to beat the  out of it with a hammer.   Yes.   That was satisfying.  Justin My name is Justin. Last year my life was like a country song. First I lost my girl then I lost my job then I lost my house then my dog got killed and this is the sound of me destroying my old life.  Justin Thank you.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.