Jad Today on the podcast Robert we are going to talk constitutional law federalism and the intricacies of international treaty practice. Robert Oh god no. Jad You ready? Robert No no no do not do that. Jad It is going to be good it is going to be good. It is going to be good because I have help. Kelsey Hi guys. Robert Hi Kelsey. Kelsey Hello. Jad Kelsey Padgett has reported this segment and just listen to how it starts. Kelsey The story starts with a betrayed spouse. Jad You see? Robert That is much better. I am coming back to my seat. Jad Get some popcorn.  Duncan My name's Duncan Hollis. Kelsey He is not the betrayed spouse. Duncan I am a professor of international law here at Temple University in Philadelphia. Nick I am Nick Rosencrans. Kelsey Not him either. Nick I am a professor of law at Georgetown. I am also a senior fellow in constitutional studies at the Cato Institute. Mrs. Bond- Kelsey That is her. That is our betrayed spouse. Jad Carol Anne Bond. Kelsey 36. Lives in a suburb of Philly. Nick -discovered that her husband was having an affair with her neighbor. Kelsey Actually it was worse than that. This woman was her best friend. Not only that- Duncan She finds out that her friend is pregnant via her husband. Kelsey He got her pregnant. Robert Oh my god. Kelsey This is her best friend and her husband of 14 years. Duncan She was quite upset distraught. Jad Enraged I would imagine? Kelsey Yes. Carol made threats there were confrontations. The other woman is named Myrlinda Haynes by the way. Eventually Carol Anne Bond- Nick She did what anyone would do she got a bunch of toxic chemicals. Robert I do it all the time. Kelsey She tried to poison her best friend. Repeatedly. Robert Whoa. Jad Back up for a second. Where would she have gotten the chemicals from? Nick She worked I believe at a lab. Duncan She works for a chemical company. I think it is Rohm and Haas. Robert She is a biochemist? Kelsey She is actually a microbiologist but she grabbed some chemicals from her office. Duncan I think she also ordered some off the internet. Kelsey Amazon.com. Duncan They are pretty serious chemicals. Jad Like what? Kelsey Well one was-- Duncan Arsenic based and in large enough doses and when I say large doses I am talking teaspoons not gallons it can cause serious injury and can be fatal. Kelsey Anyway she took these chemicals she went over to her best friend's or her former best friend's house. Nick She spread them on the doorknob and on the mailbox. Duncan The door to her car. They are visible I guess. You can see them. Jad The best friend is not fooled? Duncan No. She calls actually the local police. The local police tell her to take her car to a car wash. They said Oh you know it could be drugs. Get the car washed off. Kelsey They just blow her off but it keeps happening. Over the course of half a year this happens 24 times. Robert 24 powder attacks. Kelsey According to the court briefs the police were not being very responsive. She called them over a dozen times and they tested it to see if it was cocaine once they figured out it was not they did not really do anything. Finally she tells the post office. Duncan It was the post office that actually sent out postal inspectors and they set up a hidden camera. Kelsey They video-taped Carol Anne Bond in the act. Robert They get her on tape? Kelsey Yes. Duncan That is how they identify her as the person putting chemicals on the mailbox. Jad I did not know the post office did stuff like that. Duncan To be honest I did not either. Jad I think of them so differently now. Nick I think if there is a moral to the story it is do not mess with the mail.  Nick They take that very seriously. Kelsey Actually there is a whole lot more going on than just messing with the mail because of what happens next. According to Nick Rosencrans generally things like assault or attempted murder- Nick Those are state crimes. Kelsey -in most circumstances the federal government cannot charge you with murder. The post office that is a federal institution so when they caught Carol Anne Bond they kicked this up to the federal attorney who then- Nick Went ahead and brought a federal case. Kelsey Here's the thing they ended up charging Carol Anne Bond with violating the International Chemical Weapons Treaty. Robert What? Nick We should be clear the victim got a tiny thumb burn and ran cold water on it and was fine. Robert I did not know that. Nick This is not murder. Robert That makes this all the more odd. Nick Very odd. Robert When I poison someone the last thing I am thinking about is violating an international treaty. Jad We should never have you over for lunch. Robert  Really why would they charge her with that? I do not understand. Kelsey If you actually read the treaty- John The statute simply says that it is a crime to use a toxic chemical for other than a peaceful purpose. Kelsey That is the exact language That guy that is John Bellenger. John I served as the legal advisor for the department of state under secretary Condoleezza Rice. Kelsey John says that even though it sounds a little weird this is exactly what this treaty was meant for. For people using chemicals- John Highly toxic chemicals. Kelsey -for nonpeaceful purposes. John Exactly right. Jad That is what happened here. Kelsey Imagine if she had killed a bunch of postal workers then- Jad I do not think anybody would complain. Robert To charge her with an international treaty violation it seems too big for the little lady. Kelsey It was really odd to her lawyers too. Robert I bet. Kelsey They are like Look in the constitution you have laid out what the federal government could do. This is not one of those things. You cannot just take a treaty and use it to reach into the very local life of a normal person. That is a huge overreach. Robert Sneaky frankly. Kelsey Now this case is before the Supreme court and it is become an ideological battle that goes way beyond Carol Anne Bond her cheating husband or her adulterous best friend. Jad I would argue that this case as weird as it is raises some really important issues about how the world is changing and about one of the most fundamental questions that is at the heart of America. I really believe that. Robert Well you have to defend that position. What do you mean? Jad Let me take you back to the beginning. Okay? Robert Sure. Joseph My name is Joseph J. Ellis. I am a historian. I have written the book called Founding Brothers and my most recent book is called-- What is it called? Revolutionary Summer. Robert You are a modest man. Jad Joseph Ellis he is a Pulitzer Prize-winning author. He is written a bunch of books about the founding of our country the revolutionary war. There is a scene in one of his books--  Joseph The book called American Creation. Did not sell as many as Founding Brothers. Jad It does not matter to me because it has this one passage that when I read it I was like Wow I have never thought of this country that way. To set the scene. Joseph You want to be real specific? It is September. Jad September 1787 Philadelphia. Joseph It is abominably hot. Jad You had all these great men crammed into statehouse. George Washington- Joseph This guy is a stud. Jad Six foot three war hero. Joseph This guy is overwhelming. Jad Alexander Hamilton was there. Joseph Hamilton. He would have got the highest grades on the LSATs. I am telling you this guy was really smart. Jad Even Ben Franklin who is pushing 81 at this point. Joseph Franklin's there. Jad They all came together to try and figure out How do we do this? If you think about it it was a puzzle because you have got these 13 colonies which are really like sovereign nations. They were loosely organized into a Federation that was about to go bankrupt. They had to do something. They were like Let us bring them together into a union but how do we do that without a king? It was a crazy experiment. Joseph One thing you got to realize is that at that time in American history the average person was born lived out his or her life and died within a 30-mile radius. They do not have cell phones and they do not think about themselves as Americans. Jad They thought of themselves as Pennsylvanians South Carolinians Bostonians. Joseph There is no real national ethos. Jad That is one problem. Second problem. The founding fathers could not agree. Could not agree on the most basic question. If there is not a King who is in charge? The so-called sovereignty question. On the one hand you had a guy like Alexander Hamilton who got up there and was like Why do we even need States? What is a state? What we need is a federal government that is big and strong and powerful. Joseph That is Hamilton baby. Hamilton wants a president elected for life. Hamilton wants a Senator elected for life. Jad On the other hand you had the Thomas Jefferson school of thought which was like No. We just got out of a monarchy for Christ's sake. The only way we are not going to get back in one is if we keep the government small restricted and- Joseph All domestic policy belongs in the hands of the States. Jad Sound familiar? Joseph Jefferson likes anything in which the government is not going to be doing much. Jad You had these two very different philosophies and the way Joe sees it- Joseph If you let Jefferson have total power you will end up at anarchy. If you let Hamilton have total power you are going to end up with a totalitarian state. Jad At the convention the two sides went back and forth and anytime a Hamiltonian type proposal hit the floor some of the States would say No. They would shoot it down because they did not want some big government telling them what to do especially when the 800-pound gorilla in the room was slavery. They could not agree at all and into this mess walks our hero James Madison. Joseph Madison is 52 120. Jad Madison. Joseph He is the kind of guy that stands in the corners during the dance. He would call him a nerd. Jad Madison. Well you might call him a pragmatist. Joseph Madison wants a clear decision about sovereignty. Jad For example on local matters. Who gets the final say the States or the federal government? Just give me some clarity. Joseph He was not going to get it. He comes to that realization at the very end. Jad At the end of the convention they have this document. He wrote the original blueprint. Now there is this new document so riddled with compromises that according to Joe the basic question he wanted answered was not. The Who is in charge? question was left vague on all sorts of matters. Who regulates money in banks who gets to tax what? Who decides whether new States will be slave States or free States? it was vague. Initially according to Joe in a letter that Madison wrote to Thomas Jefferson he is like Come on. Joseph He is very disappointed. Jad He thinks the document's going to fail and the country is going to fail. Joseph He does not think this is going to last. Jad Then Joe says in his writings you start to see a shift. Joseph He starts to think differently. He starts to say Wait a second. This could work precisely because it is unclear. We found what he calls a middle station. Jad Where everyone can see what they want to see. People come out of the convention go back to their States. The guy in South Carolina says Do not worry about slavery. The 10th amendment is going to tell us that they cannot do that. The guy in Pennsylvania and says It is just a matter of time before we end slavery. The constitution becomes successful because the people do not agree on what it means. Jad That according to Joe was Madison's epiphany. Joseph That the constitution is not a set of answers. It is a framework for argument. This is a document which allows us to continue to discuss and debate the core issues that we faced. The powers of the presidency the sovereignty question. The real resolution of the sovereignty question is never achieved. It eventually leads to the civil war. Jad What I find neat about this is it like that argument that happens in modern politics all the time about state's rights or the size of the government which can feel like a random argument for me at times. Suddenly to know this if you buy what Joe is saying it is not random at all. This is an argument that was actually literally written into our founding document. In some sense we as a country are the product of that argument. Robert Of course not everybody agrees with Joseph Ellis. There are people who think that the founding fathers had a very specific thing in mind. If you just go back to their debates and to what they said to each other that you can find the real only deep logic for the constitution. Jad The fact that they disagree with Joe in some sense does not that make Joe's point that you can read this document in 10 different ways? Robert Yes. Everyone always argues always. Jad Just to pick up the thread. After the civil war the argument changes it gets centered. Robert The union is still an experiment. Jad Massachusetts can still do their business differently than Colorado differently than Vermont. Robert The jostling between the federal government and the state government does not end. It just gets a little quieter thank heavens. Kelsey Unless you are a duck. Our next stop is- Jad This one has everything to do with our poisoner. Kelsey It is spring of 1919 rural Missouri. You have got Frank McAllister the attorney general of Missouri. He is out there with a bunch of friends and they are pointing their guns at the sky and shooting ducks one after another after another. They ended up shooting all in all 76. He knows he can do this because he is the attorney general of the state. He knows all the laws of the state and he knows it is his right to shoot whatever duck is flying in the sky of Missouri. Jad That is the state law? Kelsey That is the state law. You can shoot the ducks. They are out there they are having this great time. They are having this great haul they have gotten all these ducks. Then out of nowhere Ray Holland the federal game warden shows up and he says No you cannot do this. You cannot shoot these birds. They are not your property. McAllister says You you are wrong. Duncan This is a matter for the state. It is our sovereignty. We never gave this over to the federal government. Robert He must have been like I do not think the federal government's anything to say. The duck was born here. At least I found it in the sky here. I shot it here. It died here and I am going to eat it here. This is my duck. Kelsey The game warden says No it is not your duck. He arrests them all setting up a landmark confrontation. Here's what had happened. Two years earlier the administration of Woodrow Wilson was sitting there wringing their hands thinking All these people are killing birds at a non-stop pace. If this did not stop- Duncan There was some concern at this period that we were going to hunt these things to extinction. We might not have any migratory birds at all. Kelsey Problem is the courts had already told the federal government This is purely a local matter. You cannot make federal hunting laws. Then somebody in the administration has this really great idea or really evil idea depending on how you look at it. Duncan Maybe if we can get Canada to cooperate with us we can do this by a treaty. Kelsey There is this clause in the constitution that says treaties are the supreme law of the land. Maybe if we make an international treaty then the States will have to go along. Frank McAllister he sues and this goes all the way up to the Supreme court.  Duncan It lands before Oliver Wendell Holmes one of the more famous justices of the Supreme Court. He basically says The treaty power is something that was given to the federal government do not limit this. This treaty is good. The treaty and the legislation are upheld. Jad Score one for the federal government. Duncan Score one for the federal government. In there you actually have Holmes talking about what the constitution is. He was this thrice-wounded civil war veteran. He actually invokes the language of the civil war saying We spent all this sweat and blood to figure out what nation we were going to become for birds. He invokes this language and basically says Whatever we had debated in the past could the States regulate slavery without federal interference? Holmes says No the side who fought that argument they lost.  Kelsey All this talk about birds and state versus federal has everything to do with our prisoner Carol Anne Bond. This case is the precedent upon which the federal government says that they can prosecute Carol Anne Bond because Oliver Wendell Holmes said that treaties are the supreme law of the land. Robert I do not know I am still of the mind that this is a sneaky bit of business by the federal government. Duncan It is not sneaky if you are a duck. I feel I must speak on behalf of the ducks here. Robert No forget your ducks. This is a Pennsylvania lady doing a Pennsylvania adultery in a Pennsylvania mailbox with a Pennsylvania mood. There is no birds flying overhead. This is an all Pennsylvania crime. Kelsey You know who was not doing a God damn thing about that? Pennsylvania. Just to take your side for a second Robert. Robert Please do that. Kelsey  If you really think about it and the way that Nick Rosenkranz thinks about it this is really troubling. This decision seems to say that theoretically the federal government's power- Nick Is potentially infinite. Kelsey John Kerry who is our secretary of state right now he goes and makes treaties. Say he is talking to Zimbabwe and we agree that we want to have a treaty about educational standards for children. We come home and we write a law that says all children must go to public schools but then that would outlaw homeschooling for children which is a clear local state matter. Now suddenly the federal government has a power to do that. Nick It just seems odd the idea that the president the Senate and Zimbabwe can increase Congress's legislative powers. Kelsey Here's how John Bellinger responds.  John Is it a theoretical possibility that the federal government might try to go and do that? I suppose it is theoretically possible but there is no evidence that happened here. There is no evidence that has happened in a hundred years since Missouri vs Holland. Kelsey He would say Look consider- John The practical impact that a decision might have that would cut back on the president's treaty power. Other countries are already highly suspicious of the United States' ability to deliver on its treaty commitments anyway. Kelsey John would say Why would any other country want to make a treaty with us if Kansas could back out at any time? Jad How do you deal with a question like global warming if everybody is allowed to be left to their own devices? Robert That is a tough one. Duncan The reality is- Kelsey That is Duncan Hollis again. Duncan We live in a globalized world whether it is dealing with things like climate change terrorism shipwrecks cybercrime. Increasingly these are things we can no longer regulate just within a particular local community or a local society. Jad On some level if we now find ourselves in this world where I can get on the internet and spend hours and hours playing world of Warcraft with people in Yugoslavia and yet I have never really talked to my neighbor that is just down the street why would not we all have the same laws? Nick I think the flip side of your question is fine. The world is very interconnected but are there still some things that are local? Are there some things left where we could say The federal government does not need to be able to reach to this? Kelsey More than that Nick says that having a bunch of different communities that are governed by different rules all under the same nation actually- Nick Has a bunch of benefits. Competition the idea of laboratories of democracy. That the 50 States will all try different things as to regulating guns near schools as to regulating whatever it is and maybe some state will hit on something brilliant. If they do then it will spread and be replicated. That theory has been born out in a lot of different areas. When the Feds decide that they are going to come up with a one-size-fits-all national solution that is the end of the experiment.  Robert By the way what happened to Caro Anne Bond Kelsey Well she went to jail. Robert She is in jail. She is still in jail? Kelsey No she is out now. Robert She could go to court and find out whether this thing was-? Kelsey Yes.  Robert That is cool. Kelsey She can show up. Jad What about the poisonee? What happened to her? Kelsey The poisonee she changed her name she moved away. She is unsearchable now. Jad Good. I hoped she moved to Zimbabwe. Kelsey It is for the best. Robert Is she still living with the guy that gave her the baby? Kelsey No. You see Carol even though she went to jail for 6 years she is stayed with her husband. Jad No way. Robert Really? Kelsey Yes. Robert She stayed with the man who had a baby with the other lady? Kelsey Yes that she tried to poison that lady about. She stayed with that guy. Robert See that is the thing laws is interesting but love that is complicated. Love is greater than treaties.  Jad Thank you Kelsey. Kelsey Thank you. Jad Kelsey Padgett Robert Krulwich Jad Abumrad. Robert That is all of us. I think you have mentioned all of us. Jad Let us go. Robert We have to say goodbye to all of you. Bye. Jad Happy Christmas. Bonnie This is Bonnie calling from Massachusetts. RadioLab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.