 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  Three two one. Hey. I am Jad Abumrad. This is RADIOLAB. Today we have got a special collaboration with The New Yorker magazine and The New Yorker Radio Hour - very excited about that. So for the last several years we here at RADIOLAB - and by we I mean mainly Simon Adler - he - we have been watching and reporting on Facebook - specifically how Facebook decides and then enforces what people can and cannot post on their site. As many of you know the way that they do it is they have got this rule book one single set of rules for the many countries in the globe that define what is postable and what is not. And then they have a giant army of 15000 souls who have to moderate all the crap that we put on Facebook. Anyhow in doing so Facebook has managed to piss off well just about everybody.   I mean despite all of the time effort and money that they have thrown at this problem by taking posts down...   ...Censorship of...  ...They have been accused of censoring voices across the political spectrum and infringing on users' right to free expression.   The site will not let them post pictures nursing their...  ...Enemies of the First Amendment.  And then by leaving material up...   .  ...Used to incite violence against Rohingya refugees.  Investigators blame Facebook.  ...They have been accused of helping to incite a genocide in Myanmar...   Big stories influence the election.  ...And arguably swing the 2016 U.S. presidential election.   .  We are working on this. The most impactful decision...  Global struggle...  And I start here with this wrap-up because since we last reported on all of that Facebook has actually made a pretty big shift in how they are going to approach policing refereeing the world's speech. It is a shift that - it is going to have a massive impact on their decisions about what is and is not allowed on the site including the question - which we will talk about in a second - of whether former President Trump should be banned indefinitely from Facebook. But more deeply this is a shift that has Facebook really looking less like a company and oddly a little bit more like a government an unelected government for the entire planet. So with all of that let me now hand off to...   Hi.  Hello Kate. How are you?  Simon.  Are you rolling on your end?  There we go. Now I am rolling.  Great.  I will record myself on my phone.  Yeah. So a couple months back I called up academic Kate Klonick to talk about this shift and this research project she is been working on documenting it.  I want to be done with this project so  badly . I just like...  .  Yeah.  This has been your life.  Yeah it has...  Yeah. Yeah.  ...Like a little bit too much so. I am ready to like - you know I am ready to kind of do something different.  Kate is a professor of law at St. John's University. She is studied Facebook off and on for years. And she was at it again because back in 2018 Mark Zuckerberg the company's CEO was considering this strange proposal.  Yes like this crazy project to solve this crisis about content management.   I think you know that I have been kind of inside Facebook for the last couple - like a little over a year.  Mmm hmm.  And...  Kate actually sat down with Mark to talk about all this. She did it over the computer so you will hear some clacking of keys. But anyway as he told her...   You know I said a bunch of times that I just think that it is not sustainable over time for one person or even to one company's operations to be making so many decisions balancing free expression of safety at this scale.  Like I recognize that this is a huge responsibility...  And I am not going to be here forever.   You know I would like - I plan to be running the company for a while but one day I am not going to be running the company. And I think at that point it would be good to have built up a separate set of independent structures that ensure that the values around free expression and balance in these equities can exist.  Oh interesting. Like I trust me but I do not necessarily trust the next guy.  Right.  And so like a benevolent dictator he wants to devolve power away from Facebook and himself.  And what he would landed on as a model for how to do this...  ...Was a Supreme Court for Facebook. And...  Sorry. What exactly - like what?  Yeah. So the proposal was pretty simple. It was creating a group of people from all over the world that would basically be this oversight on Facebook and its speech policies.  Essentially think of it as like the Supreme Court of the United States. But instead of overruling lower courts' decisions this Supreme Court of Facebook would be able to overrule Facebook's own decisions. It is a hard pitch to make is not it?  Oh my God 100.  .  You can imagine how that went over.  Yeah they are like wait what? You want us to do what? That is how I imagine that going.  Yeah. But Mark wanted this to happen and so it happened.   It is part of like a larger sense I think that he sees Facebook becoming more and more - like a government is not even the best term but like a system of government.   I hope over time to use the fact that I have control to basically help implement some different forms of governance for...  Like a long-term legacy that he knows will not make terrible decisions.  This seems to be them catching up and being like yeah. Like if you have got 3 billion users you are bigger than any company at that point any country. Your rules can be as impactful as any government's laws. And so you really need to start thinking of yourself in a new way.  Yeah I think that is right. Has any company ever done anything like this before?  I mean honestly there is nothing that even kind of comes close. And I do not want to be grandiose about this but there is a sense in which it feels like you are - I felt like I was watching an experiment that would if it - even if it completely and utterly failed would be remembered and be a lesson for however the world ends up sorting out this problem of online speech.   And so once Facebook decided to build this court they suddenly needed to figure out like what cases would go to the court who would be on it how would they make these decisions? And it became clear that...  It is you know not appropriate to have a single person answer these questions on behalf of society or rate this institution.  This is Brent Harris who led Facebook's effort to build this board this court. And as one of his first decisions he said...  We need to go out and actually listen to a wide array of people about what the problems are and the challenges are that they are finding and ask them what do they want this to be? What can we create?  And so they held dozens of listening sessions all over the world talking to laypeople. But the cornerstone of this process was really six global workshops where they invited experts to come and weigh in. Kate was one of 40 or so people that attended the U.S. workshop. It was held in the basement of the Nomad Hotel in downtown Manhattan. And when she walked in...  It was like walking into a technologist's wedding.   You come in. Every like table is decorated with succulents and bottles of vase water and an iPad. The iPad is not for you to keep. And in fact someone joked - one of the Facebook people joked to me like yeah we used a couple-generations-old iPad to make sure no one walked away with it you know.   That is spectacular.  But - and so you have an iPad. And ultimately...  This moderator came out and tried to get the room's attention.  And of course like everyone's half-listening and most people are on their phones and like whatever else.  In part because like a lot of people in that room were just very skeptical of what Facebook was doing here. I mean Kate herself remained somewhat skeptical of this court.  This is just something Facebook can scapegoat. It is really crappy decisions too. That was my main skeptical point in all of this.  That Facebook is essentially erecting what will be just a body to absorb blame. But anyhow the moderator explained what they were up to that they would brought these experts here to in essence design this institution.  They are like so what do you think this should be? Like what does it look like? And some of it was like an answer to questions. Some of it was things people brought up - case selection questions board selection who picks the board? And I would say a solid third of it was people standing up and holding forth on topics that had nothing to do with why we were there that day.   Less of a question and more of a comment.  Yeah exactly.   Holy cow - so many of those.  Eventually though they got to the heart of the matter - like how should a global board think about these cases that are right on the edge?  What we wanted to do was really put people in the shoes that Facebook is in right now in taking these decisions.  So they told them like hey you are going to play mock court. As a group you are going to have to decide whether a piece of content should stay up on Facebook or come down.  And so everyone was asked to open their iPad. So you were asked to like - we are going to go over the first simulation. And you will love this Simon.  .  The first simulation that they did was the Kill All Men simulation.  Really?  Yes.  Wow. Oh that is great.  Oh this is the thing you - the one that you focused on in the last story. I remember there was like a song in there.  Yeah it is...  Am I right?  You are totally right. We spent 10 15 minutes dissecting this piece of content. This is...  You know what? You should play this and just be like here's what they focused on.  OK yeah. I think we only need to do about three minutes of it. But here it is.   We are going to keep it moving right along. The next team to come to the stage - please give it up for Marcia Belsky.   We did this back in 2018. It is about comedian Marcia Belsky and a photo she posted.   Thank you. Yes. I get so mad. I feel like my first time to the city I was such a carefree brat you know. I was young and I had these older friends which I thought was like very cool. And then you just realize that they are alcoholics you know.   This is her up on stage. She is got dark curly hair was raised in Oklahoma.   How did you decide to become a comedian?  You know it was kind of the only thing that ever clicked with me. And especially political comedy - you know I used to watch The Daily Show every day.  And inspired by this political comedy she started this running bit that I think can be called sort of absurdist feminist comedy.   Now a lot of people think that I am like an angry feminist which is weird. This guy called me a militant feminist the other day. And I am like OK just because I am training a militia of women in the woods.   At first I just had this running bit online on Facebook and Twitter.  She was tweeting posting jokes.  You know like we have all the Buffalo Wild Wings surrounded - you know things like that.  . Eventually took this bit on stage even wrote some songs.    Say all older white men should die but not my dad - not my dad - no no not my dad.   Anyhow so about a year into this running bit Marcia was bored at work one day and logs on to Facebook. But instead of seeing her normal news feed there was this message that pops up.  It says you posted something that discriminated along the lines of race gender or ethnicity group.  And so we have removed that post.  And so I am like what could I possibly have posted? I really - I thought it was like a glitch.  But then she clicked continue and there highlighted was the violating post. It was a photo of hers. What is the picture? Can you describe it?  The photo is me as what can only be described as a cherub - cute little 7-year-old with big curly hair. And she is wearing this blue floral dress. Her teeth are all messed up.  And into the photo Marcia had edited in a speech bubble.  That just says kill all men. And so it is funny because a hit a hit - it is funny you know. Trust me. Whatever.  Facebook had taken it down because it violated their hate speech policy.  I was dumbfounded.   And so back to present day this is the scenario they put in front of these tech elites in the basement of the Nomad Hotel to see really how they would react.  Is that hate speech? What does that mean? And should that be up on Facebook or not?  Leave it up or take it down? And so people started to discuss.  People were like well this was not funny. And someone else was like...  Does it matter whether it is funny or not?  Back and forth and back and forth.  And even so like should men be protected?  Like men are more protected than other groups.  Eventually though the room pretty much came to an agreement.  Kill all men is clearly humor or social commentary. That should be up on Facebook and it is inappropriate for Facebook to take that down.  Yeah I get that. I mean I remember when we first did this feeling like this is a harmless joke right? And Facebook should be a place where harmless jokes can get made because in this case the joke only works because men are the power structure. If they were not it would not be funny.  Yeah it is punching up.  There you go. It is punching up right.  But here's where things get interesting - because as we said they did six of these expert global workshops.   Berlin Singapore New Delhi Mexico City Nairobi.  And at each of them they ran through this Kill All Men scenario.  We ran that case across the world. And something that is very very striking is we got really different viewpoints about should that be up on Facebook or not.  Like not just at the New York workshop but in Berlin another Western liberal democracy. And even Singapore - folks supported leaving it up. And you know you would think that folks who would experienced more authoritarian governments and restrictions on their speech would also be for leaving it up. But it did not go that way.   This sounds really bad.  Go for it.  But I understand that - like I understand that of course like kill all men. That is the most feminist radical joke that you can make.  This is Berhan Taye. She works for an NGO called Access Now.  We defend and extend digital rights of users at risk around the world.  And when she was shown this photo at the global workshop in Nairobi which had attendees from all across the African continent her thought was...  It is very funny. And you know many of us that are feminists might have said that once - you know once twice in our life right? Where you are just like no could we - yeah. You know and I understand that to be a joke. So I am like yeah of course there should be space for humor and I know why satire is so important.  But I am sensing a but. What is it?  So you know it is - how do I put it? So for me right now - you know it is funny but you know humor is a luxury.   And we are not - I mean none of us are laughing right now. So yes we have seen content like that that is unfortunately quite prevalent. And you know we have lived through it so it is not something that we joke about right?  What is she - what events in the world is she thinking of when she says that?  Well some very recent history - and so we are going to take a little bit of a detour here to understand why Berhan would want that Kill All Men joke taken down. And along the way we are going to see close up really the life-and-death decisions this global court will have to make. We will get to that right after a quick break.   Jad. RADIOLAB. Here with Simon Adler.  Yes yes yes yes yes.  OK before we went to break we met digital rights activist Berhan Taye who was opposed to leaving a joke like Kill All Men on Facebook.  That is correct.  So why is that? What was she thinking?  Yeah. Well I mean it comes down to what is been going on in her home country.  You know there is absurdity in Ethiopia right now.  Ethiopia.  There is a lot of animosity between different groups a lot of tension.  And looking at just the past four or five years there you see how these questions of who is punching up and who is punching down can get flipped on their head with the click of a mouse. So to set things up Ethiopia sits right on the Horn of Africa. It is the second-most populous country on the continent. And for a long time it was considered one of the world's leading jailers of journalists.  Politically the country used to be very authoritarian very repressive.  This is online-activist-turned-academic Endalk Chala.  Assistant professor at Hamline University - and yes I can say that me and some of my colleagues were like the first people blogging to the Ethiopian public.  He was actually forced into exile because of this activism. And the way he tells it...  Late 2015...   .  .  .  .   The worst unrest in a decade...  The demonstration started as a small-scale student protest.  Student protests break out.   .  .  And they start spreading across the country.   Thousands took to Ethiopia's streets over the weekend.  And watching this unfold from the United States Dr. Chala noticed that at the center of these protests was this guy Jawar Mohammed.  Yes.  .  Jawar himself is a very tech-savvy guy. He is articulate in English.   If dissenting voices are allowed there is going to be sufficient pressure on the government to break its will...  And he had about 1.4 or three million followers on Facebook.  Making him as powerful as just about any news organization in Ethiopia. Now a couple of quick things about Jawar - No. 1 he is from the Oromo ethnicity the largest ethnic group in the country. And we will get more into that in a moment. But first the other notable thing about Jawar is that at the time that these protests were getting underway he was actually living in Minnesota. He was in exile there thousands of miles away from the action.   At least 75 people killed during...  But as these protests intensified including clashes with the government...   They died for the true cause.  Two people were killed in clashes with...  They died to liberate their people.  He was able to galvanize folks and direct things because of Facebook...   Whether you live in America Canada Oromia  or Kenya  you have the obligation to take up the arms of these young men.  ...So that sort of amazingly when these protests succeeded...   .   Hailemariam Desalegn has resigned amid deadly anti-government protests there.  ...He was lionized as well a hero...   .  ...One who would helped usher in a new prime minister...   Ethiopia has a new leader - Abiy Ahmed.  .  Abiy Ahmed won 60...  ...And a new era in Ethiopia.   .   Since coming to power Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was engaged in listening to what people of the country have to say.  And for the first time in our entire maybe 3000 years of history...  Again Berhan Taye.  ...We actually thought we could be a cohesive united country.   The government freed thousands of political prisoners and journalists...   The latest of sweeping measures...  ...Invited those in exile...   ...Ethiopian dissidents exiled abroad...  ...To come back home even ended a decades-long conflict with neighboring Eritrea.   A promise delivered.  I mean these changes were so profound that Ethiopia's new prime minister Abiy Ahmed thanks in no small part to Jawar Mohammed went on to win...   The Nobel committee has decided to award the Nobel Peace Prize to Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali.  That is right - the Nobel Peace Prize.   .  So what you have got here is really the promise of Facebook realized right? Like man from thousands of miles away leverages Facebook's power to bring down an authoritarian government and elevate a peace-loving leader. I mean this is David-and-Goliath-level . And as part of all of these reforms...   I will be traveling back to the country. We have now established our office in Addis Ababa.  Jawar Mohammed returned to Ethiopia and was welcomed with open arms. However...   While Abiy Ahmed's reform ambitions have increased his popularity analysts fear that ethnic rivalries in Ethiopia will undermine his reforms.  The very forces that brought this change about began pulling in the opposite direction.  And I am sure you are going to get a lot of reaction for this because everything is contested in Ethiopia - every historical fact everything. You know you see people are confused. There is information disorder in the United States. This is just like child's play when you compare it with Ethiopia. But yes the first violence that happened was in 2018. The first - it was gruesome pictures circulating on Facebook along with you know different anti-ethnic minority sentiment.  But what were the ethnic tensions and what was being said?  Yeah. So how complicated to get - or how in the weeds to get here?  Get complicated.  Well OK. So as I mentioned Jawar is part of the Oromo ethnicity the largest ethnicity in the country. And while the Oromo are the largest they have also long felt politically and culturally marginalized. And this feeling of marginalization this resentment this was really at the heart of the revolutionary protests that Jawar had helped lead.   Jawar I am just curious. Are you Oromo first or Ethiopian first?  I am an Oromo first.  I mean many of his posts pointed directly at it.  He would say Oromo are oppressed and how Oromos were marginalized. And that is absolutely OK with me because there is some historical truth to it. But he is a guy like who heats up the temperature ramp up some emotions.   As I said we are forced to fight back to coalesce together to come together and fight back.  But now even with the old government out of power and a new Oromo prime minister in power Jawar Mohammed did not let up. He kept stoking this resentment.   To be honest with you I think there is a risk of - not civil war but catastrophic communal violence across the country. I think people have to be very careful from that one.  And with this inversion of power statements he was making during the protests sounded very different in 2018. Like even just the line...   This is our land. This is our homeland.  ...Went from being about Ethiopians getting a corrupt government out of power to Oromos getting minorities out of their territory. And quickly the language began to escalate.  He will ramp up with like protect your land. Minorities - they are aliens. They are going to loot you. You know they are evil.  Until eventually...  October 2019.   The riots began on the 23 of October 2019 and lasted for several days. A mob took to the streets burned cars and killed several people they thought were their opponents. Eighty-six people died across the country. What caused this horrific outbreak of violence? The Facebook post by opposition leader Jawar Mohammed.  One evening from his home in Addis Ababa Jawar Mohammed posted an unsupported claim.  Insinuating that he is going to be killed by minorities.   In his post he called on his supporters for help. In response some of his followers called for war.  And while Jawar denies that he was intentionally inciting violence hate flooded onto Facebook.  Content calling for the killing of all minority groups...  Again Berhan Taye.  ...Content actually telling people like if your neighbor is from a different ethnic group go and kill them. Literally that was what we were seeing.  And then everyone started to take things on their own hand...   .  ...And you know kill minorities.     Everything that could go wrong went wrong.     Minorities were brutally murdered like brutally - brutal brutal gruesome violence.   Minority communities being brutally targeted by the Oromo the country's largest ethnic group.   When they tried to cut my granddaughter's breast I took out mine and I begged them to cut mine instead. Then they stopped but they took her father instead.  And since then the government just has not been able to get back to any sort of peace.   More than 800000 people have been displaced...  At least five people were shot dead by police on Monday.  At least 50 people...  The fatal shooting of Hachalu...  And so every couple weeks...   Dozens have been killed.  ...There is just another outbreak...   Gunshots continue...  ...Of this sort of violence.  Facebook brought this change this political change. And that is bullshit for me. I am sorry for my phrase but that is what happened.   And so back in Nairobi in an air-conditioned conference room where this Supreme Court of Facebook training session was underway as Berhan was sitting there staring down at this iPad with a photo on it that says kill all men she is like yeah this has to come down.  You know I am not in a space to you know even give space to having a conversation about content governance and moderation when it is about humor.  And Berhan was not alone in this.  Many people felt that is an incitement to violence. That could result in actual harm.  Again Facebook's Brent Harris.  And that is something that should not be on Facebook.  And so I think around 00 PM to be honest with you I left.  She walked out of the session.  Because I was just like no. This does not address the issues that we are talking about today.  Damn what do we do? Because it really is a we. What do we do if the very thing that people in New York in an ironic way say must stay up is the very thing that makes her walk out because it is just utterly privileged and completely ignorant of the real-life consequences of hate speech? . That is - wow.  And keep in mind these are just mock trials - training sessions really. Like they ran into this as they were trying to answer how to answer these sorts of questions. And now we will get to some of their actual rulings and this Supreme Court itself.  Yes.  But first like I think that the tension we are seeing here goes deeper than this one example. I mean at the core of Facebook is this very American understanding of freedom of expression. And you hear this even in the way Facebook executives just talk about the company.   And more people being able to share their experiences that is how we make progress together.  You know how many times has Mark Zuckerberg said some version of this?   The most progress in our lives actually comes from individuals having more of a voice.  But when you talk to people from different parts of the world like there is not universal agreement on this.  I will definitely tell you that I found myself - oh my goodness. I was not as liberal as I thought.  Again professor Endalk Chala.  In Ethiopia Facebook came and overwhelmed us with information. We did not have a well-established fact-checking system. We did not have journalism institutions.  We Ethiopia have only imported Facebook. We have not imported the rest of the institutions and democratic foundations...  Right.  ...The economic security around which such untrammeled freedom of expression is beneficial.  And so well 10 years ago eight years ago. Yeah I saw that in freedom of expression and technology will help us liberate us and get us out of authoritarian system. Now I have seen people who get angry and they will take matters on their own hands. That is what happened. So it is about like a choice between coexistence or saying whatever you want to say. It comes down to that for me. And as I have seen the violence that those speech has made I think I would prefer coexistence.  And to put that opinion in perspective here...  Eighty percent of Facebook users are not American.  Eight zero?  Yeah.  Really?  Yeah.  And content moderation is a very difficult task one that is being done by people that have no freaking idea about our way of life you know? And unfortunately it is us that are being affected over and over again with these things than - you know than you guys.  I mean is there anyone openly advocating for just abolishing Facebook?   Yes but I do not think anybody's taking that particularly seriously.  But I mean come on. Like at a certain point if private company becomes so potentially toxic to the very basic functioning of a decent democracy - I do not know man. I do not know. Unless you can somehow break Facebook into a Balkanized set of Internets...  Right.  ...Where each one has its own separate rules - but I doubt that is even possible.  Well engineering-wise it is possible. Facebook in a few rare instances already does employ some version of this. I spoke to Monika Bickert who is Facebook's head of global policy and she explained that there are certain slurs that are outlawed in specific regions but allowed everywhere else. And similarly they do have to abide by local laws. But she did go on to say that quote if you want a borderless community you have to have global policies and that she does not expect that to change.  No. No. That is crazy. You are going to have to be so astute and so aware of regional context and regional history. I just do not think that is possible. So actually now that I am saying it out loud I think they should be outlawed. I do not know. I have suddenly talked myself into a very extreme position but it suddenly seems like what other solution is there?  Well the solution Facebook has landed on is this Supreme Court. After those global workshops they took all that feedback and created this independent structure. It is going to have 40 members. It currently has 19. The members represent every continent other than Antarctica and they are from just a wide array of backgrounds. Some are lawyers. Others are free speech scholars activists journalists even a former prime minister of Denmark. And among the first decisions they are going to have to make is whether or not former President Trump will be banned from the platform indefinitely. Facebook has currently banned him but it will be up to the board to rule on whether that ban should remain or be lifted. And I mean this decision will not just impact Trump. It could very well have implications for how Facebook will deal with political figures not just in the United States but in places like Ethiopia. Hello hello.  Hey Simon.  Maina very nice to meet you virtually here.  How are you doing?  I am good. How are you sir?  All right.  And while making the right decisions for the entire planet seems in many ways impossible when I sat down and talked to several members of this court of this board I have to say they did make me a little bit hopeful. Thanks so much for being willing to do this. I hope we can have a little bit of fun here today.  I hope so. I was - yes. I think we should make as much controversy as possible.  Oh wow. OK. This is Maina Kiai. He is a member of the board former special rapporteur to the United Nations. And he is basically spent his entire life fighting for human rights. And what struck me about him right off the bat is just how on un-Facebooky  he is.  I have not used Facebook or Twitter myself.  Really?  I am old-school. I try to keep my private life private.  Why the hell were you chosen to be on the oversight board of a product that you do not even use?  Why?  Yeah.  Because there were all kinds of people being chosen for it. I mean that is the beauty of it - is not it? - that we have all kinds of people on the board all kinds.  And that he sees the solution here in the incremental progress we have made in the past.  You know look I see this work as human rights work. I mean I have gone through in my life - through different things around hate speech using radio in first of all Rwanda then in Kenya as well. The media can be abused. And then how do you rein them in? How to mitigate them? And how do you mitigate them in a way that does not abuse human rights? So the tools and the problems is basically the same. The difference is that media mainstream media before social media has been regulated over time - decades and years - but then informed and guided how the information is put out.  He said just look at the five-second delay that live television runs on now.  I am sure when it started with live television and live radio it was on the go. So I think that is the questions we have to now deal with Facebook. But I think - I mean I have confidence that there is enough experience in the world that is dealt with these phenomenons.  And this feeling resonates with most of the people I spoke to at Facebook.  I mean I spent about 15 years working on climate before I came to Facebook. And I think the issues here are deeply analogous.  Again Brent Harris.  They are human-generated. There are major regulatory actions that are needed. There is a serious responsibility by industry to step up and think about the responsibility that they hold. And the solutions that will come forward as we start to figure out how to address these types of challenges will inherently be incremental. And at times I worry we will kill off incremental good progress that start to address these issues because they do not solve everything.  Hmm.  You know is the Paris agreement enough? No. Is it a lot better than what we had before? Yes. Is the Montreal Protocol enough? No. Is it a  substantial step forward against this challenge? Yes. And building this board is only one step in a wide array of many other steps that need to be taken on.  It sounds to me that what you are saying is this is the first piece in this global governance body Facebook is imagining.  Well if it really works and people end up believing in it and thinking it is a step forward then yeah further steps can be taken.   You know nothing's ever perfect. There are always going to be issues. People will criticize the specific people who are on it. They will criticize the process.  And I mean when Kate Klonick who turned us on to this story to begin with - when she interviewed Mark Zuckerberg he said as much.   It is not like the oversight board is the end. It is one institution that needs to get built as part of the eventual community governance that I think we will end up having 10 years from now or however long it takes to build all of this out. It just felt like a kind of a concrete step that we could go take.  And what they are thinking of in terms of next steps...  One would be something like regional circuits or you know a level of adjudication that are more regional or more localized that sits below this board as a means of taking these decisions.  You mean like seven continental courts or I do not know 52 subregional courts that feed up to the one Supreme Court?  Yeah that is right.   And so what we are watching spring up here is not just a solution to what is truly one of the problems of our moment but also this wholly new way to organize ourselves and sort of adjudicate our behavior.  Look. Look. What we are trying to do is an experiment. I cannot tell you it will work but I can tell you we will try to make it work as much as possible. And when we make mistakes I am - absolutely - I have got no doubt in my mind that being the humans we are not yet evolved into saints and angels we will make mistakes. That is part of the process.   The oversight board started officially hearing cases in October. They have already ruled on matters ranging from whether nude photos advocating breast cancer awareness should stand to whether a post about churches in Azerbaijan constitutes hate speech. The board will render their decision on President Trump in the next few months.   This story was produced and reported by Simon Adler with original music throughout by Simon. Is this original music by Simon that we are hearing right now Simon?  It is indeed.  All right. As we said at the top this episode was made in collaboration with The New Yorker Radio Hour and New Yorker magazine. To hear more about the intricacies of how this court came into being the rulings they have already made and what is coming up on their docket check out David Remnick and reporter Kate Klonick's conversation in The New Yorker Radio Hour's podcast feed or head over to newyorkerradiohour.org. And on that note a huge thank you to Kate Klonick whose tireless coverage of Facebook and their oversight board made this story possible. We would also like to give special thanks to Julie Owono Tim Wu Noah Feldman Andrew Marantz Monika Bickert John Taylor Jeff Gelman and all the volunteers who spoke with us from the Network Against Hate Speech.   Beautiful Jad. That is great.  All right.   Hi. This is Claire Sebree  calling from Lafayette Calif. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.   