 Hi everybody. This is Craig from Washington D.C.. Radio Lab is supported by HSS the number one hospital in the country for orthopedics for nine straight years according to US News  World Report. With locations in Nassau Westchester Bergen and Fairfield Counties the best is now nearby. Learn more at hss.edu.  This is Olivia Fritz from Sheboygan Wisconsin. Radio Lab is supported by Math for America. Here's a brain teaser. Ever wonder where the best math teachers across New York City come together to lead learn and share? MFA inspire great teachers to stay in the classroom. Learn about the power of the MFA community at mathforAmerica.org Robert Krulwich Jad? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich Let me play you this. Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . Elaine May Buddy. Mike Nichols Yes mom. Robert Krulwich You are listening to Mike Nichols- Elaine May I have been thinking. Robert Krulwich And Elaine May. Elaine May You are getting older now. You are nearly a man and you should start thinking about your future a little bit you know. Robert Krulwich You are listening to a rehearsal that happened to get caught on tap. Jad Abumrad Okay. Elaine May You are a happy boy. Jad Abumrad What are they laughing about? Mike Nichols For God's sake. Jad Abumrad What are they laughing about? Mike Nichols Mama I have been giving it some thought I- Robert Krulwich Here's the thing he has a joke in his head. Mike Nichols I know what I would like to do with my life I- Robert Krulwich But he just cannot get the punchline out without ruining it with a laugh. Mike Nichols I will have to train for some years. Jad Abumrad Wait what was the joke? I did not even hear the joke. Robert Krulwich Oh well you have not heard it yet. He wants to be when he grows up- Mike Nichols I want to be a Registered Nurse. Robert Krulwich ... a Registered Nurse. Jad Abumrad The joke is I want to be a nurse? Robert Krulwich I want to be a nurse. That is the joke but he cannot say the word nurse without losing it. Nor can she say the word nurse without losing it. That is their punchline. Jad Abumrad Why is that funny? Robert Krulwich Well remember it is 1959 and boys do not want to be Registered Nurses not in 1959. Jad Abumrad Oh. Robert Krulwich That is for Mike Nichols the funniest thing he is thought of all week. Jad Abumrad Not funny. Robert Krulwich Wait. Mike Nichols Mother I want very much to be a Registered Nurse. Stop laughing. Robert Krulwich I love this. I love this rehearsal. I do not know why but I could listen to this 150 times. I have listened to it 150 times. Mike Nichols All right mother. I want very much to be a Registered Nurse. Robert Krulwich So no go on that one. He cannot do it. Now understand that this laughter just keeps bubbling up. Mike cannot control it. Elaine cannot control it. Oh here we go. Elaine May ... your father and I to be able to say That is my son. Robert Krulwich Here's the thing Jad these are two of the greatest humorists of the mid 20th century in the United States. They are professional improvisational comics. They live to laugh. They control laugh. They try to create laugh. They are all about laughter and yet- Elaine May I cannot. I cannot. Robert Krulwich ... laughter beats them. Tyler Stillman Here we are this species with the capacity for language which allows us exquisitely nuanced expressions. Robert Krulwich This is Tyler Stillman. He studies laughter at Florida State University. Tyler Stillman Yet we produce these kinds of bizarre sounds. Laughter is this kind of clumsy inarticulate way of expressing ourself but it is also kind of awesome. Jad Abumrad Looking forward is the question then why is laughter so awesome? Robert Krulwich Ugh I always ... I hate that word awesome. Jad Abumrad Okay. Robert Krulwich I will say that it is a good question to ask why do we laugh what is laughter for and why those sounds? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich Why those sounds. Jad Abumrad All right. Well let us go. Our topic today is laughter. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab. Okay dude. To get started the thing we just talked about the weirdness of laughter. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad How it is both clumsy on one hand but also kind of awesome. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad I know you love that word awesome. Robert Krulwich I hate that word. Why do you have to say that word all the time? Jad Abumrad Well in any case- Robert Krulwich You could say delightful. Delightful is a good word. Jad Abumrad All right delightful. What I really want to say is that sort of paradox is something that some of the greatest minds in history have thought about and written about. Robert Krulwich Like? Jad Abumrad Aristotle. Barry Sanders In a book called De Animalium Aristotle wants to describe what separates human beings out from all the other creatures. Jad Abumrad That is historian Barry Sanders. He wrote a book about laughter called Sudden Glory. According to him after pages and pages of complicated reasoning about what makes us special ... Is it language? Is it reason? Is it this? Is it that? Aristotle- Barry Sanders Concludes one thing. Jad Abumrad What? Barry Sanders What makes us absolutely different is our capacity to laugh. Jad Abumrad When you laugh- Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Go ahead do it. Robert Krulwich  Jad Abumrad That right there- Robert Krulwich Okay. Jad Abumrad That is a specifically human endeavor. No other creatures can do it. Not only that the first time you do it- Robert Krulwich You mean like when you are a little peeper and you are just- Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm  when you are a tiny baby and you make your first laugh. That to Aristotle might be the most important moment of your life because it is the moment that your life at least as a human being begins. Barry Sanders When the infant utters its first laugh emits its first laugh at that moment heated air from lower in the stomach moves through a membrane into the soul ensouls the creature ... and at that point ... This is the fine destruction. At that point the creature moves from being a human into a human being. Robert Krulwich Yes. Yes. He is absolutely ... I remember it so clearly. The symbols the clashes I thought oh I am a human being. Jad Abumrad But do you remember when it happened? Robert Krulwich No. Jad Abumrad Yeah well Aristotle was very specific about this. He thought it always happened or should happen- Barry Sanders On the 40th day of your existence. Amanda Aronczyk Oh hi there. Good morning. Mina today is your 40th day. Jad Abumrad We wanted to check this proposition so we called up Radio producer Amanda Aronczyk who just had a brand new baby girl. Amanda Aronczyk Mina is celebrating her 40th day of existence today. We are going to get you to laugh. Jad Abumrad Were you able to record with Mina this morning? Amanda Aronczyk Oh yeah. Oh yeah. We recorded for 50 minutes. Jad Abumrad Really? Amanda Aronczyk Just like went for it. Jad Abumrad And? Did she laugh? Amanda Aronczyk Well I tried. Hey there pretty. Rob tried. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Amanda Aronczyk Her aunt tried.  What a clever girl. A laugh I would almost say. Amanda Aronczyk We all tried and tried and kind of harass her and stick your tongue out at her and try to tickle her. Tickle your armpit. Then at the end she is like Ah. Jad Abumrad It is because you were doing this. Amanda Aronczyk Lost it. Jad Abumrad Oh. Amanda Aronczyk We have yet to get a giggle out of her. That was a smile. What would it take to make you laugh? Please. Oh. She made some sounds we have never ever heard before. What are all these sounds you are making. Her level of interaction in the last two days has been more than anything we have seen. Jad Abumrad Really? Amanda Aronczyk If you stick your tongue out at her she does it back. Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . Amanda Aronczyk If you open your mouth she kind of tries to do that too. It has been a milestone aside from the actual day count it really is ... She is becoming a little being. Oh what say hi Mina. It is much more emotional. It is like you are looking at this thing that you are deeply in love with and it is finally looking back at you. Jad Abumrad All right well Amanda when it happens will you call us right back? Amanda Aronczyk Okay I will for sure. Jad Abumrad Do you agree with Aristotle that the ability to laugh is what literally separates us from the rest of the animal kingdom? Barry Sanders God how can I disagree with Aristotle. That would be blasphemous but- Jad Abumrad Not as an Academic I mean you as a person. Barry Sanders Yeah as a person. I truly believe we are the only creature that laughs. Jad Abumrad What about you? Robert Krulwich I do think there is something about the way we laugh the way we share the emotional feeling that leads to a laugh that is kind of ... I do not know of any other creatures that do that. Jad Abumrad Wrong. Robert Krulwich You cannot do that to me. Screw you. Jad Abumrad I do not know if it is wrong because in truth ... In all honesty this scientific debate is still ... The jury is still out on this question. Whether we are the only ones that laugh but it is one of those things that if you poke around a bit- Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Let us poke shall we. Robert Krulwich Okay.  Be beside you- Jad Abumrad The question becomes much more complicated. Jaak Panksepp Oh okay so- Jad Abumrad Introduce yourself so I do not mangle your name to badly. Jaak Panksepp Oh absolutely. My name is Jaak Panksepp. Jad Abumrad Jaak Panksepp. Jaak Panksepp Yes. Jad Abumrad Jaak Panksepp is a neuroscientist. Jaak Panksepp At Washington State University. Jad Abumrad For the last 30 years he has studied animal emotion. Particularly and this is his specialty- Jaak Panksepp Happiness and play. Jad Abumrad Play. Jaak Panksepp Playfulness- Jad Abumrad In rats for example. Robert Krulwich Do rats play? Jad Abumrad Well yeah. Jaak Panksepp Oh yes. When they are still young and you put them together they start tussling immediately. Jad Abumrad When they play they are silent. Robert Krulwich Not no squeaks or anything? Jad Abumrad Uh-uh . Robert Krulwich Really? Jad Abumrad All the while they are headbutting each other. They are flipping each other over. They play really hard. No sounds. Robert Krulwich Hmm. Jad Abumrad That is our starting point okay. One day Jaak and a grad student are standing in front of a rat cage watching two rats wrestle silently and the Grad student a guy by the name of Brian turns to Jaak and says Is it really possible they are not making any noises? I mean look at them. Maybe they are making sounds but we just cannot hear them. Robert Krulwich Oh. Jad Abumrad He suggested to Jaak Why do not we order one of these little black boxes. Jaak Panksepp They call them bat detectors. Jad Abumrad Usually people used to listen to bats. What if we put one on the rat cage? Maybe it will take whatever sounds might or might not be there lower them down to a range that humans can hear. Jaak Panksepp I said Okay we will buy the equipment. The equipment arrived and the first day we had a couple of animals playing and we tuned it through the various frequencies. Lo and behold it is like a playground at 50 kilohertz. Jad Abumrad What did it sound like? Jaak Panksepp It is like  Jad Abumrad All of a sudden you just heard this sound erupt from the little box? Jaak Panksepp Absolutely. Jad Abumrad Wow. Now they had this sound that no one had ever heard before and there is two things you need to know. First the rats would make the sound sporadically. Each little rat would make it just like cheep cheep. Second Jaak had no idea what the sound was. What did it mean? Robert Krulwich What does it mean? What are they saying? Jad Abumrad What are they saying to each other. He knew it had something to do with play but was it just like Hi Hi. Was it something more aggressive like You want a piece of me? Let us wrestle. Robert Krulwich That is what I think. Jad Abumrad Or maybe they are excited and they are saying Give me sex. You want to have sex? Jaak Panksepp Arousal. They get aroused and make a couple chirps. Jad Abumrad Maybe it was just a grunt of some sort. Jaak Panksepp There is a lot of possibilities. Jad Abumrad Ten years ten years they studied this sound trying to figure out what it means- Robert Krulwich And every theory failed somehow? Jad Abumrad Well nothing was conclusive. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Then one morning Jaak walks in to the lab which he showed us. Jaak Panksepp We are going to the animal facility on the fifth floor. Jad Abumrad With a crazy idea. Jaak Panksepp One morning I came in and I says Jeff- Jad Abumrad His Grad student at the time. Jaak Panksepp ... Jeff lets go tickle some rats. Jad Abumrad What on earth gave you that idea? Jaak Panksepp I do not know. This is the mystery of having a new idea. Jad Abumrad Oh okay. He and his Grad student quickly walk over to the rat cage. Jaak Panksepp We pick up a rat. We carry it to a box. We put it in the box. Okay the animal is going in. I begin to tickle it. Jad Abumrad By tickle it is just like you would tickle a baby. Robert Krulwich Meaning what? Jad Abumrad Like goochy goochy goo with the fingers. Jaak Panksepp You are moving your fingers rapidly all over the animals body. There is a male rat. Jad Abumrad He demonstrated. Jaak Panksepp Tickle. Jad Abumrad The sound that came out was the same cheep cheep as before but now it was louder more continuous. Jaak Panksepp Now you can see how consistent it is. Jad Abumrad Plus it had this very familiar rhythm and familiar dynamic quality. The way it went da da da da da. For the first time it occurred to Jaak- Jaak Panksepp My God what if that is laughter. What if that sound is laughter? Jad Abumrad Visually I must say it is pretty convincing. When you see him do it and we put a video on our website RadioLab.org. When you see him tickle the rat and the rat kick it is little rat legs and chirp like mad it does look like the animal is cracking up. Like a little kid. What were you thinking at this moment? Jaak Panksepp We were thinking this is a fluke. Jad Abumrad It is a fluke? Jaak Panksepp It is a fluke. Jad Abumrad Oh so you did not trust what you were hearing? Jaak Panksepp Well we trust what we are hearing but I said Let me get another animal. Okay here's another rat ready for a tickle session. Tickle. Jad Abumrad Whoa. Jaak Panksepp Bingo. Exactly the same. Jad Abumrad The same cheep cheep? Jaak Panksepp Exactly. I still kind of said Come on. This is too good to be true. Let me get another animal. Okay here's the tickle. Exactly the same. Jackpot. Jad Abumrad Here's the kicker the moment Jaak stops tickling the rats moves his hand away the rat starts chasing his hand. Moves his hand left the rat goes left. Moves his hand right the rat goes right. Jaak Panksepp Exactly the animal is just glued to your hand. Jad Abumrad Because it wants to be tickled again? Jaak Panksepp It wants more exactly. Jad Abumrad That is so cool. Jaak Panksepp Whoa. Whoa. I am just running circles with my hand and the animal is running circles right after my fingers. Want some more huh? Okay. If you stopped tickling and just leave your hand there in the cage like a dead piece of meat- Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . Jaak Panksepp The animal knows you are alive and gradually begins to pounce on your hand and it begins to nip at your fingers. Jad Abumrad It is like Come on come on. Jaak Panksepp Exactly. Jad Abumrad Let me ask you this though in terms of calling the squeaking a squeak or a chirp or a cheep cheep or whatever you want to call it- Jaak Panksepp Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad That would be one thing but to call it laughter is saying something very specific. Jaak Panksepp Yeah a lot of people do not like that word. Well even my friends have advised me to drop that word. Jad Abumrad They do not think that a rat can feel joy? Is that why? Jaak Panksepp Yeah giving human qualities to animals has been a no no since we are closer to the angels than the other creatures of the world. Robert Krulwich Ah to laugh is to be an angel. Jad Abumrad He was kidding by the way. Robert Krulwich Oh really? Oh I kind of believed him. Jad Abumrad Oh you think that he was being- Robert Krulwich I thought he meant the laughter in the subtle way that he imagined. Jad Abumrad No no no no. He thinks human laughter is not special. He thinks Aristotle is wrong basically. Robert Krulwich Check it out Aristotle do an experiment. Jad Abumrad Like it goes back a long way back to rats back to pigeons who knows. That all these creatures laugh like us and they laugh more or less for the same reason as us. Robert Krulwich Hmm I do not know. You tell a pigeon a good chicken crossing the road joke and you are going to get nothing. Jad Abumrad You do not think that a pigeon has a rich emotional life- Robert Krulwich No not like- Jad Abumrad ... and joy. Robert Krulwich ... we do. No I have talked with pigeons. Let me tell you something. Jad Abumrad All right I will give it that we probably laugh for irony. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad We probably do that and pigeons do not. Robert Krulwich And delight. Jad Abumrad Delight. Robert Krulwich Do you think a pigeon laughs for delight? Jad Abumrad I do not know but sure a pigeon experiences delight. Robert Krulwich What do you know you are not a pigeon. Jad Abumrad Forget the pigeon. Okay take a bird that sings. I bet birds sing because they are happy and singing is probably in a way like laughing. Robert Krulwich Oh if you are going to get all generally on me yeah sure. Worms like to wiggle- Jad Abumrad ... and wiggling is kind of like laughing. Robert Krulwich Yeah okay. Why do not ... by the way what is happened to baby Amanda? Jad Abumrad You mean did she laugh yet? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad No. Unfortunately not. Robert Krulwich Oh geez then Aristotle's really in deep do-do here. Jad Abumrad I mean these days I do not know about ancient Greece but these days people who study this stuff say it is usually around 90 days. Robert Krulwich Oh really. Jad Abumrad Is what it- Robert Krulwich Huh. Well we have got a little time. Jad Abumrad ... the general consensus. Yeah we have got a little time. Robert Krulwich Okay. Jad Abumrad I told her to call us back. Robert Krulwich Okay. Jad Abumrad When she does laugh.  Message 1. Amanda Aronczyk Hey there Jad. It is Amanda Aronczyk calling and I am calling to say that Mina just laughed. She just laughed. She actually full on did a like ha ha ha like that. It was incredibly exciting. It was not day 40 it was by my calculations day 97. I do not know about Aristotle and those babies but this baby here laughed for real definitely 100 on day 97. It is very exciting and we are very excited and now she is crying because it was so much effort to laugh I think. Okay bye.  End of message. Robert Krulwich Now for the next question. Forgetting for a moment how we laugh let us ask why we laugh. Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . I will tell you why we laugh. Robert Krulwich Why do we laugh. Jad Abumrad We laugh because somethings funny. Robert Krulwich No not at all. Robert Provine The most important thing to remember about laughter is that it is social. Robert Krulwich It is not about humor. That is Robert Provine a neuroscientist at the University of Maryland who got very interested in this question so he went out on the street with some of his Grad students pen in hand and they listened for what people actually in real life say just before they laugh. In 85 of the cases ... Are you writing this down? Jad Abumrad Yes. Robert Krulwich 85 of the cases nothing funny preceded the laugh. Robert Provine Yeah so first of all people were not really telling jokes to other people. They were saying things like Hey where you been. I have got to go now I have a class. Robert Krulwich I have a class? Robert Provine Yeah. This is the kind of things that people say before they laugh. Now do not take my word for this go to a cocktail party and you are going to be a lot of laughter there but people are not telling jokes to each other at a furious rate. Robert Krulwich So laughter is not about joking it is about something else. Robert Provine It is about social relationships. You have got to have those people there. When you are alone laughter basically disappears. Robert Krulwich When you are at home alone Jad do you ever find yourself laughing? Jad Abumrad When I am by myself? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad Well you see sometimes. Robert Krulwich When? Jad Abumrad When I am watching the TV or something. Robert Krulwich No no. Robert Provine Those are kind of vicarious social stimulant. Robert Krulwich No no I mean like when you are solitary. Robert Provine If you take away media- Robert Krulwich No radio no TV no nothing in your ears. Jad Abumrad No. Robert Provine The laughter basically disappears. You have an unconsciously controlled neurologically programed social behavior. Robert Krulwich It will only work if there is a sharer. Jad Abumrad Even if the sharer is just in your head? Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Neurologically programmed by who? Robert Krulwich By evolution in this case. Robert Provine Okay now- Robert Krulwich Towards the end of the interview he walked me over to a TV VCR thing he had. Robert Provine State of the art stuff. Robert Krulwich Yeah this is pretty fancy. He showed me a video of a woman tickling a chimpanzee. What is this? Robert Provine I have an example here of laughter from our primate ancestors baby chimps. Robert Krulwich Okay we have now a chimpanzee on the screen and you are listening to a chimpanzee playing with a woman. That is the woman laughing. She is now cuddling and smothering the chimp with hugs and he is being tickled. That is chimpanzee laughter. That panting sound that you hear is chimpanzee laughter. Robert Provine A low level of chimpanzee panting laugh too it would be like ... When they really get into it it becomes more guttural like ... Robert Krulwich That sound that ... sound Provine thinks it has nothing to do with jokes. This is not a reaction to any ... Although tickling is kind of delightful. What it really is doing he says that particular sound is a signal one chimp to the other. Those two chimps to any other animals that happen to come by other chimps we are just playing. Chimps have evolved it is taken them a long time but they figured out a way to signal we are not fighting. I am not going to kill you. This is just play. It is the signal of we are just playing. Robert Provine When you really get into it it becomes more guttural like ... Robert Krulwich We are safe. According to Provine we inherited that chimp signal from our chimp relatives. Robert Provine Yeah so basically panting became ha ha. Robert Krulwich In a human we have just added one little wonderful extra the H. Jad Abumrad Hmm. All right more in a moment.  Message 1. Amanda Aronczyk Radio Lab is funded in part by the Alfred P. Sloan foundation the corporation for public broadcasting and the National Science Foundation. Somebody here is trying to grab my sheet of paper. Okay Radio Lab is produced by WNYC New York public radio and distributed by NPR National Public Radio. Mina you are so good.  WNYC studios is supported by the Metropolitan Opera. Presenting their new Podcast Aria Code. This month the Mets neon lit Las Vegas production of Vardi's Rigoletto returns followed by the same composer's fall staff with Ambrosia Miestry as the larger than life Shakespearian hero. Also on stage Mozart's Don Giovanni and Kathline Turner in La Fille du Regiment. And soon Vogners complete ring cycle. For video clips interviews and tickets go to MetOpera.org. WNYC studios is supported by the New York City department of small business services. Want to grow your business? Make New York City your next customer. If you are a minority or a woman and you own a business get certified with a minority and women business enterprise program. Not only will this open doors to new opportunities and customers but can also provide new streams of revenue and long term contracts. To certify visit NYC.govgetcertified. That is NYC.govgetcertified. Alec Baldwin I am Alec Baldwin. Join me for a live taping of Here's the Thing with my special guest Itsop Pearlman. I will be talking with the legendary violinist about his life and his music. We will hear life performances from some of the talented students in the Pearlman Music Program. Monday February 18th at NYU's Skirball Center. Tickets at WNYC.orgevents. Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab. I am Jad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert. Jad Abumrad Today on our show laughter. Robert Krulwich I want to say one more thing about this. We have talked about how laughter is evolutionarily sort of wired in. We have talked about that it is a social thing. Jad Abumrad A safety all clear kind of situation. Robert Krulwich Yeah but it is another level of safety that is kind of fascinating. Let me tell you a really classic and not well known story. It involves the television show The Nanny. You remember in the '90s Fran Drescher had this very big hit TV comedy series. Jad Abumrad Yeah ... no. Robert Krulwich Well you will probably remember the voice of the nanny. Fran Dresher Hello? Robert Krulwich That is Fran. Fran Dresher Ma you finally made up. Well what is the emergency? Ma Mike Douglas is not on channel four because they canceled him 22 years ago. Robert Krulwich The story actually is not so much about Fran Drescher as it is about ... You hear those people laughing right underneath all of it. Jad Abumrad Yeah constantly. Robert Krulwich Yes well this is about Fran's laughter. It is the story of the Nanny laughers. It begins with a woman named Lisette Saint-Claire. Lisette S. Just FYI my name is pronounced Lisette. Robert Krulwich She is the casting director at Central Casting in Los Angeles. Lisette S. Central Casting is the oldest extras casting company. It is been around for years and years and years. Back in the day where people used to line up outside the studios and the productions would come out and pick you you you. Robert Krulwich She actually got her start as an extra. Lisette S. My first gig I think it was called The Big House. I had to jump out of a coffin but I was a hooker. I was a hooker out of a coffin. Robert Krulwich Anyway after years as working as an extra Lisette decided to jump to the other side of the business and be the person in charge of casting the extras. Lisette S. You are on the phone and the production company calls and says I need three strippers two nurses and four doctors. So that is what we do. We find them. Robert Krulwich Now here's some more background that you will need. In 1985 which is years before The Nanny Fran Drescher had been raped during a break in at her apartment. Later she wrote about this experience and she spoke about it publicly. Fran Dresher That night was the night that changed everything. Robert Krulwich This is Fran reading from her book Cancer Shmancer. Fran Dresher Two men with guns broke into our home and raped both me and my girlfriend Judy who had the misfortune of having joined us for dinner. We were never the same again. Robert Krulwich The people who did this to her were caught and locked up. Then things got worse. As her fame grew she started getting stalked. This was right around the time that filming began on The Nanny.  Dr. Warner you are wanted in Radiology please. Robert Krulwich The thing about the filming The Nanny when it is filmed live as they say. In front of a live studio audience pretty much anybody can come into the theater. Fran worried that someone who might mean harm would come in and sit there during the show. She and the shows producers decided to do the only thing they could do get rid of the audience. Just kick them all out. Now this was right in the middle of the season. They had a taping to do the very next day. Fran Dresher No matter how hard things became in our personal life the show must go on. Robert Krulwich They called up Lisette. Lisette S. They decided instead of having an audience come in just have people from Central Casting that they know- Robert Krulwich She said All right. I will fill your audience with extras. Lisette S. I was looking for about 30 or 40 people. Robert Krulwich She had thousands of people to choose from and there are all kinds of categories available to her. Lisette S. You could do a search in the database height- Robert Krulwich There was age. Lisette S. ... ethnicity- Robert Krulwich Skin color. Lisette S. Weight dress size- Robert Krulwich Eye color- Lisette S. ... hair color. You could put that all in and it will bring up what you need. Robert Krulwich She needed a safe audience. Lisette S. Just normal lively people. Robert Krulwich That she could screen and while she was at it she thought well why do not I get people who are good laughers. I mean why not. Lisette S. Yeah. Robert Krulwich With 24 hours to go she put out a rather strange request. Lisette S. I put it out on the sequencer it is like a work line a hotline that people listen to and if they fit or if they think they fit then they will call in. I said Hi this is Lisette. I am looking for some people that have good laughs to work on The Nanny tomorrow. Robert Krulwich When they would call she would begin with one question Adonny Mitchell Hi my name is Adonny Mitchell. Lisette S. Okay let me hear you laugh. Adonny Mitchell Yeah okay. Pam West Hi my name is Pam West. Lisette S. Let me hear you laugh. Kim January Hi my name is Kim January. Lisette S. Like you just saw the funniest thing. Let me hear you laugh. Dennis Filer My name is Dennis Filer  I was at the laundromat. She answered the phone right away she goes Let us hear it. Everybody in the laundromat looked at me and I said It is an audition. It is an audition.  She said laugh right now. I said ... Lisette S. These were people that were calling that were all ethnicities all ages 20 something to like 70 something. I had married couples. It is not a show like Bay Watch where everybody has to look bikini ready and all that. Robert Krulwich Which means they were not going to win a beauty contest but they could get to the studio and sit down and laugh.  There were certain things that we were laughing at and they would come to us and say okay we do not want you to laugh at that. We knew when to laugh and when not to laugh and then it got to the part where we just knew exactly what to do.  Can you think of anything more wonderful than sitting in a comfortable chair all day long and being amused.  People look puzzled what do you mean a laugher? Robert Krulwich How much did you pay them? Lisette S. Back then it was like 75 bucks.  You would get paid? Yeah we would get paid for laughing. What a thing to do. Robert Krulwich Lisette got a bunch of the laughers in a room together just to show us how it works. Lisette S. Okay so this is kind of like a murmur chuckle. It is not like a gut wrenching just a little bit of murmur chuckle. Okay something funny just happened but it is not like a whole big long laugh it is just something really quick and funny. This one something's happening and it is a little bit of chuckle but then something came out of it just making it peeing your pants.  We all have our great individual laughs but we were told not to- Robert Krulwich Yeah.  ... stand out. We had to know each other play off each other and if somebody was paused in their laughter maybe we would cover it. I mean we were a well timed orchestrated machine.  Yeah.  yeah.  We were. Robert Krulwich So well orchestrated that their services became very desirable.  You know a chain reaction. Robert Krulwich Central Casting began getting calls from other sitcoms.  On Drew Carry Show. Robert Krulwich From talk shows.  They sprinkled us in the audience. Robert Krulwich Something odd began to happen on the sets. The actors began noticing the laughers.  They would thank us want to know if we are all right. Did we have enough food. Was the food good. Robert Krulwich For a lot of these people who were used to working as extras and being pretty much ignored all the time this was wonderful.  They treated us as though we were principal family. I mean they recognized us at Christmas parties and it is just like we were a part of them.  They would come and sit with us and talk to us. They appreciated us.  That is the part I loved.  You know we got their back. Yeah and we did have their back.  There was a time we stayed after and it was a scene where the nanny was climbing a telephone pole outside and she wanted us to come out there and do our thing so that the timing was right and felt right. I think we went on 14 hours that night. It was wonderful.  It is and you almost want to cry because everybody is so wonderful as a family here us laughers. Robert Krulwich Then reality stuck.  The battle for a quarter of a million dollars.  I am feeling a pure disgust with Trisha.  I am going to have to nominate George and Erica. Robert Krulwich Starting around 2000 reality TV you know these shows that merit no laughs required. They pushed sitcoms aside. Professional laughing work slowed down to a trickle.  We are laughing three times a week on different shows. There is like this momentum and this adrenaline. Suddenly it all comes to an end and it is like ... Honest to God it is like going through withdrawal.  I found that when I am not laughing I am a lot more depressed. I found that it was great therapy for me on a weekly basis.  I miss it.  Oh God so I need that. I miss it. Robert Krulwich It is sad. Kim January Anybody out there needs any laughers there is a whole room full of us. Robert Krulwich Look we could use you. We could use you. Look Jad? Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich Just go with me here. What is brown and sticky? Jad Abumrad What? Robert Krulwich A stick. Jad Abumrad Whoa. Robert Krulwich Thank you. And Jad? Jad Abumrad Yes? Robert Krulwich I had Cheerios for breakfast this morning. This is mowing in high grass. Jad? Jad Abumrad Yes? Robert Krulwich I am wearing brown shoes. This is fun. You are all hired. This story was produced by Rob Christianson and reported by Mary Beth Kushner. Support provided by the Dana Alliance for brain initiatives at dana.org. The excerpts from Fran Drescher's book Cancer Schmancer was courtesy of Shift Audio. Our laughers interviewed were-  Diva Perry.  Bonnie Chuse.  Gracie Spiranza. Adonny Mitchell ADonny Mitchell. Pam West Pam West.  Brynn Perdue.  Louise Saxton.  Gene Vanosdole.  Sandy Olmans.  Ramon Livingston.  Adele Danalouse.  Tom Petra. Dennis Filer Dennis Filer. Robert Krulwich And- Kim January Kim January. Jad Abumrad Okay so here's the question Robert. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad In that story somewhere there was a guy who had an amazing laugh. Well they all have amazing laughs but there was one particular guy who just had like an outrageous laugh. Robert Krulwich This one? Jad Abumrad Yeah that guy. What is it about that kind of laugh that just gets you. What is it about the sound? Robert Krulwich The laugh itself. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Well I took that question to somebody who studies acoustics of laughing. Hello. J Bachorowski Hi. Robert Krulwich Really. There is somebody that does that? Jad Abumrad Yeah. J Bachorowski I am Dr. Joanne Bachorowski. I am an associate professor of psychology at Vanderbilt University. Jad Abumrad She is from my hometown of Nashville Tennessee. J Bachorowski I study the sounds that we make. Jad Abumrad She has collected over 30 thousand laughs. Can we hear some? J Bachorowski Yes. Jad Abumrad This is probably the biggest collection in the world. She has analyzed every one on the computer and played me a few. J Bachorowski Okay- Jad Abumrad Just little tiny scraps. J Bachorowski I will just go ahead and play this for you. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Like this one. Wait sorry sorry. Play it one more time. It sounds hysterical like an alien. Every bit of that laugh she thinks has a secret evolutionary purpose. She breaks it down for me starting with that first part of the laugh the little breathy thing. Which in her business she calls a glottal whistle. J Bachorowski She is still got this glottal whistle thing going on here. Jad Abumrad A glottal whistle what is that again? J Bachorowski It is the wheeze. Jad Abumrad Oh. J Bachorowski Yeah. This is just creating turbulence in her glottis. Jad Abumrad Hmm. J Bachorowski It is like there is a storm going on down there. Jad Abumrad A lot of people do the wheeze when they laugh. Robert Krulwich Yeah they do. Jad Abumrad I do it. Robert Krulwich They do. Jad Abumrad Why? It always happens at the beginning of a laugh. Always at the beginning which makes her think. J Bachorowski That sub glottal whistle seems to really say hey pay attention to me and then you get this wonderful sound that follows. Jad Abumrad The wheeze she thinks is like a laughers gun shot to get you to listen up. Now the sounds that follow they jump around a lot in pitch. Which again she thinks has a purpose considering when we talk we keep it right here in the middle. I am Linda Worthheimer na na na. When we laugh we go up and down. We leap crazy octaves and land on really really high notes like this ... J Bachorowski This sound here it is like a mouse squeak. Jad Abumrad This not in pitch is actually higher than the highest note in that famously unsingable aria Queen of the Night. Robert Krulwich Really? J Bachorowski This laugh has got so much going on in it. Jad Abumrad Acoustically extreme that is what she calls it. J Bachorowski Acoustical extreme laughter. Jad Abumrad Which means that it is hard for our brains to process. She is seen this on brain scans. We get a little jolt a little bzz when we hear a laugh that jumps pitches like that. J Bachorowski 55 hertz up to 276 hertz in a heartbeat. Jad Abumrad Maybe the pitch jumps maybe the wheeze these sounds they are not random she would argue. They have specifically evolved to tweak us. J Bachorowski Tweak us emotionally. Humans have the ability to produce a sound that makes other people feel good and so if we can do that then they are more likely to feel positively towards us and behave positively towards us. Ultimately we want to shape their behavior towards us. Robert Krulwich Well what you are saying then is a laugh is a way of the laugher getting into the head of or under the skin of the other person. Jad Abumrad Maybe just maybe. Studies in fact have found that people laugh louder and more extremely around their boss. Over and over Joanne has found that women tend to exaggerate their laughs when they are around men. Men that they do not know. J Bachorowski With a stranger male she is laughing a lot and she is producing acoustical extreme laughter. Jad Abumrad You can interpret that in a lot of different ways. She interprets it as a safety thing. J Bachorowski The idea being that male is inherently threatening so you want to manipulate his emotional state so that he is positively disposed toward her. Jad Abumrad There is another way to sort of interpret that which is that you are essentially confirming the stereotype of the giggling girl. J Bachorowski Yeah the giggling girls have power. Jad Abumrad Do not I know it. On that note let us end the segment with author Barry Sanders who in his book Sudden Glory writes a lot about this relationship between laughter and power and laughter as a way to stay safe. Barry Sanders Yeah. Jad Abumrad Were there moments early moments that you can remember where you felt that acutely? Barry Sanders Oh absolutely. You cannot see them with me but I can see them in my minds eye. Jad Abumrad Well paint the picture for me. Barry Sanders Well you know there is my father absolutely utterly drunk and he is turning off the lights and turning on the lights in the house with such power that he is breaking the switches and sparks are flying in the house. Sparks are going around in the house and my mother is crying. I said Wait it is Fantasia. Everything's going to turn into color. Jad Abumrad Fantasia I do not get it though because of the sparks? Barry Sanders Yeah because do not you remember in the middle of the movie it just turns into technicolor. There're sparks flying and there is magic wand going and Mickey's starting to touch things and they become vibrant and alive. Jad Abumrad Oh. Barry Sanders That is what the house looked like to me. The house looked like magic mountain. It was the fourth of July. I tried to convert it that way with him. It actually worked. He took a few steps back looked at the situation and he cracked up. I mean I have always thought that anger ... In Latin the route for things like anger and anxiety and angina is a word called anxeri which means to be without air. You know you start to choke up and you tell someone Hey take a deep breath. Laughter is about breath after all. This is what Aristotle tells us. That is what would happen. He stopped for a second. His shoulders would go down. He would relax. He would move from out of his throat into his belly and laugh at the situation. Jad Abumrad Radio Lab will return in a moment. Candice This is Candice currently calling from her bicycle. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thank you. Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This hour we are looking at laugh- Robert Krulwich Wait. Jad Abumrad What was that? Robert Provine That is ... Okay here we have the laugh box. Robert Krulwich That is a strange little device that Robert Provine from University of Maryland played. Remember him from the previous section? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich He played it to me and he has a notion about this. Robert Provine Yeah so basically you just need laughter to cause laughter. Robert Krulwich The notion here is you do not need a joke to start the laugh all you need is a laugh. Robert Provine You can throw the joke away laughter causes laughter. Robert Krulwich No you cannot get a laugh going from nothing. You have to have something. Robert Provine Actually you can. Robert Krulwich He said I will prove it to you. He showed me a video tape. Robert Provine This was in the mall. Excuse me we are doing a study on laughter. Is laughter a good thing?  Absolutely. Robert Provine You laugh a lot?  I laugh every day. I make my wife laugh all the time. She is laughing already. Robert Provine What do you do that makes him laugh?  Trip.  Spills a lot of things. Robert Provine One other thing we have a piece of apparatus here. You push the button for this. Why were you laughing?  I do not know. Robert Provine Did anyone tell a joke?  No. Robert Provine Did anyone do anything funny?  No. Jad Abumrad Sorry.  I do not know. Robert Krulwich It was true. Provine is absolutely correct about this. What we are doing here is something that is very contagious. Jad Abumrad All right well while we are on the subject of contagious laughter I have got a story to tell you. It is a good one too. Robert Krulwich All right. Jad Abumrad Now imagine ... You with me? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad Okay imagine 1962- Robert Krulwich Where would I go. I was just sitting here- Jad Abumrad Oh just your attention I mean. Robert Krulwich Oh yes. Jad Abumrad 1962 rural village of Kashasha Tanzania. Girls boarding school. Robert Krulwich All right. Jad Abumrad Girl is sitting in class. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad She begins to laugh. The girl next to her maybe to her left hears her laugh and she begins to laugh. Across the classroom a third girl joins in. The teacher gets upset but it is too late. Soon four girls then eight the entire class has begun to laugh and then cry and then laugh and then cry. Robert Krulwich At what? Jad Abumrad Just because. I do not know. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Anyhow a girl outside at that moment walking down the hall imagine she hears the laughter from the classroom. She starts to laugh and as she walks and laughs her laughter goes into other classrooms and soon the whole school is doing this laughing crying laughing crying. Teachers cannot control these girls and they try to. The girls get violent. Robert Krulwich They get violent? Jad Abumrad Yep. The principal then has no choice he is got to close the school. They open the school a week later and it happens again so they close the school a second time. Meanwhile the girls who started all this they go back to their villages many many miles away and this thing whatever it is spreads up and down the coast of Lake Victoria. Robert Krulwich You mean people in the villages start to laugh? Jad Abumrad Yep. In one village 217 people start to laugh and cry. A second boarding school has to shut down and no one knows why. A team of doctors some British doctors in the area they hop in a land rover and they rush out to investigate this strange phenomenon. This is what they write.  The Central African Journal of Medicine. Volume nine number 5 May 1963. The disease commenced on the 13th of January 1962. The mission run girls middle school was-  The onset was sudden with attacks of laughing and crying lasting for a few minutes to a few hours.  After a maximum of 16 days followed by respite and then a recurrence. Jad Abumrad In the report there is an account of a 52 year old man who saw some people afflicted with this sickness-  And soon after returning to his hut he felt something telling him to laugh and cry and shout. This he continued to do for most of the night. No fatal cases have been reported. Robert Krulwich This is very ... What? Is this true? Jad Abumrad Yeah. I mean ... Well okay we wondered. Robert Krulwich Right. Jad Abumrad So we sent our producer Ellen Horne 40 some odd years after the fact to see what she could find. Ellen Horne I am flying to Bukoba. To be honest I was a little bit worried that- I can see the sun setting over Lake Victoria. ... that the medical journal article just was not true. Jad Abumrad Yeah that is ... What I expected was just a total hoax. Ellen Horne Yeah or that it was some kind of stunt. We might be getting close. I just sort of doubted the general credibility of the whole thing. Okay we have arrived in Bukoba. Okay so I get to Bukoba. This is totally the most beautiful place. Bukoba is a tiny port town. It is green and lush. This very remote part of northern Tanzania. Good morning. My first step was just to spend a couple of days walking around and asking everybody that I ran in to who spoke English about this contagious laughter. There is an epidemic of laughter. I guess I imagined ... This happened in the '60s so I am looking for people who are like in their 70s and 80s. Turns out that I did not need old people. Young people totally knew what I was talking about. It started in the school-  Oh yeah I know what you mean. Ellen Horne Because it still happens today. Raymond Umpwena The first time I saw it it was in 1991. Ellen Horne 1991. Raymond Umpwena Yeah. Ellen Horne I went to this tour office and the first person I met there was this guy named Raymond. Raymond Umpwena I am Raymond. Ellen Horne What is your last name? Raymond Umpwena . Ellen Horne He said he thought he could find me somebody who had had it. Raymond Umpwena Maybe if you give me three hours I can find out. Ellen Horne Okay let me give you my phone number. About an hour later I get a text from him that says meet me in a half hour. I hope in his car we drive off. How did you find this person? Raymond Umpwena I know everybody in town and everybody knows me. Ellen Horne He is not kidding. Raymond is a former Tanzanian National Soccer team star. He is like a local celebrity. Kids follow him down the street. Raymond drives me up this dirt road about ten minutes. We get to this blue cement building. We sit outside on the porch in these white plastic chairs and we wait. Hello. After about 20 minutes this woman comes out. Really beautiful has a mole on her nose long eyelashes. Will you ask her if she will introduce herself for me? She is nervously squeezing this plastic water bottle that is in her hand. Conchester Conchester Anton. Ellen Horne Conchester is her name. Conchester . Ellen Horne She tells me that in her high school there were three girls who were affected. For all of them it happened during exams. An exam a test? Raymond Umpwena Yeah. Ellen Horne Well do you remember what the test was? Raymond Umpwena  Conchester  Raymond Umpwena Mathematics. Ellen Horne It was the morning of the math test. She remembers walking into the exam room. She sat down. She looked at her paper and suddenly something came over her. Raymond Umpwena She started laughing. Ellen Horne Then she took off all her clothes. Raymond Umpwena She started undressing. Ellen Horne Undressing? Raymond Umpwena Yeah and they got her and took her to hospital. Ellen Horne She says she does not remember much else from that. She is told that she fought when they tried to restrain her. She spent three days in the hospital. They would give her Valium make her pass out. Then she would wake up feel a little bit better for a while and it would come on again. She would uncontrollably be laughing then they would give her more Valium she would pass out. Why do you think this happens? The laughing sickness. She says it happens for girls who- Raymond Umpwena For girls who are not free. Ellen Horne I asked her if she felt free. I am not even sure what they are talking about but I asked her if she felt free and she said. Well when you live with your parents and you are that age no one's really free. She said she had a boyfriend and her parents would not let her see him. In the hospital when she had the laughing sickness he was allowed to come visit. Raymond Umpwena Yes. Jad Abumrad This girl- Ellen Horne Yeah. Jad Abumrad ... has a crazy attack of laughing and then her boyfriend shows up and she is just fine? Ellen Horne Well more like she is allowed to see her boyfriend. Jad Abumrad So it is about the- Ellen Horne While she is- Jad Abumrad Hmm. Ellen Horne The real common association with this sickness is that it is a teenage girl disease. Raymond Umpwena Only to girls.  It is for girl. Ellen Horne It only happens to girls? Raymond Umpwena Yeah yeah. A girl 16 to 20 years old. Crying and sometimes laughing. Ellen Horne I talked to a school nurse a psychiatric nurse from the local hospital a doctor and they all said vaguely the same thing. The reason it happened was that it had something to do with the transitions of adolescence. Jad Abumrad Just out of curiosity you are a girl? Ellen Horne Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Is there something about this that makes sense to you? Ellen Horne Yes. Out of curios ... Yeah sure. You are just beginning to negotiate your relationship to sex and boys and there is these new pressures and these new responsibilities that are really challenging. Jad Abumrad It is funny boys do not have that problem. We just want to have sex. Ellen Horne It is a crisis for girls. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Ellen Horne It does kind of make sense. Jad Abumrad Okay. Ellen Horne It does not really explain anything about 1962 to me. Jad Abumrad Why not? Ellen Horne Because in 1962 it was not just teenage girls. Jad Abumrad Oh. Ellen Horne It was boys. It was men. It was villages full of people of all ages. What explains that? Fortunately for me I had found a woman who was there. Hello. How are you? Gertrude is in her 50s she is got short loose curls and a big smile. In 1962 when the laughter epidemic struck her village she got it too. Gertrude I was six years old. Ellen Horne Yeah. Gertrude Really young. Ellen Horne Do you remember? Gertrude I remember yes. Ellen Horne Yeah she remembers seeing hundreds of people coming down with this strange affliction and it took many forms. Some were laughing- Gertrude Everlasting laughter then laugh and cry at the same time. Ellen Horne At the same time? Gertrude What happened to me was I was not able to talk. Crying only and then my eyes were closed as if there is a gum on my eyes. My mom she carried me on her back. Ellen Horne They walked they walked over the hills. Her mom carrying her on her back for hours. A long the way they ran into other people boys girls men- Gertrude Even older ones. Ellen Horne Dozens of people all headed the same way laughing crying. Gertrude Grabbing at the other skin. Jad Abumrad Where were they going? Ellen Horne To the witch doctor. Gertrude This witch doctor- Ellen Horne They did not know what else to do. Hundreds of people she says converged on this woman's tiny hut. Gertrude They were going inside ten by ten in the house. They were full. They had to stay outside there were many. Ellen Horne There was so many people going to the witch doctor- Gertrude Yeah the many people. It was terrible. Ellen Horne What do you think the problem was? Gertrude Okay. I was asking my elder once what was the problem. They said that it was something spiritual a spiritual event. Ellen Horne Yeah. Gertrude Because one year before this problem there were certain insects- Ellen Horne She said that about a year before the laughter epidemic caterpillars had shown up. Gertrude They were breading in they spread all over the ground. Ellen Horne There was this huge infestation. One of the explanations was that the people who got sick had walked across the caterpillars. Gertrude They stepped on this caterpillars. Ellen Horne ... and had killed them. Gertrude As a result- Ellen Horne The spirit of the caterpillars were possessing them. Gertrude They started to get this feeling. Ellen Horne Now she sort of dismissed that as not scientific. Gertrude Maybe these caterpillars had a certain bacteria's which affected the brain. Ellen Horne Okay this explanation that there was some sort of bacteria or virus I had already checked it out. I had gone to the government hospital to talk to the medical officer. They would never found any physical cause for this.  There is not any medical importance which was found. Ellen Horne I would even talked to a lab technician.  I am a technician- Ellen Horne Who had checked blood samples in 1962.  Everything was negative. Ellen Horne They tested the water supply the food supply.  Negative negative. Ellen Horne So that the caterpillars seemed like a dead end. I tried a different tack. I asked Gertrude what was going on then at that time in your village. Gertrude When others- Ellen Horne She thought about it for a while and then she said. Well of course there was- Gertrude Independence. Ellen Horne Independence. For 40 years Tanzania had been a British colony. In 1961 Tanzania had declared independence. Jad Abumrad This was right before? Ellen Horne Just weeks before that first girl started laughing. Gertrude I do not know much about independence. What can you tell me about independence? Gertrude What I experienced back then was people going around singing beating drums dancing. It was the independence. Apart from that I cannot tell more what is independence because I was very very young. Ellen Horne Gertrude said that she knew somebody who would remember more someone I should talk to. Gertrude This Mr. Sospeta. Ellen Horne A 71 year old man Mr. Sospeta. Gertrude Who was assisting the witch doctor. Ellen Horne He was the witch doctors assistant? Gertrude Maybe this man can help more. Ellen Horne Yeah. Gertrude Than I. Ellen Horne Do you want some coffee or some breakfast here first? On my very last day in Bukoba Raymond and I sat down with this man the witch doctors assistant at a restaurant near my hotel. Tiny guy. Gray hair and big oversized suit and he filled in some of the missing pieces. Will you tell him I want to know what he remembers. I asked him about the independence celebration that Gertrude described. The ones just before the laughter epidemic. He painted a very different picture. Raymond Umpwena I remember. I would mark a check any marker these things. Ellen Horne He was 26 at the time but after the parties died down he said change swept through his village. Immediately following independence Tanzania became a socialist state and the new government went out to create a new world order. Land changed hands they abolished the local clans. Raymond Umpwena The president President Nareli after the independence- Ellen Horne And the local religions. Raymond Umpwena They banned the spirit. Ellen Horne This was the brand new age. This was the new era. You were supposed to have a modern belief system. The entire village was being asked to abandon the way that they had worshiped for thousands of years. Within weeks the churches moved in. Suddenly they had business. Catholic church opened up on one side of the street and a Lutheran on the other. Raymond Umpwena Christians were telling people convincing villagers to join different religions. Ellen Horne They even handed out money. It was kind of a bidding war for souls. All of it was too new too fast. He even remembers this one particular night that everyone in his village gathered outside and stared at the sky. Raymond Umpwena They had been told that was the end of life on earth. At midnight everyone was out the whole night waiting to see whether they are going to die. Ellen Horne He told me we saw the heavens and the moon slamming into each other. Raymond Umpwena What they saw it was an eclipse of the moon. That is what they said. Ellen Horne An eclipse of the moon. Looking back on it maybe that was the end of the world of that old world. Heres this guy this witch doctors assistant who introduced himself to me actually as an elected official. Robert Krulwich Oh that is interesting. Ellen Horne He made this jump in his life. That was a particular period of time when everybody was making this big jump all of a sudden. Jad Abumrad So you think that this laughing epidemic had something to do with like an avalanche of newness. Ellen Horne Yeah. Of all the explanations I came across this is the one that makes the most sense to me. Robert Krulwich It is plausible to me too. You have got a loss of religion an arrival of a new religion a loss of a political culture a new leader. That is a very large pile up of change all of a sudden. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich And of course everyone is a little bit scared so there is a quiet and then someone starts to laugh. Ellen Horne Who knows why that first girl went crazy and why she started making crazy laughing noises but it was like people saw that and they were like oh God I feel like that too. Robert Krulwich It sounds like laughter but you could think of it as- Jad Abumrad As like a collective scream or something. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Ellen Horne Like the entire society was a 16 year old girl in 1962. Jad Abumrad Radio Lab Producer Ellen Horne. Well that is it for us at least for now. For more information on the Tanzanian laugh epidemic or anything else you heard in this hour visit radiolab.org. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad We will see you later.  Radio Lab is produced by Jad Abumrad LuLu Miller Rob Christinson Ellen Horne Elizabeth Giddings. Production support by Sally Herships Sarah Pelligrene Ariel Latsky Heather Radkey Michael O'Ryan McManis and Soren Wheeler. Thanks to Gail Cleaver Beth Barrack Bingo Nightly Emily Webber and Sharon Counts. Finally special thanks to Casey Cromwell. Radio Lab is produced by WNYC New York public radio and distributed by NPR National Public Radio. 