Intro Intro  Wait wait you are listening-   Intro  Kay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  Kay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  You are listening-  Intro  ... listening-  Intro  ... to Radiolab.  Intro  Radiolab.  Intro  From-  Intro  ... WYNC.  Intro  C?  Intro  Yep.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Uh Robert Krulwich will be back with us very soon. But today a story from you.  Molly Webster Well I guess I was just thinking I should probably tell you just the um Morgan and I back story of-  Jad Abumrad Yes.  Molly Webster ... of how I heard about the story.  Jad Abumrad Cool.  Molly Webster So Morgan and I went to grad school together at NYU so I guess I have known her for almost 11 years.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Molly Webster And we are we are we are holed up in my apartment I do not know this was like No- last November or something. She comes over. Um she is sittin' on the giant I have a big floor pillow like a Turkish floor pillow. Just-  Jad Abumrad Of course you do.  Molly Webster ... just sittin' on  just just sittin' on the floor pillow. And then she is like Are you ready to hear the story?. And I said Yeah. And she is like Okay I need you to take the battery out of your phone.   Jad Abumrad Really?  Molly Webster Yeah. And I-  Jad Abumrad That is what she really said that?  Molly Webster ... and I was like What? I have an iPhone. I cannot take the battery out of it. And she goes Okay uh I need you to power it down and put it in another room under a pillow.  Jad Abumrad What?  Molly Webster  I was like What is going on? And she-  Jad Abumrad   Molly Webster  And then at by this point she is taking the battery out of her phone. So I I do it.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Molly Webster I put it in the e- in my bedroom and I put it under pillows and I turned it off I came back I sat down. And then um she starts telling me essentially about the ceremony. About going to the launch of this new uh currency. Which involved her flying across the country to live in a hotel room for a number of days with a bunch of strangers and then something happened because she came back um seemingly paranoid at least s- in so much as she was hiding phones under pillows.  Jad Abumrad  What was it that happened?  Molly Webster W- i- it takes a few steps.   Jad Abumrad  Okay.  Molly Webster So let us start with step one which is-  Morgan Peck Hi.  Molly Webster ... which is Morgan.  Morgan Peck I am Morgan Peck.  Jad Abumrad How would you identify yourself? Professionally.  Morgan Peck Professionally I am a freelance journalist.  Molly Webster And in my eyes Morgan has become like the historian of the world of digital money.  Morgan Peck I started writing about neuroscience but quickly found out about Bitcoin about a year into my writing 2011 and have pretty much been writing about it ever since.  Molly Webster Now yes a lot of people when they hear about digital money they think-  News  Ransomware. The hijackers held the files ransom demanding roughly 650 euros paid in Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin the virtual currency.  Molly Webster Obviously it has become associated with cyber crime. But for Morgan...  Morgan Peck No no no no no.  Molly Webster What attracted her to this whole world what made her go...  Morgan Peck Oh my God this thing is amazing.  Molly Webster She was like pulled in by the idealism of it.  Morgan Peck There was an extremely active community of people who were talking about you know um completely subverting the financial system at a time when the financial system was not trusted and was collapsing.   Molly Webster Because Morgan says the birth of Bitcoin goes back to well remember 2008?  Morgan Peck Boom.  News  Traders here working the phones say a lot of their customers are freaked out.  Morgan Peck 2008 was the big implosion.  News  What in the world is happening on Wall Street?  Molly Webster In September the stock markets crashed the banks failed.  News  The DOW traders are standing there watching in amazement and I do not blame 'em.  News  Unbelievable.  Molly Webster There was bailout.  News  You know this shakes your core. This shakes your trust in American institutions.  Molly Webster And then just a few months later...  Morgan Peck 2009 January.  News  It is a hot topic on Wall Street right now it is very interesting. Digital money called-  News  Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin. I cannot resist...  Morgan Peck Bitcoin showed up.  Molly Webster Oh so Bitcoin was after the big collapse.  Morgan Peck It was after and it was very much a response to that definitely.  Molly Webster 'ecause here was this currency that was decentralized which means it is run and monitored by all the people who use it which means you do not need a federal reserve. So at the beginning a lot of people saw Bitcoin as a way to sort of take the power back from the big banks that had just ed everybody over.  Morgan Peck Libertarians were really into it. They thought that it was going to crash d- it was going to crumble the columns of of  every power structure in you know the world.   Molly Webster Obviously that did not happen it did not take down the world. But Bitcoin has not gon away. It is been a decade it is still around. But if you talk to people on the inside they will tell you one of the things that has dogged Bitcoin from the beginning is this issue of privacy.  Morgan Peck The way that the the uh technology works is that uh it tracks every single transaction that is every made on the network.  Molly Webster Any time anyone with a Bitcoin buys a coffee or a pound of heroin that transaction is kept in something called the public ledger.  Morgan Peck Bitcoin has a ledger public ledger.  Jad Abumrad And is that something that each person has?  Morgan Peck It is out there for anyone to see.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Morgan Peck Yep.  Jad Abumrad So every single transaction that is every been done-  Morgan Peck Every transaction ever.  Jad Abumrad ... is is-  Morgan Peck Right there.  Jad Abumrad Well that is not private at all.  Morgan Peck No. But people thought it was private at the beginning because oh we are using the pseudonyms.  Molly Webster In other words in the ledger you never see anyone's actual name.  Morgan Peck There are no names on in Bitcoin.  Molly Webster Like I would not be Molly. I would be T957G.  Morgan Peck The problem is that while there are no names attached the behavior is out there for anyone to see.  Molly Webster Turns out it is really not that hard to match this like string of characters with the person that it represents out in the real world. You could just kind of Google it on the internet see if it pops up anywhere else what it is associated with. And then you kind of figure out who the person is. And then you can go back into the Bitcoin ledger and search their entire history can figure out all their business dealings all their personal dealings who they know who they do not know possibly who their bank is. And you know people have tried to solve this problem with Bitcoin.  Morgan Peck But there are companies now that actually specialize in doing the network analysis of the Bitcoin block chain and they do it for companies who want to um make sure that they are not transacting with you know criminals people who have had th- they are specifi-  Jad Abumrad Wait there are companies that are actively trying to de-anonymize people?  Morgan Peck Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Molly Webster And so one of the puzzles that uh all the internet people think about is is there a way to get the best of both worlds? Can you have the decentralization that comes with digital money but can you also get privacy? Almost like cash. I take a dollar bill out of my pocket I walk down the street I give it to someone they give it to someone. No one can trace that money. Can you get the decentralization that comes with digital money and can you wrap that up with the privacy that you get with paper money? And that question-  Zooko Wilcox Testing testing.  Molly Webster ... brings us to this guy.  Zooko Wilcox Hello Zooko here.  Molly Webster To somebody named Zooko Wilcox.  Zooko Wilcox I am Zooko and I am in a different room.  Molly Webster  Okay. He is our master of the ceremony. I have to say you do um everyone's like pretty excited I am talking to a guy named Zooko.  Zooko Wilcox Mm.  Molly Webster Like it is just a good name Zooko.  Zooko Wilcox Thanks.  Molly Webster Yay Zooko!  Zooko Wilcox   Molly Webster So anyhow Zooko is...  Morgan Peck He is been working on digital currencies for a long time.  Molly Webster And he is extremely trusted.  Jad Abumrad Is he a charismatic leader type of thing?  Molly Webster Yeah he is. When he first encountered Bitcoin he was like Cool.  Zooko Wilcox Yes but I was concerned about the privacy applications.  Molly Webster Because...  Morgan Peck He is a pretty hardcore cipher punk.  Jad Abumrad Oh my God it is like worlds upon worlds that are opening for us.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Cipher punks.  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Molly Webster She said this it is group of people that care deeply about how to make the internet more private.  Zooko Wilcox I think privacy is a human right and that it is a necessary condition for the exercise of of free choice of morality and of political participation and of everything that is uh of intimacy everything that is most important it as humans.  Molly Webster So this whole thing with Bitcoin and the privacy problem... right up his alley.  Zooko Wilcox So I went out my way studied the Bitcoin source code and I contributed some suggestions and yes I immediately started fantasizing about what could be better.  Molly Webster So then he being like the privacy security cipher punk guru  he becomes the leader of something called Zcash.  Zooko Wilcox Zcash.  Morgan Peck And Zcash really it is main um contribution to this ecosystem is privacy.  Zooko Wilcox So there is this thing called a zero knowledge proof.  Molly Webster Okay.  Zooko Wilcox And it is a mathematical invention that mathematicians had come up with.  Molly Webster It requires something called the z-SNARK parameters to be baked into the protocol. Oh my God. I asked hours of questions and it got me into a conversation about circles and graphs and the shape of numbers.  Jad Abumrad   Zooko Wilcox The shape of what I mean is the shape of what is of of possibility of-  Molly Webster What I came away with  was that it allows you to prove that something is true without revealing anything about the thing you are trying to prove is true.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Molly Webster You just-  Jad Abumrad I just need to-  Molly Webster I just want you to-  Jad Abumrad ... lie down now.   Molly Webster  Take that and run.  Zooko Wilcox This where computer science and mathematics start to overlap into wizardry here.  Molly Webster All you need to know is that Zcash promises to give you decentralization with this like buffet of privacy. But... Zcash has its own flaw.  Zooko Wilcox An unfortunate vulnerability in the math.  Molly Webster In order to create the currency of Zcash you have to first create a number.  Zooko Wilcox A certain enormous number.  Molly Webster And then you use that number to do a bunch of math. And then like boom! You have the currency. But it all starts with this number this key. Problem with that is...  Morgan Peck In this system in this system if somebody got a hold of the private key they could counterfeit Zcash coins.  Zooko Wilcox They could counterfeit money.  Morgan Peck Just make new coins-  Molly Webster Millions and millions and millions of new coins.  Morgan Peck ... out of thin air.  Zooko Wilcox You could cheat.  Morgan Peck That is a really big problem when you have a uh anonymous currency.  Molly Webster 'ecause no one would ever know.  Morgan Peck Nope.  Molly Webster Bitcoin since it is a public ledger you can actually see if there is any funny business going on. That is actually why they keep it open.  Morgan Peck Right the lack of privacy in Bitcoin is a security measure.  Molly Webster But here no one would ever know. So the challenge is how do you get people to buy into a system that has this like major vulnerability albeit just right at the very beginning.  Morgan Peck There is this one moment where you know you have to trust people in a way that is completely existentially defining of the currency.  Molly Webster So this is what Zooko's up against. How do I if I want super privacy which he does how do I generate this number in such a way that no one steals it. Not me not anyone else. And how do I prove to all of the people that might want to use Zcash later that in this tiny little window of of creation nothing untoward has happened that that the number has never been tampered with that human eyes have never been laid upon it. You know that the entire creation of this system remains pure.  Jad Abumrad Is i- this is very much like an immaculate conception. You are like-  Molly Webster   Jad Abumrad ... no humans can have sex to make this baby. But there needs to be a baby. But we almost have to examine the act of sex to make sure-  Molly Webster Right.  Jad Abumrad ... there is no physical contact.  Molly Webster   Jad Abumrad Is it like that?  Molly Webster That is so good. Okay so here we are. Zooko decides...  Zooko Wilcox We will have a ceremony. The most secure most sophisticated cryptographic ceremony that is every been performed.  Molly Webster Wow okay.  Morgan Peck Here's the thing. While it is trivial to make your own currency it is not trivial to um inspire trust. That is what money is is the agreement between people to use it and to honor that sort of social contract and the creation of value to me that is like alchemy. Um and it is a moment of creation.  Morgan Peck I think I am walking down the street near you Molly-  Molly Webster  Greenpoint.  Morgan Peck ... and I get a text message on Signal-  Molly Webster A private messenger app.  Morgan Peck ... uh from Zooko that is like Hey we want you to we want you to be there.  Jad Abumrad   Morgan Peck Yeah I was  so excited.   Jad Abumrad You were chosen.  Morgan Peck I was chosen yeah.  Molly Webster And but did you even know what you were being invited to?  Morgan Peck No. I had no idea. But I was like I have to do this. I mean I cannot miss this. Even if Zcash does not make it even if you know it collapses it seemed like a historical moment. So Zooko basically said just wait for our bat call.   Jad Abumrad   Molly Webster So about two weeks later the bat call.  Morgan Peck Come to this uh coffee store in Boulder.  Molly Webster So Morgan gets on a flight to Denver rents a car to Boulder and goes to the coffee shop.  Morgan Peck Zooko's there.  Molly Webster Standing next to the barista counter.  Morgan Peck And actually he has a huge paper map with him. Spread out all over like the barista's area he is like up in their grill. And then uh this other guy Nat showed up.  Molly Webster Friend of Zooko's.  Morgan Peck Who uh was going to film it all.  Molly Webster Was that was that for you? You wanted everything recorded?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah. And it was to serve as a security mechanism and documentation for the public.  Molly Webster More on that in a second.  Zooko Wilcox And then... Okay.  Nathaniel  Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster They leave the coffee shop go over to Nat's van.  Morgan Peck He mics us both up. I told him they could mic me up.  Zooko Wilcox And we are gonna now we are gonna turn off all of our cell phones. So that if there were any hackers they would not be able to track where we were physically.  Morgan Peck I am trying to think if I have to say goodbye to anyone.  Zooko Wilcox We were like okay. Now we have got the van we have got our cell phones turned off. The next thing we needed to do-  Morgan Peck We are we are next.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah we are going to the computer store. Was to acquire a computer. Because like if there was some hacker who was planning to steal the key they could have...  Molly Webster You know already planted some malware or tracking device on Zooko's personal laptop.  Zooko Wilcox Before we even started. So we all piled into the van set off. Yeah we can just start heading north.  Molly Webster To get a clean computer.  Morgan Peck He is decided to go to Denver for this.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah.  Morgan Peck But  he does not want to use his phone.  Zooko Wilcox No. Hey I think I need to use my paper map.  Morgan Peck Because what if somebody's like tracking what he is looking at.  Zooko Wilcox Let us go straight.  Morgan Peck Nat is doing much of this recording while he is driving.  Nathaniel    Zooko Wilcox If this thing is where we think it is...  Jad Abumrad Do you have like a black hoodie over you like Hezbollah style?  Morgan Peck No... no.  Molly Webster So they are driving for a little bit.  Zooko Wilcox When...  Molly Webster All of a sudden they make this pit stop.  Zooko Wilcox  We were like Hey there is a costume store.  Morgan Peck   Zooko Wilcox All right this is perfect.  Morgan Peck This is the right spot.  Zooko Wilcox Way to go Nat.  We were like okay next stop. We are here for a wizard hat. Wizard hat.  Storeperson  Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Can I see your wizard hat section?  Storeperson  Yeah.  Zooko Wilcox   Molly Webster So they walk through this big costume store passed witches hats tiaras...  Zooko Wilcox Hmm...  Molly Webster What is the wizard hat you settled on?  Zooko Wilcox Um ooh it was a Gandalf hat. Gandalf hat. Yeah I love the Gandalf hat.  Molly Webster Ah.  Zooko Wilcox I think it is good.  Molly Webster That is appropriate. The greatest wizard of all.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah. So that is gonna be a winner thanks.  Storeperson  Yeah of course.  Molly Webster And then... back to the mission at hand.  Morgan Peck Van Denver computer.  Zooko Wilcox We drove down using our paper map with our cellphones off to the computer store.  Molly Webster They get there.  Storeperson  Howdy.  Molly Webster Walk in.  Zooko Wilcox Oh yeah. This is the place.  Molly Webster Do a little computer shopping.  Zooko Wilcox Can we get a side by side comparison of two different ones.  Storeperson  Sure.  Molly Webster A few minutes later...  Zooko Wilcox Yeah I want this one.  Molly Webster Zooko gets his computer.  Morgan Peck And at that point the computer is sacred.  Zooko Wilcox It is called an i7-6700.  Molly Webster ... which henceforth is given a new name.  Zooko Wilcox It is called the compute node.  Jad Abumrad And why is it scared?  Molly Webster Well because this is the computer that will hold the secret number the number that will give birth to an entirely new currency. So-  Storeperson  All right sir.  Zooko Wilcox All right thank you very much.  Molly Webster ... got the compute node got back in the van got back to Boulder.  Zooko Wilcox And drove to an area that had hotels that we knew of. But where is this hotel?  Morgan Peck And we are going around to like the hotels in Boulder.  Zooko Wilcox Is it this way?  Morgan Peck And they are all full.  Zooko Wilcox I do not know if they have ethernet in their hotel room.  Morgan Peck Or they do not have an ethernet connection.  Zooko Wilcox So then we go to another hotel.  Morgan Peck I liked that hotel it was really...  Molly Webster And another.  Zooko Wilcox She was not clear on the notion of ethernet.  Morgan Peck It is like 00 at night. Ahh what is the plan here?  Zooko Wilcox  Yes.  Morgan Peck The idea was if you do not know what you are gonna do-   Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck ... then they do not know what they are gonna do. Uh so this is actually a security measure uh like if you are totally in the dark about what you are doing then some hackers they cannot they cannot mount an attack. It is fool proof.  Yeah.  Molly Webster But-  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster ... eventually...  Zooko Wilcox Millennium has rooms and it has ethernet.  Molly Webster They find hotel.  Morgan Peck Oh my God.  Zooko Wilcox And she even went and double checked.  Molly Webster Zooko actually has Nat book the hotel room.  Zooko Wilcox For two nights.  Nathaniel  Do you want me to come with you?  Zooko Wilcox Yep. Do you have a key?  Morgan Peck We all check into one room.  Zooko Wilcox Ground floor. It is not particularly fancy.  Morgan Peck Couple tables you know you got your two beds.  Molly Webster Then they set up.  Zooko Wilcox We are a well organized machine.  Molly Webster They totally transform the place.  Morgan Peck In general I am not gonna help out. They gave me a bed to chill out on.  Zooko Wilcox You can concentrate on on careful observing.  Morgan Peck Okay.  Zooko Wilcox So what we did was we stripped the room of all of the lamps and the telephone.  Morgan Peck Everything on all the counters gets shoved somewhere.  Zooko Wilcox All of that stuff cleared it away into the closet or the bathtub.  Morgan Peck What are you doing?  Zooko Wilcox In addition we-  Zooko Wilcox Oh I am unplugging the TV.  Zooko Wilcox ... did not want like the television for example which could be remotely controlled by an adversary.  Molly Webster So they unplug it slide it under one of the beds...  Zooko Wilcox Goodbye TV. You know what? Another reason is I hate TVs. Television is the worst.  Molly Webster Then they grab the table where they are gonna set up the compute node.  Morgan Peck Want to explain again why you are keeping it away from the wall?  Molly Webster Pull that out a ways.  Zooko Wilcox Oh... there is a teeny tiny chance that a team of spies rented the room next door and set up a giant antenna on the other side of the wall.  Molly Webster This is like the dopest attack that Zooko is planning against called side channel attacks.  Zooko Wilcox And that is a message by which you could use an antenna.  Molly Webster Or like a really high tech microphone...  Morgan Peck ... to figure out what a computer is doing.  Molly Webster For example with some crazy microphone you could listen in to the computer's processor and if you heard something like... Oh that is Diffie-Hellman key exchange. Or... oh yeah this is obviously figuring out the full 40960-bit RSA decryption key. Or... oh hey that is the new beeps video. Or whatever.  Morgan Peck So...  Zooko Wilcox All right so please do not put anything on this desk from here on out.  Morgan Peck It is pulled away from the wall about I do not know five feet just in case there is somebody set up next door.  Zooko Wilcox And then started loading in all the cameras and equipment.  Morgan Peck Battery backs junk food but then there was also a whole security camera set up.  Zooko Wilcox One cool one really cool thing about these security cameras is that they do not have a radio.  Morgan Peck Four security cameras which were from the '80s.  Zooko Wilcox Before security cameras came with wifi. Which means we had to buy antique security cameras.  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm . And their nigh vision security cameras.  Molly Webster And they set those up.  Zooko Wilcox So that you could see the other cameras from the first cameras. So you could sell that no ninja snuck in there and like tampered with one of the cameras during the process either.  Molly Webster And this security camera set up was uh one of the key points in trying to create what Morgan was talking about earlier.  Morgan Peck This alchemy.  Molly Webster Faith.  Zooko Wilcox Trust.  Molly Webster Whatever.  Zooko Wilcox So the security mechanism this was this was going to catch any shenanigans.  Molly Webster And then Zooko was gonna post this security footage to the internet so uh experts security experts could scan it an make up their minds. Could the ceremony be trusted.  Zooko Wilcox Hold on where are you gonna sleep tonight?  Morgan Peck I mean I-  Zooko Wilcox We could all camp.  Morgan Peck ... can sleep anywhere.  Zooko Wilcox So we set all that stuff up.  Molly Webster It is like 00 now 00.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah it was late and um I took the computer that we used the so called compute node and then from that moment forward I kept that thing like within arms reach for f- for 48 hours or so. Oh my God. It was a little bit exhausting trying to be paranoid and it-  Molly Webster It was exhausting trying to be paranoid?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah like I slept with it that night um in my bed. I kept my kept my arm around it.  Molly Webster Goodnight sweet prince and flights of and angels sing me to thy rest.  Jad Abumrad Coming up... a rude awakening.  Andrei This is Andrei Karameto from the port town of  Texas. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Advertisement Introducing Pocket Casts the powerful podcasting platform recognized by Wired magazine as the podcast app every iPhone user needs and by the New York Times as the favorite among podcast experts. Pocket Casts is beautifully designed easy to use and helps you quickly discover and enjoy your favorite podcasts with over 700000 shows to choose from. Download the app. Now free at pocketcasts.com.  Jad Abumrad Jad.  Molly Webster Molly.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab. Back to Boulder.  Morgan Peck Sorry I cannot open the door. That would be helping you.  Zooko Wilcox No. So.  Molly Webster It is the next morning.  Zooko Wilcox Saturday morning.  Molly Webster Zooko sits down at his personal computer and he starts making all these...  Zooko Wilcox Hello.  Molly Webster ... video chat calls.  Video Chat Hello.  Zooko Wilcox Oh hi  Molly Webster He calls up a guy in D.C.  Video Chat Hey Moses.  Molly Webster A guy in Texas.  Video Chat Does anyone tell you you sound like Tom Hardy?   Molly Webster Also-  Video Chat Cool that is pretty cool.  Molly Webster Florida.  Zooko Wilcox Okay really appreciate your help.  Molly Webster Slovenia.  Video Chat Is John on mine? Let me see. Yes.  Zooko Wilcox Good job pit boss.  Molly Webster Another guy in California.  Video Chat Thanks.  Molly Webster And then there was this mysterious one.  Zooko Wilcox Okay Fabrese is ready.  Molly Webster That was s- only referred to as Fabrese and did not know where he was. I did not find out until afterwards that he was actually driving from Vancouver across British Columbia .  Jad Abumrad  What? Who are all these guys?  Molly Webster So for Zooko it is it is very unacceptable. He wants to take as much of the trust you gotta trust me out of it as possible. And that is what he tried to do. So even though Zooko's gonna record all of this footage put it up on line l- later somebody who is gonna be watching that could be like...  Zooko Wilcox This was a trick.  Molly Webster It is all smoke and mirrors.  Zooko Wilcox It is like stage magic.  Molly Webster Like sure you say you recorded everything but maybe you manipulated the footage. Maybe you did not even set the cameras up the way you said you did.  Zooko Wilcox And so...  Molly Webster So what Zooko decided to do was get in touch with all these guys all over the world and try and decentralize this trust.  Morgan Peck So there were six stations.  Molly Webster Each with their own compute nodes security cameras set up ready to help Zooko make this big random number.  Morgan Peck The private key so each s- of the six stations was actually creating one piece of this key.  Molly Webster That way they will be no one person that makes the entire key. It will just be these little pieces that actually will not every come in contact with one another.  Morgan Peck The idea was nobody will actually have the key itself.  Zooko Wilcox Hope this works.  Molly Webster So everyone's got their compute node powered on.  Video Chat You have to hold the power okay.  Molly Webster And then...  Zooko Wilcox Diagnostics complete. Press enter when you are ready to begin the ceremony.  Molly Webster ... the ceremony begins.  Zooko Wilcox Okay now this is the top secret part. Where is the the special box? Yeah. We have to make sure that nobody can uh guess or read this secret.  Molly Webster Zooko closes the blinds.  Zooko Wilcox And so I am gonna cover my keyboard with this special box. So I took a cardboard box that one of the computers had come in and sawed it in half so that it was uh a half of a cardboard box.  Molly Webster He would put it over the keyboard of the compute node.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah hold on. There. Ready? And then I slid my hands under the cardboard box.  Molly Webster And then... he starts punching in all these random letters and numbers into the compute node.  Zooko Wilcox Just like pound on it like-  Morgan Peck Just blah.  Zooko Wilcox ... Cecil Taylor it.  Morgan Peck Mash it. Cat walking across the computer.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Morgan Peck Yep. And once he is done.  Zooko Wilcox I think we are done with the cardboard box. It is served its purpose and now we can auction it on eBay.  Molly Webster What the compute node does it is it takes all those random characters and it combines it with more random characters that are generated like inside the computer until finally it creates a part of the key.  Zooko Wilcox And each of the other five participants had to do the same thing.  Molly Webster Do you see who made their piece of the key? Florida Texas Slovenia Canada. Okay so you have got one key broken into six pieces and the next step is to get all of the pieces to work together to create on thing which is Zcash. And you wanna do this in such a way that those pieces never touch each other that they remain hidden so that n- no person could ever get their hands on the power of the whole key. Whew.  Morgan Peck Yeah. So...  Molly Webster Thank God there is convoluted math to save the day.  Morgan Peck Um may- I think it is a good time to just say what was happening.  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster Three two one.  Morgan Peck So...  Molly Webster First thing's first.  Zooko Wilcox Okay here I come.  Molly Webster The guy in California gets on the horn.  Video Chat So the stations are Andrew Peter.  Molly Webster He gives everyone basically like the batting order and then-  Video Chat All right hang on... now.  Molly Webster ... he sends a message called the go message to station one.  Video Chat Preparing the doing my computations now.  Molly Webster Station one guy and his compute node do some math on his piece of the key.  Video Chat Yeah. Okay um my compute node just finished. Hell yeah.  Molly Webster His compute node spits out a number.  Zooko Wilcox And then it burns it onto DVD.  Molly Webster Why DVD? Because all the guys at these stations have ripped out the wifi in their compute node.  Zooko Wilcox 'ecause we do not want a hacker to be able to hack into the compute node.  Molly Webster This by the way has a pretty cool name.  Zooko Wilcox This is called air gapped.  Morgan Peck You have a protective field basically around the computer that holds the secret.  Molly Webster A field of air. Anyway once the computer is done burning to this DVD the guy at station one takes it an walks it to another computer.  Video Chat It is receiving data as you can see.  Molly Webster Uploads it to the internet.  Zooko Wilcox Okay great.  Molly Webster And then the guy at station two.  Peter Van    Molly Webster This guy.  Peter Van  Mm-hmm .  Molly Webster Peter Van Bachenberg.  Peter Van  So what happens is the software I run on my connected computer-  Molly Webster ... downloads that little answer puts it onto a DVD.  Peter Van   I take the DVD out of the connected computer walk across the air gap if you will.  Peter Van  Um I am putting in the compute node.  Molly Webster Then the compute node takes that little answer combines it with Peter's piece of the key and then...  Zooko Wilcox Math. So now is it computing?  Peter Van  Yep.  Molly Webster Again the compute node keeps Peter's piece of the key a secret spits out a new answer a bigger answer.  Peter Van  And then I write on a different DVD...  Molly Webster ... that new answer.  Zooko Wilcox Quick!  Molly Webster Takes it out of the compute node.  Peter Van  Lift it over the gap.  Molly Webster Brings it back across the air gap.  Peter Van  To the networked computer.  Molly Webster Uploads his answer then station three grabs and combines it with their key gets a little bit more of an answer.  Zooko Wilcox So exciting.  Molly Webster Then station four.  Zooko Wilcox My compute node gets to do it is thing.  Molly Webster Same thing DVD across the air gap combine it with their piece of the key.  Zooko Wilcox Math. Like serious math.  Molly Webster And then you get a little bit more of the answer and just rinse watch repeat.  Video Chat Wooh!  Molly Webster Station five.  Video Chat Huzzah!  Molly Webster Six. Back to the top of the order. And throughout this entire process the individual shards of the key are kept separate and secret. Yet together they are doing the math that is getting closer and closer and closer to the final key that will launch Zcash.  Molly Webster Was there a like a c- t- t- t- t- a titter in the air?  Morgan Peck Uh... no.   Molly Webster   Morgan Peck I mean it really it is deet de-deet deet de-deet de-deet.  Zooko Wilcox Did you bring a deck of cards?  Nathaniel  I brought juggling balls.  Zooko Wilcox Cool. I can juggle three balls.  Nathaniel    Molly Webster Because the thing is every one of those math steps...  Morgan Peck ... took about an hour.  Zooko Wilcox Who is next on the list?  Molly Webster And they had to do like three full rotations through this order.  Zooko Wilcox Oh hey somebody tell Moses.  Molly Webster So most of the weekend was just kind of sittin' around.  Zooko Wilcox Shaun?  Molly Webster Waiting.  Zooko Wilcox Peter?  Molly Webster And waiting.  Zooko Wilcox Anyone?  Peter Van  What is that?  Zooko Wilcox Tell Moses.  Peter Van  No.  Morgan Peck Um so yeah we are hanging out.  Video Chat Okay uh my compute node just finished.  Zooko Wilcox Oh good to know.  Morgan Peck Uh Zooko has brought along some pork rinds.   Jad Abumrad   Morgan Peck And sour cream but he is dipping he is dipping pork rinds in the sour cream.  Zooko Wilcox Cool I am gonna get our coffee.  Nathaniel  Hmm.  Morgan Peck Also... napping. Which is the only sleeping that is happened like there is like you know and hour here... hour there.  Molly Webster And as the hours roll by things are going really well people are getting their math done they are passing along these answers they are getting closer to having their key when maybe half way into the process things get strange.  Molly Webster They are each lying in their beds just kind of chilling out. Morgan was just waking Zooko was playing on a tablet.  Zooko Wilcox And then oh...  Morgan Peck What?  Zooko Wilcox I groaned and said uh oh there is work to do. Back to work.  Molly Webster So Zooko gets up and he starts talking.  Zooko Wilcox When which is uh w- why is my voice echoing back at me?  Morgan Peck There is feedback.  Zooko Wilcox A feedback loop started echoing. You know like going beep boop beep beep beep beep. Beep beep beep.  Morgan Peck It was like uh wh- incongruous noise make it stop.  Nathaniel  I am muting all my mics. I do not know where it is feeding back from. Probably this one.  Molly Webster He like turns off the mic.  Zooko Wilcox Ah. And so I was like oh okay.  Molly Webster And he sits down at the Google Hangout computer.  Zooko Wilcox Hook me up with that.  Morgan Peck Oh.  Zooko Wilcox A tester tester.  Molly Webster And this echo comes back. And if you look at the video you see he like just freezes.  Zooko Wilcox Where is that coming from?  Molly Webster And then just turns his head to the left looking off camera.  Zooko Wilcox Why do we have play out over there now?  Molly Webster At this point everyone in the room just sort of falls silent and is lookin' around.  Morgan Peck Yeah I start like pin pointing it to like the the part of the room that has the security cameras monitor.  Zooko Wilcox Test test. Where is this coming from? Test test. Test test.  Morgan Peck I start listening to that and I am like I think it is coming from over here.  Morgan Peck Do it again.  Zooko Wilcox Hello.  Zooko Wilcox I stopped and I said uh wait wait a minute. W- what is playing out over there?  Zooko Wilcox Test test.  Zooko Wilcox And I looked in the direction of Morgan's bed.  Morgan Peck And then I turn around I pick up my phone.  Morgan Peck It is my phone.  Morgan Peck And the echo's coming out of my speaker.  Jad Abumrad It is coming out of your phone.  Morgan Peck It is coming out of my phone.  Zooko Wilcox Why is your phone playing out sound?  Morgan Peck I have no idea.  Zooko Wilcox You do not- stop no do not mess with it. I wanna see what is going on. It is playing off in this way.  Molly Webster He zeroes in on this mic that is on the corner of the computer that is doing the Google Hangouts.  Zooko Wilcox Did you connect your phone to this Hangout?  Molly Webster He leans over to that.  Zooko Wilcox Hold on.  Molly Webster Starts fiddling with it.  Morgan Peck What?  Zooko Wilcox It is coming from this way.  Morgan Peck Yep. So is there a way hmm...  Molly Webster He stands he sits.  Morgan Peck I do not know.  Zooko Wilcox Wait wait wait I know it is not coming from the mic. It is coming fr- it is not coming from this mic it is coming from the Google Hangout 'ecause I just muted it in software now it is gone. So my voice from Google Hangout okay let us hear Peter's voice. Peter? Uh I wanna test audio coming from you. Say some stuff.  Peter Van  Test. Testing. Testing. All good men  country.  Zooko Wilcox Okay good.  Morgan Peck And then I think Zooko says something like-  Zooko Wilcox Morgan why is your phone playing the audio from our Google Hangout?  Morgan Peck Why is our chat coming through your phone?  Jad Abumrad Oh wait. So the audio coming out of her phone is not originating from in the room it is it is somehow the Google ch- Hangout chat? That is coming through her phone?  Molly Webster Yes.  Jad Abumrad That is so weird.  Molly Webster Very weird.  Morgan Peck It... it was like your cat had just turned into a monster or and just started talking to you or like just turned on you. So I am kneeling on the bed with it and I look at it and I think that is when I just like threw it threw it on the bed. Revulsion.  Molly Webster So...  Zooko Wilcox Can you turn on the screen?  Molly Webster ... he picks up the phone from the end of her bed and hands it to her and is like Can you pull up the screen?  Zooko Wilcox What all what all apps are running on this phone?  Morgan Peck I do not run any apps.  Zooko Wilcox Is that doing video Nat?  Nathaniel  Yeah I am recording.  Molly Webster At this point the cameras have like swiveled so they are focused on the phone.  Zooko Wilcox Okay um.  Morgan Peck Man I do not know h- Should we throw it in the river?  Zooko Wilcox  No. Can you is this Android?  Morgan Peck Yep.  Zooko Wilcox What how do you can you like get a list of apps running like by swiping down from the top or something?  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm . I think I do not know I am sorry I do not-  Zooko Wilcox How 'bout that-  Morgan Peck ... I do not use this like at all.  Zooko Wilcox ... if you swipe down there is that thing that is next to the thing. Here we- what about that thing? No?  Morgan Peck Wait yes. But just give me a second. Give me a second. What is running? Here.  Zooko Wilcox I do not see a Hangouts app running.  Morgan Peck I def- well I did not s-  Zooko Wilcox Test.  Morgan Peck ... run a Hangouts.  Zooko Wilcox I think it stopped. Here listen to it. Test test test. It is stopped has not it?  Molly Webster Suddenly the phone stops doing the weird thing it was doing.  Zooko Wilcox The freaky audio play out thing.  Jad Abumrad It went away.  Molly Webster It it went away which feels hacker-y.  Jad Abumrad Ooh yeah.  Molly Webster Like the hackers have been had and they just realized it.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah that is what I think. That there was an attacker and they screwed up and accidentally turned on the speaker.  Morgan Peck Now I feel paranoid.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah it is weird is it creepy.  Morgan Peck No this is not just like I do not know I have been what do you mean hacked? What kind of hacked would we have been?  Zooko Wilcox Oh you find out that private messages and what is been had had access to them. Um or that people have been s- uh sending messages spoofed to be from you-  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm .  Zooko Wilcox ... to your friends or colleagues.  Morgan Peck Okay I have never had that happen whoa.  Zooko Wilcox It is kind of horrible.  Molly Webster So eventually they just decide to turn off her phone.  Morgan Peck Now it becomes a more civilized conversation of um what are we gonna do? And and then Zooko said to me...  Zooko Wilcox Would you like to donate your phone to science?  Morgan Peck Uh... oh...   Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck That is like-  Zooko Wilcox Test test test test test.  Morgan Peck ... I think I would rather donate my body.  Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck Um...  Zooko Wilcox Uh...  Morgan Peck No.  Zooko Wilcox Well.  Morgan Peck I would not.  Zooko Wilcox What would it take for you to donate your phone to science?  Morgan Peck Oh...  Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck Like in the current state of it right now? Without-  Zooko Wilcox Well...  Morgan Peck ... without like-  Zooko Wilcox Yeah that is a problem.  Morgan Peck ... saving my no way pfft.  Like that has so much of my work on it and my-  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Morgan Peck ... life. I just think that uh well I do not think I have to justify why.  Zooko Wilcox That is right you do not have to justify it.  Morgan Peck But I mean...  Zooko Wilcox Do you have uh do you have pictures of people?  Morgan Peck And some pictures but n- not much.  Zooko Wilcox Um uh...  Jad Abumrad I I putting myself in your position I would have been like I feel uh okay.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Take it.  Morgan Peck I do not know. I star- I-  Jad Abumrad But you were very immediately like the opposite.  Morgan Peck Yeah. That is a no to me.   Jad Abumrad Why?  Morgan Peck To me i- my responsibility is not just to myself you know. Privacy is a shared resource it is a sh- or it is a share- it is something we share with each other. Um the responsibility is...  Molly Webster I will say this is one of the first stories where I get p- what privacy data protection like means. Like I remember when Morgan was telling me this story thinking if someone had hacked into Morgan's phone how long had they been hacked in for? And I talk to Morgan all the time. And like oh weird I was kind of hacked. You know? And then it is like wait who else did you talk to? Was your ooh your dad was kind of hacked. Oh oh crap you exchanged those text messages that were not on Signal. That person was kind of hacked. And then suddenly it just dawned on me. Duh like her privacy is not just hers.  Morgan Peck The things that are on my phone that are private are not only private for me they are private for for anyone I was talking to. And and I almost feel like I do not even have a right to give over that phone if I have not talked to the people that that that would be exposing. Like that is not fair.  Molly Webster W- like sometimes when people insist on privacy it can feel selfish.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Molly Webster But then you realize like no like if one person does not insist on privacy kind of like a chink in the armor.  Jad Abumrad Yeah and like suddenly we are all vulnerable.  Molly Webster Uh for about an hour Morgan and Zooko go back and forth about what to do with her phone.  Zooko Wilcox Um...  Molly Webster But they do not really reach a conclusion.  Morgan Peck I feel I need to walk around. Is anything gonna happen if I go take a little walk?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah you are not gonna miss much uh that is uh that is planned or scheduled. I am just hesitating for no good reason. I cannot think of any reason wh- for you not to take a walk. I am just kinda freaked out.  Morgan Peck Okay. Yeah. Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Be safe out there.  Morgan Peck I will stay here. What?  Zooko Wilcox I said be safe out there. Enjoy.  Morgan Peck Do you think I am a do you think I am a secret agent?  Zooko Wilcox No I was not thinking that.  Morgan Peck Okay.  Zooko Wilcox I was thinking I was afraid for you.  Morgan Peck Oh I am not afraid for me.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah I am not either I was just feeling that way.  Morgan Peck Okay. I am gonna take a walk 'ecause I feel really claustrophobic.  Zooko Wilcox Good. Enjoy.  Zooko Wilcox So then I had to decide what shall we do? Shall we abort the ceremony? Shall we um focus our attention on some sort of investigation of Morgan's phone? What shall we do? Okay. Here's the decision here's what we are gonna do. Uh g- y- get Morgan's phone out of here and otherwise no change.  Molly Webster He figured if these people have hacked into Morgan's phone we have so many security measures in place that we can keep going and we will figure this out later. So basically what happens is like Morgan comes back from her walk.  Zooko Wilcox Okay. Where were we?  Molly Webster They still have another full day of the ceremony left.  Zooko Wilcox Please insert a blank DVD to burn disc keys in and then press enter. Okay.  Molly Webster And then it gets to a point m- where they finally have the final key.  Zooko Wilcox Okay. I am powering off the compute node. Everybody.  Video Chat Do it.  Zooko Wilcox It is a big step.  Molly Webster And is there a high five?  Zooko Wilcox Uh...  Zooko Wilcox Okay it is unplugged.  Zooko Wilcox No.  Zooko Wilcox Whew we are done!  Video Chat Woo hoo.  Zooko Wilcox Ah...  Molly Webster And then to sort of cap it off...  Zooko Wilcox The last step is-  Zooko Wilcox So I mean if you want to use the angle grinder you can...  Zooko Wilcox ... everybody takes their uh compute node and ceremonially destroys it.   Molly Webster Because in the case that the computer holds like a ghosty fingerprint of that like original piece of the key they just want it gone.  Zooko Wilcox We sawed the computer into pieces.  Zooko Wilcox Missed.  Zooko Wilcox Smashed the pieces with a hammer and dropped the crushed pieces into a giant bonfire.  Molly Webster And that was that. And now they were sort of at the moment where they are like okay well we we actually did the technological like thing which was we created the system and now the bigger question was did they create the alchemy that they needed to inspire trust. Like were all the protocols and the video footage and all that stuff was it all enough?  Jad Abumrad Especially now that they have this phone thing happen.  Molly Webster Especially now that they have the phone thing. They were like did we do what we needed to do to show the world that they want to buy into this thing.  Molly Webster So five days after the ceremony ended...  Morgan Peck The currency began.  Molly Webster To an insane fanfare.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Morgan Peck It was crazy.  Announcement Zcash is a cryptocurrency build on Bitcoin's code base that is dedicated to protecting your privacy.  Morgan Peck 'Til oh gosh I am gonna have to look but I think it went up to like 4000.  Jad Abumrad A Zcoin?  Morgan Peck One Zcash coin.  Announcement It is the first digital currency to combine the...  Morgan Peck And that is the Bitcoin high at the time is like f- around 1400. So that is insane!  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Morgan Peck And that is-  Jad Abumrad So if the goal on some level at the very beginning of this conversation was to inspire the community to then use it it seems like it it has it has done that.  Morgan Peck Yeah. Yes.  Jad Abumrad Do people continue to point back at this phone moment and-  Morgan Peck Oh.  Jad Abumrad ... and wonder and speculate?  Morgan Peck Uh some. Yeah people have people want me to they wanna know like wh- how it resolves.  Jad Abumrad And how does it resolve? I mean did you give him your phone?  Morgan Peck So what actually happened was we went to this bonfire  uh and then by the end of it uh everybody was sort of rushing off. I was rushing to the to the airport and just like gave my phone to Zooko. And was like we will talk about it. I trust you. Do not do anything that I have not agreed to.  Jad Abumrad Oh so you ended in the in the in the in the spirit of the whole-  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Jad Abumrad ... endeavor in some way.  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Molly Webster.  Zooko Wilcox I did not get to tell you that we have to do it again.  Molly Webster Wait you have to go through all of this again?  Zooko Wilcox So we have to do it again because we are up creating the cryptography in Zcash.  Molly Webster Good God man what have you started?  Zooko Wilcox  We are gonna do a new ceremony deploy newer proof cryptography. We are we keep thinking of improvements we want to make and new innovations.  Jad Abumrad This piece was produced by Molly Webster and Matt Kielty. The Denver Ceremony station recordings were created by media maker Nathanial Kramer thanks Nat. And also thanks to his assistant Daniel Cooper. And lastly very special thanks to Morgan Peck her uh reporting on the ceremony obviously was sort of the anchor for our piece uh and you can find her article at IEEE Spectrum. Uh we will link you to it from radiolab.org. Okay we will be back and Robert will be back with me uh in a couple weeks. I am Jad Abumrad.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster. Thanks for listening.  Will Hi this is Will Zobb. Um I am calling from sunny Seattle Washington. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Dillon Keefe is our director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is senior editor. Our staff includes Simon Adler David Keppel Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Molly Webster. With help from Sohum Pawar Rebecca Chaisson Nigar Fatali Phoebe Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. Wait wait you are listening-   Intro  Kay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  Kay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  You are listening-  Intro  ... listening-  Intro  ... to Radiolab.  Intro  Radiolab.  Intro  From-  Intro  ... WYNC.  Intro  C?  Intro  Yep.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Uh Robert Krulwich will be back with us very soon. But today a story from you.  Molly Webster Well I guess I was just thinking I should probably tell you just the um Morgan and I back story of-  Jad Abumrad Yes.  Molly Webster ... of how I heard about the story.  Jad Abumrad Cool.  Molly Webster So Morgan and I went to grad school together at NYU so I guess I have known her for almost 11 years.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Molly Webster And we are we are we are holed up in my apartment I do not know this was like No- last November or something. She comes over. Um she is sittin' on the giant I have a big floor pillow like a Turkish floor pillow. Just-  Jad Abumrad Of course you do.  Molly Webster ... just sittin' on  just just sittin' on the floor pillow. And then she is like Are you ready to hear the story?. And I said Yeah. And she is like Okay I need you to take the battery out of your phone.   Jad Abumrad Really?  Molly Webster Yeah. And I-  Jad Abumrad That is what she really said that?  Molly Webster ... and I was like What? I have an iPhone. I cannot take the battery out of it. And she goes Okay uh I need you to power it down and put it in another room under a pillow.  Jad Abumrad What?  Molly Webster  I was like What is going on? And she-  Jad Abumrad   Molly Webster  And then at by this point she is taking the battery out of her phone. So I I do it.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Molly Webster I put it in the e- in my bedroom and I put it under pillows and I turned it off I came back I sat down. And then um she starts telling me essentially about the ceremony. About going to the launch of this new uh currency. Which involved her flying across the country to live in a hotel room for a number of days with a bunch of strangers and then something happened because she came back um seemingly paranoid at least s- in so much as she was hiding phones under pillows.  Jad Abumrad  What was it that happened?  Molly Webster W- i- it takes a few steps.   Jad Abumrad  Okay.  Molly Webster So let us start with step one which is-  Morgan Peck Hi.  Molly Webster ... which is Morgan.  Morgan Peck I am Morgan Peck.  Jad Abumrad How would you identify yourself? Professionally.  Morgan Peck Professionally I am a freelance journalist.  Molly Webster And in my eyes Morgan has become like the historian of the world of digital money.  Morgan Peck I started writing about neuroscience but quickly found out about Bitcoin about a year into my writing 2011 and have pretty much been writing about it ever since.  Molly Webster Now yes a lot of people when they hear about digital money they think-  News  Ransomware. The hijackers held the files ransom demanding roughly 650 euros paid in Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin the virtual currency.  Molly Webster Obviously it has become associated with cyber crime. But for Morgan...  Morgan Peck No no no no no.  Molly Webster What attracted her to this whole world what made her go...  Morgan Peck Oh my God this thing is amazing.  Molly Webster She was like pulled in by the idealism of it.  Morgan Peck There was an extremely active community of people who were talking about you know um completely subverting the financial system at a time when the financial system was not trusted and was collapsing.   Molly Webster Because Morgan says the birth of Bitcoin goes back to well remember 2008?  Morgan Peck Boom.  News  Traders here working the phones say a lot of their customers are freaked out.  Morgan Peck 2008 was the big implosion.  News  What in the world is happening on Wall Street?  Molly Webster In September the stock markets crashed the banks failed.  News  The DOW traders are standing there watching in amazement and I do not blame 'em.  News  Unbelievable.  Molly Webster There was bailout.  News  You know this shakes your core. This shakes your trust in American institutions.  Molly Webster And then just a few months later...  Morgan Peck 2009 January.  News  It is a hot topic on Wall Street right now it is very interesting. Digital money called-  News  Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin.  News  Bitcoin. I cannot resist...  Morgan Peck Bitcoin showed up.  Molly Webster Oh so Bitcoin was after the big collapse.  Morgan Peck It was after and it was very much a response to that definitely.  Molly Webster 'ecause here was this currency that was decentralized which means it is run and monitored by all the people who use it which means you do not need a federal reserve. So at the beginning a lot of people saw Bitcoin as a way to sort of take the power back from the big banks that had just ed everybody over.  Morgan Peck Libertarians were really into it. They thought that it was going to crash d- it was going to crumble the columns of of  every power structure in you know the world.   Molly Webster Obviously that did not happen it did not take down the world. But Bitcoin has not gon away. It is been a decade it is still around. But if you talk to people on the inside they will tell you one of the things that has dogged Bitcoin from the beginning is this issue of privacy.  Morgan Peck The way that the the uh technology works is that uh it tracks every single transaction that is every made on the network.  Molly Webster Any time anyone with a Bitcoin buys a coffee or a pound of heroin that transaction is kept in something called the public ledger.  Morgan Peck Bitcoin has a ledger public ledger.  Jad Abumrad And is that something that each person has?  Morgan Peck It is out there for anyone to see.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Morgan Peck Yep.  Jad Abumrad So every single transaction that is every been done-  Morgan Peck Every transaction ever.  Jad Abumrad ... is is-  Morgan Peck Right there.  Jad Abumrad Well that is not private at all.  Morgan Peck No. But people thought it was private at the beginning because oh we are using the pseudonyms.  Molly Webster In other words in the ledger you never see anyone's actual name.  Morgan Peck There are no names on in Bitcoin.  Molly Webster Like I would not be Molly. I would be T957G.  Morgan Peck The problem is that while there are no names attached the behavior is out there for anyone to see.  Molly Webster Turns out it is really not that hard to match this like string of characters with the person that it represents out in the real world. You could just kind of Google it on the internet see if it pops up anywhere else what it is associated with. And then you kind of figure out who the person is. And then you can go back into the Bitcoin ledger and search their entire history can figure out all their business dealings all their personal dealings who they know who they do not know possibly who their bank is. And you know people have tried to solve this problem with Bitcoin.  Morgan Peck But there are companies now that actually specialize in doing the network analysis of the Bitcoin block chain and they do it for companies who want to um make sure that they are not transacting with you know criminals people who have had th- they are specifi-  Jad Abumrad Wait there are companies that are actively trying to de-anonymize people?  Morgan Peck Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Molly Webster And so one of the puzzles that uh all the internet people think about is is there a way to get the best of both worlds? Can you have the decentralization that comes with digital money but can you also get privacy? Almost like cash. I take a dollar bill out of my pocket I walk down the street I give it to someone they give it to someone. No one can trace that money. Can you get the decentralization that comes with digital money and can you wrap that up with the privacy that you get with paper money? And that question-  Zooko Wilcox Testing testing.  Molly Webster ... brings us to this guy.  Zooko Wilcox Hello Zooko here.  Molly Webster To somebody named Zooko Wilcox.  Zooko Wilcox I am Zooko and I am in a different room.  Molly Webster  Okay. He is our master of the ceremony. I have to say you do um everyone's like pretty excited I am talking to a guy named Zooko.  Zooko Wilcox Mm.  Molly Webster Like it is just a good name Zooko.  Zooko Wilcox Thanks.  Molly Webster Yay Zooko!  Zooko Wilcox   Molly Webster So anyhow Zooko is...  Morgan Peck He is been working on digital currencies for a long time.  Molly Webster And he is extremely trusted.  Jad Abumrad Is he a charismatic leader type of thing?  Molly Webster Yeah he is. When he first encountered Bitcoin he was like Cool.  Zooko Wilcox Yes but I was concerned about the privacy applications.  Molly Webster Because...  Morgan Peck He is a pretty hardcore cipher punk.  Jad Abumrad Oh my God it is like worlds upon worlds that are opening for us.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Cipher punks.  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Molly Webster She said this it is group of people that care deeply about how to make the internet more private.  Zooko Wilcox I think privacy is a human right and that it is a necessary condition for the exercise of of free choice of morality and of political participation and of everything that is uh of intimacy everything that is most important it as humans.  Molly Webster So this whole thing with Bitcoin and the privacy problem... right up his alley.  Zooko Wilcox So I went out my way studied the Bitcoin source code and I contributed some suggestions and yes I immediately started fantasizing about what could be better.  Molly Webster So then he being like the privacy security cipher punk guru  he becomes the leader of something called Zcash.  Zooko Wilcox Zcash.  Morgan Peck And Zcash really it is main um contribution to this ecosystem is privacy.  Zooko Wilcox So there is this thing called a zero knowledge proof.  Molly Webster Okay.  Zooko Wilcox And it is a mathematical invention that mathematicians had come up with.  Molly Webster It requires something called the z-SNARK parameters to be baked into the protocol. Oh my God. I asked hours of questions and it got me into a conversation about circles and graphs and the shape of numbers.  Jad Abumrad   Zooko Wilcox The shape of what I mean is the shape of what is of of possibility of-  Molly Webster What I came away with  was that it allows you to prove that something is true without revealing anything about the thing you are trying to prove is true.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Molly Webster You just-  Jad Abumrad I just need to-  Molly Webster I just want you to-  Jad Abumrad ... lie down now.   Molly Webster  Take that and run.  Zooko Wilcox This where computer science and mathematics start to overlap into wizardry here.  Molly Webster All you need to know is that Zcash promises to give you decentralization with this like buffet of privacy. But... Zcash has its own flaw.  Zooko Wilcox An unfortunate vulnerability in the math.  Molly Webster In order to create the currency of Zcash you have to first create a number.  Zooko Wilcox A certain enormous number.  Molly Webster And then you use that number to do a bunch of math. And then like boom! You have the currency. But it all starts with this number this key. Problem with that is...  Morgan Peck In this system in this system if somebody got a hold of the private key they could counterfeit Zcash coins.  Zooko Wilcox They could counterfeit money.  Morgan Peck Just make new coins-  Molly Webster Millions and millions and millions of new coins.  Morgan Peck ... out of thin air.  Zooko Wilcox You could cheat.  Morgan Peck That is a really big problem when you have a uh anonymous currency.  Molly Webster 'ecause no one would ever know.  Morgan Peck Nope.  Molly Webster Bitcoin since it is a public ledger you can actually see if there is any funny business going on. That is actually why they keep it open.  Morgan Peck Right the lack of privacy in Bitcoin is a security measure.  Molly Webster But here no one would ever know. So the challenge is how do you get people to buy into a system that has this like major vulnerability albeit just right at the very beginning.  Morgan Peck There is this one moment where you know you have to trust people in a way that is completely existentially defining of the currency.  Molly Webster So this is what Zooko's up against. How do I if I want super privacy which he does how do I generate this number in such a way that no one steals it. Not me not anyone else. And how do I prove to all of the people that might want to use Zcash later that in this tiny little window of of creation nothing untoward has happened that that the number has never been tampered with that human eyes have never been laid upon it. You know that the entire creation of this system remains pure.  Jad Abumrad Is i- this is very much like an immaculate conception. You are like-  Molly Webster   Jad Abumrad ... no humans can have sex to make this baby. But there needs to be a baby. But we almost have to examine the act of sex to make sure-  Molly Webster Right.  Jad Abumrad ... there is no physical contact.  Molly Webster   Jad Abumrad Is it like that?  Molly Webster That is so good. Okay so here we are. Zooko decides...  Zooko Wilcox We will have a ceremony. The most secure most sophisticated cryptographic ceremony that is every been performed.  Molly Webster Wow okay.  Morgan Peck Here's the thing. While it is trivial to make your own currency it is not trivial to um inspire trust. That is what money is is the agreement between people to use it and to honor that sort of social contract and the creation of value to me that is like alchemy. Um and it is a moment of creation.  Morgan Peck I think I am walking down the street near you Molly-  Molly Webster  Greenpoint.  Morgan Peck ... and I get a text message on Signal-  Molly Webster A private messenger app.  Morgan Peck ... uh from Zooko that is like Hey we want you to we want you to be there.  Jad Abumrad   Morgan Peck Yeah I was  so excited.   Jad Abumrad You were chosen.  Morgan Peck I was chosen yeah.  Molly Webster And but did you even know what you were being invited to?  Morgan Peck No. I had no idea. But I was like I have to do this. I mean I cannot miss this. Even if Zcash does not make it even if you know it collapses it seemed like a historical moment. So Zooko basically said just wait for our bat call.   Jad Abumrad   Molly Webster So about two weeks later the bat call.  Morgan Peck Come to this uh coffee store in Boulder.  Molly Webster So Morgan gets on a flight to Denver rents a car to Boulder and goes to the coffee shop.  Morgan Peck Zooko's there.  Molly Webster Standing next to the barista counter.  Morgan Peck And actually he has a huge paper map with him. Spread out all over like the barista's area he is like up in their grill. And then uh this other guy Nat showed up.  Molly Webster Friend of Zooko's.  Morgan Peck Who uh was going to film it all.  Molly Webster Was that was that for you? You wanted everything recorded?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah. And it was to serve as a security mechanism and documentation for the public.  Molly Webster More on that in a second.  Zooko Wilcox And then... Okay.  Nathaniel  Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster They leave the coffee shop go over to Nat's van.  Morgan Peck He mics us both up. I told him they could mic me up.  Zooko Wilcox And we are gonna now we are gonna turn off all of our cell phones. So that if there were any hackers they would not be able to track where we were physically.  Morgan Peck I am trying to think if I have to say goodbye to anyone.  Zooko Wilcox We were like okay. Now we have got the van we have got our cell phones turned off. The next thing we needed to do-  Morgan Peck We are we are next.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah we are going to the computer store. Was to acquire a computer. Because like if there was some hacker who was planning to steal the key they could have...  Molly Webster You know already planted some malware or tracking device on Zooko's personal laptop.  Zooko Wilcox Before we even started. So we all piled into the van set off. Yeah we can just start heading north.  Molly Webster To get a clean computer.  Morgan Peck He is decided to go to Denver for this.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah.  Morgan Peck But  he does not want to use his phone.  Zooko Wilcox No. Hey I think I need to use my paper map.  Morgan Peck Because what if somebody's like tracking what he is looking at.  Zooko Wilcox Let us go straight.  Morgan Peck Nat is doing much of this recording while he is driving.  Nathaniel    Zooko Wilcox If this thing is where we think it is...  Jad Abumrad Do you have like a black hoodie over you like Hezbollah style?  Morgan Peck No... no.  Molly Webster So they are driving for a little bit.  Zooko Wilcox When...  Molly Webster All of a sudden they make this pit stop.  Zooko Wilcox  We were like Hey there is a costume store.  Morgan Peck   Zooko Wilcox All right this is perfect.  Morgan Peck This is the right spot.  Zooko Wilcox Way to go Nat.  We were like okay next stop. We are here for a wizard hat. Wizard hat.  Storeperson  Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Can I see your wizard hat section?  Storeperson  Yeah.  Zooko Wilcox   Molly Webster So they walk through this big costume store passed witches hats tiaras...  Zooko Wilcox Hmm...  Molly Webster What is the wizard hat you settled on?  Zooko Wilcox Um ooh it was a Gandalf hat. Gandalf hat. Yeah I love the Gandalf hat.  Molly Webster Ah.  Zooko Wilcox I think it is good.  Molly Webster That is appropriate. The greatest wizard of all.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah. So that is gonna be a winner thanks.  Storeperson  Yeah of course.  Molly Webster And then... back to the mission at hand.  Morgan Peck Van Denver computer.  Zooko Wilcox We drove down using our paper map with our cellphones off to the computer store.  Molly Webster They get there.  Storeperson  Howdy.  Molly Webster Walk in.  Zooko Wilcox Oh yeah. This is the place.  Molly Webster Do a little computer shopping.  Zooko Wilcox Can we get a side by side comparison of two different ones.  Storeperson  Sure.  Molly Webster A few minutes later...  Zooko Wilcox Yeah I want this one.  Molly Webster Zooko gets his computer.  Morgan Peck And at that point the computer is sacred.  Zooko Wilcox It is called an i7-6700.  Molly Webster ... which henceforth is given a new name.  Zooko Wilcox It is called the compute node.  Jad Abumrad And why is it scared?  Molly Webster Well because this is the computer that will hold the secret number the number that will give birth to an entirely new currency. So-  Storeperson  All right sir.  Zooko Wilcox All right thank you very much.  Molly Webster ... got the compute node got back in the van got back to Boulder.  Zooko Wilcox And drove to an area that had hotels that we knew of. But where is this hotel?  Morgan Peck And we are going around to like the hotels in Boulder.  Zooko Wilcox Is it this way?  Morgan Peck And they are all full.  Zooko Wilcox I do not know if they have ethernet in their hotel room.  Morgan Peck Or they do not have an ethernet connection.  Zooko Wilcox So then we go to another hotel.  Morgan Peck I liked that hotel it was really...  Molly Webster And another.  Zooko Wilcox She was not clear on the notion of ethernet.  Morgan Peck It is like 00 at night. Ahh what is the plan here?  Zooko Wilcox  Yes.  Morgan Peck The idea was if you do not know what you are gonna do-   Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck ... then they do not know what they are gonna do. Uh so this is actually a security measure uh like if you are totally in the dark about what you are doing then some hackers they cannot they cannot mount an attack. It is fool proof.  Yeah.  Molly Webster But-  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster ... eventually...  Zooko Wilcox Millennium has rooms and it has ethernet.  Molly Webster They find hotel.  Morgan Peck Oh my God.  Zooko Wilcox And she even went and double checked.  Molly Webster Zooko actually has Nat book the hotel room.  Zooko Wilcox For two nights.  Nathaniel  Do you want me to come with you?  Zooko Wilcox Yep. Do you have a key?  Morgan Peck We all check into one room.  Zooko Wilcox Ground floor. It is not particularly fancy.  Morgan Peck Couple tables you know you got your two beds.  Molly Webster Then they set up.  Zooko Wilcox We are a well organized machine.  Molly Webster They totally transform the place.  Morgan Peck In general I am not gonna help out. They gave me a bed to chill out on.  Zooko Wilcox You can concentrate on on careful observing.  Morgan Peck Okay.  Zooko Wilcox So what we did was we stripped the room of all of the lamps and the telephone.  Morgan Peck Everything on all the counters gets shoved somewhere.  Zooko Wilcox All of that stuff cleared it away into the closet or the bathtub.  Morgan Peck What are you doing?  Zooko Wilcox In addition we-  Zooko Wilcox Oh I am unplugging the TV.  Zooko Wilcox ... did not want like the television for example which could be remotely controlled by an adversary.  Molly Webster So they unplug it slide it under one of the beds...  Zooko Wilcox Goodbye TV. You know what? Another reason is I hate TVs. Television is the worst.  Molly Webster Then they grab the table where they are gonna set up the compute node.  Morgan Peck Want to explain again why you are keeping it away from the wall?  Molly Webster Pull that out a ways.  Zooko Wilcox Oh... there is a teeny tiny chance that a team of spies rented the room next door and set up a giant antenna on the other side of the wall.  Molly Webster This is like the dopest attack that Zooko is planning against called side channel attacks.  Zooko Wilcox And that is a message by which you could use an antenna.  Molly Webster Or like a really high tech microphone...  Morgan Peck ... to figure out what a computer is doing.  Molly Webster For example with some crazy microphone you could listen in to the computer's processor and if you heard something like... Oh that is Diffie-Hellman key exchange. Or... oh yeah this is obviously figuring out the full 40960-bit RSA decryption key. Or... oh hey that is the new beeps video. Or whatever.  Morgan Peck So...  Zooko Wilcox All right so please do not put anything on this desk from here on out.  Morgan Peck It is pulled away from the wall about I do not know five feet just in case there is somebody set up next door.  Zooko Wilcox And then started loading in all the cameras and equipment.  Morgan Peck Battery backs junk food but then there was also a whole security camera set up.  Zooko Wilcox One cool one really cool thing about these security cameras is that they do not have a radio.  Morgan Peck Four security cameras which were from the '80s.  Zooko Wilcox Before security cameras came with wifi. Which means we had to buy antique security cameras.  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm . And their nigh vision security cameras.  Molly Webster And they set those up.  Zooko Wilcox So that you could see the other cameras from the first cameras. So you could sell that no ninja snuck in there and like tampered with one of the cameras during the process either.  Molly Webster And this security camera set up was uh one of the key points in trying to create what Morgan was talking about earlier.  Morgan Peck This alchemy.  Molly Webster Faith.  Zooko Wilcox Trust.  Molly Webster Whatever.  Zooko Wilcox So the security mechanism this was this was going to catch any shenanigans.  Molly Webster And then Zooko was gonna post this security footage to the internet so uh experts security experts could scan it an make up their minds. Could the ceremony be trusted.  Zooko Wilcox Hold on where are you gonna sleep tonight?  Morgan Peck I mean I-  Zooko Wilcox We could all camp.  Morgan Peck ... can sleep anywhere.  Zooko Wilcox So we set all that stuff up.  Molly Webster It is like 00 now 00.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah it was late and um I took the computer that we used the so called compute node and then from that moment forward I kept that thing like within arms reach for f- for 48 hours or so. Oh my God. It was a little bit exhausting trying to be paranoid and it-  Molly Webster It was exhausting trying to be paranoid?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah like I slept with it that night um in my bed. I kept my kept my arm around it.  Molly Webster Goodnight sweet prince and flights of and angels sing me to thy rest.  Jad Abumrad Coming up... a rude awakening.  Andrei This is Andrei Karameto from the port town of  Texas. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Advertisement Introducing Pocket Casts the powerful podcasting platform recognized by Wired magazine as the podcast app every iPhone user needs and by the New York Times as the favorite among podcast experts. Pocket Casts is beautifully designed easy to use and helps you quickly discover and enjoy your favorite podcasts with over 700000 shows to choose from. Download the app. Now free at pocketcasts.com.  Jad Abumrad Jad.  Molly Webster Molly.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab. Back to Boulder.  Morgan Peck Sorry I cannot open the door. That would be helping you.  Zooko Wilcox No. So.  Molly Webster It is the next morning.  Zooko Wilcox Saturday morning.  Molly Webster Zooko sits down at his personal computer and he starts making all these...  Zooko Wilcox Hello.  Molly Webster ... video chat calls.  Video Chat Hello.  Zooko Wilcox Oh hi  Molly Webster He calls up a guy in D.C.  Video Chat Hey Moses.  Molly Webster A guy in Texas.  Video Chat Does anyone tell you you sound like Tom Hardy?   Molly Webster Also-  Video Chat Cool that is pretty cool.  Molly Webster Florida.  Zooko Wilcox Okay really appreciate your help.  Molly Webster Slovenia.  Video Chat Is John on mine? Let me see. Yes.  Zooko Wilcox Good job pit boss.  Molly Webster Another guy in California.  Video Chat Thanks.  Molly Webster And then there was this mysterious one.  Zooko Wilcox Okay Fabrese is ready.  Molly Webster That was s- only referred to as Fabrese and did not know where he was. I did not find out until afterwards that he was actually driving from Vancouver across British Columbia .  Jad Abumrad  What? Who are all these guys?  Molly Webster So for Zooko it is it is very unacceptable. He wants to take as much of the trust you gotta trust me out of it as possible. And that is what he tried to do. So even though Zooko's gonna record all of this footage put it up on line l- later somebody who is gonna be watching that could be like...  Zooko Wilcox This was a trick.  Molly Webster It is all smoke and mirrors.  Zooko Wilcox It is like stage magic.  Molly Webster Like sure you say you recorded everything but maybe you manipulated the footage. Maybe you did not even set the cameras up the way you said you did.  Zooko Wilcox And so...  Molly Webster So what Zooko decided to do was get in touch with all these guys all over the world and try and decentralize this trust.  Morgan Peck So there were six stations.  Molly Webster Each with their own compute nodes security cameras set up ready to help Zooko make this big random number.  Morgan Peck The private key so each s- of the six stations was actually creating one piece of this key.  Molly Webster That way they will be no one person that makes the entire key. It will just be these little pieces that actually will not every come in contact with one another.  Morgan Peck The idea was nobody will actually have the key itself.  Zooko Wilcox Hope this works.  Molly Webster So everyone's got their compute node powered on.  Video Chat You have to hold the power okay.  Molly Webster And then...  Zooko Wilcox Diagnostics complete. Press enter when you are ready to begin the ceremony.  Molly Webster ... the ceremony begins.  Zooko Wilcox Okay now this is the top secret part. Where is the the special box? Yeah. We have to make sure that nobody can uh guess or read this secret.  Molly Webster Zooko closes the blinds.  Zooko Wilcox And so I am gonna cover my keyboard with this special box. So I took a cardboard box that one of the computers had come in and sawed it in half so that it was uh a half of a cardboard box.  Molly Webster He would put it over the keyboard of the compute node.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah hold on. There. Ready? And then I slid my hands under the cardboard box.  Molly Webster And then... he starts punching in all these random letters and numbers into the compute node.  Zooko Wilcox Just like pound on it like-  Morgan Peck Just blah.  Zooko Wilcox ... Cecil Taylor it.  Morgan Peck Mash it. Cat walking across the computer.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Morgan Peck Yep. And once he is done.  Zooko Wilcox I think we are done with the cardboard box. It is served its purpose and now we can auction it on eBay.  Molly Webster What the compute node does it is it takes all those random characters and it combines it with more random characters that are generated like inside the computer until finally it creates a part of the key.  Zooko Wilcox And each of the other five participants had to do the same thing.  Molly Webster Do you see who made their piece of the key? Florida Texas Slovenia Canada. Okay so you have got one key broken into six pieces and the next step is to get all of the pieces to work together to create on thing which is Zcash. And you wanna do this in such a way that those pieces never touch each other that they remain hidden so that n- no person could ever get their hands on the power of the whole key. Whew.  Morgan Peck Yeah. So...  Molly Webster Thank God there is convoluted math to save the day.  Morgan Peck Um may- I think it is a good time to just say what was happening.  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Molly Webster Three two one.  Morgan Peck So...  Molly Webster First thing's first.  Zooko Wilcox Okay here I come.  Molly Webster The guy in California gets on the horn.  Video Chat So the stations are Andrew Peter.  Molly Webster He gives everyone basically like the batting order and then-  Video Chat All right hang on... now.  Molly Webster ... he sends a message called the go message to station one.  Video Chat Preparing the doing my computations now.  Molly Webster Station one guy and his compute node do some math on his piece of the key.  Video Chat Yeah. Okay um my compute node just finished. Hell yeah.  Molly Webster His compute node spits out a number.  Zooko Wilcox And then it burns it onto DVD.  Molly Webster Why DVD? Because all the guys at these stations have ripped out the wifi in their compute node.  Zooko Wilcox 'ecause we do not want a hacker to be able to hack into the compute node.  Molly Webster This by the way has a pretty cool name.  Zooko Wilcox This is called air gapped.  Morgan Peck You have a protective field basically around the computer that holds the secret.  Molly Webster A field of air. Anyway once the computer is done burning to this DVD the guy at station one takes it an walks it to another computer.  Video Chat It is receiving data as you can see.  Molly Webster Uploads it to the internet.  Zooko Wilcox Okay great.  Molly Webster And then the guy at station two.  Peter Van    Molly Webster This guy.  Peter Van  Mm-hmm .  Molly Webster Peter Van Bachenberg.  Peter Van  So what happens is the software I run on my connected computer-  Molly Webster ... downloads that little answer puts it onto a DVD.  Peter Van   I take the DVD out of the connected computer walk across the air gap if you will.  Peter Van  Um I am putting in the compute node.  Molly Webster Then the compute node takes that little answer combines it with Peter's piece of the key and then...  Zooko Wilcox Math. So now is it computing?  Peter Van  Yep.  Molly Webster Again the compute node keeps Peter's piece of the key a secret spits out a new answer a bigger answer.  Peter Van  And then I write on a different DVD...  Molly Webster ... that new answer.  Zooko Wilcox Quick!  Molly Webster Takes it out of the compute node.  Peter Van  Lift it over the gap.  Molly Webster Brings it back across the air gap.  Peter Van  To the networked computer.  Molly Webster Uploads his answer then station three grabs and combines it with their key gets a little bit more of an answer.  Zooko Wilcox So exciting.  Molly Webster Then station four.  Zooko Wilcox My compute node gets to do it is thing.  Molly Webster Same thing DVD across the air gap combine it with their piece of the key.  Zooko Wilcox Math. Like serious math.  Molly Webster And then you get a little bit more of the answer and just rinse watch repeat.  Video Chat Wooh!  Molly Webster Station five.  Video Chat Huzzah!  Molly Webster Six. Back to the top of the order. And throughout this entire process the individual shards of the key are kept separate and secret. Yet together they are doing the math that is getting closer and closer and closer to the final key that will launch Zcash.  Molly Webster Was there a like a c- t- t- t- t- a titter in the air?  Morgan Peck Uh... no.   Molly Webster   Morgan Peck I mean it really it is deet de-deet deet de-deet de-deet.  Zooko Wilcox Did you bring a deck of cards?  Nathaniel  I brought juggling balls.  Zooko Wilcox Cool. I can juggle three balls.  Nathaniel    Molly Webster Because the thing is every one of those math steps...  Morgan Peck ... took about an hour.  Zooko Wilcox Who is next on the list?  Molly Webster And they had to do like three full rotations through this order.  Zooko Wilcox Oh hey somebody tell Moses.  Molly Webster So most of the weekend was just kind of sittin' around.  Zooko Wilcox Shaun?  Molly Webster Waiting.  Zooko Wilcox Peter?  Molly Webster And waiting.  Zooko Wilcox Anyone?  Peter Van  What is that?  Zooko Wilcox Tell Moses.  Peter Van  No.  Morgan Peck Um so yeah we are hanging out.  Video Chat Okay uh my compute node just finished.  Zooko Wilcox Oh good to know.  Morgan Peck Uh Zooko has brought along some pork rinds.   Jad Abumrad   Morgan Peck And sour cream but he is dipping he is dipping pork rinds in the sour cream.  Zooko Wilcox Cool I am gonna get our coffee.  Nathaniel  Hmm.  Morgan Peck Also... napping. Which is the only sleeping that is happened like there is like you know and hour here... hour there.  Molly Webster And as the hours roll by things are going really well people are getting their math done they are passing along these answers they are getting closer to having their key when maybe half way into the process things get strange.  Molly Webster They are each lying in their beds just kind of chilling out. Morgan was just waking Zooko was playing on a tablet.  Zooko Wilcox And then oh...  Morgan Peck What?  Zooko Wilcox I groaned and said uh oh there is work to do. Back to work.  Molly Webster So Zooko gets up and he starts talking.  Zooko Wilcox When which is uh w- why is my voice echoing back at me?  Morgan Peck There is feedback.  Zooko Wilcox A feedback loop started echoing. You know like going beep boop beep beep beep beep. Beep beep beep.  Morgan Peck It was like uh wh- incongruous noise make it stop.  Nathaniel  I am muting all my mics. I do not know where it is feeding back from. Probably this one.  Molly Webster He like turns off the mic.  Zooko Wilcox Ah. And so I was like oh okay.  Molly Webster And he sits down at the Google Hangout computer.  Zooko Wilcox Hook me up with that.  Morgan Peck Oh.  Zooko Wilcox A tester tester.  Molly Webster And this echo comes back. And if you look at the video you see he like just freezes.  Zooko Wilcox Where is that coming from?  Molly Webster And then just turns his head to the left looking off camera.  Zooko Wilcox Why do we have play out over there now?  Molly Webster At this point everyone in the room just sort of falls silent and is lookin' around.  Morgan Peck Yeah I start like pin pointing it to like the the part of the room that has the security cameras monitor.  Zooko Wilcox Test test. Where is this coming from? Test test. Test test.  Morgan Peck I start listening to that and I am like I think it is coming from over here.  Morgan Peck Do it again.  Zooko Wilcox Hello.  Zooko Wilcox I stopped and I said uh wait wait a minute. W- what is playing out over there?  Zooko Wilcox Test test.  Zooko Wilcox And I looked in the direction of Morgan's bed.  Morgan Peck And then I turn around I pick up my phone.  Morgan Peck It is my phone.  Morgan Peck And the echo's coming out of my speaker.  Jad Abumrad It is coming out of your phone.  Morgan Peck It is coming out of my phone.  Zooko Wilcox Why is your phone playing out sound?  Morgan Peck I have no idea.  Zooko Wilcox You do not- stop no do not mess with it. I wanna see what is going on. It is playing off in this way.  Molly Webster He zeroes in on this mic that is on the corner of the computer that is doing the Google Hangouts.  Zooko Wilcox Did you connect your phone to this Hangout?  Molly Webster He leans over to that.  Zooko Wilcox Hold on.  Molly Webster Starts fiddling with it.  Morgan Peck What?  Zooko Wilcox It is coming from this way.  Morgan Peck Yep. So is there a way hmm...  Molly Webster He stands he sits.  Morgan Peck I do not know.  Zooko Wilcox Wait wait wait I know it is not coming from the mic. It is coming fr- it is not coming from this mic it is coming from the Google Hangout 'ecause I just muted it in software now it is gone. So my voice from Google Hangout okay let us hear Peter's voice. Peter? Uh I wanna test audio coming from you. Say some stuff.  Peter Van  Test. Testing. Testing. All good men  country.  Zooko Wilcox Okay good.  Morgan Peck And then I think Zooko says something like-  Zooko Wilcox Morgan why is your phone playing the audio from our Google Hangout?  Morgan Peck Why is our chat coming through your phone?  Jad Abumrad Oh wait. So the audio coming out of her phone is not originating from in the room it is it is somehow the Google ch- Hangout chat? That is coming through her phone?  Molly Webster Yes.  Jad Abumrad That is so weird.  Molly Webster Very weird.  Morgan Peck It... it was like your cat had just turned into a monster or and just started talking to you or like just turned on you. So I am kneeling on the bed with it and I look at it and I think that is when I just like threw it threw it on the bed. Revulsion.  Molly Webster So...  Zooko Wilcox Can you turn on the screen?  Molly Webster ... he picks up the phone from the end of her bed and hands it to her and is like Can you pull up the screen?  Zooko Wilcox What all what all apps are running on this phone?  Morgan Peck I do not run any apps.  Zooko Wilcox Is that doing video Nat?  Nathaniel  Yeah I am recording.  Molly Webster At this point the cameras have like swiveled so they are focused on the phone.  Zooko Wilcox Okay um.  Morgan Peck Man I do not know h- Should we throw it in the river?  Zooko Wilcox  No. Can you is this Android?  Morgan Peck Yep.  Zooko Wilcox What how do you can you like get a list of apps running like by swiping down from the top or something?  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm . I think I do not know I am sorry I do not-  Zooko Wilcox How 'bout that-  Morgan Peck ... I do not use this like at all.  Zooko Wilcox ... if you swipe down there is that thing that is next to the thing. Here we- what about that thing? No?  Morgan Peck Wait yes. But just give me a second. Give me a second. What is running? Here.  Zooko Wilcox I do not see a Hangouts app running.  Morgan Peck I def- well I did not s-  Zooko Wilcox Test.  Morgan Peck ... run a Hangouts.  Zooko Wilcox I think it stopped. Here listen to it. Test test test. It is stopped has not it?  Molly Webster Suddenly the phone stops doing the weird thing it was doing.  Zooko Wilcox The freaky audio play out thing.  Jad Abumrad It went away.  Molly Webster It it went away which feels hacker-y.  Jad Abumrad Ooh yeah.  Molly Webster Like the hackers have been had and they just realized it.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah that is what I think. That there was an attacker and they screwed up and accidentally turned on the speaker.  Morgan Peck Now I feel paranoid.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah it is weird is it creepy.  Morgan Peck No this is not just like I do not know I have been what do you mean hacked? What kind of hacked would we have been?  Zooko Wilcox Oh you find out that private messages and what is been had had access to them. Um or that people have been s- uh sending messages spoofed to be from you-  Morgan Peck Mm-hmm .  Zooko Wilcox ... to your friends or colleagues.  Morgan Peck Okay I have never had that happen whoa.  Zooko Wilcox It is kind of horrible.  Molly Webster So eventually they just decide to turn off her phone.  Morgan Peck Now it becomes a more civilized conversation of um what are we gonna do? And and then Zooko said to me...  Zooko Wilcox Would you like to donate your phone to science?  Morgan Peck Uh... oh...   Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck That is like-  Zooko Wilcox Test test test test test.  Morgan Peck ... I think I would rather donate my body.  Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck Um...  Zooko Wilcox Uh...  Morgan Peck No.  Zooko Wilcox Well.  Morgan Peck I would not.  Zooko Wilcox What would it take for you to donate your phone to science?  Morgan Peck Oh...  Zooko Wilcox   Morgan Peck Like in the current state of it right now? Without-  Zooko Wilcox Well...  Morgan Peck ... without like-  Zooko Wilcox Yeah that is a problem.  Morgan Peck ... saving my no way pfft.  Like that has so much of my work on it and my-  Zooko Wilcox Okay.  Morgan Peck ... life. I just think that uh well I do not think I have to justify why.  Zooko Wilcox That is right you do not have to justify it.  Morgan Peck But I mean...  Zooko Wilcox Do you have uh do you have pictures of people?  Morgan Peck And some pictures but n- not much.  Zooko Wilcox Um uh...  Jad Abumrad I I putting myself in your position I would have been like I feel uh okay.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Take it.  Morgan Peck I do not know. I star- I-  Jad Abumrad But you were very immediately like the opposite.  Morgan Peck Yeah. That is a no to me.   Jad Abumrad Why?  Morgan Peck To me i- my responsibility is not just to myself you know. Privacy is a shared resource it is a sh- or it is a share- it is something we share with each other. Um the responsibility is...  Molly Webster I will say this is one of the first stories where I get p- what privacy data protection like means. Like I remember when Morgan was telling me this story thinking if someone had hacked into Morgan's phone how long had they been hacked in for? And I talk to Morgan all the time. And like oh weird I was kind of hacked. You know? And then it is like wait who else did you talk to? Was your ooh your dad was kind of hacked. Oh oh crap you exchanged those text messages that were not on Signal. That person was kind of hacked. And then suddenly it just dawned on me. Duh like her privacy is not just hers.  Morgan Peck The things that are on my phone that are private are not only private for me they are private for for anyone I was talking to. And and I almost feel like I do not even have a right to give over that phone if I have not talked to the people that that that would be exposing. Like that is not fair.  Molly Webster W- like sometimes when people insist on privacy it can feel selfish.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Molly Webster But then you realize like no like if one person does not insist on privacy kind of like a chink in the armor.  Jad Abumrad Yeah and like suddenly we are all vulnerable.  Molly Webster Uh for about an hour Morgan and Zooko go back and forth about what to do with her phone.  Zooko Wilcox Um...  Molly Webster But they do not really reach a conclusion.  Morgan Peck I feel I need to walk around. Is anything gonna happen if I go take a little walk?  Zooko Wilcox Yeah you are not gonna miss much uh that is uh that is planned or scheduled. I am just hesitating for no good reason. I cannot think of any reason wh- for you not to take a walk. I am just kinda freaked out.  Morgan Peck Okay. Yeah. Okay.  Zooko Wilcox Be safe out there.  Morgan Peck I will stay here. What?  Zooko Wilcox I said be safe out there. Enjoy.  Morgan Peck Do you think I am a do you think I am a secret agent?  Zooko Wilcox No I was not thinking that.  Morgan Peck Okay.  Zooko Wilcox I was thinking I was afraid for you.  Morgan Peck Oh I am not afraid for me.  Zooko Wilcox Yeah I am not either I was just feeling that way.  Morgan Peck Okay. I am gonna take a walk 'ecause I feel really claustrophobic.  Zooko Wilcox Good. Enjoy.  Zooko Wilcox So then I had to decide what shall we do? Shall we abort the ceremony? Shall we um focus our attention on some sort of investigation of Morgan's phone? What shall we do? Okay. Here's the decision here's what we are gonna do. Uh g- y- get Morgan's phone out of here and otherwise no change.  Molly Webster He figured if these people have hacked into Morgan's phone we have so many security measures in place that we can keep going and we will figure this out later. So basically what happens is like Morgan comes back from her walk.  Zooko Wilcox Okay. Where were we?  Molly Webster They still have another full day of the ceremony left.  Zooko Wilcox Please insert a blank DVD to burn disc keys in and then press enter. Okay.  Molly Webster And then it gets to a point m- where they finally have the final key.  Zooko Wilcox Okay. I am powering off the compute node. Everybody.  Video Chat Do it.  Zooko Wilcox It is a big step.  Molly Webster And is there a high five?  Zooko Wilcox Uh...  Zooko Wilcox Okay it is unplugged.  Zooko Wilcox No.  Zooko Wilcox Whew we are done!  Video Chat Woo hoo.  Zooko Wilcox Ah...  Molly Webster And then to sort of cap it off...  Zooko Wilcox The last step is-  Zooko Wilcox So I mean if you want to use the angle grinder you can...  Zooko Wilcox ... everybody takes their uh compute node and ceremonially destroys it.   Molly Webster Because in the case that the computer holds like a ghosty fingerprint of that like original piece of the key they just want it gone.  Zooko Wilcox We sawed the computer into pieces.  Zooko Wilcox Missed.  Zooko Wilcox Smashed the pieces with a hammer and dropped the crushed pieces into a giant bonfire.  Molly Webster And that was that. And now they were sort of at the moment where they are like okay well we we actually did the technological like thing which was we created the system and now the bigger question was did they create the alchemy that they needed to inspire trust. Like were all the protocols and the video footage and all that stuff was it all enough?  Jad Abumrad Especially now that they have this phone thing happen.  Molly Webster Especially now that they have the phone thing. They were like did we do what we needed to do to show the world that they want to buy into this thing.  Molly Webster So five days after the ceremony ended...  Morgan Peck The currency began.  Molly Webster To an insane fanfare.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Morgan Peck It was crazy.  Announcement Zcash is a cryptocurrency build on Bitcoin's code base that is dedicated to protecting your privacy.  Morgan Peck 'Til oh gosh I am gonna have to look but I think it went up to like 4000.  Jad Abumrad A Zcoin?  Morgan Peck One Zcash coin.  Announcement It is the first digital currency to combine the...  Morgan Peck And that is the Bitcoin high at the time is like f- around 1400. So that is insane!  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Morgan Peck And that is-  Jad Abumrad So if the goal on some level at the very beginning of this conversation was to inspire the community to then use it it seems like it it has it has done that.  Morgan Peck Yeah. Yes.  Jad Abumrad Do people continue to point back at this phone moment and-  Morgan Peck Oh.  Jad Abumrad ... and wonder and speculate?  Morgan Peck Uh some. Yeah people have people want me to they wanna know like wh- how it resolves.  Jad Abumrad And how does it resolve? I mean did you give him your phone?  Morgan Peck So what actually happened was we went to this bonfire  uh and then by the end of it uh everybody was sort of rushing off. I was rushing to the to the airport and just like gave my phone to Zooko. And was like we will talk about it. I trust you. Do not do anything that I have not agreed to.  Jad Abumrad Oh so you ended in the in the in the in the spirit of the whole-  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Jad Abumrad ... endeavor in some way.  Morgan Peck Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Morgan Peck   Jad Abumrad Molly Webster.  Zooko Wilcox I did not get to tell you that we have to do it again.  Molly Webster Wait you have to go through all of this again?  Zooko Wilcox So we have to do it again because we are up creating the cryptography in Zcash.  Molly Webster Good God man what have you started?  Zooko Wilcox  We are gonna do a new ceremony deploy newer proof cryptography. We are we keep thinking of improvements we want to make and new innovations.  Jad Abumrad This piece was produced by Molly Webster and Matt Kielty. The Denver Ceremony station recordings were created by media maker Nathanial Kramer thanks Nat. And also thanks to his assistant Daniel Cooper. And lastly very special thanks to Morgan Peck her uh reporting on the ceremony obviously was sort of the anchor for our piece uh and you can find her article at IEEE Spectrum. Uh we will link you to it from radiolab.org. Okay we will be back and Robert will be back with me uh in a couple weeks. I am Jad Abumrad.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster. Thanks for listening.  Will Hi this is Will Zobb. Um I am calling from sunny Seattle Washington. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Dillon Keefe is our director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is senior editor. Our staff includes Simon Adler David Keppel Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Molly Webster. With help from Sohum Pawar Rebecca Chaisson Nigar Fatali Phoebe Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 