                    Hey you are lis-                     Okay.                     All right.                     Okay.                     All right.                     You are listening-                     Listening-                     ... to Radiolab.                     Radiolab.                     From-                     WNYC.                     C?                     Yeah. Kevin Esvelt                 Let me tell you there is nothing like the sheer elation of discovery. And I think you know this is the end of malaria. This is the end of everything else mosquitoes spread. Wait a minute tick spread Lyme disease. We can probably get rid of that too. Soren Wheeler            So in the morning you are like woo hoo. Molly Webster            You are singing to the turtles in the park and ... Kevin Esvelt                 Pretty much and I give myself a full day of being woohoo and then I started thinking but but but but what if something goes wrong? Jad Abumrad               I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab and the guy that you just heard is Kevin Esvelt. He is a scientist. He was talking to our producers Soren Wheeler and Molly Webster about CRISPR. Robert Krulwich          Which is a technology. Actually it is a new... it is a gene editing technology that can reshape life actually. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. And we ended up doing an entire show about this. Soren Wheeler            Yeah. And we called it Antibodies part one. Jad Abumrad               I do not remember that. Robert Krulwich          As if there was going to be a part two. Molly Webster            That is . It is like telling someone you got them a birthday present but you have not yet. Soren Wheeler            Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Yeah it is true. Soren Wheeler            May be we should just own up. Radiolab listeners we did not get your birthday present. Jad Abumrad               Let us just- That seems mean. No we meant to. Robert Krulwich          Yes we did. Jad Abumrad               We meant to have a part two. But we were doing a story it fell apart. Robert Krulwich          Well life does not always work out. Jad Abumrad               We got it on tape sucked frankly. And we thought it was going to be story. It just turned out to be a story. Robert Krulwich          But now we have ... what going to do is we are going to pay you what you are due. Jad Abumrad               This is the part two. Robert Krulwich          Yeah this is the part two. Jad Abumrad               Finally part two. Because CRISPR in the time that we did the thing till now has gone banana crazy. Robert Krulwich          Yeah so much has happened really. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Every day in the science section which I know we all read religiously if there is a CRISPR thing. So just to get us started we are going to play you the original piece. For those of you who never heard it just to sort of set the baseline and then we are going to come back and tell you all the stuff that has happened since. Robert Krulwich          Yeah yes. Jad Abumrad               Let me explain to you how I got started with this. Robert Krulwich          You were in some kind of an affair? Jad Abumrad               Yeah. I will tell you how ... I was at a party. Robert Krulwich          Party. Jad Abumrad               It was a conference where they had a lot of different people of different disciplines come together. You know one of those. Their panel discussions various thing. We were at one of the functions. And it was a situation where dinner had not yet been served. And there was a lot of booze being served. So everybody was drunk on an empty stomach. I was standing there was some biologists. Robert Krulwich          Oh they are the fun ones the drunk biologists yes. Jad Abumrad               As my people barely. They started to lose their shit like genuinely lose their shit about this thing called CRISPR. I have never seen scientists this excited about anything. So I was like What is this thing? What is CRISPR? And they were trying to explain to me but they could not slow down enough for me to get it. I gathered it had something to do with genetics. And then at one point one of the biologists turned to me was like I will tell you what it is. I can use CRISPR to take a little dog and poof make it into a big dog. Give me a Chihuahua. I could turn it into the size of a Great Dane. And I was like No you cannot. He is like Yes I can. I could do it with CRISPR. I was like What the hell is this thing? Carl Zimmer                You want me to sit here as usual?                     Yeah. If you seat here I will get up.  imply in any way. Carl Zimmer                No no.                     We have been sitting here together. Jad Abumrad               So what happened was I came back and I immediately called science writer Carl Zimmer. Because I just figured for this kind of thing. It is a Carl thing. I got to talk to Carl. I basically asked him like why all the fuss maybe it was just the alcohol or but maybe there is something really happening here? Carl Zimmer                Oh there is something totally happening here. I mean it is big. Jad Abumrad               He started at the beginning. Carl Zimmer                You can actually find like the first reference to 7 paper from some Japanese scientists. They basically described something weird in E. coli and they said we do not know what this is. Jad Abumrad               E. Coli are a bacteria inside humans. And like all living things E. Coli is made up of DNA A's and T's and C's and G's. And what happened was that these scientists were reading a chunk of that genetic code when- Carl Zimmer                They found this really strange stretch of DNA.                     Strange how? Carl Zimmer                Well basically what it was was five identical sequences in a row. And then they were separated by very short sequences in between them that were all different from each other. Jad Abumrad               These little blurbs it would be like ... Carl Zimmer                And they looked at this and they were like What? This is nothing like we have seen before. Jennifer Doudna          Repeated sequences in bacterial genomes are kind of unusual. Carl Zimmer                Seems very strange. Jennifer Doudna          Some biologists felt that there must be a purpose for these. Jad Abumrad               Among those purpose seekers. Jennifer Doudna          Jennifer Doudna University of California Berkeley. Jad Abumrad               She is a cell biologist. Jennifer Doudna          Yeah. Jad Abumrad               So it is Doudna not Dudna? Jennifer Doudna          It is Doudna. I used to be called the dude sometimes in school. Robert Krulwich          In the movie she will be played by Jeff Bridges. Jad Abumrad               Right anyhow. As time goes on scientists are seeing these little repeats blurb repeats everywhere. Carl Zimmer                Yes. Jad Abumrad                some bacteria. Carl Zimmer                Lots and lots of lots of species of bacteria. They say Okay wait a minute. Jennifer Doudna          That is kind of cool. Carl Zimmer                They are finding it so often that they said they had to give it a name. Jad Abumrad               And this is where the name CRISPR comes from? Carl Zimmer                Yes. Jad Abumrad               The full official name is Clustered Regularly Inter-spaced short Palindromic Repeats. Jennifer Doudna          Clustered Regularly Inter-spaced short Palindromic Repeats. Jad Abumrad               Oh my God. Carl Zimmer                I do not know why they called it CRISPR. It is kind of a- Robert Krulwich          CRISPR. It is like a furniture manufacturer or something. Carl Zimmer                It sounds like an app. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Robert Krulwich          Yeah CRISPR. Carl Zimmer                CRISPR. Jad Abumrad               But now scientists had this puzzle. Robert Krulwich          If nature at this level preserve something intact here and here and here and here and here and here. And some of these heres are creatures that have been around for hundreds of millions of years you figure well whatever this is- Jad Abumrad               It is doing something. Robert Krulwich          ... it is doing something. Jad Abumrad               But what? Carl Zimmer                It does not take very long before the first big clue comes up. Jad Abumrad               All right fast forward. 2005. Now scientists have these big searchable databases of DNA sequences systems. Scientists think well let us do a search. Let us see if these repeating patterns we keep finding match anything else that is out there in the world. Carl Zimmer                And the scientists are using computers to just line up these stretches of DNA with thousands and thousands of different species and then click all of a sudden they discover- Jad Abumrad               That those bits of DNA between the repeats the stuff in the middle those blurbs. Carl Zimmer                These are matching virus DNA. Like you can find viruses with genes where these little- Jad Abumrad               So these bacteria had virus inside of them? Carl Zimmer                Yep. Robert Krulwich          Does that mean that a virus brought it into this cells? Did they tell you anything about the origin of it? Carl Zimmer                The first recognition was this is virus DNA. Somehow all these bacteria have little snippets of virus DNA wedged in these particular places in their genome. Jad Abumrad               Which is a little weird if you think about it. I mean these are totally different creatures. They would be inside a human finding a little bit of mosquito DNA. Robert Krulwich          How do we interpret this? Carl Zimmer                Well actually there was one scientist named Eugene Koonin who looked at these results and just said Okay I get it. It is a defensive system. Jad Abumrad               Why would you think that? Carl Zimmer                Because he is a brilliant man. Robert Krulwich          What do you mean? If I went to a large sanitation dump and I found a teeny bit of human hair. Why would I think Oh I get it it is a defense mechanism. I would not know. It is like a . Carl Zimmer                Well you see that metaphor might sort of betray your lack of skill in microbiology. I am just saying this is not a dump. All right this is ... bacteria are not going to just let virus DNA get into their genes willy nilly. Okay. Remember viruses are the big enemy. Robert Krulwich          Right? Carl Zimmer                If your bacteria viruses make your life a nightmare. Think about in the ocean okay? The ocean is full of viruses and viruses kill up to 40 of all of those bacteria every day. Jad Abumrad               Really? Carl Zimmer                Every day. Robert Krulwich          Wow. Carl Zimmer                Yeah. And we know that they have defenses. What Eugene Koonin said was Okay. I am going to bet that these bacteria are somehow grabbing pieces of DNA from viruses. And then they are storing it. And now they have a way of recognizing those viruses if they come in later. Robert Krulwich          Like little Polaroid shots of the enemy. Carl Zimmer                Right. Robert Krulwich          Know the enemy? Carl Zimmer                Yeah like a most wanted poster. Eugene Koonin            What we called the mug shot. Jad Abumrad               This is Eugene Koonin. Eugene Koonin            Leader of the evolutionary genomics group at the National Center for Biotechnology Information. Jad Abumrad               He is the guy that Carl referenced to  up the whole idea that maybe these bits of virus DNA inside the bacteria is the bacteria trying to defend itself. Eugene Koonin            What really if I would credit myself with anything here it was not so much guessing this because ... then you see the identical sequence that gets pretty obvious. It is figuring out how the mechanism are likely to work. Jad Abumrad               So can you walk us through how the mechanism is likely to work? Eugene Koonin            All right? What happens if- Carl Zimmer                When a virus comes in to a cell they just kind of explodes and kind of releases naked genes basically. Jad Abumrad               If you are this bacteria these things might take over your cells you have got to respond. Eugene Koonin            Most of the time you have multiple weapons of defense. Jad Abumrad               If you have never seen this virus before usually the first thing you do says Eugene is you send out these enzymes to attack the viruses they are sort of like the ground troops. And they fight really hard. Eugene Koonin            But much of the time they fail and then no one will hear about you again. Jad Abumrad               They are not terribly sophisticated fighters. So very often virus takes over the bacteria dies. Eugene Koonin            But there is some non-zero probability that you actually survived the attack. Jad Abumrad               If you do then what the bacteria will do is send in some new enzymes to basically clean up. To go out find any stray viruses. Eugene Koonin            And then cut the enemy DNA into  small pieces. Jad Abumrad               And here he says is where you get to the storage part. Those enzymes will then take those little bits of virus and shove them into the bacteria's own DNA. Right in those little spaces between the repeats. Eugene Koonin            Right there and nowhere else. Robert Krulwich          So I use those spaces in my own DNA as a storage facility? Eugene Koonin            Yes if you will you use it as a memory device. Jad Abumrad               Because here's what happens. Next time that virus shows up it sprays it is genes everywhere and now you are prepared. And this is where the CRISPR story really gets going. Because instead of sending out the ground troops who are probably going to get their asses beat. Now you can actually send out the big guns. And in fact what the cell does is it will manufacture the special molecular assassins. And will give those assassins a copy of that little bit of virus DNA has in stores basically saying Here take this mug shot. If you see anything that matches this pattern kill it. Robert Krulwich          Kill. And these attackers do we know what they look like ... one of them looks like? Jennifer Doudna          Yep. So we know what the protein looks like. It actually looks I would describe it a little bit like a clamshell. Jad Abumrad               Sort of imagine Pac Man but kind of misshapen and rough. And each one of these guys- Carl Zimmer                What it has is a copy of that virus DNA. Jad Abumrad               It is got the mug shot. Carl Zimmer                That it is kind of waving around. What then happens is that- Jad Abumrad               Whenever the Pac Man bumps into some virus DNA- Carl Zimmer                It pulls apart the DNA and zips it- Jad Abumrad               Reads it. If it is not the right one it goes on. Nope. Uh-uh . Carl Zimmer                And if that RNA has the same sequence then click click it just locks in. Jennifer Doudna          And if that happens then the DNA is trapped. And molecular blades come out. Carl Zimmer                And chop. Eugene Koonin            Cutting it is head with the mighty blow. Carl Zimmer                Yeah. Robert Krulwich          So this is smart scissors. Jad Abumrad               It is like are you like the thing I got? Are you like the thing I got? You are like the thing I got snip. Carl Zimmer                All right now we are going to kill. Jad Abumrad               It has to be. Carl Zimmer                And it has to be an exact match. Jad Abumrad               When scientists first discovered this whole system. They were fascinated. Carl Zimmer                They were working it out. They were like Oh okay then this happens. And this happens. And this happens. Cool. Jad Abumrad               But then in walks- Jennifer Doudna          The dude. Jad Abumrad               Jennifer Doudna with a crazy idea. One of if it is crazy but radical. Jennifer Doudna          This could be an amazing technology. Carl Zimmer                This is a tool. Jad Abumrad               This is a tool? Carl Zimmer                Yeah. Jennifer Doudna          Right? Carl Zimmer                This is a tool that we can use to cut DNA where we want to cut DNA. Jad Abumrad               The basic thought was why do not we turn this defense into offense. Because these things they seem to be really good at cutting. And yet they only seem to cut the things that are on their mug shot. Maybe I could just replace what is on their mug shot. Instead of them going after viruses maybe they could go after a gene that causes Huntington's disease or hemophilia. For example this is actually something that is been done. You got a mouse with something like hemophilia. This is a diseases that is caused by one bad gene. So what you do is you take these little surgeons you give them the mug shot for the bad gene then you stick the surgeon with the new mug shot in a mouse. Carl Zimmer                Then you set it loose. Jad Abumrad               And just like its program to it will find that gene- Carl Zimmer                And click click chop. The scissors will end up cutting exactly the gene you wanted to cut. Jad Abumrad               So the bad genes gone. Now the question is how do you put in the good gene? Robert Krulwich          Right. Jad Abumrad               It turns out actually according to Jennifer Doudna that that is actually not as hard as you would think. Robert Krulwich          Really? Jad Abumrad               Yeah apparently what you do is just throw this new good gene kind of in the neighborhood of where the old genius used to be. Just in the general vicinity. Jennifer Doudna          You do not have to get super precise. It turns out that they are repair enzymes that are probably continually surveying and checking for breaks. Jad Abumrad               She says what will happen is it inside the cell these repair crews come along they will see the break. They will see the good genes just sitting there next to the break. They will be like All right. I will just stick it in. Carl Zimmer                But the pretty guy in this space. Jad Abumrad               Exactly. Jennifer Doudna          So we take advantage of a natural repair pathway that cells have. Jad Abumrad               They trick both the cutters and the fixers. Carl Zimmer                Yeah now we are not assassinating anymore. Now we are actually engineering. We are going from killing to refashioning. Robert Krulwich          Have not we been designing genes doing genetic ... a form of genetic engineering for like 30 years? Carl Zimmer                Yes but not like this. Beth Shapiro               Genome editing technologies have been around for a long time but none of them have been as powerful as CRISPR is. Jad Abumrad               That is Beth Shapiro from UC Santa Cruz. She was actually one of the biologists that I drunkenly talked to at that thing. Beth Shapiro               Was it a modern art museum? I cannot even really remember it. Jad Abumrad               I do not remember either. Robert Krulwich          Must have been quite an evening get to have the setting be so vague. Jad Abumrad               Anyhow. Here's how she put it to us. Back in the day. This is just like two years ago. You would have these gene editor things. You would take one put it in a cell. Beth Shapiro               And what happened before was you would give it some instructions about where to go. And it might go there. But it might go to somewhere that is kind of related to where that. Jad Abumrad               So it is like You just take a right at Staten Island. But it takes a left. Beth Shapiro               And not only would it take a left to Staten Island and not find there. But it would have cost you a fortune and taken up six months of your time to get that thing. And now it is really easy. Jad Abumrad               You just give it that mug shot. Beth Shapiro               And it goes. I am going to find that guy exactly. Jad Abumrad               So seems to be pretty precise. And it is cheap. Like the old tools would set you back about five grand just to use them once CRISPR about 75 bucks. And here's the kicker says Carl It seems at the moment that you can take these things out of bacteria stick them into almost any other creature. And it still works. Carl Zimmer                You can use the same CRISPR system on anything. Robert Krulwich          Can you like do it if corn is vulnerable- Carl Zimmer                Do it in corn. Robert Krulwich          ... to a certain pest? You can do it in corn? Carl Zimmer                Do it in corn do it in anything. I am waiting for someone to say CRISPR does not work in species x. And I have not heard with that. Jad Abumrad               So basically what you have for the first time in science is this gene editing technology that is cheap precise impossibly universal. And Jennifer Doudna says The moment the full impact of that landed on her ... Jennifer Doudna          I really I literally had the hairs on the back of my neck we are standing up. Just processing the fact that this thing exists and that you could actually program it to cut DNA and just like this molecular scissors and I can just program it and it cuts DNA wherever I want. Robert Krulwich          It is amazing. Unless you think about it further. Which we will do in just a moment. I feel a cloud coming in over the horizon. Just over there. Jad Abumrad               Do you see this cloud in the horizon? Robert Krulwich          I see it is getting sort of dark over there. But we will be right back. Lauren                        Hi This is Lauren from Atlanta Georgia Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about sloan at www.sloan.org. Pat Walters                 Hey everybody Pat Walters here. I am a producer at Radiolab. And I am here because I need your help. This summer I am hosting a series of stories on the show. And I have requests for those of you who spend a lot of time with kids. Parents aunts and uncles teachers. We are looking for stories about what we are calling tiny moments of childhood brilliance. Basically I want to hear about those times when a kid you know did something that just made you lean back and say Well how did they do that? Maybe it was the moment that a kid you would been reading to for a month started reading back to you. Or maybe the kid was at piano lessons and you suddenly noticed they were doing advanced math on the margin of their musical score. Or maybe the kid was in math class and you notice they are writing music in the margin of their geometry homework. Pat Walters                 We are interested in those small specific moments where a kid does something super smart. But it does not have anything to do with a test. If you have a story please share it with us and go to Radiolab.orgbrilliance and record a short audio message for us. Again that is Radiolab.orgbrilliance. Thank you so much. Robert Krulwich          Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by ZipRecruiter. Hiring used to be hard multiple job sites stacks of resumes. But today hiring can be easy and you only have to go to one place to get it done. ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter sends your job to over 100 of the web's leading job boards but they do not stop there ZipRecruiter is so effective that four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate through the site within the first day. And right now listeners can try ZipRecruiter for free at this exclusive web address Ziprecruiter.comradiolab. That is Ziprecruiter.comR-A-D-I-O-L-A-B. ZipRecruiter the smartest way to hire. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab I am Jad Abumrad Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               Okay so clearly the possibilities are there to use CRISPR to treat disease right? But what if you could get a little more fanciful right? What if you could actually go back in time and resurrect long lost creatures? I mean this is something that Beth Shapiro has talked about a lot. Beth Shapiro               We could reconstruct using a computer what the genome sequence of the ancestor of all birds was and that would have been a kind of dinosaur. And then we could use n a chicken into that thing. Jad Abumrad               Or what if you could take an elephant and snip snip snip gradually turn it in to its long lost relative the woolly mammoth. Robert Krulwich          No. Jad Abumrad               Because they are related. But the gene is similar. Robert Krulwich          But the woolly mammoth is over. Jad Abumrad               Well right but if you know the woolly mammoth genome which they do because they apparently got it off some bone or some hair. Then you could compare the number of differences use CRISPR to CRISPR out the different parts of the elephant and put in woolly mammoth instead? Robert Krulwich          If you can in effect go backwards in time and make changes. And obviously I think you can go the other way too. Humans are good at design we are designing animals. It does not seem to me to be a crazy notion to imagine parents all over the world wanting I do not know taller children so silencing the short genes and favoring the taller genes. Getting rid of weak muscles and going for stronger ones. And on and on and on. And I do not know where the designing stops. Jad Abumrad               We sort of got into all this with Carl Zimmer the science writer. Robert Krulwich          If you can be very very gene specific and you learn more and more about genes over time. Why could not you invent a creature? Why could not you make a pig with wings you might one day get sophisticated enough to do that. Jad Abumrad               There is no winged pig lab. The best you can hope for right now is the woolly mammoth lab. And that is down the hall from where the real action is at. Robert Krulwich          But now there is a hall. And at the end of the hall is a winged pig lab. Jad Abumrad               No. Robert Krulwich          It has not been built yeah. It may be 20 years from now but that is what you are looking at? Carl Zimmer                Well but the thing is- Robert Krulwich          What is wrong with the thought? Why should not anyone realize that that is really what we are talking about? Carl Zimmer                Well because you cannot make winged pigs. Just because of sort of evolutionary barriers. Okay? Robert Krulwich          Well there is no real reason for pigs to fly except for the joke? Carl Zimmer                No no. Gentleman calm down. Calm down. I do not think that we need a federal Department of Homeland pig with wings security. I think we are okay there all right. Well what we do need is we do need to figure out what are we going to do about CRISPR in humans. They are going to be using CRISPR for cancer okay? They are going to take people's immune cells out body and they are going to use CRISPR to basically allow them to make proteins. They are going to be able to grab on to cancer cells and attack their own cancer. Robert Krulwich          Really? Wow. Carl Zimmer                Yeah. Robert Krulwich          There has to be for that. I mean you have to be. Jad Abumrad               Well I do not know. I mean are you for ... that is your- Robert Krulwich          You are tinkering with someone's own body. You are altering their own selves. Jad Abumrad               Dude. Robert Krulwich          Where do I ... it is just ... I cannot even. This is me I do not know if it is a religious thought or just the thought of a conservative person. But I mean I grew up in the test tube baby era. I now know many wonderful adult formerly test tube babies. I remember being astonished that no. I do not know where the sacred begins and ends anymore on that particular turf. I guess what I am instead on is I am on a Hobbesian view of human beings. That there is something about human beings including scientists human beings all human beings. There is a darkness and a light. There is an angelic side to being human. And there is a very very difficult side. As the human beings get more and more power to create and design and essentially create a future that future will include the imaginations both light and dark of humans. And that will be new in the world. Carl Zimmer                I do not think it is new. Because if you go back to the start of the scientific revolution something like Francis Bacon would say explicitly Science is going to be both about learning about how the world works and using that knowledge to control it. This has been discovered this has been published. Everybody knows it exists. If you are going to say like Okay now we are going to outlaw this. Robert Krulwich          I am not suggesting that. Carl Zimmer                What are you suggesting then? Robert Krulwich          I think we should cringe a little as opposed to just having a big pile. Carl Zimmer                Okay. All right. Let us all cringe. Ready one two three. Robert Krulwich          Do not make fun of me. No no that is fair. Carl Zimmer                Now what we have cringed now what? What do we do now? Robert Krulwich          I do not know. Jad Abumrad               We all cringed. If that is what you are arguing for we cringed too. Robert Krulwich          No you cringed meanly and you cringed with attitude. I am cringing with- Jad Abumrad               I would like to know- Carl Zimmer                Because you are afraid of like dragons. You are saying Oh my God. Robert Krulwich          Yes. I am afraid of dragons now that- Jad Abumrad               Okay. That conversation with Carl was four months ago. And a lot has happened in that time. Because to the question that you asked where does the sacred beginning and end? Well one of the lines that had been drawn by Jennifer Doudna and others was that we should not use this technology on humans who have not been born yet. Meaning not on sperm cells or egg cells. Because if you CRISPR say an embryo- Jennifer Doudna          That is a permanent change right? That is a change to the DNA that will be passed on to their children. Jad Abumrad               And their children's children and their children's children's children. Jennifer Doudna          And you cannot ask the person if that is okay because you are doing it before they are born. Jad Abumrad               Consent becomes a real issue. And if you imagine making these changes and they cascade through generation after generation. Jennifer Doudna          You could affect the evolution of organisms. And it is I do not want to say trivial but it is fairly easy to do it. Jad Abumrad               Wow. Jennifer Doudna          It is kind of profound. I feel it is really profound. Jad Abumrad               Profound but it was just an idea. That is until.                   For the first time in history researchers in China have successfully edited the human genome and an embryo. Jad Abumrad               Just two months ago it was announced that a Chinese team-                   From  University use a technique called CRISPR.                   To edit DNA in human embryos.                   It is a way of hacking evolution itself.                   Well this is hugely controversial. Jad Abumrad               Now these embryos the Chinese team had edited they were created through IVF and they were not viable. Jennifer Doudna          These are embryos that are not going to actually develop into a person. So they are going to be discarded anyway. Jad Abumrad               But still if they can figure it out with those embryo what is to stop any of us from going further?                   Biologists and bioethicist are sounding an alarm.                   The scientists face accusations that they crossed an ethical line. Robert Krulwich          That sort of thing could be sort of a slippery slope towards- Jennifer Doudna          Towards designer babies. Eugene Koonin            Essentially genetically engineering the human race.                   . Okay. Jad Abumrad               Now that the cringe party had spread and Robert did not seem like such a loon we call up Carl again. Robert Krulwich          But we have to revisit because in our Armageddon conversation in which I believe I was extremely alarmist and you were extremely down putting. I feel that I should do a small little parade called the  remember the  I think remember China. And you have to ... you should just begin anytime we want like getting on your knees and saying how sorry you are then we can start from there. Carl Zimmer                I am sorry. We are actually surrounded by an army of clones with superpowers? Jad Abumrad               Not yet. Robert Krulwich          Not yet. But I think the dike has been open. I believe I am going to quote somebody who said maybe a few weeks ago. Maybe it was last week he is been writing for National geographic. I think it was maybe it was somebody named Carl. Who said that the news from China and that news was probably the beginning of an entire new era. Carl Zimmer                I think I actually said it was a historical moment. Robert Krulwich          That is right. Yes. Carl Zimmer                Yes. And I still stand by that. Jad Abumrad               Do you feel differently now than the first time we talked? Robert Krulwich          Yeah that is really the question. Carl Zimmer                I do not feel different actually. Because I did not really know scientific superiority is here. Jad Abumrad               He says people who have been doing all these CRISPR experiments in all these different mammals. Carl Zimmer                We are mammals. Jad Abumrad               This is bound to happen. And in fact it may be happening more than we think. One account in the journal Nature said that for other Chinese labs are doing this kind of work as we speak. But Carl also told us which he said was unsurprising too but I actually find it kind of surprising that the CRISPR work this Chinese team did did not work very well. Carl Zimmer                It works kind of. In only a few of the cases did they really get exactly what they wanted. Jad Abumrad               They tried using CRISPR and about 86 embryos and they only got it to work right in maybe 28. And in a lot them CRISPR has made the wrong cuts and screwed up the cells. Beth Shapiro               And that led them to conclude that this is a technology that is not ready right now for application in the human germline. And I agree. Carl Zimmer                We are still are in this kind of fortunate position where we can say Oh well it is dangerous. We should not use it on human embryos. I just do not think that we are going to be able to sort of find refuge there in like 10 or 20 years. In 10 or 20 years CRISPR will be so sophisticated that people will be able to say I can get you the change you want. And I can do it safely I can guarantee you that you will have human embryos that have the alteration in the particular gene you want. So then what. Jad Abumrad               In fact Jennifer Doudna told us that this experiment or similar experiments had been repeated in mice with more advanced CRISPR systems because apparently there are many different kinds. And there it was done with almost no errors. Carl Zimmer                Sometimes I feel like we are sort of displacing all our ethical concerns onto something that has not happened yet. We really are concerned about what we are doing to the human gene pool. It is already here. Jad Abumrad               Take as an example in vitro fertilization. About 60000 kids are born a year through IVF. And it is probable that some of those parents chose whether they wanted a boy or a girl. Carl Zimmer                And when people started doing IVF there was a huge controversy. People said this was dangerous. This is unnatural. I do not see peoples who are unable to sleep at night because of the existence of IVF. Now I am going to sound like I am on Robert side of this. I mean okay. Robert Krulwich          It will not hurt. Carl Zimmer                Okay. All right. Here we go. Robert Krulwich          Deep breath. Carl Zimmer                You guys know about all the stuff going on in Iceland where they are looking at people's DNA and they are looking for disease genes and so on. And when they were looking at these Icelandic people they found that some people had a gene that protects them against Alzheimer's. It reduces their odds of getting Alzheimer's. Let us imagine your doctor said no if you would like for an extra thousand dollars we will take these IVF embryos and we will use CRISPR to give them the Alzheimer protecting variant. Would you like that? Do you want to add that to your procedure? Jad Abumrad               Sure yeah. Carl Zimmer                Or would you like your child to face a future of Alzheimer's? Your choice? Jad Abumrad               Here's my thing. Here's my thing with this whole thing. I am a little bit haunted by the thing you said. Which is that when it is not dangerous anymore? What will we do? And I am afraid we have already answered that question. That it is not a question that is open anymore. Because if we are already doing this kind of stuff and who is going to say no to that? Who is going to say no to that? Robert Krulwich          That is what he just was demonstrating. Yeah. Jad Abumrad               We have already answered the question. Carl Zimmer                Yeah we may have. Robert Krulwich          So that is how we ended our piece which is now two years old. Jad Abumrad               Roughly. Robert Krulwich          Roughly. And the drunk biologists at Chad's cocktail party could not have been more pressured. When you think about it. Jad Abumrad               This is one of those strange cases where you do a story. Usually we just kind of leave it behind we move on to other things. But in the last almost two years so much has happened. Robert Krulwich          Unbelievable. Jad Abumrad               That we figured we need to update this thing. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Jad Abumrad               And so what we did is we asked our producer editor Soren Wheeler and our producer Molly Webster to sort of just go out ask around make some calls and tell us what is been going on. Robert Krulwich          Well for one Molly do you want to give them the big news? Molly Webster            That Jennifer Lopez is going to do a Television show based on CRISPR? Jad Abumrad               No. Molly Webster            It takes an active role in the fictional narrative of the show. Robert Krulwich          Okay. Jad Abumrad               Oh like she is a cop or something? Molly Webster            Yes. She is like some sort of ... I do not know- Jad Abumrad               And she is been attacked by- Molly Webster            ... medical something and CRISPR is involved. Jad Abumrad               Really? Molly Webster            Yeah. That got big headlines. Robert Krulwich          Let me show you this scissors. Jad Abumrad               Wow. It is crossed over to that extent? Molly Webster            That is the thing. I was like Jennifer Lopez knows about CRISPR. And she was like This is such a hot button issue. We are doing a show. Jad Abumrad               That is amazing. Molly Webster            Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Okay putting J-lO aside. Robert Krulwich          Yeah let us do some science developments. There got to have been quite a few of them. We know there have been a few of those right? Jad Abumrad               Yeah would you run us through that. Molly Webster            I mean I guess I would just say that it is being used everywhere now. It is being used in crops. It is being used in medicine. It is being used in basic research. It is being used- Robert Krulwich          Humans. Molly Webster            ... in humans. Robert Krulwich          In cows. Jad Abumrad               Really? Molly Webster            It is being used in eyeball. Jad Abumrad               In eyeball? Molly Webster            Yeah they want to start a clinical trial with actually injecting a syringe full of CRISPR carrying viruses into your eyeball to overcome a genetic condition that leads to blindness. Jad Abumrad               This would be like the virus is injecting the CRISPR that then goes and cuts out the bad genes? Molly Webster            Yeah exactly. Carl Zimmer                Just take a big syringe full of viruses and just stick it in people's eyes. Yeah. Molly Webster            Of course when we did the update Soren and I called Carl Zimmer. Carl Zimmer                Yeah things are moving very fast. Robert Krulwich          And what kinds of things? Carl Zimmer                They are doing things that look like curing diseases? Molly Webster            Carl told us about one study where it seems like they cured a certain type of muscular dystrophy in mice. Robert Krulwich          Cured muscular dystrophy? Jad Abumrad               They cured Muscular Dystrophy in mice? Wow. Robert Krulwich          Well then mice do not become normal mice but they get much much stronger than they would have been? Molly Webster            Yeah. So in your body you have a gene that makes a protein that gives your muscle strength. But with muscular dystrophy there is like a typo in that genome mutation and so that protein's not made. Carl Zimmer                And the result is that your muscles start to turn into sort of a fat like substance. That is how it is been described. Molly Webster             with no power? Carl Zimmer                Yeah. Molly Webster            Okay. Carl Zimmer                Your diaphragm gets weaker and weaker your heart gets weaker. Molly Webster            In this case they use  that gene. So you get the protein in these mice and they actually saw the heart gets stronger or the mouse was able to push with more force on a button. And so they said over weeks they just saw like strength building up. Robert Krulwich          Really? Jad Abumrad               Are they going to do that in humans? Robert Krulwich          Pretty first step at this point but- Carl Zimmer                Yeah this is literally like one of the first experiments to show that this approach could work in muscular dystrophy. Jad Abumrad               Wait I mean that is not a disease with a cure? Is it? Robert Krulwich          Not until potentially in mice now. Molly Webster            Yeah. Robert Krulwich          Wow. Molly Webster            Yeah. Carl Zimmer                And there are some human trials that have either started or are probably going to start soon treating cancer. Molly Webster            For example people are talking about one in lung cancer. Robert Krulwich          They think they can what? Cure lung cancer? Molly Webster            No. What they want to do though is they want to use CRISPR to go into immune cells where it would cut out the part of the DNA that kind of puts the brakes on the immune cell. Carl Zimmer                And so you are taking your immune cell off the leash and it can attack tumors more aggressively. Robert Krulwich          I see. The folks who invented this then must stand to earn a fortune I think? Molly Webster            Oh billions. There is actually a big patent dispute that is happening right now. Robert Krulwich          Right now? Jad Abumrad               Yeah. This is the one thing that I have heard about a lot. Molly Webster            If you had been checking your CRISPR inbox you might have seen last week. There were two teams Jennifer Doudna team out at UC Berkeley. Robert Krulwich          The one we just heard from? Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Molly Webster            Sort of the West Coast team. And then on the other side is this group of researchers at the Broad Institute which is on the east coast. And so basically they both filed for a CRISPR patent. There was sort of this East Coast West Coast for the last year showdown. And just last week the US Patent Office decided that it would indeed go to Broad. Jad Abumrad               This is the not Doudna team? Molly Webster            The not Doudna team. But there are more patents to be awarded and there will probably be appeals. So I do not think anyone thinks it is settled yet. Jad Abumrad               In the Civil War of over CRISPR patents there has been a Gettysburg but the war is not won. Molly Webster            There have been a battle. But there are many more battles I think that will happen. Jad Abumrad               Okay got you. Molly Webster            Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Is there anything else on the list of what is happening now? Exciting stuff happening now? Robert Krulwich          Oh yeah. Molly Webster            Can we do a favorite song? Can I do my favorite? Robert Krulwich          You can do your favorite. Molly Webster            And then you can do your favorite? Robert Krulwich          Yeah sure. Molly Webster            So my favorite came from Carl? Carl Zimmer                Yeah yeah they are actually trying to use it as an alternative to antibiotics. Molly Webster            How? I do not even understand what that means. Jad Abumrad               What are you saying? Molly Webster            I was like an antibiotic to me as a pill that I take. What would CRISPR ... How would CRISPR replace that? Carl Zimmer                Well your pill would have CRISPR in it? Robert Krulwich          How would it work? Molly Webster            You know in the same way you would take your amoxicillin or your antibiotic pill. You would actually take a pill that was filled with CRISPR. And then it would go out and it would fight bacteria that is attacking your body? Carl Zimmer                You could pick out some super essential gene that it has and chop it and that will kill the bacteria. Robert Krulwich          Oh you would turn the assassins on the bacteria? Molly Webster            Exactly. Carl Zimmer                So there you go. Robert Krulwich          Wow. Molly Webster            Yeah the antibiotic thing seems huge right? Jad Abumrad               Yeah that is pretty amazing. Molly Webster            Because everyone's at this moment where they are like what happens with the next super bug? If you could actually just go in there and Kamikaze the DNA of stuff or whatever? You would be solving a lot of illnesses. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Jad Abumrad               What is  your story? What is your? Robert Krulwich          The coolest thing I guess for me-                   Hello. Robert Krulwich          Maybe the scariest too. Jad Abumrad               Hi Kevin. Kevin Esvelt                 Hi . Molly Webster            How are you? Kevin Esvelt                 I am doing great. How are you? Robert Krulwich          Came from a conversation that we had with this guy Kevin. Kevin Esvelt                 I am Kevin Esvelt. Molly Webster            Esvelt. Robert Krulwich          . Kevin Esvelt                 I am at the MIT Media Lab. Robert Krulwich          He was sort of on that early edge of thinking about CRISPR. Kevin Esvelt                 I think of myself as an evolutionary engineer before anything else. Robert Krulwich          Got into biology because when he was a kid he went to the Galapagos. Kevin Esvelt                 Yeah my parents took me there when I was 10 or so. And I was just captivated just looking at all of the creatures. And I thought I want to make organisms that are as beautiful as that. Molly Webster            You actually thought I want to make organisms as beautiful as that? Kevin Esvelt                 Yeah. Molly Webster            What? Kevin Esvelt                 But then that is like the childhood vision. And then it is so hard right? It was impossible. And so you sort of forget it. But now with  all things become possible. Robert Krulwich          So anyway to get to the crazy part. Kevin a couple years back he is working at the Harvard Medical School and one day he is walking to work through this park. Kevin Esvelt                 This park called the Emerald necklace in Boston. It is beautiful and there is a small river flowing through it and you have these ponds. Robert Krulwich          There is turtles and whatever geese and he is thinking about at it can do and all these different animals that are around him. And he has this thought. Kevin Esvelt                 What if we could encode CRISPR in the genome? What if we program the genome to do genome editing on its own? Jad Abumrad               Wait what? I am not sure I follow that what is it? What is he saying? Kevin Esvelt                 Well the first gene drive system- Robert Krulwich          Maybe this is the way to think about it. Let us say that you want to tweak a mosquito and make it so that the little parasite that carries malaria terrible awful malaria either cannot get into the mosquito or cannot live in it. And so that mosquito will no longer carry malaria. Kevin Esvelt                 That would be great. Robert Krulwich          That would be a great thing because Malaria is a bad thing. So you could now take t into the mosquito and change a gene inside the mosquito. So now that mosquito either does not let malaria parasite in or kills it or whatever but basically does not carry it. And that is great. But then I put it out into the wild and it is got to fend for itself amongst all the other mosquitoes. My mosquito has a special gene but it is going to mate with some mom mosquito and that mom mosquito is going to have the normal old gene and the baby's going to get my special gene but it is also going to get the normal gene. And that means that your baby has like a 50 chance of having your special trait. Kevin Esvelt                 Because only one of those two genes gets expressed. Robert Krulwich          Right in the baby. And then in the next generation the grand baby there is only a 25 chance and on and on and on. Jad Abumrad               So you are exponentially losing CRISPR powers. Robert Krulwich          Your chance is just each generation get less and less that this gene is going to stick around. Kevin Esvelt                 That is right because regardless of what we do natural selection wins in the end. Robert Krulwich          Until Kevin is walking to work through the park and has his idea which is to use CRISPR to create something called a- Kevin Esvelt                 A gene drive. Robert Krulwich          Gene drive. Kevin Esvelt                 Gene drive. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Kevin Esvelt                 Instead of just snip the DNA and insert the gene that we want we also insert the genes that encode the CRISPR system and tell it to make that particular change. Robert Krulwich          Here's how it works. You go into the mosquito and give it the new gene that makes it resistant to malaria. And then right next to that you put the genes for the CRISPR system you just used to make that change. Jad Abumrad               Like you are putting a spare scissors or something? Robert Krulwich          Yeah. And here's how that plays out. Your first mosquito has this gene with the new change. And it also has the scissors. And then it meets a normal mosquito which has the normal gene. The to end up side by side in the baby. And now the new mosquito gene makes the little scissors which go over to the normal gene snippet and turn it into itself. Now there is two copies of the new gene. Kevin Esvelt                 In the offspring without any human assistance CRISPR will cut the original version and copy over the change. That gene does the work that I used to do in the lab on its own inside the baby. Jad Abumrad               Oh interesting. Kevin Esvelt                 Like I set it on autopilot. Jad Abumrad               So you are basically allowing them the mosquito parent to pass the scissors to the baby? Kevin Esvelt                 Yap. Jad Abumrad               Which then snip snip snip. And then that baby passes the scissors to the next baby snip snip snip. Robert Krulwich          Yap yap. Jad Abumrad               And it is literally like a chain reaction. Kevin Esvelt                 Yeah. And so from baby to grand baby to great grand baby. Now instead of letting that gene disappear you are driving it into the next generation. Jad Abumrad               And then that just keeps going down the line down the line down the line. Molly Webster            Yes. Kevin Esvelt                 This is something that spreads indefinitely. Robert Krulwich          This gene is going to spread like wildfire through the entire wild population. You do not change just one mosquito you change all of those insects probably everywhere in the world. According to Kevin this is the kind of change that could given enough time spread across the entire species. Jad Abumrad               So this idea of the mosquitoes and watching it rampage through a population have they have done this? Kevin Esvelt                 After we first published the idea we tried it in Yeast. Worked on the first try. Robert Krulwich          They just plopped a little yeast loaded with the gene drive into a population to see if it would take over and- Kevin Esvelt                 One week later. Yep. Robert Krulwich          Kevin told us there are probably now I think it is 10 different groups who are working on gene drive systems? Molly Webster            Yes they are doing it in mosquitoes and in parasitic worms and in rodents. It is all happening in the lab. Robert Krulwich          But still they are trying out this method for spreading genes through a population. Kevin Esvelt                 Yeah. Molly Webster            I just think that sounds terrifying. Honestly I just keep thinking of it is like oh we have just hit over a domino and then walked away and are not watching where the rest of them are falling. Kevin Esvelt                 I am very glad you think that way. It took me one full day to reach that point. Initially I was elated. Let me tell you there is nothing like the sheer elation of discovery. And I think this is the end of malaria this is the end of everything else mosquitoes spread. Wait a minute tick spread Lyme disease we can probably get rid of that too. I thought. Robert Krulwich          So in the morning you are like woo hoo. Molly Webster            You are singing to the turtles in the park. Kevin Esvelt                 Pretty much. I give myself a full day of being who. And then I started thinking but but but but what if something goes wrong? And suppose let us go back to your malaria case making the mosquitoes malaria resistant? Well that seems pretty safe. I mean Malaria is a human pathogen does not really affect other animals. But what if say the change you make to the mosquito makes it slightly more toxic to something that eats those mosquitoes. So then you have to consider okay what eats those mosquitoes and what eats those things? Robert Krulwich          It could be that all the frogs or the fish or whatever start to die off and then that makes something else die off and something else die off. Kevin Esvelt                 And that is a incredibly complex system and you just do not know. Robert Krulwich          Or it could be that making a mosquito malaria resistant also somehow makes it do better in some environment and then the mosquito population blows up. And then it turns out that somehow makes it easier to carry some other disease. Kevin Esvelt                 So is it even likely to go wrong? No but how do you know. Molly Webster            We should say at this point that Kevin is really thinking about all this stuff he brought together a group of scientists to come up with some safeguards for this type of research. So it does not escape out of the lab. Robert Krulwich          And his team is only working with this version of gene drive that they sort of rigged it. So that it only lasts for a certain number of generations and it sort of runs out of steam. Kevin Esvelt                 But scientists can perfectly well start playing around with something in the lab that could affect a whole lot of other people if it happened to escape? Well I think what this technology forces us to recon with is that now it is at least theoretically. And again we do not know for sure but it is theoretically possible for one person to decide to change the local or possibly the global environment. And that is ethically problematic right? Molly Webster            Yeah. Carl Zimmer                If and when somebody uses CRISPR on an embryo and that embryo goes up into a person that will be a momentous thing but if you were to gene drive somebody think about that. Gene drive like say a few people and not tell them and they have kids and so on. You would be driving whatever gene it is that you are engineering into more and more people. And that is different. Jad Abumrad               God you know what I am thinking about the thing that Jennifer Doudna said. I think it was her in our first piece about ... If you make a change in say an embryo. Like okay let me give this let me snip snip snip give this future child make it taller right? Whatever. Like you are doing that without the consent of that unborn thing. Molly Webster            Yes. Jad Abumrad               But if you now do what you guys are talking about using this gene drive thing? Well now you are doing it without the consent of that unborn thing and all future generations of that unborn thing. And so the consent issues just become unfathomable. Robert Krulwich          Exactly. I guess we are all for taller but we are not all for taller. In the end it has something to do with democracy itself. You sit there with a tool of change in your hand and you choose it. But in the act with this gene drive in the act of choosing it for yourself this way you choose it for an uncountable number of others who do not have the choice. Jad Abumrad               Thank you to Soren Wheeler and Molly Webster for the update. And to I guess all the people we thanked the first time because I think it still stands. Robert Krulwich          It still stand. Jad Abumrad               Many thanks to science writer Carl Zimmer who has written many books. You can check them out at Carlzimmer.com or at Radiolab.org. This piece was produced by Molly Webster. We had original music this hour by Erik Kowalski otherwise known as casino versus Japan. Robert Krulwich          Special thanks to honor . Jad Abumrad               Lee McGuire. Robert Krulwich          Dr. Blake Wiedenheft. Jad Abumrad               Dr. Luciano Marraffini. Robert Krulwich          Dr. Sean Burgess. Jad Abumrad               And Dr. Jin . I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               Thanks for listening. Robert Krulwich          One quick note of business some of you may remember we did a show about meat allergies a little while back with the inimitable Amy Pearl. We did that together with the Sporkful Podcast produced here WNYC. It turns out they have just done a little follow up with Amy. She went back to get tested for her allergy one more time and the results were not at all what she would expected. You might want to check that out at the sporkful.com.                   To here's the message again press two to delete it- start of message. Carl Zimmer                Hello this is Carl Zimmer. Beth Shapiro               Hi this is Beth Shapiro. Jennifer Doudna          Hello this is Jennifer Doudna. Beth Shapiro               Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Carl Zimmer                Our staff includes Brenna Farrell Ellen Horne Dylan Keefe. Beth Shapiro               Matt Kielty Lynn Levy Carl Zimmer                Andy Mills. Beth Shapiro               Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Kelsey Padgett Jennifer Doudna          Ariane Wack Molly Webster. Carl Zimmer                Soren Wheeler and Jamie York. I think I said Wabster let me try it again. Jennifer Doudna          With help from Danny Luis Kelly Prime and Damiano Marchesi. Beth Shapiro               Our fact-checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. Jennifer Doudna          Awesome. Beth Shapiro               Thank you much. Carl Zimmer                Later.                   End of message. 