 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  Hello. I am Lulu Miller. This is RADIOLAB. And today... Boom boom.  Oh hello.  Hi. ...A story from producer Annie McEwen...   ...From her bathroom.  I am actually like straddling the bathtub here so...   Perfect.  Good thing I did yoga last night.  I do think our thing is like underwater mysteries from the '90s.   Yes. OK so today I have a story. It is like a Tom Clancy international underwater spy thriller with a little spicy science thrown in.  All right. I am grabbing my popcorn. Take me away.  Yeah. OK let us begin with...  Yeah OK.  Thank you Magnus. Magnus.  Not a problem. Yeah.  How do you pronounce your last name?  It depends on where you come from. So most Americans would say Val-berg  or Wal-berg  or something like that. Yeah.  What do you say?  Well that also depends. In Sweden it is Val-bery .  Oh wow.  But in Denmark it becomes a bit more like Vale-bough  or something.  Wow.  Yeah.  OK. Anyway Magnus is an associate professor...  At the University of Southern Denmark.  ...Where he studies underwater sound.  Yeah.  So let us start off in 1981.  Yes.  Well let us go back to that time.  Yeah. So that is a defining year.  Just how old were you then?  Yeah so I was 13 years old.  Thirteen.  And I was living in Stockholm the capital of Sweden.  OK.  And it was an extremely tense period.  Because in Stockholm...  You know we have the Baltic Sea right in front of us.  There was only about 140 miles of water separating Sweden from...  The Soviet Union.   And Magnus said to him and a lot of other Swedes there was just this fear of what was on the other side of the water.  I remember this still in the school. You know you had a map. You could see all the details of the Western Europe.  Small towns all these roads the colors of different countries.  And then across the Baltic it was just white. There was just nothing. And that was Soviet Union. We did not really know even what was there.  Just this mysterious nothingness.  Yeah and not very far away.  Now Magnus says it is important to know...  That Sweden has this kind of island politically because Sweden was neutral.  But because of a lot of this mystery a fear of communism there was always the sense that one of their greatest threats was the Soviet Union.  We heard about it all the time. We were even practicing a little bit in school. And we were really living in a time when we were worrying about a nuclear war almost daily.  So 1981 the defining year - it is late October.  Sort of when it gets really dark here you know and cold and damp.  It is about 4 in the morning pitch black.   A fisherman leaves his home gets in his boat and heads off to check his nets. Sweden has this like super-long coastline that is filled with these really complex inlets.  Full of islands. There are rocks - like granite islands everywhere.  And just as the sun is starting to come up this fisherman makes his way into one of these rocky inlets. And all of a sudden out of the darkness looming up out of the water right in front of them...   There is this big Russian sub standing there.   It is huge. It is like this long almost bullet - dark bullet in the water and it is like towering out of the sea just sitting there.  It is insane.  What was it doing there?  Exactly. What was it doing there? So...  The fisherman called the navy.  And we all woke up to the news.   .  Soviet submarine beached on Sweden's shores.   .  It is a huge story. Like all the papers write about it.  And everyone is like what on Earth is going on?  So the military comes down with their helicopters circling overhead many many boats.  But at this time Sweden was - people would also say we were incredibly naive because we did not have any wars for you know - the last war was like...  Oh you are soft.  It was like - yeah it was like Napoleon Wars. We did not really - were not involved in anything.  So Magnus said the military sent some guys out to the submarine.  And you know we kind of knocked on the door of the sub and said...  Wait. They knocked on the side of the sub.  Yeah. I do not know if they knocked. But you know they kind of asked kindly can we come in and have a look? And they said no no of course not.  OK.  You know and then they said oh OK sorry about that. But some - there were some clever physicists. They parked a small boat beside of the sub and through some clever measurements they could measure that there were nuclear you know weapons inside.  Oh scary.  You know we have these defining moments for a nation. In the states you have like the Kennedy murder the 911.  Yeah.  And you know and this is one of those for Swedes. And people started immediately to say hey this is war. Like we are in war. And eventually because again maybe we were too soft...  What happened is that the commander of the Soviet sub told the Swedish military that all of their navigation instruments on board had malfunctioned all at once.  Sort of sorry we navigated wrongly.  You know we lost our way. We ran ashore. Like we made a mistake.  Yeah.  So the Swedish military sent a bunch of ships out to the sub pulled it off the bottom. And they you know returned it to international waters and it left.  OK.  And for a 13-year-old Magnus...  It was super weird because you could see that adults and the politicians everyone were completely - how to say - like taken with their pants down right?  .  It was like what? Like no one could of course explain this. So the Navy of course they got a lot of money so they became more vigilant. They had to now start to see if they could you know - could they protect the Swedish coasts?  And you know...  It is not an easy thing to do.  ...It is a huge coastline over a thousand miles. So how do you like patrol that?  An obvious way to do that is with sound.  Forget ships and sonar.  Sounds propagate very well on the water.  We are just going to listen for the subs.  Yeah.  Does that mean they like - they hung hydrophones on buoys out in the water...  Yeah yeah.  ...All along the coast? Like just a whole bunch of them?  Yeah. Some - yeah well not everywhere of course. But it started to listen into this more carefully after this - all the politicians promised us that now we have bought all these gears and now we are ready to tackle this problem and you know no problem. And you know then we went into sleep again. And then in October '82 we had the next wake-up call.   This time in this big harbor...  Very close to Stockholm.  ...Right outside of a Swedish naval base.  People started to see periscopes.  One after another after another after another popping up out of the water. And the Swedish military was like...  We have detected them and we have them.   So this time the Swedes send in a bunch of ships.  With nets.   These big metal nets that they use to block the exits of the harbor so there is no way a big sailboat can get out. And then they send in a bunch of helicopters that have hydrophones and they dip those hydrophones...   ...Into the water. And they start listening for submarines. And before long one of those hydrophones would pick up the unmistakable sound of a Soviet sub.  And what does that sound like?  I am going to get to that. But what happened is when the Swedes heard this sound they would drop a bomb from the helicopter that would hit the water sink down to a predetermined depth. And then .  .  Big explosion.  OK.  And the helicopters and the ships they would just wait to see if the explosion would like - would damage or scare one of these Soviet subs up to the surface. And so they waited and waited - and nothing. No Soviet sub emerged not even a piece of one. And the Swedish military kept this up for a month chasing down subs they hear dropping bombs. And by the end of the month nothing comes of it. They do not capture a single submarine.  What?  I know. Is not that crazy? .  Did they just - did they somehow get out of the barricade?  They do not know. They do not know. I mean I guess they could even be down there today. They could have hurt the sub. The sub fell. The sub you know filled with water. Like they could be down at the bottom of the harbor. I guess these are just - this is just a huge harbor and they just could not really find any evidence of any Soviet sub.  Yeah it just ended in nothing. And then it - things started to get more and more bizarre. So through the 1980s every half a year every year we would have these submarine chases. All of a sudden somewhere on the coast the military would give an alarm - oh there is a sub. And then you would have these helicopters bombs - nothing.  Really?  And then six months would pass. Once it was right outside the Royal Castle in Stockholm.  So were people getting like annoyed? Like come on crying wolf a little bit.  Yeah.  Or are people still very afraid?  Yeah. I think you know the Cold War is still going on.  Magnus said there was just this fear.  The bear is coming. The - you know the Russian bear is coming. We just have to spend more money to find him.  Were they still seeing periscopes?  Yeah. So that is the thing. What do they see...  ...The whole of the '80s? Or what were they hearing and seeing?  So they started to ask people if anyone sees something you should report it. Call this number. Call the Swedish military.  And they got tons of calls.  Many thousands of observations. But then the problem is it is just like in - on a crime scene. If you ask people to say what they saw it is a long structure sticking up from the water. So is that a periscope or is it a boat? Could be a small whale. It could be a sub. But who knows?  So what the Swedish military did is they came up with this ranking system for observations. On one end you had rank six.  Six says you - we cannot tell. No one knows .  Could be anything.  OK.  And then you have like rank one is a definite sub.  Definitely a sub.  OK.  Now the thing is for a rank one definitely a Soviet sub pretty much every time in the report it said...  We heard a typical sound.  The typical sound?  We heard a typical sound.  What is a typical sound?  So when the - so the typical sound is basically when - like when the Swedes were sure that they were encountering a Soviet sub those hydrophones in the water would always pick up this particular sound. It was called the typical sound because it was believed to be the sound that you know just like a typical Soviet sub would make. And so anytime the Swedish military encountered that sound...  It was automatically given a one.  ...It meant that encounter was 100 a sub. And the...  And do we...  I am sorry. Go.  And do we know what that sounds like?  Well not yet because it is classified.  Yeah. No one could listen to the sound and no one could know what it was.  But all the hydrophones were picking up this sound.  They were picking up the typical sound.  For years...  Yeah.  ...The Swedish military kept hearing this secret Soviet sub sound in their waters.  So then the strange thing happens right? In 1989...   ...Everything is changing.   Thousands and thousands of West Germans come to make the point that the wall has suddenly become irrelevant.  The Iron Curtain falls the Berlin Wall falls.  You know everything opened up. And all of a sudden over one night basically the world changed for us.   Changes were just sweeping across this continent.   It is something unreal for me.  All these places that had been almost impossible to go to were all open.  It is as if that white blank space on the map was starting to actually get some color and shapes and names. But while all of this is going on something very weird is happening.   Because the Swedish military is continuing to report hearing the sounds of Russian submarines invading their waters.  Twenty 30 incidents every year.  And Magnus said by 1994...  At that time we had the prime minister Carl Bildt. And he got so upset about this he wrote a very angry letter to Boris Yeltsin saying now you really have to stop. Now you have created your own country and the first thing you do is to try to occupy Sweden.  We are sick of this.  Stop.  But Boris Yeltsin's like I do not know what you are talking about.  Yeltsin said well we are of course not there. We do not - you can see all of our subs are on land. What are you talking about? You are crazy.  He denies everything. So as this whole mystery is unfolding Magnus is watching from the sidelines. And by 1996...  You know by that time I was a university student.  He is studying underwater biological sounds.  And I got a job in the fishery department because my mentor - he was sort of - he was called Hakan Westerberg. He still is. He is still around.  Yeah let us hope so.  That is Hakan.  Retired oceanographer and fisheries biologist. I started with telemetry acoustic tracking in the '70s.  And he was one of the few in Sweden who really was an authority on underwater biological sounds.  And one day Magnus is standing in Hakan's office...  I was quite fresh on my job.  ...When the phone on Hakan's desk rings.  He was not there so - and I just took his phone. And they...  You just answered the phone on his desk?  Yeah yeah yeah. But we had a very collegial relationship.  Yeah.  And on the other end of the line...   ...It is the Royal Swedish Navy calling.  They said they wanted to talk to my boss of course. But then because he was not there they started to talk to me. And they said well they are forming this committee...  ...This top-secret government investigation.  And they would like me and my boss to be part of that.   So they say yes. There is a background check.  Yeah I am cleared by the secret police.  They were very secretive.  And then he and Hakan are on a train to Stockholm...   ...To this huge naval base. It is just like in a James Bond movie. You have a whole submarine base inside the rocks.  Wait. What?  You can sort of open the rocks and you go in there with your boats.  What?  And you can have huge...  How do you open the rock?  ...Boats inside. Yeah I do not know. You have some big you know...  Rock door?  ...Locks or something like that. Yeah. Yeah something like that.  What?  So we went in there and you know...  So Magnus and Hakan who are not totally sure why they are there are winding their way through this military base.  Long tunnels...  Two Navy captains were our liaisons.  Yeah.  And eventually...  You come into this meeting room with all these electronic you know gadgets...  ...A lot of recording equipment.  You have a world map and they can follow the whole world from in there.  Kind of like mission control at NASA.   It was super exciting.  Finally they take their seats at a long table. And sitting there around the table are a bunch of other academic types like them.  But there are also some very high-rank military people. So it was really like a wow moment for me. And we were sitting down there and then they said well ladies and gentlemen you are the first civil people who will listen to the sound.  The typical sound. This famous sound.  So now we will actually play the typical sound for you.  So it is been top secret for the last...  Yeah 15 years.  For 15 years.  Yeah. No one has been - no one outside the military was able or allowed to listen to it.  Wow. So were you excited?  Extremely of course. This was like wow.  Now what Magnus said he expected to hear was something like...  Bing  bing...  You know what he would heard in the movies.  You know these movies where they are sitting around a sub.  Oh yeah.  So I was thinking it must be something like that right?  But then one of the Navy officers turns to a tape recorder and hits play.   And this is what comes out.   Huh. God is it - are they picking up voices or like radio static? So that is always what it sounds like?  Yeah. This is the sound they have been recording every year since that first sub showed up.  It is intriguing.  It sounds a bit like a few Donald Ducks at a very long distance.  What? What do you mean?  Well you know like Donald Duck this kind of - his voice. If you imagine you had like 10 Donald Ducks and they would be...  .  ...Maybe like 100 meters away or so I think it would be something like that. And it also sounds a bit like an old shoe that kind of gets like .  Oh yeah. OK.  It has this kind of squeaky...  .  ...Part to it.   And then we are sitting there with all these generals. And they are playing this sound.   Did you look around the room at the table of scientists...  Yeah.  ...And military people and you guys...  Well everyone is sitting there. And you know all these professors they were kind of stiff upper lip. So they were just sitting there and listening kind of carefully. But my boss he is more like - he is a very relaxed guy you know?   I think we looked at each other with a very confused gaze.  But we were kind of keeping a stiff face also.  Oh yeah yeah yeah. Cool cool - got to play it cool. Yeah.  Yeah exactly. Yeah.  So after they played the sound the naval officers turned to the scientists and say basically OK now that you have heard the typical sound we would like each of you to try to figure out who or what is making it.  To get to the bottom of what this typical sound was about.  And even in that moment sitting at the table Hakan and Magnus turned to each other. And they do not say anything but they are both thinking....  What - this is very strange. This is definitely not the sub.  Dun dun dun. After the break Magnus and Hakan follow their intuition deep into a cloud of mystery. And they get to the bottom of it. Oh they get right up close to the bottom of the mystery. RADIOLAB will be back in just a second. Stay with us.   RADIOLAB - Lulu - Annie - military crises trying to be averted by biologists.  So after the meeting Magnus and Hakan are standing outside...  Just standing there having a cigarette.  ...Talking about the sound.  It sounds a bit like a popping sounds.  The sound when you fry bacon.  And both of them thought...  ...That these must be a biological sound.  But what?  And then I remember saying to Hakan air bubbles.  This sounds like air bubbles.  If you think of a scuba diver who gets a hole pinched in his...  His pipes?  ...One of his pipes - God forbid...  .  ...Like an air bubble stream coming out of a hose. It sounds a bit like that.  So their question is like which animal releases air under the water?  And we had kind of this hunch.  Yeah yeah.  Now incredibly you can actually find this hunch in New York City but it helps to have a car...  Oh my.  Hello. ...And a friend. So I called up producer Matt Kielty who is a friend with a car.  You have a bucket.  Yeah. And I also brought a large bucket.  What a ridiculous bucket.  OK so...  OK.  ...I only told Matt we were driving to the Hudson River. That was it.  OK so we are taking the bridge.  Yeah yeah yeah. We drove through Brooklyn over the Manhattan Bridge...  OK so now that we have...  Wait is there a - is this the cup holder?  It is my one cup holder.  OK. Well I need... ...Drove up Manhattan up to the riverfront...  We can sneak...  ...And look for parking... No there is a fire hydrant right there. ...For a while.  I wonder if I could park...  A long while. . It is a red light.  How many fire hydrants do you need on one block?  Matt it is a red light.  Oh my God that is a spot.  Get on Riverside.  We are on Riverside Drive.  OK let us go up it.  We will just park here.  It says no parking any time. This is not going to work.  Well how long are we going to be here?  I do not know. We need to wander around a bit.  I do not even know what we are doing.  We need ...  I am looking for parking.  OK. What are you  - can you just...  .  What are you looking for? What was the hunch?  Yes. OK OK. So we got down to like the rocky shoreline of the Hudson River... There is a piece of a dead fish.  That might be a whole fish.  ...Where we found it.  Herring.  Herring.  A herring fish.  I think that evening we were like let us try herring.  Oh my gosh. Can we get down? So for reasons that will become clear very soon I tried to buy herring but you cannot buy fresh herring in New York City in December. And so I dragged Matt out to the Hudson River because I had read in an article that herring fish have been washing up dead on the shores of the Hudson and nobody really knows why. It could be pollution. It could be water temperature. But still unclear  exactly why that happened but...  And you know what you are looking for? Like what exactly does a herring look like?  Oh OK. Yeah. So... How am I going to pick it up? That is the question. I picked up this dead one we found. I guess I will just put my hands around it. Oh. And... Very slippery. Whoa. ...Herring are... Very big. ...I do not know maybe 10 inches... A big dead fish. ...Shiny. Wow.  They are the silver of the oceans 'ecause there are all these reflections from their scales.  They just kind of look like - it is like if a kid drew a fish it would be this fish.  Yeah.  But the really important thing about a herring the whole reason why Magnus and Hakan had this hunch is because of what is going on inside of a herring. Now Lulu I know you have written a whole book about why fish should not be called fish. But have you ever wondered how does a fish just float around in the water?  I do not think I have actually wondered that.  Let me go ahead and tell you. So it turns out in most fish they have this thing called...   The swim bladder...  The swim bladder...  ...The swim bladder which is basically this tiny sac...   Filled with gas...  ...That regulates the fish's buoyancy.  ...Similar to the buoyancy tank of a submarine.  So if you are a fish and you want to go up or down in the water column you do this by either pulling air into your swim bladder sac or pushing it out. And most fish do this through their bloodstream and their gills which means it is quiet silent like basically invisible. But not the herring - the herring is different.  Yeah the herring is special because they have a canal straight from the swim bladder to the anal opening.  So when a herring needs to get air out of its swim bladder it basically pushes it through this canal out its butt into the water. And Magnus says when this happens...  You will have this sort of small string of air bubbles.  Which he had a hunch might just sound like bubbles coming out of a hose underwater.  Yeah.  So he - his guess is like this submarine sound is actually just bubbles that come out their butt.  Uh-huh.  So his guess is fish farts.  Yeah.  OK.  Technically these are not farts because they do not come from like digestive gases.  OK.  But...  This makes me feel better. I feel like I can continue to engage with this story without feeling so gross.  Oh are you like anti-fart or something?  I am just very grossed out by them yeah.  What?  Like I just - are you not?  No. Well - I mean no.  How are you...  What? Why are you?  It is like even saying the word makes me like...  Fart.  I am like I do not want to be in this space even linguistically let alone aromatically.  My God this is like - wow that is so interesting. I would never...  How are you not?  Because they are the funniest thing in the world because they are a thing we all do - if we cannot that is upsetting. They make you feel better immediately.  .  Like even animals like find them funny kind of. I do not know. They are just - they are wonderful. They connect us all.  They make you feel better immediately. They connect us all. OK. I  - your - I just appreciate the meaning you draw while also being simultaneously relieved these are not actual farts. Carry on.  OK. So Hakan and Magnus they now had their like fish fart theory. But now they needed to figure out did the fish fart actually sound like the submarine sound?  And we approached that rather crudely.  Basically Magnus went to a fish shop...  Bought a couple of herrings.  That were dead...  Went to the lab...  ...Rigged up the hydrophone.  OK.  You hold him. And then Magnus took this herring submerged it underwater.  And I squeezed it.  It is so weird to squeeze a fish though. It is very weird.  But I squeezed it pretty hard.  I do not think anything's coming out. And he just kept squeezing it.  So it was like kind of .  Oh.  Oh. What is - .  It is poo . I made it poop.  It was like a really big blur of you know herring poo and things coming out.  I am sorry fish.  OK toss him over.  Oh. So then... You want to squeeze one? ...Hakan tried. You should get this feeling. It is a weird feeling. Maybe this will be the lucky one.  I got the magic touch.  Wait. Wait.  I got them fart fingers .  He put the herring in the water.  Squeezed it...  Gentle - gently squeezing.  ...Gently.  Gentle. Come on little butt . And then... Oh.  Oh.  ...Bubbles.   Bubbles.  It was a tiny little bubble.  OK. That is good. You do have fart fingers.  And then you would hear this kind of very eerie poppy sound this kind of the perfect typical sound we thought.  Turns out they thought wrong...  .  ...Because when they look at the recording of the fish fart compared to the recording of the sub sound they just - they do not really match.  Absolutely not.  This has just become...  OK.  ...Very depressing.  But I mean this is a dead fish in an aquarium.  So then they went out into a bay with this little tube...  Connected to a vacuum pump.  Oh no.  ...Managed to get a wild herring in there got it to fart.  Yeah.  That sound did not match.  No.  But then they had this thought. We need to get more realistic here. We need to get out into the wild because herring are not solo fish. They travel together in schools.  These schools can be huge like a square kilometer.  Like sometimes we are talking billions of fish all traveling together. And so they thought if we are right about this the sound we are looking for is not the sound of one fish farting. It is the sound of a lot of fish farting.  Ew.  Like a lot a lot.  Yes. And you know we were working for the fishery science in Sweden so we knew a lot of fishermen. And they would tell us when herring goes into nets they get stressed and the net starts boiling they said.  Whoa.  So Magnus follows this clue onto a boat and out to a fishing trap.   Beneath him in the shadow of the boat he could see thousands of herring just swimming around down there.   I put the hydrophone in the water...   ...And...   Victory.  The typical sound.  Ja.  .  Ja. The whole box was just singing...  Wow.  ...Of these sounds. It was just incredible. It was just this cacophony of herring.  Wow.   Their findings were harder for some members of the navy than others to accept.  I mean there were people that - their whole career was chasing submarines.  But finally in 1999 it became official. The typical sound that had haunted the Swedish Navy for over a decade was not made by Soviet submarines. Instead for over a decade the Swedish Navy had been straining their ears to hear the sound of thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of herring all farting...  Oh my God.  ...Together.  OK.  So that was the end of the typical sound.  Man I just cannot believe - like you guys so quickly had all these ideas but why did the military not think for 15 years - like are there no scientists in the military that would have...  Yeah.  ...Any of your experience? Or like why was it...  Yeah I think they did not have to knowhow. And the other thing is this whole thing of the military having this culture that you keep things secret which means that it is very hard to have like an open - and it is very top-down. So it is very hard to have an open discussion about - like a scientific discussion going on around these topics. I mean now I make it sound like they are very different from the rest of us but in a way they are just human beings. And you can easily wind yourself up in some kind of explanation. If you have a few authorities telling you how things are you can easily start to collect evidence that that must be how it was.  Magnus told me that the Swedish military actually used sonar to investigate this sound. And what they saw on the screen in front of them was that sound coming from an object and then they would watch that object split apart.  Divided into two...  Oh.  ...And then divided into four.  What?  And then it would go back into one again.  Whoa. And now we can guess that what they were probably seeing was a school of herring splitting apart splitting apart again. But at the time this was a Soviet sub. So they must have thought these subs are like super-high-tech.  Exactly. They had people investigating. How can it be that Russia...  What?  ...Can build a sub that can sort of be decomposed into two and to four and then back into one?  No way.  You have like military scientists sitting and trying to build a model of Russian sub that can sort of disintegrate into four. I mean it does not make any sense.  That is amazing.  I think this is something to look after in our times that - you can always...  Oh yeah.  ...Laugh at it and say how wrong they were but I wonder what people will think about us in 20 years.  Oh totally. I think about that all the time.  Yeah. Yeah.  Like what is the fish fart of today?  Exactly.   .  There is just one more little thing that I take away from this story because as I was doing research I learned that herring have just been fished forever.  Yeah.  Like really fished.  All these Scandinavian countries - they were built on herring basically . It is kind of...  Right.  It is been what people have been eating and fishing for thousands of years.  Right and not just that. Like cities have been founded on it. Cultures have been founded on it.  Yeah.  Millions have been made and these fish have just been like running for their lives for millennia.  Yeah.  And it is like in this one moment or in this one decade or period of time like herrings just got back at humans in some way and like...  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  ...Sort of gave them a wild chase you know?  Yeah. Yeah. You could say that yeah.  And just for once they had the power and the upper hand.  They played an important part of a country's foreign policy.  Totally yeah.  Yeah yeah yeah yeah.  It is almost like in the end this story is just a very long-winded fart joke on us humans.  Yeah exactly. It is. That is what it is .   .  Winded - I see what you did there McEwan. This very long-winded fart joke was bravely reported by Annie McEwan and beautifully produced by Matt Kielty Annie McEwan and Sarah Qari with sound design by Jeremy Bloom. Reporting and translation help from Magnus Ormstadt . Huge thanks to Ben Wilson who is done his own fascinating research into the herring toots and to Ola Tunander Hans Gordon  Andreas Timmelstad Klaus Helmersen and Meg Bolz . Catch you on the flip friends. May your sanity stay intact and your wind broken. Bye.   .  Hi. This is Sam  calling from London England. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and it is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.