Voices of Intro You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC and NPR.   Tired of the everyday routine? Ever dream of a life of romantic adventure? Want to get away from it all? We offer you escape!  Robert What is this?  Jad Just wait.   Escape designed to free you from the four walls of today for a half hour of high adventure.  Jad This an old time radio show from the 1940s late '40s.  Robert I figured that.  Jad It is called Escape and it always starts the same way with-   We offer you escape.  Jad That phrase I love how they say it. Here's what is great about this show and why it seems like a good way to start this show our show is that immediately after they say that phrase they then present you with a scenario from which there seems to be no escape.   You are hanging by your finger tips on the sheer face of an ice cliff...  Jad Like here's one.   Suspended a thousand feet above instant death with your strength running out and with no chance for escape.  Jad There is a million of these.   You are aboard a Chinese junk run aground off the coast of Borneo.   You are lost in the London Fog.   You are a passenger aboard a submarine.   You are the subject of an experiment.   Nazi agents...   Nameless terrors...   Gigantic department store...   No escape.  Jad Wait one more just for kicks.   You are trapped in the remote valley of the Andes walled in by sheer rock precipices and surrounding you closing in on you is a band a blind men who want your eyes.  Jad How could you not listen to that? What is better than a story where the walls are closing in you and you do not know what you are going to do What am I going to do? What am I going to do? And then suddenly...  Robert Escape!  Jad It is like the best story ever.  Robert That is true.  Jad So you ready?  Robert Okay.  Jad This hour...   We offer you...  Robert Three bizarre scenarios.  Jad True stories...  Robert Of people...  Jad And planets...  Robert Trying...  Jad Yearning...  Robert To...   Escape!  Jad Will they make it?  Robert And if they do what are they escaping to?  Jad Okay enough of that. I am Jad.  Robert I am Robert.  Jad This is Radiolab.  Jad To start let us talk about escape artists.  Robert Because why not right? This is an escape show.  Jad Exactly.  Robert The most famous escape artist in history is probably Harry Houdini.  Jad Our first story is kind of a Houdini story. It comes from our producer Pat.  Robert Yes.  Jad It is about a guy whose nickname is...  Robert Little Houdini.  Pat I heard this story from my Ben.  Ben Hello.  Pat Months ago.  Ben How are you brother?  Robert Ben your journalism friend.  Pat My journalism friend yeah.  Ben I am a reporter with the Tampa Bay Times in Florida.  Pat But our story begins at the Turney Center Penitentiary...  Ben In Only Tennessee.  Pat That is where he caught up with Little Houdini. He was between escapes. A couple of guards walked us into this huge cafeteria sat us down at this tiny table and brought out Chris.  Ben Chris Gay.  Jad That is his name?  Ben Yeah.  Chris Did you interview my brother and everything?  Ben Yeah we talked.  Chris Everything come okay?  Ben I guess the first thing I noticed was that he was even smaller than I expected him to be. I knew he was going to be little...  Pat You know nickname...  Ben But...  Pat He was a very little Houdini.  Ben A short little guy.  Pat Maybe 5'5.  Ben Yeah 140 130. His prison uniform was pretty baggy on him. He was wearing a white ball cap and had a big smile stretched across his face.  Chris Escaping... I think it is actually addicting.  Ben Addictive?  Chris Yeah. I think it is. I think what is addictive about it is that it is a way to punch you in the stomach and say Hey this can be done. I can do this. You all might have told me I cannot do nothing all my life... more people and all have told me that... but I know I can do it.  Pat How many times have you escaped?  Chris Probably about 13.  Jad 13?  Ben 13.  Jad Out of jail?  Ben Yeah.  Chris And I am fortunate to have made all 13.  Ben I did some research to see how that compares to other Houdinis and there are a few people who come close but as far I was able to find out nobody alive has that many escapes.  Pat Can we say pretty safely that he is the greatest jailbreaker alive?  Ben I will go ahead and call him that yeah.  Chris So I got away from them and...  Pat Pretty much without even asking Chris began to list his escapes.  Ben He has escaped every way you can imagine.  Chris Slipped my handcuff off and went through the air ducts. Went out the back... In between the razor wire... Jumped the fence... Pulled all my clothes off except my boxer shorts.  Ben Like handcuffs he said picking a handcuff key is one of the easiest things he is ever done. He is used everything from a pin spring to a safety pin even once...  Chris A zipper thing. Made a handcuff key out of my zipper.  Ben He scrambled out windows. Ran out doors. Climbed over walls.  Pat Snuck under walls.  Ben Drilled through them.  Pat Has faked suicide...  Ben Twice.  Pat He is tricked the cops by drawing up fake escape plans. Fooled their dogs by...  Ben Covering his clothes in pepper.  Chris Bunch of pepper.  Pat Another time he did not have pepper but...  Ben He had found some roadkill.  Chris It stunk. It did smell like a skunk.  Ben And he rubs it all over his body to erase his scent.  Pat Pretty good at hiding too.  Ben He is hidden in trees jumped down a trapdoor that he cut in the floor of his trailer...  Pat Once he hid in a grave.  Chris It was a shallow grave.  Pat Beside a dead body.  Ben Another time he...  Pat Ended up on a college campus someplace outside of Atlanta...  Ben And he hid out on top of an air duct for two days until the coast is clear.  Pat One of the interesting things about Chris is that even though he is been doing this for 20 years...  Ben There is never a record of him assaulting anyone.  Chris No. I refuse to do it.  Pat Stole things but pretty much only things to help him run.  Chris I always refuse to go in somebody's house. I always refuse to go in somebody's garage.  Ben He says he is got rules for himself about how he breaks the law.  Pat Almost like a code. In fact the story that Ben interested in Chris in the first place is a perfect example of this.  Ben This was a few years ago in 2007.  Pat Ben got a press release...  Ben From the Florida Highway patrol Be on the lookout for Chris Gay.  Pat According to the press release here's what happened. Chris had been locked up in Alabama when he got a telephone call from his family.  Chris Said my mom was dying.  Pat She had cancer. So he faked suicide busted out of the prison transport van that was bringing him to the hospital stole a truck and started driving home.  Ben He was going to see his mom to pay his last respects.  Chris I did not expect her to live very long.  Pat As he comes around the bend in the road to where his mom lives he is driving a Walmart tractor trailer and he is got like a dozen cops on his tail.  Chris When I get down there I run off the road...  Ben Crashes the truck into a field near his mom's trailer...  Pat Jumps out of the truck...  Chris Just as I was running towards the house they jumped out of the cars and are running towards me.  Ben Just before he makes it inside they case him into the woods.  Pat And he disappears without seeing his mom who would end up dying before he could see her. A few days later Chris turns up in Daytona Beach...  Ben Driving a tour bus that belonged to Crystal Gayle.  Jad The country singer?  Ben Yeah.  Jad He stole Crystal Gayle's tour bus?  Ben In Tennessee.  Jad And then drove to Florida?  Ben Yeah.  Pat So you get this press release and you think what?  Ben I thought How do you miss with a story like this?  Pat So Ben writes the story for the newspaper.  Ben Big news.  Pat And pretty soon...  News Announcer Tonight a luxury tour bus that normally carries...  Pat TV news people are on it.  Ben It took off.  News Announcer He is an escape artist and something of a folk hero.  Pat And soon Chris something of a folk song literally.  Ben The week Chris got caught a Grammy Award-winning bluegrass picker named Tim O'Brien put out a song called the Ballard of Christopher Daniel Gay.  Tim Of Christopher Daniel Gay...  Pat Pretty soon a famous Hollywood director...  Ben Bought the rights to the movie.  Chris They were recently trying to get Johnny Depp to do it but they ...  Tim They said his heart was as big as his head.  Pat It is perfect.  Ben Here's the underdog making a run for it for... what seemed at that time... to be really good intentions. And part of me thought This is awesome but it is also .  Pat I mean there is got to be more to this story.  Ben Absolutely. Who is this guy really and why does he keep running?   Approaching destination on the left.  Pat You want to tell us where we are going?  Ben We are going to Buckeye Bottom Road to talk to  Gay.  Pat Tarry is Chris's older brother.  Ben He says he can tell us the whole story about how they grew up.  Ben He we are.  Pat Chris grew up in a small trailer out in the middle of nowhere west of Nashville.  Ben There are some junk cars off in the woods.  Pat We found Tarry hanging out with a couple of buddies drinking some beers.  Tarry You all have any certain things you want to know about or anything?  Pat We start talking about what it was like when they were kids.  Tarry We lived in a little bitty trailer down there.  Pat He points off into the woods across the street.  Tarry On this land...  Pat It was Chris and Tarry they had a little brother named Eddie who went by Cotton and then there was Leann...  Leann Leann Gay.  Pat The eldest.  Leann I am his older sister.  Pat Cotton is in jail so we were not able to interview him but Leann and Tarry both told us that growing up in that trailer was hard.  Leann We grew up like mountain people you know?  Pat No electricity no running water. Did their wash in the river. Was not always much food around.  Leann There used to be a big field of plums a big plum thicket. We would go down there and we would eat.  Pat But you cannot live on plumbs.  Leann A lot of days we would be hungry.  Ben Leann remembers lying in bed one night and she could not go to sleep because her hunger pains were so bad and Tarry said Here this'ill help you and he ripped up...  Leann A little thing of notebook paper.  Ben Gave it to Leann. He said Just chew it up real good and shallow it. It will help you.  Pat For Chris and his little brother Cotton those were the good days because...  Leann When my daddy and her separated...  Pat Mom and dad got a divorce and the family split apart.  Ben Tarry and Leann went to live with mom. Chris and his little brother Eddie...  Pat Who were 10 and 11 at that point moved in with their dad.  Ben And their dad...  Tarry Dad he really was not... I do not guess...  Leann He just was not no provider.  Pat He was not around very much.  Leann Uh-uh .  Ben He was a deadbeat.  Chris He got where he would get off of work on Friday and he would not come home for weeks at a time.  Leann He would tell them if they was hungry to go steal from churches.  Pat Sometimes they would hike through the woods through the woods to their grandfather's house their mom's dad who Chris says hated him and Cotton.  Chris We would go down there and he got where he started making us fight each other. If we fist fought each other the winner got something to eat. He was mean.  Pat That was their life beating each other up for food.  Chris He had dogs. He would sic his dogs on us.  Pat So one night one of them went and found their dad's rifle an old 22...  Ben And a tube sock full of rusty bullets and went out behind the barn lit a tire fire and made a suicide pact. Cotton was going to shoot Chris in the forehead and then shot himself. Chris closed his eyes and Cotton put the gun to Chris's forehead. Chris heard him whimper and he opened his eyes and Cotton said I cannot do it and Chris said Let me do it. He took the gun and he put the barrel to his brother's head and he could not pull the trigger either.  Jad And they were 10 and 11 at this point?  Ben 10 and 11.  Jad Man...  Pat Ben says that if take a step back you can see that it is right about here at this point that Chris and his brother start to steal. Like really steal.  Tarry They started out with bicycles and then they went to four wheelers and motorcycles.  Pat It was all stuff with wheels.  Ben Chris remembers going with Cotton to sit on a bluff.  Chris That was on interstate 40. We would go watch the trucks go by...  Ben And they would dream about getting in a semi and driving far away.  Tarry They went to four wheelers and motorcycles and cars and gradually got bigger and bigger and bigger...  Pat Until one day when Chris was 17...  Ben He stole a semi.  Pat Did not even really know how to drive it.  Chris But I climbed up inside it and the keys was in it so I started it up.  Pat And from there there was really no looking back.  Ben Can I pause you right there before you continue? Let me name some modes of transportation and you tell me yes or no what you have stolen.  Chris Yep.  Ben A semi.  Chris Yep.  Ben Bulldozer.  Chris Yep.  Ben Skid steer.  Chris Skid steer.  Ben Tractor?  Chris Backhoe.  Ben Anything that flies?  Chris I actually got in a helicopter once. We got in there started flicking switches and we finally got the blades to rotate but it was at a low low thing and we got scared and got out of it.  Pat The point is...  Ben This is his life for more than two decades.  Pat Stealing things that move getting caught and escaping. Stealing things that move getting caught and escaping. Until eventually he became that guy on TV.  News Announcer Called a Little Houdini who has police on the run in six states.  Pat But then one night something happened that seemed like it could break this loop forever.  Ben He met a girl.  Chris Yes yes.  Pat Her name was Missy.  Ben She was waiting tables at a little campsite diner and he thought she was cute.  Pat And Missy?  Missy He is a smooth talker I will give him that.  Ben She liked the way he talked.  Missy I was taken right off the bat.  Pat A few months later...  Missy I got pregnant with my daughter and me and him...  Pat Moved in together and for a while life was really good.  Chris We still had some money in the bank and I was working good for  Construction. Had a good paying job running a bulldozer. I was actually going to school in  to get my  license.  Missy He had a nice trailer and it had a refrigerator.  Pat Did you like it?  Chris Yeah I really liked it.  Missy Matter of fact I was talking to my daughter last night.  Chris I became real close to my daughter.  Missy She remembers it like it was yesterday. He got her a dog. She named him Blackjack. First puppy she ever got.  Chris That right there was the...  Missy It was the best moments and days of...  Chris The happiest days of I think...  Missy Mine and his life.  Chris Ever I think.  Pat But then things got complicated. One day when Chris and Missy were driving in the car together...  Missy We were going right through the middle of Nashville and...  Pat Chris says Look I got to tell you something. I stole something.  Chris I stole a Bobcat tractor.  Pat From my construction job.  Chris I sold it.  Missy To make ends meet.  Pat As soon as she heard that Missy whipped her around.  Missy And I hit him with a Big Mac right in the middle of Nashville on I-24.  Pat A Big Mac.  Missy Yes I did.  Ben But it was only funny for a little while.  Pat A couple of days later...  Chris Somebody told on me.  Pat He got arrested.  Missy He stayed in jail for about two years and...  Pat Then escaped. I do not know exactly.  Ben But before long he stole again...  Pat And ended up back in jail again.  Ben And Missy?  Missy I stayed by his side.  Pat Again.  Ben She was determined. He would come home from these escapes saying...  Chris I just hated being locked up.  Ben Hated being away from you guys.  Chris I did not want to be away from my kids and I did not want to be away from Missy.  Ben Each time he got locked up Missy would write him letters.  Missy I would send him money because I worked the whole time I was pregnant with my 13 year old.  Pat What kind of work were you doing?  Missy Worked on a sanding line. Sanded rocking chairs.  Ben Chris meanwhile was thinking about his next escape.  Pat And when he came charging through the front door...  Ben Stinking of roadkill...  Pat Telling Missy that again he had escaped...  Missy I stayed with him.  Pat Again. But this time...  Missy I started asking for check stubs on a weekly basis and adding hours up that he would been gone from the time he left the house which I would knock down riding time there and from.  Pat You were keeping tabs on him.  Missy Yes I was.  Pat She went so far as to take 5000 dollars out of the bank account that they shared to buy a trailer for them to live in one that would not move.  Missy I was trying more or less to make him do right.  Pat And it seemed like it was working.  Ben But then one night...  Pat Chris came in after work and sat down in the living room with Missy and their daughter to watch some TV.  Missy Next thing we know we hear a loud beating at the door. I jump up and he jumps up and the next thing I know he was moving that kitchen table and sliding it out. Next thing I know he raises the rug up off the floor and he jumps down in there and he says Cover it back up. So I cover it back up put the table back and answer the door. They came in and they walked all around the house and they left.  Pat You bought this house to keep him still and he cut a trapdoor in it.  Missy Yep. He stayed  the whole time and they were walking over top of him.  Pat Wow.  Missy I guess it was more or less I was young. I knowed but I was also in denial.  Pat But eventually something happened that forced her to admit just how bad things had gotten with Chris.  Missy Day before Halloween Danielle and her daddy had went down to Walmart and she had picked out her little witch outfit. She was old enough. She was four. Trick-or-treating for a four year old that was a big thing.  Ben The next morning it is Halloween.  Missy Her daddy looked at her said Baby I am going to work. I will see you this afternoon. When I get home we will get your outfit on you and we will go trick-or-treating up in Nashville. That afternoon Danielle was sitting on the back step. She was just sitting there in a white shirt. I ask her Danielle what are you doing? I am waiting on my daddy to get home mama. He said we are going to go to Nashville and we are going to go trick-or-treating. I said Okay he will be back in a little bit. She sat there and she sat there and he never came home that night.  Ben I do not hear a lot of bitterness from you.  Missy No.  Ben Is that accurate?  Missy Yes.  Ben Why?  Missy Well as far as me being upset with Chris or hating Chris?  Ben Yes madam.  Missy Is that what you are asking me?  Ben Yes madam.  Missy How could you not forgive Chris? 18 years that is how long I have known that boy. I have seen firsthand where he lived how he lived. I am a fighter. I go to church. My kids go to church. I learned to forgive people. Chris has had a hard life. He needs help help that I cannot give him.  Ben You thought for a while that you could give him that help.  Missy Yes I did.  Chris I should have been there for my kids. It will take a lifetime of making up for what I have done.  Jad So what do you make of this story Pat?  Pat Somewhere along the way for Ben and I this story really became about the simple question can a person like Chris who grew up the way he did can a person like that change? Or do you just never escape a childhood like that?  Missy People live with how they grew up.  Pat If you ask Missy she says...  Missy If two kids and a wife that he loves... If we cannot stop him I do not know what can.  Pat But when we asked Chris he said...  Chris It is in mind I am going to change and I am not only going to change I am working to change.  Missy Really?  Pat Of course he has said that before.  Missy Truthfully?  Pat What is different this time?  Chris I am doing classes that I do not have to take. I have taken every one of them. I am taking how to be a better daddy. I am taking everything. Matter of fact when I come up for parole this month I am going to go ahead and ask them Can I go ahead and complete another nine month program?  Jad Is he saying that he is going to ask them to keep him jail?  Pat Yeah.  Ben After 20 years of running he is asking the parole board not to let him go.  Pat Which made me think I do not know maybe.  Jad Ben what do you think?  Ben I do not think there is any way that Chris changes. I think he is unfortunately doomed to stay in this cycle which sucks. I am ashamed that I have that opinion.  Jad Why do you think you feel that way?  Ben My dad was pretty similar to Chris in many ways.  Jad Really?  Ben My father abandoned me when I was a young boy and I got reacquainted with him when I was a teenager. At that point he was a very sad alcoholic who often made big mistakes. I played high school football and near the end of the year my senior year they put out this highlight tape. I took that highlight tape to his trailer in Slick Oklahoma. After shooting a lot of tequila we sat down on the couch together and I put the tape in and we were watching me play football. Not long into it my dad starts sobbing bawling tears running down his face. I look over at him and he says I wish I could have been there. I wanted nothing more in that moment and today than to ask him Why were not you?  Ben I think in some way I get that opportunity in this job to ask my dad that question.  Pat Ben says his dad never answered that question and after that day where they watched that football tape nothing changed. Ben got older graduated from college got married had kids and his dad never showed up for any of it. So he says when he is talking to a guy like Chris...  Ben In some ways I am sitting across the table from my own father.  Pat Which does not give him a lot of hope.  Ben The only ounce of encouragement that I have honestly is if we find out that Chris has when given the chance to get out of jail said No thank you. Maybe that gives me an ounce of hope.  Pat A couple of weeks ago Ben got a letter from Chris.  Pat Can you read it for me?  Ben Yeah.  Ben He says Dear Mr. Montgomery thank you for your letter. I am doing well. I went up for parole and yes I did ask them to let me go through the program. The final decision was to parole me upon completion of the program. I will complete it on October 4 2012.  Jad So he is staying?  Ben Well I better get this in the mail. Thank you again for writing. I hope to hear from you again. Your friend Christopher Daniel Gay.  Robert Thanks to our producer Pat Walters.  Jad And to Ben Montgomery. His story on Christopher Daniel Gay is in the Tampa Bay Times which you can find online. We have got a link to it from our website radiolab.org.   We will return to Escape in just a moment but first...  Ben Hi there. This is Ben Montgomery. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and the Alfred P Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.   Want more from your podcast app? Graduate to Pocket Casts your free one-stop-shop for podcast listening search and discovery. The beautifully designed app gives you more control and makes it easier to discover and organize podcasts with powerful tools to customize listening. Hear all your favorite shows at pocketcast.com or find us on the Apple App or Google Play Stores.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert And I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab. Today...   We offer you escape.  Jad We are talking about escape.  Robert Stories about people being trapped and then getting out getting free.  Jad In our last segment we met a guy for whom escape itself became a trap.  Robert But now we are going to take our escape motif to a much bigger scale. We are calling this by the way...   The outer limit.  Robert Because in this one we are going to the outer limits of the human imagination.  Jad It began for us when we spoke with this writer...  Ed Yes I hear you booming.  Jad Ed Dolnick is his name. He told us a story about...  Ed This is Isaac Newton's story for the most part.  Jad It is a story that involves the Earth the heavens God humanity and you might as well throw in the apple.  Ed The one thing everybody knows about Newton is that an apple fell from a tree and bonked him on the head.  Jad Which is not true I was told. Is not that hypocritical?  Ed It is probably not true but it is a story that Newton himself told.  Jad Oh really?  Jad Because Newton according to Ed...  Ed All this life had this notion that he was different from other people. Not only different from but better. He had a pipeline to God. God was whispering secrets in his ear. No one else had been blessed in this way. Other people's role in life was simply to bog him down.  Robert Not what I would call a modest guy.  Jad No. But...  Ed At any rate...  Jad Our story begins around 1665. Newton is at Cambridge. He is a student.  Ed And Cambridge is hit by the plague. They send everybody home because although nobody understands how the disease works they know that if people are crowded together they tend all get it. So everybody go your separate ways.  Robert This is kind of of an enforced summer vacation.  Ed Right.  Jad And he is like 19 or 20 at this point?  Ed He is 21 22.  Ed Newton goes home to his mother's farm.  Jad Mom is like Cool now you can help me on the farm but...  Ed He says No.  Jad Because he has a plan. He brought some books home.  Ed A bunch of textbooks.  Jad And he locks himself in room...  Ed And sets himself to not only to having mastered all the science that is ever been done but to plunging on ahead of everyone else on his own motivated by this religious faith that everything in the universe was set up by a god who wanted someone to crack the code. Newton believes he is the one.  Jad What was he doing in his room? Was he sitting there with a thousand giant textbooks?  Ed All that is known is that he did this.  Jad He just went into his room and came out with what we are about to talk about.  Ed He came out with how gravity works how light works how rainbows work how the tides work. Then having done all that...  Jad In the  summer he did all this?  Ed Yeah.  Robert What did you do on your summer vacation Jad? I know my summer I learned how to fold like marines do which I thought was pretty good too.  Robert So after having one flash of insight after another Newton now sets his mind to one of the great problems of all time which for our purposes we will call the problem of the moon.  Jad Just to set this up...  Ed What everybody before Newton and Galileo thought is there were a bunch of ordinary things here on Earth like rocks and they behave in the ordinary way that we know...  Jad Pick up a rock let go it falls.  Ed And there are a bunch of much more different mysterious elegant perfect things in the sky...  Robert Like the moon which does not fall. It just floats there.  Jad One could conclude that the moon has its own separate set of laws.  Ed There are one set of laws that work here on Earth and another set that work in the heavens and there is no reason it should be the same set of laws any more than New York's laws should be the same as Paris's laws.  Jad Kind of makes sense actually. Heavenly things float. Earthly things fall.  Robert But then here's where the problem begins. Newton and a bunch of people at that time had gotten ahold of this newfangled thing called the telescope.  Jad And one of the things they saw...  Ed Was that the moon was not this mysterious heavenly body. It was a big rock. A regular lumpy potatoish rock.  Jad Uh oh. People were like huh.  Robert But Newton... being of course Newton... thought Now wait a second...  Ed If the job of a rock is to fall and the moon is just another rock...  Robert Why does not it fall down?  Ed Exactly so. What is it doing sitting up there night after night?  Jad Good question. It is at this point that Newton... sitting in his room or wherever he was we can imagine... makes a crazy mental leap. He thought back to a thought experiment that Galileo had come up with which initially might not make much sense the connection...  Robert But it pays off.  Ed Here's the set up. You have got someone standing in a big field with a gun that he is about to shoot. Next to that person with his gun is a person holding in his hand a bullet.  Jad So you have got a person holding a gun and a person holding just the bullet side by side.  Ed The bullet in the hand and the bullet in the gun are exactly the same height above the ground. Now somebody says Ready aim fire and at the instant he says fire the man with the gun shoots that bullet horizontally and at that same instant the man next to him holding the bullet in his hand opens his hand and the bullet drops.  Robert So there is one bullet zipping along and then falling and then the other one just falls.  Ed Right. We shoot the bullet out of the horizontal gun and we drop the bullet from right next to the gun.  Jad At the same time.  Ed Yes. Both bullets will hit the ground eventually but when they do they will be far apart. Galileo's riddle was which of those bullets hits the ground first?  Robert Everybody would know that the one that would hit the ground is the one that you just dropped because the other one has to go all that distance.  Ed This is a hard drill and the answer is-  Jad Wait why is it such a hard riddle? Because I would think that the bullet you drop is going to hit first. The gun has got to go all the way.  Ed No. Those two bullets both hit the ground at the exact same instant.  Robert Really?  Ed That is an experimental fact.  Robert The bullet from the gun and the bullet from the thing lands at the same time?  Ed Yes. This bullet that shot horizontally it does not go like Wile E. Coyote running off a cliff. It does not go straight straight straight and then fall. It is curving as it goes.  Jad And the thing that causes it to curve as it goes of course is gravity. It is the same gravity that is pulling the bullet that you drop. Same gravity. Same pull. Same speed. So counterintuitively when you drop a bullet and it falls for this long when you fire the gun it will also fall for that long even though it ends up a mile away.  Jad See? That was Galileo's riddle.  Ed And that is as far as Galileo took it. Newton looked at that and he said something smart.  Jad First thing he said is This field? Let us not pretend that this is some...  Ed Perfectly flat field that goes on forever.  Jad No. We are on the Earth and the Earth is round.  Ed And what roundness means is that ground curves away below horizontal.  Robert Really what is happening is that as the bullet is shooting across the field and falling to the Earth the Earth... at the same... is gradually curving away from it.  Jad Of course most guns do not shoot the bullet very far and at that short distance the field is still pretty much flat.  Robert But here's what Newton thought What if you could find...  Ed Just the right gun...  Robert That could shoot that bullet not just across the field but across thousands of miles. And...  Jad What if...  Ed As it falls...  Jad That bullet curves down towards the Earth...  Ed In just the same as the Earth is curving...  Jad Away from it?  Robert In this scenario...  Ed The bullet that we have shot will keep falling and falling and falling but the Earth keeps falling and falling and falling away from the bullet so the bullet falls forever the Earth curves forever the picture never changes.  Jad So the bullet then does what?  Ed The bullet is in orbit. Hundreds of years before Sputnik and other satellites Newton has invented the satellite. On top of that he said when he see rocks like the moon that are not falling the reason we think they are not falling is because we misunderstand. Really just as the gun launched a bullet on Earth and it goes and never falls God... who is presumably a terrifically strong pitcher... launched the moon around the Earth at just such a rate that that would continue in its circle around us forever. This is a perpetual dance. The partners are bound together but they never come close and they never break up either. It is this endless round.  Robert From which there is no escape.  Ed What Newton did is take the moon out of the domain of poets and musicians... the golden orb and this kind of thing... and lasso it to the same rules that we use here on Earth.  Jad What he showed was that in a very real way there is no separation between us and the heavens.  Ed The same set of laws does govern anything. It is one universe and I have explained it all.  Ann Once you figure out the laws of gravitation then you can send spacecraft to...  Jad Mars...  Ann Jupiter...  Jad Saturn. Anywhere.  Ann Out there...  Jad If you are a Radiolab listener from way back you might recognize that voice. That is Ann Druyan.  Ann Hi.  Jad One of the first stories we did actually I interviewed her about working on the famous golden record. You remember this.  Robert Sure.  Jad The idea at the time was to put this record on the Voyager capsule send it into space and on the record would be all these sounds that represented us.  Ann A kiss a mother first words to her newborn baby Mozart...  Jad In any case Ann was the one who was in charge of choosing all the sounds to put onto that record. She and Carl Sagan worked together on that project. Here's the thing we stopped our story as the rockets took off but obviously that was just the beginning of the story. The Voyager capsules right now are about to make a kind of escape that Newton could have only dreamed of.  Jad Our producer  has been-  Lim Sorry I just turned my headphones up way too loud.  Jad Has been following this story.  Lim Ow ow.  Jad Just turn it down.  Jad Okay so pick it up where we left off.  Lim The point of the mission was not really to deliver this record. It was to go out and look at all the planets in the outer solar system. Starting in 1977 these two little spaceships...  Ann Two spacecrafts Voyager 1 and 2...  Lim Went racing away from Earth snapping pictures.  Ann Every time Voyager would reach another planet all of the Voyager people would get together go into the imaging room and see the pictures come from the outer solar system.  Lim Do you remember seeing them?  Morab I remember as a child seeing them in Life Magazine. I was seven when the Voyager was launched.  Lim This is .  Morab I am Morab  professor at Boston University.  Lim As a grownup she became part of the Voyager team.  Morab All the pictures that as a kid you look at the books and to see how Neptune looks how Jupiter looks.  Ann Just a complete revelation.  Morab Saturn...  Ann The image of Saturn.  Morab Technicolor...  Ann Like pink and...  Morab Reddish...  Ann Turquoise color...  Morab Yellow and...  Lim And those rings. Just spectacular. They could see active volcanoes on one of the moons of Jupiter.  Ann Finally that vision of Neptune of this blue jewel...  Lim Really blue.  Morab It is all came from Voyager. We had no idea how they looked like before Voyager.  Lim Neptune was the last big cool planet and it was the last thing that they were supposed to photograph. After that...  Morab The cameras were going to be shut off to save energy.  Lim But..  Morab Carl Sagan convinced them to turn Voyager back to Earth and take a final picture.  Lim So on Valentines day 1990 one of the ships slowly rotated so it was facing back to Earth and it snapped a picture.  Ann One last picture.  Jad Describe it.  Lim It is mostly empty. It is pretty dark. You can see streaks of light coming from the sun. And then... you honestly would not notice it if it was not pointed out to you... down in one corner...  Jad Kind of suspended in a sunbeam...  Morab There is a very small dot of blue.  Ann A pale blue dot. That was us.  Lim In Carl Sagan's words...  Ann Everyone you never knew everyone you ever loved every superstar every corrupt politician everyone in all of history everything the sum total... Think of the rivers of blood that have run so that one indistinguishable group could have momentary domination over a fraction of that pixel.  Lim It was one of those really rare images...  Ann Every single day who take that pale blue dot so deeply to heart.  Lim It was a complete reframing.  Morab After that the cameras were turned off.  Lim But here's the thing the ships kept going drifting through the darkness. Even though they were not taking pictures anymore they were using their other senses little instruments that detect how many particles are around what the temperature is... They were hurtling through this empty space really fast measuring sending that data back and scientists like Perov were there listening and waiting.  Jad For what?  Morab It was not clear.  Lim But they knew at some point these capsules would get to the edge.  Jad The edge of what?  Lim The solar system.  Jad The solar system has an edge? I thought it was just a big spiral.  Lim It has an edge. It is like a bubble.  Morab See the sun has a wind. Every star has a wind but the sun has its own wind...  Lim That blows out through the solar system.  Ann It is very fast.  Morab It can be between 400 to 800 kilometers per second.  Lim Anyway it flows out from the sun past all the planets and it keeps everything else out.  Jad Oh so it is like blowing up a balloon?  Lim Yeah.  Jad The wind gives it a shape.  Lim Right. So these little things are cruising out towards this edge wherever it is. Scientists do not quite know where it is or what it is. The guys in the control room are pinging the ships like Hey what is up? What do you see? They ships are like Nothing. How about now? Not much. Now? Nothing.  Jad How long before they actually see something.  Lim 14 years.  Jad Oh man that is like driving through Kansas but like a million times worse.  Lim But there comes a day...  Morab End of 2004...  Lim Where they stop listening for a while because NASA only has so many antennas and they have to use them to listen to everything. So for a while the Voyager team is like Okay you guys over there can use the antennas. We are going to lunch.  Jad Yeah I mean it is not like anything is happening.  Lim Nothing is happening anyways it is been 14 goddamn years.  Jad Knock yourself out.  Lim It is cool. They come back a few hours later start listening again and...  Morab It is happened very sudden.  Lim Everything is totally changed. All of a sudden boom.  Morab The speed of the wind dropped from around 380 kilometers per second to 100.  Lim Instantly. Just all at once.  Morab Instantly.  Lim Then everything out there started to get messy.  Morab Very turbulent. Much more turbulent than before. Particles are also behaving a very different way. The fields are very weird.  Jad The fields?  Morab The magnetic field.  Ann Just like the sun has a wind...  Morab The sun has a magnetic field as well.  Ann The field starts at the sun and then curves out in this graceful arc through the solar system.  Morab How the sun rotates creates what people call a ballerina skirt.  Lim You know a skirt will flair if you spin around real fast?  Jad Mm-hmm .  Lim That is apparently what this field looks like. But way out there it seemed like the skirt started to fray maybe tear a little. Threads had broken off and seemed to be floating around on their own not connected to anything.  Jad What does this all mean? If the fields are breaking down and the wind is dying down... You said the wind is what actually creates the space of the solar system does this mean we are out?  Lim No. I thought that was what was happening but no. It is not out and it is not quite in. It is in the edge of the bubble.  Jad In the edge?  Lim Yeah. But it is not a thin edge it is a thick edge.  Jad So the edge is not just a line that you cross it is a place.  Ann While we listened the two Voyager ships moved through this edge for several years.  Morab Then something very interesting happened. The wind on Voyager 1 stopped.  Jad Completely stopped?  Morab Yeah.  Jad So now we are out?  Lim No.  Ann No.  Lim I mean...  Morab This is what people thought. But the other measurements...  Lim Like temperature and number of particles the magnetic field...  Morab Does not tell us we are out of the bubble. Nature surprised us again.  Ann Now we think there is a place at the edge of our solar system...  Morab Right at the edge...  Lim The edge of the edge...  Ann That is utterly still. No wind at all. A pause.  Morab People are calling it a stagnation layer and there is a big discussion as to why this layer exists and how thick it is.  Ann And by how thick it is she means when will it end? Because once we get past this...  Lim Has anything ever crossed this boundary before?  Morab No. This will be the first manmade object to leave any star. Voyager was right there smiling touching that boundary.  Ann You only do those things first once like your first kiss and your first taste of alcohol. Your first time driving a car. Your first time you see the oceans. These things open up a whole new world. The first time out of the solar system...  Jad So when is it going to freaking happen?  Lim It might have happened while we were talking.  Morab We are thinking now any moment now next couple months or three years from now four years from now. It is close.  Lim Every day I open my Google alert for Voyager and I look and see if it happened today because if it happens before this show goes out I am going to be pissed.  Jad Every day?  Lim Yeah.  Jad Is it the first thing you do in the morning?  Lim No. Like the third thing.  Jad All right quick update. In 2013 NASA announced that Voyager 1 had finally left the heliosphere. But it turns out it is really hard to tell for sure and scientists are still debating whether it is in or whether it is out. You can find out more about that debate at radiolab.org. Thanks to producer Lim Leavy Morab Opher of Boston University and Ann Druyan.  Sally Hi Radiolab. This is Sally calling from Melbourne Australia. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Jad Hey I am Jab Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab and today we are talking about...  Robert Escape. In this last story I have a feeling that this guy actually does make it through. This is a true honest escape but he does it in the most original and most unusual way.  Jad Here with the story is our producer Shaun Cole.  Shaun The story starts in the late '50s. There was this little boy in Richmond Virginia named Joe  Jr. He is seven or eight years old and he is sitting at home dialing various numbers on his parents' telephone just to see what happens.  Phil He was on a long distance call to information... 555-1212 and just an area code.  Shaun This is Phil . I first heard Joe's story from him.  Phil And he heard very faintly in the background a tone and he just started whistling along with it and all of a sudden he heard a ker-chink and the call went away.  Shaun It turns out that the tone in the background of the phone and his corresponding whistle was 2600 Hertz.  Phil Musically it is about seventh octave E.  Jad So he has perfect pitch?  Shaun Yeah and he was weirdly smart as you will soon discover.  Shaun Anyway he thinks to himself...  Phil That is very odd. That happened once. I wonder if it would happen again.  Shaun Does it again...  Phil He did not even know what it was at the time.  Shaun But he does it again and again.  Phil He did not think it was particularly useful for anything. He does talk about walking past somebody at a payphone when he was seven or eight years old and having the phone call disconnect on the person.  Robert That is like having super powers.  Shaun That really is.  Robert Which means he could be a walking bomb. He could go to Grand Central Station where there are many people sitting in phone booths and he could make them all lose their phone calls and no one would know.  Shaun Right. But it was more than just a cool trick for him. This discovery was the beginning of a kind of escape.  Joybubbles What were you scared of when you were little? I bet something scared you because there were things that sure scared me.  Shaun That is Joe.  Joybubbles I do not remember how old I was but...  Shaun It is all we have left of him in fact. He died in 2007. But he left behind hours and hours of records of his voice phone recordings. As you listen to them...  Joybubbles I was afraid something might happen if I crawled out the bed  books on the floor and kissed it.  Shaun You pretty quickly realized that the little boy in that room who was playing with the phone was kind of desperate. He went to this Catholic school for the blind.  Robert Was he blind?  Shaun We was born blind. And when he was there...  Joybubbles Back in the fall of 1955...  Shaun Things got pretty bad.  Joybubbles A lot of the nuns whipped me and my sister really hard and shook us. Only one did the sexual abuse. She used to have me get on the table. Then she would get up on the table and lie down. She did the bad touching.  Shaun Things were pretty bad at home too.  Joybubbles Daddy would slam mother and break things and there would be lots of scary sounds and stuff at night. Sometimes I would hug my phone up close and listen to the dial tone. The soft hum of the dial tone was always there.  Phil It is a nice warm tone. It never yelled. It never fought.  Joybubbles What a wonderful thing a telephone is.  Phil It was a nice way for him to comfort himself.  Joybubbles Especially during those long nights.  Jad How did the whistling thing he was doing...?  Robert How did that help him?  Jad Yeah.  Shaun It takes a few steps to explain but it turns out that that tone was the keyword in a hidden mechanical language that controlled the phone system. He was not supposed to be able to hear it at all in fact. It was an internal signal probably bleeding over from another line.  Phil When a long distance line was idle... when there was no call on it... this tone would be played continuously.  Shaun Basically the tone means that the line is free and silence on the line means there is someone trying to make a call. Say you are in New York and you want to call LA. You pick up your phone...  Phil The circuit has got this tone on it marking the circuit as idle.  Shaun You dial the LA number and at that point your line...  Phil Takes away the tone for just a moment...  Shaun It goes silent. And LA goes Ah New York wants to make a phone call and then LA drops its tone and the New York and LA machines talk to each other.  Shaun So that is one discovery. Another discovery is that you can dial a phone by just tapping the hook switch that little button where you hang up. Tap that three times dial the number 3 seven times dial the number 7. Then Joe thought Wait... Pulses tones...  Phil Maybe if you were to make little bursts of tone... so something like...  Joybubbles For six... for two...  Shaun As Joe demonstrated on a web show called Haxor Radio.  Joybubbles For nine...  Phil If you were to do something like that maybe you can actually dial a call.  Shaun And you could.  Joybubbles . That is how you actually make a call.  Shaun That is exactly how the phone system used to send calls back and forth. That was its language.  Phil That is right. Joe learned how to speak telephone.  Shaun Which is amazing. I think that is amazing.  Jad But is not he just dialing the phone with his lips as opposed to using his fingers?  Shaun True but Joe made one more little discovery that would change his life forever.  Phil If you first dialed a number like long distance information... 555-1212... the telephone company does not charge for calls for information.  Shaun What he figured out was that once you get the operator on the line if you then whistled to disconnect...  Phil But only for a little bit only for a second or two...  Shaun The line nearly disconnects but it does not all the way. It sits in this limbo waiting for instructions waiting to be used. And you can...  Phil Reroute your call by whistling the digits you wanted to dial...  Shaun And make a free call.  Phil Because the phone company thinks that you are still connected to information and its not charging for that.  Shaun It was like having an unlimited plane ticket to anywhere. Joe could call anywhere he wanted for free.  Phone Operator This is a telecom announcement.  Shaun And explore...  Phone Operator The number you have called is not connected.  Shaun And Listen. So he started calling all over the world even broken number numbers just to hear the different voices.  Phone Operator Please check the number before calling again.  Robert I used to do this by the way.  Jad Did you really?  Robert My sister and I would get on the phone. We could call information... that was a free service... and we said Hello information can you please put us in touch with Toronto? And then we would get the Toronto operator. Then we would say Toronto could you please get us in contact with Churchill Ontario which is way up north. Then the Churchill lady would come on. I would say Could you please us in touch with ? which is some Inuit place and they would transfer you to the northernest place. We would be talking to a person in the Arctic for nothing. It was the sense of going long distance for free.  Shaun Now imagine that you are a blind kid doing that in an abusive home. You cannot even run away.  Phil I think the phone represented freedom. It represented a place that was under his control. He could be an expert in it. It was a place that he could do all sorts of things that maybe he was not so easily able to do in real life.  Jad So what happens next?  Shaun Things get a bit better for Joe as he gets older. His mom takes him out of the Catholic school once she finds out the nuns are beating him. He never told his parents about the sexual abuse. He gets more and more savvy with the phone. Then finally he goes off to the University of South Florida where he starts showing off.  Phil It started out that Joe told a student that he could whistle a free phone call and the student said No you cannot and he said Want to bet? They bet a dollar and Joe whistled a long distance call for him. Before long there were crowds of 40 kids who were following him around wanting to see him do this parlor trick.  Shaun Then he whistled up this one particular fateful call.  Phil He was trying to whistle somebody in New York which is area code 516 but instead had wound up in Canada which is 514. You can see if you are whistling calls you could easily get off by one or two beeps. He wound up talking to an operator in Canada and the operator in Canada put his call through to New York but then managed to listen to the call and the student was talking about the wiz kid who put the call through for him. Telephone company security ended up tracing it back to University of South Florida.  Shaun It was just a gossipy operator who told on him.  Phil Well gossipy or security conscious depending on how you view it.  Shaun Fun-ruining that is how I view it.  Shaun So Joe is busted. He nearly gets kicked out of school and the whole thing causes just enough of a stir that people found out.  Phil The local school newspaper wrote an article about it and it got picked up by a wire service. Next thing you know there are newspaper articles and publicity and...  Shaun Here's the weird thing. As news travels...  Phil Did you see the article about the blind kid in Florida who can do this?  Shaun It turns out Joe was not alone. There were all of these other Joe Engressias out there hacking the phone system too.  Phil You mean I am not the only one? There are other people who are interested in this as well?  Shaun They were not whistling. Some of them would use these machines called blue boxes that would make the tones. A couple of kids actually modified a toy whistle from a box of Captain Crunch. Because Joe got caught they all started to find out about each other.  Phil That ended up being the focal point for a whole generation of phone phreaks.  News Announcer This is NBC Nightly News.  Jad Phone what?  Shaun Phone phreaks.  News Announcer Phone freaks will tell you that phone phreaking began with a blind young man named Joe Engressia. One thing that he discovered was that he could whistle his own calls.  Phil Before long people were calling Joe Engressia and a network starts to form. Then the phone phreaks started finding broken vacant number recordings... for example you dial a non-working number and you get the usual telephone company recording  Phone Operator You have reached a non-working number.  Phil It turns out that some of those were broken in such a way that the volume level was very low and if multiple people called the same number they could talk. Teenage kids would call and it turned into a party line. Kind of an annoying one because you had this announcement that was repeating every 30 seconds but it still allowed teenage kids to talk to one another.  Jad Wow. So this is it he found his tribe basically.  Shaun Yeah. He would call the conference lines and talk with them about phones and phreaking and everything but that really was not what he was after.  Phil I think it is interesting because... Say you are a lonely kid and you start playing around with the phone or you start playing around with Scrabble or whatever it is. You get really obsessed about some thing right? Through the magic of that thing you end up meeting other people. You have a choice to make at that point. Choice one is embrace the community. Choice two is That is nice. It is great that there are other people and I get some stuff from that but I have found this thing... my telephone my Scrabble set whatever it is I am obsessed by and I am still obsessed by it. It seems to me that he made the choice to go for the thing.  Shaun It is not that he did not like the community but he was still searching for something.   Esquire Magazine. 1971.  Phil March of 1971 is when he moved to Memphis.   Reporter. In that month he had done very little long distance phone phreaking from his own phone. He had begun to apply for a job with the phone company.  Phil He went there intending to Get a job and be a man as he put it.   And he wanted to stay away from anything illegal. Engressia quote Any kind of job will do. Anything as menial as the most lowly operator. That is probably all they would give me because I am blind.  Steven He wanted to be a telephone. He wanted to take his lunchbox to work. He wanted to get a paycheck. He wanted to take his lunchbox to work. He wanted to be a real person like everybody else.  Shaun This is Steven Gibb one of Joe's best friends.  Steven He lived in a couple places. The first one was... just imagine skid row. It was. He woke up one morning when the heat went out. He stepped on a dead frozen rat because he ended up sleeping in his coat. That is all he could afford.  Shaun He cannot get arrested in Memphis. He cannot get a job to save his life so he decides to get arrested literally by doing this very very elaborate public phreak where he gets a bunch of his phreaking friends on a conference call and he starts dialing up foreign embassies...  Steven Like the armed services in Moscow...  Shaun And pretended that he was calling as a radio host and that all of his friends were his studio audience.  Steven Hi. This is so and so from this radio show. Do you have time to talk and be on the air with us today? Oh great!  Phil Because he wanted to stay on the phone line so that the phone company could trace him because as says They are not really speedy.  Steven He wanted to give them a lot of time to catch him.  Phil Two weeks later is when he walked out the door and the FBI came up said Josef Engressia?  Jad And why did he do this? Because he was trying to get the phone company to pay attention or something?  Shaun That is right.  Robert In the hopes that he would get a free meal in jail?  Shaun No in the hopes that he would get a job.  Jad With the phone company?  Shaun That is right.  Robert What a weird way to go about it.  Shaun Amazingly it worked.  Robert Really?  Shaun Yeah. He got four job offers. All phone jobs.  Phil He got a job at a little independent Millington Telephone Company and he started cleaning telephones. Anything from cleaning phones to servicing equipment.   Any kind of job will do.  Shaun But any kind of job would not do.  Phil He really did not like it.  Shaun It is that kind of thing where you realize your lifelong dream and then you think Wait I can dream anything I want. I can dream bigger than this.  Phil So in 1975-  Steven In '76...  Phil Whatever. He moved to Denver.  Shaun Denver where every dream is in reach. Paid for by the Committee to Promote Denver.  Steven He started hobnobbing with all the telephone guys and going to the public utilities commission and that is when he started working for Mountain Bell.  Phil Mountain Bell Telephone.  Shaun That is when he started phreaking for the Man.  Phil He worked as a network troubleshooter.  Shaun At this time he had such an intimate knowledge of all the little flicks and pops of the phone system that he could...  Phil Tell from those noises what was going on in the network how your call was being routed... if there was a problem somewhere along the line what the problem was.  Shaun Maybe even where it was strictly from listening.  Phil Strictly from listening.  Shaun This was listening to the dial tone times nirvana.  Joybubbles Now it should go through.  Shaun He demonstrated his powers on the New York radio station WBAI. There was a show called Off the Hook...  Joybubbles That good old ring... Now the stick flick that one. Now it will answer briefly. Now it will go funny. Now it will stay like that as long as you want to stay on it. A nice sound. ... Oh it drops off on number five ESS I forgot.  Jad Wow he is like a Jedi master.  Shaun Yeah he is made it.  Shaun So he quit.  Jad What?  Shaun Gave up the job for his friend.  Jad But it sounds like he finally got what he wanted.  Shaun I think he became the master of the world that he had escaped into but he never really dealt with the world that he had escaped from.  Robert Meaning what?  Shaun That little boy that broken little boy that he was still needed a kind of fixing in a way that was not going to be... No job is going to solve that.  Shaun So he moves to Minneapolis on June 12 because 612 was Minneapolis's area code and he basically becomes a kid again.  Steven Everything he did from that point on other than his phone had to do with children.  Shaun He would visit with children who were terminally ill. He would just visit with children in general.  Steven I have got a recording at home... in fact I was listening to it last night before I came interview. I was laughing and giggling because all these little girls were coming up and they were saying Hi hi.  Girls Hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi.  Steven I could hear the parents in the back saying...  Parents Do not sit on all of his stuff.  Steven Do not sit on his toys. He actually starting talking about more to me about his being abused and missing out on his childhood. He was at a seminar an uplifting seminar and the instructor said something on the order of... I am paraphrasing... Tell me how you feel right now! And he screamed and yelled and threw up his arms and said Joy bubbles!  Shaun In that moment he decided that he would actually go by that name Joybubbles.  Jad You mean he changed his name?  Shaun He legally changed his name to Joybubbles all one word. It was around this time that he decided and announced that he was not going to be an adult any more.  Steven His old name and his past was gone and he wanted to be five years old.  Shaun Five years old forever. Then he started doing this.  Joybubbles Gosh it is May already. I am glad you have called Stories and Stuff. This is your storyteller Joybubbles here in Minneapolis Minnesota.  Shaun Those recordings I mentioned in the beginning they are all from this show that Joe recorded every week. He called it Stories and Stuff and instead of broadcasting it he would record the episodes to an answering service and you would call a number and listen to it on the phone.  Joybubbles Hello kids and chidults. I think that chidults is part child and part adult.  Joybubbles Hello hi and hello. This is Stories and Stuff.  Joybubbles You have reached Stories and Stuff. This is Joybubbles here in Minneapolis. That is all one word do not you dare split. Joybubbles.  Shaun This may be too armchair-psychoanalytical but it really feels like it is the kind of show that he needed to hear when he was a kid. The new five year old was trying to go back and say something to the five year old from the early '50s something akin to It is okay. In the end it is going to be okay.  Joybubbles There is help. If you would like an imaginary friend a bunch of them come that are looking for somebody to love and play with and talk to. All you have to do is any quiet day just get quiet and ask for one. Know that they kind you like will come. They will be with you for as long as you want them as long as you need them for lifetime and beyond.  Robert Thanks to producer Shaun Cole.  Jad And to Steven Gib and Phil Lapsley who has now finished a book on phreaking.  Jad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Thanks for listening.  Phone Operator Message for new.  Phil Hey kids this is Phil Lapsley in Bangalore India. Here goes. Rabiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Ellen Horn Soren Wheeler Pat Walters Tim Howard...   Flynn  Lim Leasy and Shaun Cole...   With help from Dylan Keefe  and Raphaela .   Raphaela Benin. Special thanks...   To Jeff ...   Rachel Morrison...  Phil Robert  and everyone...  Voices of Outro Everyone...  Phil At .com.   Thanks guys.   Buh-bye.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 