 Jad Abumrad  Simon Adler  Annie McEwen  Charles Maynes Vitaly Bespalov  Anne Marie Margaret Thomas  Harry Miller  Greg North   Hey this is Jad from Radiolab. So we were not planning on releasing a podcast today but then Friday happened.   The federal government tonight outlining an elaborate expensive and extraordinary assault on US democracy.   Thirteen Russian nationals and three Russian companies accused of a massive effort.   Unless youve been living under a rock for the past three days you have probably heard that special counsel Robert Mueller guy that Trump keeps accusing of being in a witch hunt he has handed down some indictments.   The defendants have allegedly conducted what they call information warfare against the United States   They say the Russians were right here in the US too   The indictment says the Russians tried to create chaos going so far as to travel to key states   The Russians allegedly sent operatives to America travelling throughout nine states   You know the picture that you get from the indictment is that there was this sort of like shadowy network of Russian nationals that had infiltrated the country with the idea of sowing chaos in the run up to the 2016 election and we just sort of wondered very simply like who are these Russians and who are these Americans who were manipulated? How did -- how did it work? How do they feel about things? Now? So uh what we decided to do for this podcast just cause we were curious and just cause you know its fun for a podcast like ours to do fast turnaround stuff on occasion we decided to see what we could find out. Producer Simon Adler takes it from here.  MUSIC   Hey Charles are you there?  Good hey how are you Simon?  Im doing alright little sleepy but other than that Im good.   So not too long ago I got in touch with this uh radio producer-reporter based in Moscow by the name of Charles Maynes  Do you want to do video...just say hello uh?  Yeah thatd be great. Uh Im in uh sort of my pajamas yeah  Thats fine pajamas Russian   It was like three in the morning New York time. But but anyways the reason I got in touch with him was to have him help facilitate and interpret an interview with this guy.   Uh hi. My name is Vitaly Bespalov. Um Im from Russia Im from St St. Petersburg. Im sorry Im uh really bad speak English.  Oh no dont worry about it thats why thats what we got Charles for.  Yes yes yes thank you Charles translating.  Okay great uh yeah. So yeah lets just start with like where are you from orginally? Im just curious like a little bit about who you are.  Speaking in Russian.   Well so Vitaly Bespalov I mean he-hes a kid from a small town in Siberia   Speaking in Russian   A small town near Kazakhstan. And he said from an early age it was clear that he uh just didnt really fit in up there.   Speaking Russian   He had blue hair for a time dressed like a Goth   Speaking Russian   And to be this kind of alternative character in Siberia is not an easy thing. I mean hed tell these stories about walking down the street   Speaking Russian   These kind of tough guys with short haircuts were calling him faggot   Speaking Russian   And so when gets a chance to get out he does   He moves to St. Petersberg considered one of the most liberal cities in Russia and he moves there uh not looking for just any job specifically to be a journalist.   Speaking Russian   Which he really felt was his calling   Speaking Russian   He refers to journalists as like superheros or Batman   So you know so he heads to St. Petersberg and he thinks hes all set up. Hes got uh a job with a local website hes gonna do some editing for them maybe a little writing. But right away with-within short order I believe the story is their business dried up and so did the newspaper and suddenly Vitaly is out of a job.   Speaking Russian  And so its kind of a crisis moment  Speaking Russian   So he starts looking around and as he describes it he gets up every day he starts sending out all these resumes   Speaking Russian   You know doing searches just find anybody who will do anything that will let him use his writing skills just trying to find something to do with text   Until finally after almost a month of this   He comes across this one ad thats its not really clear what theyre offering or whos offering it but uh it mentions that theres some copy editing to be done some writing and uh the-the pay scale seems a lot higher. Its--theyre promising double the money that uh most people are offered for working in journalism in Russia. And--and right away he just thought this was just weird but you know of course hes interested. Um how could he not be?   Yeah   And so he--he places a call  Now its worth noting everything that is about to happen to Vitaly we--we werent able to fact check 100 uh but that being said it--it does line up squarely with what others have reported. So anyway fast forward a couple days. He ends up having an interview and they offer him the job uh which he accepts. All the while still not really knowing uh what the heck it is that he will be doing   Exactly. Its just not really clear what--what it is.   Okay so tell me about that first day like--  Speaking Russian   He goes in and he describes initially just going in to the entering into the foyer of the building to the entrance   Speaking Russian   The building itself is cement uh four stories tall and the security is is oddly strict. Like when he went up to them they required him to hand over a bunch of documents like his passport uh just to get in.   Thats his first impression   Speaking Russian   Eventually his boss shows up uh this woman uh named Anna. She walks him down the halls and he says the whole place had like the feel of a hospital   Speaking Russian   Long corridors with little rooms to the left and right people behind uh keyboards working on computers   And its almost completely silent. Except for the tapping of fingers on keys. Anyway eventually they-they duck into a room. Ana shows him his desk. And this is finally when he gets a sense of what exactly is going on. Ana sits him down and says   Were doing news about Ukraine um we just want you to write articles. It was twenty articles a day he had to do sort of massage the text for.   But the thing is these didnt have to be brand new articles. Um instead he was told   Essentially take this article thats been already written somebody elses article and uh add to it and then change the contents so that its seventy percent original.  So um whats important to know here is uh this was 2014 and uh  NEWSCLIP   Ukraine was in the early days of war   The apocalyptic scene in central Kiev tonight  This morning Kiev again awoke to the sound of gunfire   A civil war that Russia wanted to influence the outcome of. And to do so they started experimenting with this new form of propaganda   Thats right. What you saw was this you know campaign that was going on on two fronts. On the one hand you had state media you know this pro-government media here   Being broadcast from Russia uh into Ukraine uh spinning the narrative for those watching it   But then you have a certain amount of the population that perhaps doesnt watch state media and this is where you get into this effort to kind of plug the holes in this story uh online   And this   Speaking Russian   Is what Vitaly had been hired to do   To you know to seal that story   Speaking Russian   You know they told him to take an article that was about Ukraine   For example uh according to Vitaly there was an incident in which a group of pro-Russian rebels had taken over a school in Ukraine. Essentially holding the kids hostage. And when the pro-Ukrainian soldiers--when they when they stormed the school children died   Speaking Russian   Now this actually happened and was covered by Ukrainian media   But Ana as I recall her name is   Ana Vitalys boss   Says like look your goal is to   Take this real news story and rewrite it leaving out the fact that there were ever any pro-Russian troops there creating the impression that the pro-Ukrainian troops had--had stormed the school and massacred these children for no reason at all   Speaking Russian   And so once he had re-written this article and made these small changes   Speaking Russian   He would create a website with a dot UA address this is a Ukraine address   A site that looked like a local online Ukrainian newspaper   Ostensibly written by Ukrainians for a Ukrainian audience   So hes being asked to write about Ukraine as if he was writing from Ukraine   Yes exactly. Exactly   Speaking Russian   And Vitaly the way he describes it while hes working on his newspapers involving events in Ukraine pretending to be a Ukrainian journalist hes citing blogs that are written ostensibly by Ukrainians and hes pretty sure that bloggers upstairs in the next level up inside this building in St Petersburg. So its a feedback loop.   Mhm   Speaking Russian  Well and uh so Im presuming on day one youve shown up there with these high-minded journalistic ideals and you have to realize that youve gotten yourself into something that uh in no way lives up to those ideals. How on earth did that feel?  Speaking Russian  Speaking Russian   This is where he gets to this really important moment where hes trying to decide what to do. And he says to himself he had kind of two thoughts which is I--A you get out of there and never come back or B you do go back and you find out more--what whats going on there? And he gets this idea that you know what maybe Ive got a scoop here. Maybe I can do an investigation   He sort of assigned himself to be kind of an undercover agent   Exactly  MUSIC   Okay uh just to just to zoom out here for a second the job that Vitaly had taken was with an organization known as   The Internet Research Agency  Something called the Internet Research Agency  The internet research agency   The Internet Research Agency   The shadowy Russian organization   Which weve heard so much about in these past seventy-two hours. Its a private company established in 2013 by a Putin ally named   Yevgeny Prigozhin   Yevgeny Prigozhin   A Russian businessman with close ties to Vladimir Putin   Who along with being the bearer of a rather strange nickname  Dubbed chef to president Vladimir Putin   Is also one the Russian nationals mentioned in the Mueller indictment. Now in the early days when Vitaly was working there uh it was his impression that there were roughly a couple hundred people working at the internet research agency. But at its peak the organization grew to uh to employ as many as a thousand people  With an annual budget of millions of dollars headed by a management group and arranged into departments including graphics search engine optimization information technology and finance departments   Now as Vitaly told us it was hard to know exactly what happened in this place because everyone was so silent but over his time there he--he was able to make sense of some of it. The first floor was filled with people just like Vitaly writing fake articles for fake sites. Second floor was known as the social media department and these folks were responsible for pumping out memes like the one where Hillary Clinton is shaking hands with the devil. The third floor was filled with people writing fake blogs the same blogs that Vitaly would pull quotes from. And on the fourth floor youd find the YouTube and Facebook commenting trolls along with the cafeteria.   Speaking Russian   This was a twenty-four-seven operation. They never they never stopped making news they never stopped generating content.   Well and who were your coworkers?  Speaking Russian   There were quite a few people from other towns of Russia that moved to St Petersburg. There were some people he said were frankly you know activists in the opposition. But there were a lot of people that you know they check in they check out for work they just punch the clock and uh for them it was just like mopping a floor or you know taking out the trash   Did you feel some guilt or misgivings about what you were doing?  Speaking Russian   Yeah he--he describes being stressed out during this whole period cause while he was... on the one hand I suppose hes gathering good material for what will hopefully be some you know grand expose that he will write on the other hand he just felt like he was just living this lie   Eventually after three and a half months Vitaly did quit. And as he tells it hed had enough and just didnt feel like he could learn anything else. And so with his months of research he went on to write an article in Russia that really didnt make a splash at all. In part because the internet research agency was already a pretty well-known organization in Russia at that time. Essentially other journalists had just beaten him to the punch. But then  MUSIC   In the wake of the 2016 election with accusations of Russian meddling beginning to swirl  Tonight a look inside Russias disinformation campaign with twenty-six year old Vitaly Bespalov   The American media took notice and Vitaly got a call from    Is this it? This is the building? Yes yes yes yes of course The troll factory   With his eyebrow pierced and a pink sweater on uh Vitaly answered questions for this brief evening news segment  Did you create fake accounts?  Speaking Russian Yes he says So you believe this operation was backed by the Kremlin  Speaking Russian Absolutely he says. Bespalov also believes its still up and running. The Kremlin denies it suggesting reports the factory even existed might be fake.  Speaking Russian   And from that moment on he really became to go-to guy if you wanted to talk to somebody who had been inside. Journalists from all over the world started reaching out to him   Speaking Russian   Asking for interviews or comments. And keep in mind these were all international journalists none of them Russian until one day not long after all this   Yeah yeah so he gets a call from this national television channel saying basically in an hour were gonna run a story about you and we really want you to come on our talk show   Speaking Russian   And he said look Im busy Im working I cant do it so they run with this piece  Russian news broadcast   In this TV studio on this set that looked like a cross between sort of the family feud and an evening news broadcast um  Russian news broadcast  The hosts just start picking Vitaly apart and flashing images of him on this giant screen behind them  Russian news broadcast   And what theyve got is they kind of mine his online persona theyve got you know him hanging out in a in a club making funny faces with the camera  Russian news broadcast   They start kind of digging through his political views the fact that hes a supporter of the liberal opposition  Russian news broadcast   You know and they just make him out to be this kind of freak and theyre all laughing at him and you know its--its just an absolute public flogging a total public humiliation   Wow um well he got caught in his own little misinformation uh loop there at the very end   Yeah yeah thats right MUSIC   Speaking Russian   You know what whats interesting is that Vitaly you know the way he describes is that you know in some ways when he was there it was they were just starting to figure out the mechanisms it was getting sophisticated and as hes leaving his time is ending at the Internet Research Agency he says that there was just about this time that he started seeing these posts for vacancies um in other languages   Including English   Speaking Russian   So in a way for him its this moment he sees the troll farm the troll factory suddenly turning outward   Well now three years later uh we know a bit more about this English initiative   In 2014 the company established a translator project focused in the United States. In July of 2016 more than eighty employees were assigned to the translator project   And many of those employees apparently took some of the moves from their Ukraine infowar playbook and used them pointed them at the  The Russians also recruited and paid real Americans to engage in political activities promote political campaigns and stage political rallies. The defendants and their co-conspirators pretended to be grassroots activists.   In fact I spoke to one reporter who told me about this incident in Houston uh when there were two protests happening at the same time. On one side of the street a white nationalist protest and on the other a group of Americans for Muslims. Turns out both protests were covertly organized by Russians connected to the Internet Research Agency.   According to the indictment the americans did not know that they were communicating with Russians   And it was this phrase out of all of the ludicrous revelations of the indictment that really got us thinking. Who were these unknowing Americans? How did they end up at these fake protests and how do they think about it now? So producer Annie McEwen and I uh we started calling around and we found three people at the center of one of the more famous fake protests uh mentioned in the indictment the so-called Florida flash mob   Well hear all about that after the break. This is Radiolab well continue in a moment.  Florida Hacking v3.mp3 26 on podcast   Simon Adler  Annie McEwen  Jad Abumrad  Annie Thomas  Greg North  Harry Miller  Rod Rosenstein   Alright you can hear me?  Yes I can hear you fine  First up a woman named Anne-Marie Margaret Thomas Who lives in Florida I live in Jupiter Florida currently Ann is in her 50s she works as a real estate agent.   Oh Shannon Do I long to see you. Im here longing for. A singer Wow Beautiful Shes also a huge Trump fan very active on Twitter. And in early August 2016 she was contacted first on Twitter then on phone by two guys  Joshua and Matt. UCLA Students. They said they were working onthey said they were working with Hollywood producers.  Matt and Josh. These are two people from Hollywood?  Probably the film school I dont know they didnt give me that much information  But on the phone Anne though Joshuas voice sounded familiar.  And I better not I shouldnt say who I think it is  Who did you think it is  Come on. Im really curious laughter  Who do I think it is? John Christopher.  Whos thatyeah whos John Christopher? 10 His real His stage name is Yanni epic sounding music   Yanni the musician  epic music  Wait this is Yanni the like orchestra new age piano god guy?   Yeah yeah but I think shes just guessing. Theres no actual evidence linking Yanni to any of this.  What was the organization that they were working with? 30  Uhh they this was the March for the Trump group and they were a grassroots organization started in the United States Texas and California.   What did they ask you? Or what did they say when they contacted you?  Well they were -- they said they were wanting to do rallies and the Hollywood people wanted to hire. they actually wanted to hire three actorsone to play Trump one to play Bill Clinton and one to play Hillary  Interesting   They basically told her that they wanted to put on some performance art theater protest kind of thing. Around the same time that she was talking to this guys uhh  Now at the same time she was talking to these guys on the other side of Palm Beach County 03  Im Harry Miller. Im retired Im active on Twitter to a point  Another Trump fan a guy by the name of Harry Miller who had a pretty big following  60-70 thousand somewhere in there  He also got contacted on Twitter and over the phone  There was a conversation about the desire to put on a something like a flash mob or something in supporting Donald Trump 24  Sorry who was it that contacted you?  Uhh I believe his name was Matt  And what did Matt say in his original sort of communication?  This is extremely paraphrased because I dont have a distinct memory of all of it. And initially I was very suspect of him. And the reason I was suspect is because he had a uh strong accent and at the time there was a lot of commotion about Muslims. And I thought he was a Muslim of some kind trying to set something up 58  What did his voice sound like?  sigh It wasnt like you or you know like an American wasnt articulate. It was broken. And and so hehe said he wanted a flash mob and what did hewhat did he say he wanted you to do? 15  he was asking me about making a trailer with a jail type of thing on it.  Essentially the guy with the accent told him I want you to stage an event where you have a cage. youre gonna need to build this cage but youre gonna have this cage and at the event and there will be a Hillary Clinton impersonator and Bill Clinton impersonator and I want you to put them in the cage like youre putting them in jail. And you should do this outside so lots of people can see you so people can chant lock her up and you should take a whole bunch of pictures and video and you should send it to us. 41  And I did eventually say yes because he had an elaborate website and he told me in was part of a big group of people and I went there  Do you remember the name of the website?  Being Patriotic. Its dismantled according to the FBI now. In fact I even tried to pull it up and I cant get it either. What was odd was that they insisted on paying me. 02  How did they end up paying for it?  They sent me  to a check cashing place  And how much money was it?  I found an estimate  and I had written an estimate around five hundred and five dollars for it. But it did come from out of the country I do recall that 20  Can you describe what this uh once the construction was complete what your truck looked like?  Yeah I have an S350 Ford pickup truck  Big truck  Yeah and uh I built a chain-link fence three sides and then one side with a gate. and on the four corners I had the American flag of course. And there was a lot of talk about who was going to go in the cage 50   Uh hu  And he he said oh well hire some actors.   No one would play Trump. No one would play him.  Anne says quote the two UCLA guys said that she play Hillary and she agreed 08  And I made the costume I made the costume out of a nurses outfit and on the back it said inmate.  So I went to the Hollywood mask store and bought a full-head mask of Hillary  And so what were like youre told to like what were you told? Show up at this place at this time at this date and you just did it? 23  I dont know if you know Palm Beach but its City Place in front of Cheesecake Factory where this happened.  Harry was told to show up August 20th 1 PM outside the Cheesecake Factory. Thats where this is gonna go down 34  That was another thing I kept asking are you gonna be there? Whos gonna run this thing? Where do I go? Oh just go to City Place youll know 45  So he shows up in front of the Cheesecake Factory with his truck with the big cage hed built on that back and sure enough there were people there  chanting Lock her up  Including Anne dressed up as Hillary Clinton 59  We were given a script  What were your lines do you remember?  I was supposed to well let me see. I was supposed to talk about my computer tablet and my emails. And then I was supposed to tell some jokes. 19  She was there with her really good friend Greg who she had convinced to be the Bill Clinton impersonator  Um I uh sort of needed the money at the time so  What did you do Greg to prepare to play the part of bill Clinton?  I uh I had to shave.  You had to shave? 35 s Do you normally have like a mustache or something?  I had a shaved once back in the 70s and I shaved once when Jerry Garcia died and then I shaved when I had to play Bill Clinton  Wait wait youve shaved like three times in your life?  Uh thats about it 52  how did it feel to be in this cage along with Ann and be this sort of strange actor in this moving play?  Uh well first off it was hot. And I was in a dark blue suit and it was August and its Florida so its like 94 degrees and all I could think of was I wanted a beer. 20  That makes sense  And I just wanted it to be over.  So you didnt have very much fun or  No it wasnt a whole lot of fun. It was just work  Right. Was Annie having fun?  Yeah I guess she was  Bill was supposed to find a lady that would be like standing around like a news lady and try to flirt with her.  Hey Bill dont look now but I think I see Monica! 42  And they put us in jail   She was in the State Department  And they sat in the cage for awhile  What you see in the Facebook live video is a few dozen people in the parking lot outside the Cheesecake Factory just standing around the cage with Annie inside of it who was pretending to be sad about being locked up 59  She was pretty good. She could have been an actress. You know she looked exasperated and you know all that. We spent the day doing that. Took a lot of pictures had a good time  Pictures of course ended up on social media and according to Harry  That thing on Twitter got over 500000 hits over 24 hours you know  Youre aware that much of the mainstream media at the moment is reporting that this was a Russian like how does this make you feel that there is now this possibility that you were 30  Oh yeah the FBI came here to talk to me about it okay  When did you speak with the FBI?  Oh they came to my house  Oh how long ago?  Last week  What did they ask you?  Well they discussed with me pretty much what you were discussing with me but not in as much depth as you did. The young guy was kind of unexperienced. He was cuter than Christian Bale too!  56  Cuter than Christian Bale!  He was a young guy  We reached out to the FBI. They responded with no comment.   Are you concerned that you may be part like that you may have been used as a puppet by people in St Petersburg?  No I wasnt used as a puppet  But would you have done it if they had reached out to you in the first place?  Well I wanted to help Trump  But this is a situation where our own federal government is telling you that this is essentially become an inter-state conflict where people in Russia intentionally manipulated people. Do you find that troubling? 28  Well were not all that stupid. Harry Miller and me and his wife a veteran. No were not that stupid. You know this whole thing is being investigated and Im like known as the unwitting real American.   So shes referring to a word that  Attorney General Rod Rosenstein used in the press conference when he announced these indictments. He said that these Russians    They established social media pages and groups to communicate with unwitting Americans.  Unwitting? Im the one whose idea it was to put the date of Benghazi on the prison uniform. Im not unwitting. And Im not a Russian. Im an American. And I decided that I didnt want to vote for Hillary.   Well yeah I guess Im not saying youre stupid at all I guess whats interesting here is that I dont think you or Greg North or Harry Miller I think that you all had really good intentions I think that you believed in this man and you wanted to go out and support him. I think what gets complicated here now is that we find out you supported this man and maybe at the end of the day you helped him win that there was some nefarious work going on behind the scenes that lead you to do this. And I have complicated feelings about that. Im just trying to figure out whether you do or dont. 10  I dont think its true  Ive got an article up here in front of me and in the indictment they refer to Matt Skilber who I think is the Hollywood man that I think you talked to they refer to him as uh  No he was from Texas and he went to UCLA he was 27  Uh okay sorry  He was involved at some point and then he said he was going home  Yeah Im looking at a document right here that says Matt Skeeber is an invented person  I well maybe thats an invented name but I he was a young guy he sounded like what he said he was. maybe he did give me a bogus name. 47  But you dont believe he was working for Russia?  Well I dont know because if he lied about his name who knows. thats what he told me. He said his name was Matt and he was a UCLA student and the email that I had was this Josh um Josh Milton 06  Ill let you know that um Josh Milton theyre saying is also a made-up person  No but I might be wrong. but Im not always Im not usually wrong.  I think its all hilarious I really do because its obvious what happened from what I gather from this is I was the one dealing with the Russians not Trump. How about that one 33  what do you think about that how does that make you feel?  I think its silly you know because I I dont think Im stupid but I dont see a real motive here or how this could change any votes theyre claiming it disrupted the electionWhere does this interfere with our elections? I dont know. I dont know how that could be I really. Then again had they not contacted me I never in my life would have been up on that corner with a cage saying Lock her up 09  And what Harry says he understands is what the invisible men on the other end of the phone seem to want is to create a visual stunt that they could then take on a tour  They wanted me to go to New York  Oh wow they wanted you to bring the cage to New York  I told them I would too I was not adverse that.  23  And the whole thing to him wasIt just didnt matter if they were Russians or not. But Annes friend Greg the guy who played Bill Clinton he thinks about the whole thing very differently 25  I well  had I known that I was working for the Russians I would have asked for a lot more money. But I have never felt good about the thing because I might have had a little bit of influence on Donald Trump being elected and I think that was a mistake for America. Annie doesnt feel that way. but I do 09  So is the feeling almost a sort of guilt?  Im Im not I dont feel guilty. but I find it a little irritating. nobody likes to be used. 20  Irritating to me feels like a bit of a mild word for how I might feel  Well I dont know Im thinking this might be played on the radio so I cant you the words that Id like to use um sigh ehh. Im pissed as shit. 47  Well and it sounds like you and Anne have very different interpretations of whether Russia was involved or not does that get in between your relationship?  Well lets see. Do I love Annie? Yes I do very very much. Do we see eye to eye on everything? No we dont 05  We all do crazy things  for love. Even dress up like Bill Clinton shave our beards and go in a prison cage.  Well Ive done crazier things than that but I feelduped as an American. Not by the Russians but by my fellow Americans. The Russians cant come here and vote. We voted the way we wanted to vote. and I dont know if Im making any sense or not. 34  Yeah it sounds a little bit like youre saying that uh whats frustrating is the fact that uh it wasnt actually Russia that started the fire they were just blowing on it and making it a little worse. but the truly disheartening fact is that the fire was ignited here without Russia 53  Yeah yeah thats exactly what Im trying to say. I mean sigh I cant I cant I cant talk about this anymore. Call back sometime 24  Just call back sometime Ive got something to say about everything. Im an old man  Okay good well well make use of that  Alright Greg.   Alright   Thank you very much. 