 Hey wait you are listening ... .   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening to Radiolab.   Radiolab.   From ...   WNYC. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Okay sorry Robert? I was trying to- I am gathering my thoughts as I am speaking.  Robert You are collecting- yes okay.  Jad Abumrad Uh all right Robert.  Robert Yes.  Jad Abumrad Season two finale of More Perfect-  Robert Yes.  Jad Abumrad ... Long overdue.  Robert But much anticipated.  Jad Abumrad Maybe.  Robert Yeah. Well among those who care-  Jad Abumrad Among those who care.  Robert ... and there are a growing number.  Jad Abumrad One- one can hope.  Robert . You are having a modest day today.  Jad Abumrad It is- you know it- it is uh it is Tuesday.  Robert It is Tuesday.  Jad Abumrad It is modesty Tuesday.  Robert Yes modesty Tuesday.  Jad Abumrad Okay so I wanna bring you a- a story from the- More Perfect the final story of season two because this story fulfills a promise I made to myself at the very beginning of More Perfect.  Robert Oh my god. This question of yours is that old and that deep?  Jad Abumrad It is only two years old. From the beginning of the show.  Robert But still when people hear what the question is they will- eyeballs will be rubbed.  Jad Abumrad I do not know.  Robert All right go ahead tell them.  Jad Abumrad It is modesty Tuesday.  Robert What was it two years ago that stuck you at that question you have never been able to let go?  Jad Abumrad Question I have never been able to let go one of the first questions I bumped into in learning about the Supreme Court-  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad ... Was why does everybody keep talking about this thing called ...   The commerce clause ...   The commerce clause ...   The commerce clause ...   The commerce clause ...  Robert The commerce clause?  Jad Abumrad Yes.  Robert That had a dazzle for you?  Jad Abumrad No. I just wanted to know what the hell is it?   Well it is article one section eight clause three of the constitution.  Jad Abumrad 16 words two commas.   Congress shall have the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states and with the Indian tribes.   The power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states and with the Indian tribes.  Jad Abumrad Th- there are no more sexier words in the English language.   Yes. Better words for wooing were never written.  Jad Abumrad That is Jamie Floyd and Ari Savitzky we will meet them properly in just a second. Okay so turns out that question of like what is it is pretty easy to answer. It is just these 16 words in the constitution that say co- Congress has the power to regulate commerce from one state to another.  Robert Yes.  Jad Abumrad Like this assumes it goes between states across state borders-  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad ... the feds can regulate it.  Robert I think that there  would begin and end and that would be the end of it. So okay-  Jad Abumrad Well. Yes. But here's the thing. Within that shell of boring is-  Robert I am politely silent here.  Jad Abumrad ... is an amazing story of a kind of cosmic power that develops from very li- humble beginnings to something truly extraordinary and maybe troubling depending on who you are.  Robert A cosmic power. You mean this phrase from the constitution has had consequences that surprised you?  Jad Abumrad Oh boy!  Robert Hm.  Jad Abumrad Oh boy. Here's how I have been thinking about it in the More Perfect story. Like for me the experience I had learning about the commerce clause was a little bit like watching the X-Men movies. Like initially I was like ...   My name is Magneto.  Jad Abumrad Why is Magneto the head of the bad guys?   Will you join my Brotherhood and fight?  Jad Abumrad Like why would they follow him? He has the most boring power?   Who will you stand with?  Jad Abumrad I mean he can control metal. Okay well like Mystique can shift into any shape she wants. Storm can control lightning. Initially his powers seem like you have the worst one.  Robert So we start with the commerce clause and we ask the riddle of Magneto. I- I- I am trying to cross the bridge to get-  Jad Abumrad No no I am- I am getting- I am getting- I am getting there. All I am saying is that like initially I did not understand the true deep nature of his power. But then you see these scenes where he is like being attacked by a thousand policemen and he just kind of ... Makes their bullets freeze in midair. Or he picks up a whole bridge with- by just pointing at it. And then it hits you oh he has the best power. Because the whole world is made of metal. He can control the world. If we had built the world a different way maybe not. But in this world ...   Let us just say I am Frankenstein's monster.  Robert Periodic table baby! Periodic table baby!  Jad Abumrad So that is for me what it was like to learn about the commerce clause. What initially seems stupid and boring-  Robert I see. I see.  Jad Abumrad ... becomes extraordinarily powerful once you understand the world in which it is situated.  Robert Does that mean you are about to take us on a- on a journey which begins with something that feels utterly trivial and ends up with being something enormously powerful?  Jad Abumrad Wow. That is a question to which I simply must answer yes.  Robert .  Jad Abumrad The question- get it all out there. I did not have to do any work with that.  Robert Well- well then we can- I guess we can get on with it then.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. I am gonna tell you the story of the commerce clause. Everything we fight about in America is in these sixteen words.   The honorable the Chief Justice and the associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States. All persons having business before the Honorable the Supreme Court of the United States are admonished to draw near and give their attention.   The board is now sitting. God save the United States and this honorable Court.  Jad Abumrad All right I am gonna- I am gonna start. You good?  Robert Yep.  Jad Abumrad To even explain why something like the commerce clause exists just pull out a dollar bill.   Go ahead and pull it out right? It- it is issued by a central bank.  Jad Abumrad Are you looking at a dollar bill right now?   I am looking at a dollar bill.  Jad Abumrad Okay.   It says 'Federal Reserve note United States of America.'  Jad Abumrad That is James Chen professor of Law at Michigan State University. Now the thing about the dollar bill the awesome obvious thing is that you can take that dollar bill and buy some sour patch kids or whatever a dollar buys these days anywhere in America.   Right. But in the late 18th century in fact all the way through to the 20th century ...  Jad Abumrad It was not like that.   No no no no no.  Jad Abumrad All the states had their own banks and their own bills.   Different sizes colors.  Jad Abumrad For example there was a moment when South Carolina has this pretty little green South Carolina bill. Same time Rhode Island has this giant pink square thing and if you are a South Carolinian in Rhode Island trying to buy some carrots and potatoes let us say-   Let us say that. And you have got to make payment somehow.  Jad Abumrad What do you do? Well you hand them your South Carolina bill-   Well the Rhode Islanders would look at that and say well I do not know what this is. Who- who is to trust this bank right? And so they would discount the note based on the distance from their own home. They would discount the note based on how it looked how professionally drawn up it was.  Jad Abumrad They might look at that ten dollars and say that is only worth eight to me.   It is a horrible horrible way to do business.  Jad Abumrad That sucks for the people holding the note.   Right.  Jad Abumrad And so what the government decided to do uh is to say hey we are just gonna use one bill. Just one bill. It is gonna be so much easier. This was one of the ways the government was going to pull all these different states together. They were gonna regulate the currency. And not just the currency itself they were gonna regulate the flow of that currency.  Jamie Floyd And this is where the commerce clause comes in.  Jad Abumrad This is Jamie Floyd journalist.  Jamie Floyd Sometimes legal analyst.  Jad Abumrad Host of All Things Considered.  Jamie Floyd Here at WNYC. It is early in the republic now we are at 1820s.  Jad Abumrad Now just to hit pause for one second. So the commerce clause was a pre-existing thing?  Jamie Floyd Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Jamie Floyd Oh yeah. It is in the US Constitution.  Jad Abumrad It is in the Constitution but it is never been really like thought about or- or where- where is it in the minds of people in 1820?  Jamie Floyd Nowhere.  Jad Abumrad Nowhere.  Jamie Floyd Pretty much where it is right now.  Jad Abumrad .  Jamie Floyd It is nowhere in the minds of people.  Jad Abumrad But she says 1824 two steamboat operators get into a thing.  Jamie Floyd It is a business dispute.  Jad Abumrad They are each going back and forth between New York and New Jersey they each think they should be the only one allowed to do that.  Jamie Floyd And it makes its way as we say all the way to the US Supreme Court. And who is sitting up there? Well a big bad dude named John Marshall. Marshall is the sort of Rambo of the court. He looks at those 16 words Congress shall have the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states. He looks at those 16 words and a couple of commas and a period-  Jad Abumrad And he decides-  Jamie Floyd Pretty much for the first time-  Jad Abumrad That those words give Congress-  Jamie Floyd The power to regulate commerce between and among states. This boat is going from one state to the other the only way to resolve that is for the federal government to come in and contr it.  Jad Abumrad Again the idea is that this is the only way for the country to function as a unified thing. And John Marshall when he writes his decision ...  Jamie Floyd He says look we have a United States of America. We do not have a divided states of America or independent states of America or New Jersey and New York existing separately. We decided to organize as a United States. And so what John Marshall says is because of that there has to be a power to regulate trade between those states and amongst those states when there are disputes. Otherwise it is all gonna fall apart.  Jad Abumrad It was at that point that the commerce clause began to glow. But very faintly. For the next 100 years the government would experiment with the commerce clause in cases involving trade with the Native American tribes or navigation. But if you want to talk about power like real raw weird power that power got unleashed uh at a very specific moment around 1941 in a wheat field.  Robert Well what happened in the wheat field?  Jad Abumrad Okay well let me introduce you to someone.  Roscoe My father was a farmer uh I would like to say all of his life. Took pride in the fact that he never- he never worked for another man. Uh he would tell me that.  Jad Abumrad Can you introduce yourself?  Roscoe Well my name is the same as my father. It is Roscoe Curtis Filbrun. I am a junior.  James Chen Roscoe Filburn as he was known at the time.  Jad Abumrad He was a fifth generation farmer.  James Chen In Montgomery Ohio.  Roscoe Our- our farm was uh just right next to Dayton Ohio.  James Chen Roscoe is about a 40 year old man at this point.  Jad Abumrad Again we are talking about 1941 '42.  James Chen Good looking sturdy.  Jad Abumrad Fiercely independent.  James Chen I never worked for another man in my life.  Jad Abumrad Apparently that was his motto.  Roscoe He would tell me that many times over the years.  James Chen If you had to put like Captain America with a pitchfork this is him.  Jad Abumrad So Roscoe's got this farm more than 100 cows on it.  Roscoe He would milk cows until both of his arms went practically numb.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Jad Abumrad He had chickens.  Roscoe 2000 chickens. And uh we had um a very big garden. He would plant things you know like string beans lima beans pea sweetcorn potatoes carrots radishes.  Jad Abumrad A couple different kinds of fruit trees.  Roscoe Apples cherry trees peach trees pears strawberries and raspberries.  Jad Abumrad Oh and of course they had crops.  Roscoe We would grow corn a couple different kinds of hay oats and of course wheat.  James Chen Wheat.  Jad Abumrad Okay set up out of the way here's what happened. Um it is 1941 Roscoe senior ...  Roscoe My dad was out in the field I think on his tractor.  Jad Abumrad That day he was plowing the wheat or something.  Roscoe And there apparently must have been uh some guy from the department of agriculture locally I guess going around to various farmers in our community uh wanting the farmers to answer several pages I think of questions. And this particular day this government uh uh gentleman came out into the field.  Jad Abumrad He looked around and he said ...  James Chen Roscoe-  Jad Abumrad By my calculations-  James Chen You have got 22 acres of wheat on this farm.  Jad Abumrad You are over your quota.  Jamie Floyd He was 11.1 acres over what was permitted.  Jad Abumrad Roughly. And so the guy tells him-  Jamie Floyd You have to pay a fine.  Jad Abumrad A really big fine.  Roscoe My dad looked over and he was just as sober as a judge in a courtroom on a murder case.  Jad Abumrad And what happened next would change the country forever in ways that we are still literally living with. But let me just sort of fill in the gaps here tell you what you need to know about why they- they were even having this conversation. And to help me with that ...  Ari My name is Ari Savitzky and I am an attorney.  Jad Abumrad Let me bring in a friend of the show man of the law.  Ari You know an important thing to understand is that you know when our story starts with Roscoe Filbrun agriculture is a huge percentage of the economy the great Depression is happening. And the dust bowl has happened too. And so you have a lot of people who rely on selling crops and buying crops and so wheat prices-  Jad Abumrad It is a matter of life and death.  Ari ... for millions of Americans.   This nation is asking for action and action now.  Ari So look so 1938-  Jamie Floyd Congress enacts-  Ari What is called the agricultural adjustment act.  Jamie Floyd To reboot the economy.  James Chen So the 1938 agricultural adjustment act got the federal government into the business of regulating wheat.  Jad Abumrad Basically what the government did was they said to the farmers of America we are going to give you essentially a loan. We are gonna guarantee you a certain minimum price for wheat. We are gonna give you x number of dollars per bushel or whatever it is and that will help lift you out of poverty. In exchange for that you have to promise us to only grow a certain amount. So the big fear was that if they grew too much there would be this flood of supply on the wheat market prices would crash and that would be bad for everyone.  Ari You know wheat is sort of a collective action problem right? Everyone's gonna sell as much wheat as they can but that means prices go down and everyone makes less.  Jad Abumrad So what the government decided to do in addition to giving out loans ...  Ari Is that they placed a cap on how much wheat a person could grow. So quota. Straight up quota.  Jad Abumrad That way you ensure that the supply of wheat is steady-  Ari And you ensure that uh that the prices do not crash.  Jad Abumrad And the whole reason the government could do this regulate the entire wheat market was by hinging it on the commerce clause. So the 16 words that basically said that when something like wheat is bought and sold and moved from one place to another one state to another across state lines well that is interstate commerce and that is something that Congress can regulate.  Roscoe So my father uh having this ...  Jad Abumrad And this brings us back to Roscoe Filbrun with that inspector on his farm. Inspector says look Roscoe you have grown too much wheat.  Roscoe My dad looked over and he was just as sober as a judge in a courtroom on a murder case.  Jamie Floyd And what do you think he says back? He says wait a minute.  Roscoe I am gonna tell you what- just exactly how I feel about that.  Jad Abumrad No. That is how I feel. No you government ...  Jamie Floyd I do not know he might have been a family guy.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Jamie Floyd He says I do not get it. I am not- I am not- I have nothing to do with interstate commerce. And this is the key.  Jad Abumrad He explains to the inspector that yes according to the government quota I am only supposed to grow about 11 acres of wheat and I am growing 23. But that extra 12 I am not selling it to anybody.  Jamie Floyd He does not sell the wheat. He does not trade the wheat.  Jad Abumrad What is he doing with his wheat?  Jamie Floyd He uses all the wheat to feed his animals.  James Chen He is feeding it to the farm animals.  Roscoe The wheat he fed some of the wheat to the steers. I- I really ...  Jad Abumrad So he is just keeping it on the farm.  Jamie Floyd Well yes. So it is in a completely internal operation. I- do I sound biased here? I mean I feel like the poor guy gets kind of dragged into a national case.  Jad Abumrad In any case he tells the inspector ...  Jamie Floyd I am not- I have nothing to do with interstate commerce.  Jad Abumrad Just growing a little extra wheat to feed my cows.  Jamie Floyd I am on my farm I am doing my business. Big- big brother leave me alone.  Jad Abumrad But big brother does not leave him alone. The inspector says-  James Chen We are the government that is the law. Please uphold it.  Jad Abumrad Pay the fine.  Ari 50 cents for every excess bushel I think it is. He had 239 excess bushels of wheat for which he was you know fined about 117 bucks.  Jad Abumrad In today's dollars that is about two grand. Two grand.  Roscoe My- my father apparently he- he was not real crazy about that and I guess he did not like that too much. If I would have been 20 or 25 years old I would have probably advised my father not to do what he did but I guess he sued the federal government.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Jad Abumrad His argument was like look I am just trying to feed my cows. Come on.  Roscoe I- I guess it went to uh our court in Dayton Ohio.  Jad Abumrad That was the first stop.  Roscoe And I believe that he won.  Jad Abumrad Round one to Roscoe. The Ohio court agreed ...  Jamie Floyd There is no commerce of any kind going on here unlike the original case with the boat.  Roscoe I- I believe I even remember him uh uh my sister telling me that- that he came home and he was just uh delighted at- that he did win.  Jad Abumrad But then the government appeals the case-  Roscoe And uh of course when it got to uh the Supreme Court of the United States he- he- he lost.  Jad Abumrad He lost in a decision that I think it is fair to say still drives conservatives and libertarians bonkers. And I am neither one of those things but I get it. What the Supreme Court said is that Roscoe Filbrun growing that extra wheat and not selling it still counts as interstate commerce. Because having that extra wheat causes him to not buy it on the market. He needs less wheat from the market. And if all the farmers of America did that then that would be really bad for the market.  Ari The idea is that if you need more wheat than the quota you go on the market and buy it.  Jad Abumrad Even though you can grow it yourself. You have gotta buy it.  Ari Because if everyone can produce their quota and then whatever extra they need I mean pretty soon the- the regulation breaks down.  James Chen Which means that the government intervention in the wheat market will have failed. You will have defeated our attempt to regulate this market therefore we have to regulate even the things you do not do.  Jad Abumrad See that is so weird. It is such a mind ... frankly. It is like he is not doing anything.  James Chen A- all right well- well this becomes-  Jad Abumrad We can w- w- this is literally non behavior.  James Chen This is- this is Obamacare.  Jamie Floyd It is very much like the healthcare case.   It is getting heated over healthcare. Today's issue the individual mandate.  Jad Abumrad Just to explain that is a reference to uh Barack Obama's healthcare plan uh that was hotly debated a couple years ago. Still hotly debated. One of the key ideas of that plan is that in order for healthcare to be affordable for everyone everyone should have to buy it.  Ari So we are gonna require people to buy insurance or else you pay a penalty.  Jad Abumrad Which made a lot of people made because they are like hey the government's forcing me to buy something I do not want.  Ari My decision not to get healthcare is not participation in interstate commerce. It is not even economic activity. I am sitting here on my couch not buying healthcare. I am just sitting here.  Jad Abumrad From the individual perspective that makes perfect sense. But if you pan out and Justice Kagan said this in court it is not so simple.   And the aggregate of all these uninsured people are increasing uh the normal family premium Congress says by 1000 a year. Those people are in commerce. They are making decisions that are uh effecting uh the price that everybody pays for this service.  Jad Abumrad Obamacare makes sense to me in some- in some spiritual way. But getting back to Roscoe like we are regulating the things you are not doing. There is like non-  James Chen Because there is no farmer- no farmer is an island.  Jamie Floyd This is the case in which Congress receives a tremendous amount of power from the US Supreme Court. Essentially this case says that Congress can regulate almost anything. And that is the single most significant precedent in the area of the commerce clause. The big bang.  Jad Abumrad Did anyone sort of raise their hand in the middle of this and be like whoa if you can regulate the non-behavior of this American farmer then that is not even a slippery slope. That is like a cliff that goes right down. Like there is no slope to that.  Ari Well yeah. The New York Times editorial from November 13 1942 said If the farmer who grows feed for consumption on his own farm competes with commerce would not the housewife who makes herself a dress do so equally? The net of the ruling in short seems to be that Congress can regulate every form of economic activity if it so decides.  Jad Abumrad Would not the housewife who makes herself a dress do so equally. Yeah- it is like- yeah.  Ari Yeah.  Jad Abumrad It is like you make- if you make something like shoot my wife and I with our kids made these little like uh miniature stuffed animals for them to play with the other day. Are we then in violation of some ... But that seems crazy to me that the government-  Ari Oh my gosh. If you- you made your kids do it and now you have violated some child labor laws even.  Jad Abumrad . So like what happened here essentially Robert is that the um the definition of commerce uh changed in a- in a sneaky but really powerful way. Because now it was not just like the buying and selling of stuff-  Robert It was the not buying and selling of stuff.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. It was your negative commercial activity.  Robert And that is like ... All the things you do not do is a much bigger territory than the things you do do.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert So that is a massive extension of power.  Jad Abumrad And that expansion would continue over the next few decades and it would move from just wheat to something much deeper. To like beyond markets into the- into matters of the heart.  Robert You mean like people hating on each other? Or people trusting- people being br- people ...  Jad Abumrad All will become clear after the break my friend.  Robert Okay. All right well ...  Jad Abumrad After the break.  Robert Excuse me while I get myself a- a sizzling drink and settle down in my black leather couch.  Jad Abumrad Ooh.  Robert Yeah.  Jad Abumrad All right. Season two finale of More Perfect here on Radiolab. We will continue in a moment.  Nicole This is Nicole from Corning New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Ilya Marritz Hello it is Ilya Marritz co-host of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent President to not release his tax returns. The only president you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.   He did not care what records was. He tore up memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like look you cannot do that.  Ilya Marritz Trump Inc. an open investigation into the business of Trump from ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is- well we are featuring the final episode of More Perfect season two uh here on Radiolab.  Robert A strange and heart-filled salute to the commerce clause of the US Constitution.  Jad Abumrad Yes. And uh previously we had the big bang in the wheat field but that was still about markets and commerce and all that right?  Robert Yeah.  Jad Abumrad There was a moment about two decades after the wheat case where you might say the commerce clause got weaponized.  Robert Hm.  Ollie Hello?  Jad Abumrad Hey can you hear me?  Ollie Yes.  Jad Abumrad This is Jad from uh Radiolab and More Perfect in New York.  Ollie Jack.  Jad Abumrad Jad J-A-D.  Ollie Jad. J-A-D. Okay. Well Andrew is here and he is recording.  Jad Abumrad To really understand what I mean you have to meet this guy.  Jad Abumrad Can you introduce yourself tell me who you are your name?  Ollie Yes. It is Ollie McClough Jr.  Jad Abumrad Uh and how old are you?  Ollie 77.  Jad Abumrad And where are you speaking to us from right now?  Ollie I am in Birmingham Alabama.  Jad Abumrad You were born in Birmingham.  Ollie Yes.  Jad Abumrad Aside from some time at college in Florida and a stint in the Coast Guard Ollie Jr has lived in Birmingham his entire life. And the reason we called him up is that for 75 years his family ran a famous BBQ joint named Ollie's.  Jad Abumrad So this is your dad's business from what I understand right?  Ollie Yes my grandfather actually founded it.  Jad Abumrad Oh really? When was that?  Ollie 1926.  Jad Abumrad So this was passed to your dad who passed it to you.  Ollie Yes.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Ollie But we were in business together until he died.  Jad Abumrad Ollie's BBQ was located on Birmingham South Side.  Ollie The building we were in at the time you are talking about from 1949 'till '68 it was concrete block. Uh-  Jad Abumrad Big sign outside said World's Best BBQ?  Ollie Pretty good for its day.  Jad Abumrad Apparently during lunch the line would stretch out the door. Ollie's was famous for its slow cooked pork and chicken and for its uh spicy vinegar BBQ sauce.  Ollie Uh and the pie baking.  Jad Abumrad Chocolate pies.  Ollie We always did a lot of pies.  Jad Abumrad But Ollie's was also famous or would become famous for something else entirely.  Ollie Well uh because of the times uh and the way things were uh at that time ... of course throughout the south and Birmingham ... Uh we had a carry out business as well as sit down business and- and uh those of our black customers came in and uh ordered from the carryout counter and took their food out. And uh you know truth fact history uh they would take it on with them to eat as opposed to sitting down and eating.  Jad Abumrad What he is saying is that Ollie's BBQ was segregated. If you were white you could eat inside. If you were black you could not.  Ollie I mean that was the way it worked.  Jad Abumrad So what does this have to do with the commerce clause. Okay so the federal government at the time - this would be the Kennedy administration then LBJ - they wanted to come down on places like Ollie's BBQ. But their hands were sort of tied. I mean we have this thing called the 14th amendment which says ...  James Chen No state shall deprive any person of life liberty or property without due process of- of law nor shall any state deny equal protection of the laws to any person.  Jad Abumrad James Chen again. Now those words he says which were ratified right after the civil war were written to basically outlaw things like segregation. Of course it did not work we would have another 80 years of Jim Crow and the reason for that is that the Supreme Court shortly after the 14th amendment was passed kind of neutered it. Well not kind of. They did. And one of the ways they did was by insisting that we read the 14th amendment as being targeted only at states.  James Chen If you look at that sentence the second sentence of the 14th amendment it says no state. No state shall deprive any person of life liberty or property without due precedent. The problem is is when a restaurant owner like Ollie McClung denies service to black patrons. It is not Alabama doing the damage.  Jad Abumrad Just a private business.  James Chen It is not as if Alabama ordered the McClung family to discriminate against black patrons. They just did it.  Jad Abumrad So if the 14th amendment can only get to states well here it has no reach.  James Chen Because there is no state action. There is nothing to regulate at the state level.  Jad Abumrad So what the feds decided to do in a fascinating bit of legal gymnastics is they decided to use the commerce clause.   Congress passes the most sweeping civil rights bill ever to be written into the law.   Giving all Americans the right to be served in facilities which are open to the public.  Jad Abumrad July 2nd 1964 Congress passes a sweeping civil rights bill that was hinged on those 16 words. And I will explain to you how because it is kind of fascinating in just a second. But first just to get us to that point ...  Jad Abumrad So 1964 civil rights-  Ollie Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad ... Act is passed. Did you desegregate right away?  Ollie No.  Jad Abumrad No.  Ollie No we were- we were not happy with it obviously.  Jad Abumrad I want to read to you something that you said in 1964. I believe these are- this is sort of your account of something that happened in- in your restaurant.  Jad Abumrad The day after the civil rights act was passed a black man comes into the restaurant asking to be served and uh and you turn him away. 45 minutes later he comes back with a young girl four other black people. They sit down at the counter. They want to know why you- why Ollie's would not serve them. And they were taking notes. And you are quoted as saying They seemed like agitators.  Ollie Yeah. In fact they were. They uh they were folks that came uh and went around several places uh just to test the law basically. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad And you were uh and you were turning those folks away.  Ollie Yes.  Jad Abumrad You kicked them out.  Ollie Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad And why?  Ollie I mean just because that is the way uh we had always done. That is the way- until the law got adjudicated uh we were not going to unilaterally uh change things.  Jad Abumrad But they- you know from their perspective they are there because the law's been changed.  Ollie Yeah. Yes.  Jad Abumrad Ollie says right after the civil rights act was passed sort of an emergency meeting was called of the uh Birmingham Restaurants Association and he and his dad went.  Ollie And we uh discussed with the um with them and with the executive of it that uh this was going to be such a potentially um harmful to the- to the restaurant businesses.  Jad Abumrad Like you would lose all your white customers is that what you were worried about?  Ollie I mean that- that was a possibility. And uh somebody ought to do something and uh so we kind of ended up being the ones to do something IE fi- file the suit.  Jad Abumrad So they filed a suit basically saying to the federal government you have no right to barge into our small independent local business.  Ollie Thought was they cannot really tell us what to do because we are not an interstate business and that is all that the federal government regulates. And up until that point that was all they had regulated.  Jad Abumrad The case went to the US District Court for the northern district of Alabama.  Ollie Uh at the lower court level the three judge special panel uh we had a unanimous decision in our favor.  Jad Abumrad The Alabama court agreed that there was no interstate commerce happening here and that Ollie's did not have to desegregate they could sell their ribs to whoever they wanted.  Ollie And we were optimistic about that.  Jad Abumrad The government then appeals and the case as they say goes all the way to the Supreme Court.  Jad Abumrad All right let me now explain to you how the government made this argument because they made it in court.   May it please the court.  Jad Abumrad October 5th 1964.   The second case involving ...  Jad Abumrad Solicitor General Archibald Cox gets up there and lays it out. Why the government should be allowed to use the commerce clause of all things to desegregate Ollie's BBQ.    operate a restaurant in Birmingham Alabama specializing in barbecuing meat.  Jad Abumrad He says this is a business that sells and buys a lot of meat.   In the 12 month period prior to July 1 1964  purchased about 70000 worth of meat.  Jad Abumrad 69683 to be exactly. And where do you think all that meat came from?   Which was purchased from the Hormel company at its Birmingham Alabama plant. Now all the meat sold at that plant came from other states so that it moved in interstate travel.  Jad Abumrad In other words you think you are a local business but you are not.  James Chen The meat is sourced from places other than Alabama.  Jad Abumrad And what about your ketchup hypothetically? Do you grow all your tomatoes in Alabama.  James Chen No.  Ollie Salt. Salt not mined in Alabama so even though we bought it from a local vendor ...  Jad Abumrad That local vendor probably bought it from somebody who bought it somebody that got it from out of state.  Ollie They were reaching beyond what had ever been done before basically.  Jad Abumrad The government was basically telling the McClungs the same thing they told Roscoe Filbrun you are not an island. And that was only the government's first argument. They had another argument.   There is a second and still more direct link.  Jad Abumrad That was even more radical.   Between racial discrimination in restaurants and interstate commerce which is caused by the artificial narrowing of the consumer market resulting from the exclusion of negro patrons.  James Chen So here's the argument.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  James Chen If you deny black people access to restaurants and hotels you are effectively shutting down interstate travel by them in parts of the country where this practice is commonplace. The entire deep south.  Jad Abumrad You are limiting their ability to cross state lines and- and-  James Chen And travel.  Jad Abumrad The essential argument says James Chen is that when you discriminate against someone you create downstream negative uh commercial effects. Like- like you create a chilling effect because the person you are discriminating against is then less likely to travel across state lines and spend money. So in effect you are depressing their future interstate commerce.  James Chen If you ask black people with this experience from this time period they will universally say we never left home unless every tire was triple checked every belt was triple checked on the car because we did not want to have the car break down in a hostile southern town and get lynched.  Jad Abumrad Right right.  James Chen It is an entire system of travel and commerce that is at stake here.  Jad Abumrad Essentially the argument was discrimination is bad for business it is expensive. And ultimately in a unanimous decision the Supreme Court the same court that 100 years earlier had basically gutted the 14th amendment. The Supreme Court agreed that uh discrimination in restaurants posed significant burdens on the quote interstate flow of food and upon the movement of products generally.  Jad Abumrad Do you remember that decision coming down?  Ollie Oh certainly.  Jad Abumrad Where were you?  Ollie Oh I was at work.  Jad Abumrad Can you tell me a little bit about how you and your dad processed that decision?  Ollie We simply served anyone who came in after that no problem. And they were uh the very next day there was a group of uh local civil rights leaders who came in and ate lunch. I knew some of them by having seen them in the news that sort of thing. They were not our regular customers before then nor after frankly. But uh they celebrated or whatever you want to say uh tested I do not know what their motive was. But they came and ate lunch. They got served just like anybody else.  Jad Abumrad They came in and it was fine.  Ollie Sure. The law was- was decided so that was it.  Jad Abumrad Was it tense?  Ollie No. Other than waitress who was waiting on them was- she was a little antsy about it.  Jad Abumrad And- and was it- this waitress was she a black woman?  Ollie Yes. I forget who it was now but uh she was ... Like most of our employees been there a very long time. And uh had never served other black folks uh in a sit down situation. And- and of course it was a little bit uh ... I will not say upsetting but different. She was a little hesitant at first. I- you know told her just you know just go right ahead and serve them. And she did and we did and that was not a problem.  Jad Abumrad After the ruling it is not as if a lot of black customers suddenly started coming into Ollie's BBQ. They did not. Here's how uh a guy named Nathan Turner Jr put it in 2014 uh he was interviewed for an NPR piece. He grew up nearby Ollie's.  Nathan Turner Just the fact that Ollie's pushed it that far to take it to the Supreme Court it left a bad taste pun intended in the mouths of a lot of black people in Birmingham.  Jad Abumrad And now 53 years later-  Ollie Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad ... how do you think about that Supreme Court decision?  Ollie Well you are- if you are asking me about segregation that is one thing. But you are asking about the Supreme Court and the decision and uh the commerce clause I still disagree with uh uh ... Let me put it real real succinctly. Uh I think what you had in that decision was that rather than ... And I think my civics is correct but I do not know rather than three quarters of the uh Congress and three fifths of the states I believe it is having to ... Or maybe two thirds of Congress whichever it is. Having to vote to repeal an amendment to the constitution uh you had basically nine appointees who repealed the 10th amendment to the constitution.  Jad Abumrad The 10th amendment basically says that the powers not given to the feds are reserved for the states and for the people.  Ollie And that is about as succinct as I can say it.  Jad Abumrad But do you understand how this is going to sound to a lot of our listeners? I mean that you are making a states rights argument as a not so veiled way to continue to discriminate. That really in the end this is not about states rights. I think that is gonna- how it is gonna sound to a lot of people.  Ollie Well it may very well but it is not the case. Was there segregation? Yes. Uh were- were we going to voluntarily uh end that? Probably not. Would we go back and reinstate it if we could? No absolutely not. But the issue that you are talking about with the uh commerce clause and the constitutional issue is still just what I said.  Jad Abumrad So you still believe 53 years later that the Supreme Court got it wrong that they should have never used the commerce clause to make you desegregate Ollie's?  Ollie Yeah. That is correct. But do not hear me say that- I do not want to go back and have segregation again. That is a separate issue.  Jad Abumrad But is it separate I guess is my question. You know uh like I grant you if you think of it in the abstract a federal government being able to regulate commerce across all boundaries is an enormous power.  Ollie Yes.  Jad Abumrad And it- and it- and it could be a scary power. I grant you that. At the same time you have a civil rights act-  Ollie Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad ... that- that speaks to a different amendment in the constitution-  Ollie Right.  Jad Abumrad ... and that you and your father were not willing to follow. So how is the government gonna get you to- to pay attention and to get in line? They have got to use the commerce clause. So on some level is not it- is not the power present because the other principles that would otherwise regulate your behavior just are not working.  Ollie Well that is- that is the point. You choose which- which is the priority basically.  Jad Abumrad I do not understand. Wh- which is the priority? How-  Ollie Well which is the priority of uh those amendments uh ...  Jad Abumrad And so for you the 10th amendment that grants states rights for everything not enumerated outweighs the dignity of black people.  Ollie No no no.  Jad Abumrad No. Well we will put- so say it to me differently then.  Ollie Well the 10th amendment left that to the states. The 4th amendment yes-  Jad Abumrad I think you meant to say the 14th amendment.  Ollie ... gives people rights everyone rights. But here's the thing about rights. It is got- kind of like the first law of thermodynamics. There is only a ... and people do not realize this a lot of times. There're only so many rights. There are only a finite number of rights. If you take some- give some to someone they come from someone else or somewhere else. Now it is very well to say that the end of segregation was a higher right and more important right than the misuse of the commerce clause or whatever you want to say. But you- but there is still a balance in just which one you think is most important. Uh today's politics we call it zero sum.  Jad Abumrad Ollie's basic point and we talked about this for another hour was that in achieving desegregation that way ... And by the way the civil rights act of '64 dramatically altered the south. It desegregated huge parts of the south. But by doing it that way he says with the commerce clause something was it sacrificed. He calls it a zero sum. I would not call it that. I do not think most people would call it that. Treating with dignity and equality is a net win. Period.  Jad Abumrad But it is legitimately strange that the government had to take such a roundabout ass-backward way to fix this. To fix this grave justice.  Jamie Floyd And what- what- what you would think would be the obvious- that you would go right to those civil rights parts of the constitution but it was not. It was the commerce clause.  Jad Abumrad That is what is weird is that-  Jamie Floyd Yeah.  Jad Abumrad ... we have the 14th amendment and yet we go to the commerce clause for something-  Jamie Floyd Yep.  Jad Abumrad ... that is so clearly stated in one of the amendments. So why-  Jamie Floyd Well lawyers are very tricky.  Jad Abumrad This is Jamie Floyd again by the way.  Jamie Floyd And the lawyers in those cases that want- they wanted to win. They wanted to win more than they wanted to make a social statement about equal justice equal rights the 14th amendment. I mean those things mattered but most of all they wanted to win. They wanted to shut down discrimination at those lunch counters. And if Congress could shut them down or require them to open their doors to all Americans using those 16 words I am okay with that.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Yeah. No I mean obviously the- if- the ends do justify the means in that case. But it does make you ... If you sort of put that case and the wheat case in your mind as a kind of split screen-  Jamie Floyd Yeah.  Jad Abumrad ... it is- it is a little strange. Because I do think okay we have I- I mean I- hopefully we are Americans with principles that matter you know? That we- we believe in equality we believe in racial justice. But really we just believe in money. And we can do all the other stuff by bootstrapping it to commerce but somehow as- as pure principles they what do not have teeth?  Jamie Floyd Well it is deeply troubling that we have to use commerce to achieve our higher values.  Jad Abumrad That is weird to me. That is fundamentally weird to me. And it is kind of cynical.  Jamie Floyd Well yeah. I mean I- I ... you are right. We are at least in large part about commerce in this country. But if that is who we are then we should embrace it and use it to our advantage. And if we can use it to our advantage perhaps it does take us to our higher principles.  Jad Abumrad Now that is an interesting way of looking at it.  Jamie Floyd Yeah it is not all bad.  Jad Abumrad One of Jamie's points which I had not actually thought of was that legislating morality legislating what is good and what is bad does not always go well because we very often do not agree. I mean obviously there have been times where people kept slaves and thought that was just fine. That that was right. And for 100 years you had the 14th amendment in place but it could not solve Ollie's BBQ. And here was a way for the government without going at the moral questions head on government could reach its hand all the way into the BBQ joints and the hotels and the restaurants and the houses and now the cake shops of America reach its hand all the way down into the local. And it was because of this increasingly expansive idea of commerce that was now no longer the buying and selling of things or the not buying and selling of things it was now any behavior that could create a kind of butterfly effect that might one day may steps downstream have a future effect on the buying and selling of things. So in that sense Ollie McClung was right. His case ...  Ollie That was a massive shift. It shifted totally the federal government's role beyond business even. Uh if you think it is good then that is fine and it is for the better. But it just has to be realized that it was a massive shift from the way that uh the country had been up before that time.  Jad Abumrad After the McClung case James Chen says the governments use of the commerce clause pretty much went wild.  James Chen Yeah. There was just no real limit.  Jad Abumrad They began to wave those 16 words sort of like a magic wand to pass laws on everything from fair labor standards to ...   Marijuana is a schedule one-  Jad Abumrad Drugs.   The gun control act of 1968.  Jad Abumrad Guns.   Is there justice for victims of trafficking acts?  Jad Abumrad Sex trafficking.   19000 African lions in the wild-  Jad Abumrad Endangered species.   1992 professional and amateur-  Jad Abumrad Sports.   ... sports protection act which forbids state authorized sports gambling.  Jad Abumrad All kinds of things.  James Chen And in fact the only question was whether the government even had to make the argument itself. Whether the government even has to defend itself.  Jad Abumrad James Chen says there were times when the government would pass a law it would get taken to court and the government would pr- basically not show up. And they would still win!  James Chen That is where we were. So we were arguing whether the government even has to argue!  Jad Abumrad So you can see the McClung case as sort of a second big bang but then you get to the mid '90s. At this point 1994 you have a Democratic President Bill Clinton Democratic majorities in both houses of Congress and together they pass the violence against women act.   Today is the first day of spring and I think it is appropriate that we begin a new season of hope in the fight against domestic violence.   I thank you all for being here. Now this is an important day.  Jad Abumrad The act was sort of a sweeping rethink of the fed government's role in trying to prevent violence against women. It beefed up investigations uh of violent crimes against women prosecutions. It allowed women to sue their alleged attackers in federal court.   We had to take responsibility. Domestic violence is now the number one health risk for women between the ages of 15 and 44 in our country.  Jad Abumrad And the law was hinged on the commerce clause. Same essential argument as in the BBQ case. That same fall ...  Christy My name is Christy Brzonkala. I am 19 years old and I have lived in Fairfax Virginia most of my life.  Jad Abumrad A woman named Christy Brzonkala starts her freshman year at Virginia Tech and just weeks in ...  Christy In mid September 1994 I was raped by two football players in my own dorm. I had met them for the first time just 15 minutes before they assaulted me.  Jamie Floyd These two football players she alleged had raped her repeatedly.  Christy On a single night in 1994 I was raped three times.  Jamie Floyd She went to the local campus authorities she told her story.  Jad Abumrad The college held their own hearings did not go to the police. They suspended one of the two students. He appealed won and when he returned ...  Jamie Floyd Christy Brzonkala dropped out of school.  Jad Abumrad Christ Brzonkala ultimately decides to sue her alleged attackers and the school under this new law the violence against women act. And the case ultimately makes it to the Supreme Court.   We will hear argument now number 99-5 Christy Brzonkala versus Antonio Morrison.  Jad Abumrad When Christy's case got to the Supreme court her lawyer ...   Mr Chief Justice may it please the court-  Jad Abumrad Made the same argument about women that the government had made in the Ollie's BBQ case about black people that discrimination or in this case outright violence has a huge downstream effect on the economy.   A bipartisan Congress concluded that gender based violence substantially effects the national economy. Gender based violence and the fear of that discriminatory violence deters women's travel interstate restricts women's choice of jobs and ability to perform those jobs reduces national productivity and increases medical and other costs.  Jad Abumrad And again the court was given tons of evidence about the economic effects.   For example Congress heard from women whose batterers kept their partners from working.  Jad Abumrad They were shown data that every year this costs the country billions of dollars and that economic downstream effect was not hard to prove with this case. She dropped out.  James Chen Well especially if you aggregate it right? It is not just here it is everyone else who is similarly situated.  Jad Abumrad But in this case ...   As I understand this law does not apply to any- to anything-  Jad Abumrad The argument was happening at a very different time in the country a very different mood. And in front of an increasingly conservative Supreme Court that just was not buying it anymore.  Rhenquist Petitioner Brzonkala's complaint alleges that she was the victim of a brutal assault.  Jad Abumrad This is Chief Justice Rhenquist reading the uh majority opinion.  Rhenquist If the allegations are true no civilized system of justice could fail to provide her a remedy for Morrison's conduct. With gender motivated crimes of violence are not in any sense of the phrase economic activity.  Jad Abumrad In other words we are very sorry for what may have happened to Christy Brzonkala but this is not commerce this is violence. The suggestion was that at least in the Ollie's case there was something being bought and sold. Here they felt like the link to commerce was too thin.  Rhenquist We accordingly reject the argument that Congress may regulate non-economic violent criminal conduct based solely on that conduct's remote effect on the interstate commerce.  Jamie Floyd Chief Justice Rhenquist got his majority to start to chip away at the commerce power just a tiny teeny weeny little bit.  Jad Abumrad And Jamie Floyd that attempt to roll it back continues.  Jamie Floyd It is rolling back.  Jad Abumrad It is.  Jamie Floyd it is rolling back.  Jad Abumrad Still pretty powerful do not get us wrong but where we are left at the end of the day is in a really confusing place.  James Chen Ollie McClung excluding black people from his dining room yeah it is a commercial act we consider it reprehensible but I- I would like to think that raping Christy would be at least as bad.  Jad Abumrad Totally.  James Chen I mean you see that- this is what this kind of like absurd abstraction gets us to and in a coherent ideal world cannot be right.  Robert I do not know when you- when the- when the- the reasoning behind something gets a little rocky then the soul of things gets- gets called into question. Like what are you doing judges?  Jad Abumrad Yeah. For me that is what happens when you make everything about money.  Robert Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Things get a little bit rotten at their core.  Jad Abumrad All right so I am gonna- I- before I uh uh before I s- read the credits Robert thank you for being a party to this a- adventure.  Robert Yes always my pleasure.  Jad Abumrad All right so this episode was produced by Sarah Qari uh More Perfect is produced by me Jed Abumrad and an amazing team Suzie Lechtenberg Jenny Lawton Julia Longoria Kelly Prime Alex Overington and Sarah Qari. With Ellie Mastall Christian Farrious Linda Hirschman David Gebel and Michelle Harris. We had production help from Derek John and Louie Mitchell. Supreme Court audio is from Oyez a free law project in collaboration with the Legal Information Institute at Cornell. Leadership support for More Perfect is provided by the Joyce foundation. Additional funding is provided by the Charles Evans Hughes memorial foundation.  Robert Time to say goodbye.  Jad Abumrad Time to say goodbye. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 