 Oh wait you are .  Amy Scaroni Okay.   All right.  Amy Scaroni Okay.   All right.  Amy Scaroni You are listening-   Listening-  Amy Scaroni To RadioLab lab-   RadioLab.  Amy Scaroni From -   WNY-   C.  Amy Scaroni C?   Yeah.  Amy Scaroni  NPR.  Pat Hello David?  David Yes hello.  Pat This is Pat.  David Oh hi Pat all right.  Robert Krulwich Let us begin with this story from our producer Pat Walters. Pat go ahead.  Pat Okay so I heard this one from this guy named David-  David He was David Buss?  Pat Two S's. He is a psychology professor-  David At the University of Texas at Austin.  Pat And this particular story it comes from a book that David wrote. Could you just tell me the little story that you begin your book with?  David Okay. Yes this is one of the things that sparked my interest in the topic of murder.  Pat The whole thing happened several years ago.  David I had a very good friend-  Pat Another professor at the university.  David And I used to socialize with him and his wife. And one evening they were throwing a party and invited me over. And so when I went to the party the party was already in full swing when I got there. Walked in and asked his wife where this friend of mine was and she got a disgusted look on her face and said that he was up in the bedroom. And so I went up to the bedroom to find him and he was in a rage.  Pat In a rage how? You walk into the room what do you find?  David Well he started fuming that his wife had dissed him and-  Pat What did she do?  David She expressed disapproval about his clothing choices.  Pat She made fun of his shirt or something?  David But did it publicly in front of her friends. So he felt publicly humiliated.  Pat And while David's sitting in the bedroom with this friend the guy looks up at him and he says-  David I am going to kill her.  Pat How did he say it? Quietly or-  David Like through his teeth I am going to kill her.  Pat David always known this guy to be pretty mild mannered.  David But he is a large very strong man with a black belt in karate. I knew what he was capable of so I suggested that we go out for a walk and I basically spent the next half hour walking around with him trying to cool him off.  Pat But eventually he did.  David He just calmed down.  Pat Hmm. And did you go back to the party then and continue dinner partying for a while?  David Yeah I did.  Pat And he did too?  David Yes and he did too. And then he seemed fine. When I said Goodbye. To him he seemed calm and I left and went home. And then it was several hours later in the middle of the night that I got the call.  Pat And it was his friend.  David And he says Can I come over and sleep on your couch? If I do not leave my house right now I am going to kill her. He was in this state of fury he said and instead of hitting his wife he smashed his fist into the bathroom mirror and then realized that he had to leave the house or he was going to do damage to her.  Pat And so he says that and you are like Okay yes come over now.  David Yeah exactly.  Pat Meanwhile later that night on the other side of town-  David His wife went into hiding. Literally disappeared for six months and did not tell anyone where she was because she was terrified that he was going to kill her.  Robert Krulwich This story made us wonder Is David's friend-  Pat Is he unusual? Or-  Robert Krulwich Does everybody at some point have something dark in them that just tiptoes out from time to time?  Jad Abumrad Yeah. This is Radiolab and today we are going to get back so to speak.  Robert Krulwich We have done a good show.  Jad Abumrad This is the bad show.  Robert Krulwich So you ask like Why do people do bad things?  Jad Abumrad What does it actually mean to be bad anyways? How do you tell the real baddies from the rest of us?  Robert Krulwich That is .  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is RadioLab.  Robert Krulwich The bad show.  Robert Krulwich   Jad Abumrad Back to bed.  Pat Okay so what happened to David that night with his friend got him really curious about murder and badness and all these things we are thinking about. But it was not until a few years later that he learned something that really put what happened that night into context.  David The next-  Pat By this point David moved on to a new university and he is teaching an introductory psychology class.  David And I devoted one class session to the topic of homicide and why people kill. And I designed a little questionnaire where I simply asked the students Have you ever thought about killing someone? And they would circle yes or no.  Pat Then you left some space at the bottom for them to elaborate if they said Yes.  David And the class ended and I went back to my office and I just sat at my desk and I started reading these. And I was just astonished-  Pat To find page after page of yeses. And not just yeses.  David But these very vivid descriptions about-  Pat Who they would kill where they would do it when.  David The precise method.  Pat How many of them went into that kind of detail?  David I would say 75 or 80 percent.  Pat Wow.  David And-  Pat Were you a little bit-  David Yeah.  Pat Horrified like Oh my God my students are murderers?   David Well not horrified it was I pretty stunned. And so I expanded the sample where we asked about 5000 people-  Pat All over the world.  David Singapore Peru the UK-  Pat That same question.  David Have you ever thought about killing someone? And 91 percent of the men said Yes. And 84 percent of the women.  Pat Said Yes I have thought about killing someone?  David Yes. If any sizable fraction actually acted on their homicidal fantasies the streets would be running red.  Pat Yeah but those are fantasies they are ... some of them actually seem like-  David Well here's one-  Pat Something more than just fantasies.  David From a woman.  Pat Sure.  David Okay this is a 20 year old female. We asked Who do you think about killing? And she said My ex-boyfriend. We lived together for a couple months he was very aggressive he started calling me a whore and told me he did not love me anymore so I broke up with him. Then a few months later he started calling me trying to get back together but I did not want to. He said that if I ever had a relationship with another man he was going to send videos of us having sex to all the people in my university. The thing is that I do have a new boyfriend but my ex-boyfriend does not know that yet and I am terrified that he will do what he says. Then suddenly the thought occurred to me that my life would be much happier without him in existence.  David And then she said I actually did this. I invited him for dinner and as he was in the kitchen looking stupid peeling the carrots to make salad I came up to him laughingly gently so that he would not suspect anything. I thought about grabbing a knife quickly and stabbing him in the chest repeatedly until he was dead. I actually did the first thing but he saw my intentions and ran away. When we asked how close she came to killing him she estimated 60 percent.  David Hmm 60.  Robert Krulwich I do not think I ever had a fantasy that anatomically specific where I would see the part of the other person that I was going to stab or plan it like that.  Jad Abumrad Well have you ever been blackmailed the way this woman was being blackmailed?  Robert Krulwich No. No one has ever said about a sex tape that I have ever so no.  Jad Abumrad So you do not know? It is a fair question to ask What are the conditions under which you or me or any of us could do-  Robert Krulwich   Jad Abumrad Awful things.  Robert Krulwich I think they have to be extreme in the extreme.  Jad Abumrad Well-  Robert Krulwich You know how my mild-  Jad Abumrad No.  Robert Krulwich Mannered I am.  Jad Abumrad No. And you know what? This actually brings us to our first top of the hour so just to set it up Robert I am going to give you this piece of paper here.  Robert Krulwich What is this?  Jad Abumrad So these are some word pairs. So read these words that you see here.  Robert Krulwich These words here?  Jad Abumrad Yep.  Robert Krulwich Nice day?  Jad Abumrad Uh-huh.  Robert Krulwich Fat neck?  Jad Abumrad Yes.  Robert Krulwich Sad face. What is this? Soft hair?  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich I do not know what this is.  Jad Abumrad You just work here it is-  Robert Krulwich Why-  Jad Abumrad I want you to commit them to memory.  Robert Krulwich Commit them to memory? You know I cannot-  Jad Abumrad And while you are doing that-  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad Just give me your finger  I am going to-  Robert Krulwich The   Jad Abumrad Connect this little electrode-  Robert Krulwich The   Jad Abumrad To your finger here we go.  Robert Krulwich Hard. Wait a second.  Jad Abumrad Up there and just going to-  Robert Krulwich Clear air?  Jad Abumrad Okay so just give me the paper back.  Robert Krulwich Already?  Jad Abumrad Time's up. So I am just going to go into this other room over here. Can you hear me?  Robert Krulwich What-  Jad Abumrad All right so I am going to talk to you over this intercom okay?  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad I am going to give you a test.  Robert Krulwich I am not ready for this.  Jad Abumrad Pay attention.  Robert Krulwich All right.  Jad Abumrad In the best of your memory which word was matched with nice? Was it nice day nice sky nice job or nice chair?  Robert Krulwich Days?  Jad Abumrad Answer .  Robert Krulwich I do not ... Wait a second.  Jad Abumrad Just push the button that corresponds to the right word. Go.  Robert Krulwich Okay I am choosing job?  Stanley Milgram Wrong. Answer is day.  Jad Abumrad Sorry man.  Stanley Milgram Two hundred and eighty-five volts.  Jad Abumrad I am going have to give you a little.  Robert Krulwich What did you just do?  Jad Abumrad You just burst my-  Robert Krulwich No.  Jad Abumrad Ear drums God. Obviously no need to be alarmed that was not a real shot. We were just enacting an old very famous experiment that you may have heard about.  Stanley Milgram It is May 1962.  Jad Abumrad Done by this guy.  Stanley Milgram An experiment is being conducted in the elegant interaction laboratory at Yale University.  Jad Abumrad That is Stanley Milgram talking about the experiment in a film. In case you have never heard of this probably have but in case you have not here's what he did. He recruited a bunch of subjects-  Stanley Milgram The subjects of 40 males between the ages of 20 and 50.  Jad Abumrad Just normal everyday dudes.  Stanley Milgram The subjects range in occupation from corporation presidents to Good Humor men and plumbers.  Jad Abumrad And he ran them through something like what you and I just did.  Stanley Milgram Right.  Jad Abumrad He would have each subject sit down at a table.  Stanley Milgram Have a seat right here.  Jad Abumrad In front of this really impressive looking machine.  Stanley Milgram This machine-  Jad Abumrad That had lots of switches on it.  Stanley Milgram Carries electric shocks. When you press one of the switches all the way down the learner gets a shock.  Jad Abumrad And in the other room there was a guy who he called the learner who was supposed to have memorized some words. And every time that guy got a word wrong-  Stanley Milgram Wrong.  Jad Abumrad Like you just did-  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad Which happened constantly.  Stanley Milgram The answer is neck.  Jad Abumrad The volunteer-  Stanley Milgram Three hundred volts.  Jad Abumrad Was instructed to shock that guy.   Ow.  Jad Abumrad With higher and higher voltage. Now the volunteer could not see the guy he was shocking but he would definitely hear him.   Oh.  Jad Abumrad Milgram staged the whole thing like it was some experiment about memory and punishment but of course it was not about that.  Stanley Milgram Continue please.  Jad Abumrad It was about how far would these people go? How many times would they shock that sad-   Ow.  Jad Abumrad Sap in the next room just because they were being told to?   Let me out of here. Let me out of here.  Jad Abumrad The guy yelling of course was an actor and the shocks were not real. But the questions in the air at the time were very real.   Prosecution  the Attorney General.  Jad Abumrad This was a moment when human cruelty was on trial quite literally.   When I stand before you judges of Israel in this court  to accuse Adolf Eichmann  I do not stand alone.  Ben Walker So Stanley Milgram actually begins these experiments-   This moment.  Ben Walker The same year that Adolf Eichmann goes on trial for Nazi war crimes.  Jad Abumrad That is radio producer Ben Walker he will be our guide for this segment.  Ben Walker And in the trial when the prosecutors essentially ask him how you came to commit genocide he would say over and over again-  Adolf Eichmann It was not my personal affair-  Ben Walker I was just following orders.  Adolf Eichmann I had to do what I was ordered.  Ben Walker And it is this defense.  Adolf Eichmann It was my obligation.  Ben Walker This is basically what Stanley Milgram set out to test.  Stanley Milgram Two hundred and eighty-five volts.  Ben Walker In a lab at Yale University with a bunch of regular Americans.   Ow.  Jad Abumrad Is that something that is universal?  Ben Walker Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Or just an Eichmann thing?  Ben Walker Yeah. He figured maybe one percent of these men would keep flicking the switches up to the highest voltage. But that is not what he found. Sixty-five percent-  Stanley Milgram Continue please.  Ben Walker Were willing-   Oh.  Ben Walker To shock their fellow citizens over and over again-   Ow.  Ben Walker Even past when they were screaming in pain.   Something's happening to that man in there.  Jad Abumrad Even when they stopped screaming?  Ben Walker Yeah when they were maybe dead.   You better check in on him sir. He will not answer me or nothing.  Stanley Milgram Please continue. Go on please.  Ben Walker They continued shocking their corpses. His experiment remains one of the most famous experiments of the 20th century.   In 1962 Stanley Milgram shocked the world with his study on obedience.  Ben Walker It is still trotted out to explain everything from hazing to war crimes.   What is there in human nature-  Ben Walker To gang behavior.   That allows an individual to act inhumanely-  Ben Walker Genocide.   Harshly severely?  Ben Walker It is like a downloadable from the internet instant defense for doing wrong. But if you look at Milgram's work closely  Alex Haslem Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.  Ben Walker Like this guy did.  Alex Haslem Alex Haslem Professor of Psychology at the University of Exeter.  Ben Walker Then a different picture will emerge.  Alex Haslem Really that story's been told a million and one times for the last 50 years we have just got to get over it.  Ben Walker Now what you need to understand about Alex Haslem is that he hates it when interviewers only want to talk about the baseline study.  Alex Haslem The one that everybody knows the so called baseline.  Ben Walker The 65 percent one.  Jad Abumrad The one we just talked about?  Ben Walker Yeah.  Jad Abumrad So there is more? There is more to it?  Alex Haslem Yeah. Because actually he studied between 20 and 40 different variants of this same paradigm.  Ben Walker Stanley Milgram took electric shock very seriously. He did this experiment a bunch of times and in a bunch of different ways.  Alex Haslem Had all sorts of different things again-  Ben Walker Would change where the shocker and the shock-ee sat.  Alex Haslem Yep women participants he had an experimenter who was not a scientist but was a member of the general public.  Ben Walker And every scenario produced a different result.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Ben Walker Yep.  Alex Haslem I got it in front of me I have just got the data from the Milgram study. Let me just get that out. I mean-  Ben Walker So again the baseline study is the one where 65 percent of the volunteers-  Alex Haslem Go all the way.  Ben Walker Highest dose of electricity.  Alex Haslem X X X.  Ben Walker But in experiment number three if they put the shock-ee in the same room-  Alex Haslem Same room.  Ben Walker With the shocker so the shocker could actually see the person that he is shocking-  Alex Haslem Obedience droops to about 40 percent .  Ben Walker And in experiment number four when the teacher has to hold the learner's hand down-  Alex Haslem On the plate.  Ben Walker In order for him to feel the shocks.  Alex Haslem It drops to about 30 percent.  Ben Walker Wow experiment 14.  Alex Haslem If the experimenter is not a scientist but is an ordinary man-  Ben Walker Not wearing a white coat.  Alex Haslem Obedience drops to 20 percent.  Ben Walker Oh?  Jad Abumrad Really?  Ben Walker Well how low can we go?  Alex Haslem Okay.  Ben Walker Here's another one.  Alex Haslem This variant-  Ben Walker Experiment 17.  Alex Haslem There is you and there is two other participants.  Ben Walker Both actors.  Alex Haslem If those two participants refused to go on-  Ben Walker Saying like I do not want to kill a guy.  Alex Haslem Only 10 percent under those circumstances go on. And then the final one-  Ben Walker Experiment 15.  Alex Haslem Of course normally you just have one experimenter who is giving you these instructions.  Ben Walker But if you put two experimenters in the room and-  Alex Haslem They start disagreeing with each other and this one you get zero percent going all the way.  Ben Walker Zero?  Alex Haslem Zero in that condition.  Ben Walker You said Zero.  Alex Haslem Normally go-  Ben Walker That is-  Alex Haslem Right to the unknown.  Ben Walker Absolute zero?  Alex Haslem Not one person.  Ben Walker No one?  Alex Haslem No.  Ben Walker Not a soul?  Alex Haslem Exactly zero percent.  Ben Walker Well all right I am starting to feel a little bit better about my fellow man.  Jad Abumrad One second. Hey hey hey hey. Okay.  Robert Krulwich Where is he?  Jad Abumrad I am in a closet.  Ben Walker In a closet?  Jad Abumrad Because this room's echo-y. And you know there is nothing a closet full of clothes to help balance that out.  Ben Walker That is true that is true.  Jad Abumrad All right so keep going.  Ben Walker So you see it is just in that one experiment that 65 percent of people are willing to go all the way.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Ben Walker But in all of these other scenarios they do not.  Stanley Milgram   Ben Walker And even when they do say Yes. Even when they go along with the experiment-     Ben Walker As you can see in the film-   Woman.  Ben Walker They struggle.  Stanley Milgram Continuing using the last switch on the board please.   I am not getting no answer.  Stanley Milgram Please continue. The next word is white.  Alex Haslem They have debates with themselves.   Think you should look in on them please?  Alex Haslem Debates with the experimenter.  Stanley Milgram Not once we have started the experiment.   Well what is something's happened the man had an attack or something there?  Stanley Milgram The experiment requires that we continue. Go on please.   Do not the man's health mean anything?  Stanley Milgram Whether the learner likes it or not we must-   But he might be dead in there.  Ben Walker What is interesting is that how all of these struggles all of them-    and I do not-  Stanley Milgram Please continue.   Have to .  Ben Walker Play out the same way.  It is the experimenter-  Stanley Milgram You go on please.  Ben Walker Prodding the shockers along.   You are going to keep giving him what 450 volts every shot now?  Stanley Milgram That is correct.  Ben Walker For me it is all about the prods.  Stanley Milgram The next word is white.  Ben Walker This is what totally pulled me into this story the prods. Stanley Milgram had four scripted prods that he wrote out for his experimenters.  Jad Abumrad For when the subjects did not want to continue?  Ben Walker Yep. The first one was Please go on.  Stanley Milgram  Continue please.  Ben Walker And if they did not go on if they resisted  the experimenter would break out prod number two.     Ben Walker The experiment requires that you continue.  Stanley Milgram The experiment requires that you-   Well I mean I know it does sir. But I mean he is up to 195 volts.  Ben Walker And if they still were resisting or struggling they would get proud number three.  Stanley Milgram It is absolutely essential that you continue.  Ben Walker It is absolutely essential.  Jad Abumrad Essential that you continue.  Ben Walker It is a little bit more direct.  Alex Haslem It is a bit stronger it is not an order.  Ben Walker Not quite but the fourth prod.  Alex Haslem The critical fourth prod-  Ben Walker Is an absolute order. The fourth product is-  Stanley Milgram You got no other choice teacher.  Ben Walker You have no other choice teacher.  Alex Haslem You must continue.  Ben Walker That is definitely an order.  Alex Haslem Exactly.  Ben Walker But every time the experimenter pulled out the fourth prod ... And this was confirmed when the experiment was redone in 2006 total disobedience.  Robert Krulwich Total disobedience.  Ben Walker Anytime the experimenter said You must continue. The shocker would say Hell no I do not.  Stanley Milgram You got no other choice teacher.   I have a choice I am not going to go ahead with it.  Stanley Milgram Well we will have to discontinue the experiment then.   I am sorry.  Ben Walker Here's another one.  Stanley Milgram We have no other choice you must go on.   Yes I have a choice.  Stanley Milgram That is if you do not continue we are going to have to discontinue the experiment.   Well that is to  just cut it out. After all he knows what he can stand. That is my opinion that is where I am going to stand on it.  Ben Walker Wow. So the subjects seem willing to shock another human being but as soon as you say It is an order.  Alex Haslem They do not do it.  Ben Walker Huh.  Alex Haslem Now that is important it is very important. Because if you ask university undergraduates What does the Milgram studies show? They will invariably say something like They show that people obey orders. Okay well actually the one thing that the study really does not show is that people obey orders. I mean it is a pretty big thing to miss. It is a pretty  thing to miss is not it really?  Ben Walker So wait. If it does not show that people are just obeying orders-  Alex Haslem Yeah.  Ben Walker Then what does it show?  Alex Haslem Okay it is like this.  Stanley Milgram All right let us go on to our instructions. We will begin with this test-  Alex Haslem The participants that are in study-  Stanley Milgram These pair of words and-  Alex Haslem They have got a very plausible very credible high status scientist at high status scientific institution.  Ben Walker Yale.  Alex Haslem Who is going to do this powerful piece of science.  Stanley Milgram Direct your voice toward that microphone in the room -  Ben Walker So they sit down in the chair thinking Wow this is really important. I am about to help this quest for knowledge I really want to do a good job.  Alex Haslem Now as we sort of know in life lots of things that we do if they worthwhile doing and not always easy. And you find yourself in a situation where you have got to do something that is hard.  Ben Walker Like shocking an innocent stranger over and over.  Alex Haslem But if you think that is the right thing if you think that science is worth pursuing you say Okay I will go along with this.   Ow.  Ben Walker So you are saying they were shocking these people because they thought it was worthwhile?  Alex Haslem Look the participants it is not just blind obedience Oh you tell me so yes sir no sir three bags full sir.  Stanley Milgram Answer please.  Alex Haslem They are engaged with the test they are trying to be good participants.  Stanley Milgram Are you all right?  Alex Haslem They are trying to do the right thing. They are not doing something because they have to they are doing it because they think they ought to. And that is all the difference in the world.  Stanley Milgram Go on to 20 volts.   Ow.  Jad Abumrad Suddenly I am thinking this is actually a darker interpretation-  Ben Walker Yes.  Jad Abumrad Than the original.  Ben Walker Absolutely darker.  Jad Abumrad Because they are doing it?  Ben Walker No question about it.  Jad Abumrad They have the agency.  Ben Walker Yep.  Jad Abumrad And they think it is right.  Stanley Milgram Exactly.  Ben Walker Although clearly on some level they know it is not.  Alex Haslem There is a sort of chilling comparison which is a speech that Himmler gave to some SS leaders when they were about to commit a range of atrocities. And he said Look this is what you are going to do is ... Of course you do not want to do this. Of course nobody wants to be killing other people we realize this is hard work. But what you are doing is for the good of Germany and this is necessary in order to advance our noble cause.  Ben Walker Wow. So then ... Hey wait I am almost done guys give me two more minutes two more minutes. So in the Milgram case.  Jad Abumrad Uh huh.  Ben Walker Well if the idea is that people will do bad if they think it is good if it is a good noble cause. Well what is the noble cause in this case?  Jad Abumrad Science.  Ben Walker Science. You can see this in the surveys that the men filled out after the experiments were over.  Jad Abumrad This was exactly what was on my mind. If the experiment had to be successful it had to be carried on.  Ben Walker The questionnaires they filled out are part of the Milgram archive at Yale.  Jad Abumrad Willing to help and a worthwhile experiment.  Ben Walker And it is kind of surprising a lot of them are really positive even though they have just been told that they were duped.  Jad Abumrad Research in any field is a must particularly in this day and age. Do you think that more studies of this sort should be carried out? Definitely yes.  Alex Haslem We as onlookers to this study we have this kind of godlike sort of vision of like Well of course what they are doing is wrong. But if looked at from another perspective there is a sense in which you could celebrate what they are doing.  Alex Haslem I mean I am not suggesting one should but I am just saying there is a sense in which these people are prepared to do something that is very painful to them and to someone else because they want to promote science well you can see that is a good thing. I mean-  Ben Walker  God. Because it is like we started with this experiment that we all see as evidence of humans' latent capacity for evil.  Alex Haslem Yeah.  Ben Walker And you tell us Actually you know under some circumstances we do not do the bad thing we are told to do because here's another flip we do not have to be told. In fact we hate being told but we will do it on our own if we think it is good.  Alex Haslem Yeah.  Ben Walker Now you are saying actually that you could read that very dark fact as being actually evidence of something quite-  Alex Haslem Yeah.  Ben Walker Noble?  Alex Haslem Well if you dressed up and if you just had some minor variance to the paradigm you could presumably make this up. These are people who are incredibly noble they are. I mean it is a fact of course that they are administering pain to a stranger that is what is horrifying about it but imagine they were administering pain to themselves. Imagine they really had to administer shocks to themselves or something. But if they were prepared to do that when I suspect a lot of them would then we would say These are people who really believe in science and is not this a good thing that we have people in our society who are willing to make sacrifices-  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Alex Haslem For a the greater good?  Jad Abumrad Hmm. So in the end where do you come down? Do you leave this experiment in a light mood or in a dark mood overall?  Alex Haslem I would say in a powerful mood we are close to some really fundamental truths about human nature. And my views about human nature are that it affords infinite potential for lightness and dark. There is lots and lots of lessons here but one is I think when you are enjoying to do something for the greater good maybe ask yourself the question What is greater and what is good?  Jad Abumrad Oh that right there slap some quotations around that.  Alex Haslem Yeah.  Robert Krulwich Our thanks to Ben Walker whose podcast ... he has a podcast and it is a good one. It is called Too Much Information.  Jad Abumrad Yes it is awesome thank you Ben. And also thank you to Alex Haslem Professor of Psychology at the University of Exeter. Be right back.   Start of message.   Okay  take one.  Ben Walker My name's Benjamin Walker and here are some RadioLab credits.  Alex Haslem RadioLab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.  Ben Walker Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world.  Alex Haslem For information about Sloan at www-  Ben Walker .sloan-   .org. RadioLab is produced by WNYC-  Alex Haslem And distributed by NPR.   Voila.  Ben Walker And I am hanging up.  Alex Haslem All right.  Amy Scaroni RadioLab is supported by Rocket Mortgage by Quicken Loans. Imagine how it feels to have an award-winning team by your side through the mortgage process. Their goal is to make the home buying process smoother for you. With a history of industry leading online lending technology developed in the heart of Detroit Rocket Mortgage is changing the game. Visit rocketmortgage.comradiolab. Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states. An mlsconsumeraccess.org number 3030. Rocket Mortgage by Quicken Loans. Push button get mortgage.  Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad RadioLab is supported by IBM. What kind of tech company does the world need today? One that applies smart technologies at scale with purpose and expertise not just for some but for all. With AI blockchain and quantum technology IBM is developing smart scalable technologies that help businesses work better together. Let us expect more from technology let us put smart to work visit ibm.comsmart to learn more.  Clemmy B. I am  I am here to tell you about the Open Airs Project the new podcast form WNYC studios and WQXR in which people share stories about the classical music that gets them through their lives. People like director Sam Mendez musicians Jean Batiste and Wynton Marsalis Call Your Girlfriends  and our very own Alec Baldwin. It is part mix tape part sonnet love letter kind of like a daily musical journey into other human lives. Listen to free wherever you go to podcast and sign up at openearsproject.org.  Jad Abumrad Oh okay.   Because if they are going to record it I mean I am going to record it here to but   Jad Abumrad All right 3 2 1. Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is RadioLab. And today evil although I do not know if that is the right word for this next thing.  Robert Krulwich Yeah because it is sort of-  Jad Abumrad More complicated.  Robert Krulwich When you call someone Evil. Then you are kind of done with them.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich But there is been a fellow I have been thinking about him for the better part of year as you know-  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm  Mm-hmm .  Robert Krulwich He is such a puzzle to me. I cannot quite place him-  Jad Abumrad Though it is very fun to try.  Robert Krulwich And I heard about him from science writer Sam Kean. Well talk about Fritz Haber. So first of all could you just ... When did he live and what did he look and that kind of stuff?  Sam Kean He was doing his great science work right around the turn of the 20th century so right around 1900. Very distinctive looking man bald on top trim nice mustache wore a little . Is that how you say that thing-  Robert Krulwich I think I call it  so I am not sure.  Sam Kean Prince-nez? Okay one of those very tiny old fashioned pair of glasses that would pinch on your nose. And he was someone who had very big ambitions.  Jad Abumrad Just to put that in context-   I-  Jad Abumrad And to bring a few other of our storytellers in.  Fred Kaufman He comes from Breslau Germany.  Jad Abumrad That is Fred Kaufman reporter.  Fred Kaufman Which is a fairly small-ish sort of town and so does Clara.  Jad Abumrad That is Fritz Haber's wife.  Robert Krulwich We are going to meet her later.  Fred Kaufman Right Clara comes from the same town and they are both secularized Jews.  Jad Abumrad This was a moment in German history he says When Jews had a decent amount of freedom.  Fred Kaufman And this is was the difference between Kaiser Wilhelm and of course Hitler's Germany.  Dan Charles Yeah put it in context.  Jad Abumrad Dan Charles he is a historian.  Dan Charles His was the first generation when a young Jewish boy could truly imagine that he could just be a regular part of that society he could do anything.  Jad Abumrad And he believed it. Fast forward 10 years. Fritz Haber's a professor small university he is working with chemicals it is about 1880.  Dan Charles And he throws himself in one of the central issues facing Germany that at that time.  Sam Kean Germany has a problem.  Robert Krulwich A big problem.  Sam Kean It has enough what they used to call then solar energy.  Robert Krulwich You know energy from the sun to grow crops.  Sam Kean To feed about 30 million people. However that leaves behind 20 million Germans.  Jad Abumrad You mean they are looking at 20 million people going hungry?  Sam Kean That is what we are heading towards. I mean you have to remember during the Crimean War in the 1850s Europe starves.  Robert Krulwich So around the turn of the century for German scientists like Haber this was the challenge.  Jad Abumrad He wants to feed Germany.  Sam Kean And actually this was not just a German thing a lot of people were beginning to worry that with about a billion and a half people on the planet at that point that maybe we were maxing out that the earth could not support this many people.  Robert Krulwich And everyone thought Well we know the solution.  Sam Kean Yeah we just need a whole lot more of one simple-  Robert Krulwich Element. Nitrogen.  Dan Charles Nitrogen.  Robert Krulwich Nitrogen.  Sam Kean Nitrogen.  Dan Charles They needed more nitrogen.  Jad Abumrad Nitrogen.  Dan Charles Nitrogen is an essential part of amino acids and proteins.  Sam Kean And when you stick a seed like weed seed in the ground-  Robert Krulwich One of the reasons it grows is because it is sucking up all the nitrogen in the soil.  Jad Abumrad To make it cell walls.  Dan Charles Without nitrogen you do not have life.  Jad Abumrad Now of course you could find some nitrogen out in the world.  Robert Krulwich Natural deposits would be like seaweed or-  Sam Kean Manure was one.  Jad Abumrad You could find it in cow manure or-  Sam Kean Guano.  Robert Krulwich Which was basically-  Sam Kean Bat poop and seagull poop.  Jad Abumrad Which made that poop-  Robert Krulwich Valuable.  Sam Kean Actually two nations in South America went to war-  Jad Abumrad Literally over bat .  Latif Nassar You could say people were bat  crazy.  Jad Abumrad By the way that is reporter .  Latif Nassar This was like oil is today this is-  Robert Krulwich Everybody was desperate for sources new sources of nitrogen. And to make the problems even more annoying.  Latif Nassar The most common source of nitrogen is in the air around us. It makes up four out of every five or so molecules that we breathe so it is very-  Robert Krulwich It is a lot.  Latif Nassar Yes 80 percent of the air is nitrogen atoms.  Robert Krulwich So all the nitrogen you ever need-  Jad Abumrad Was right there.  Robert Krulwich But you cannot throw that air onto a plant.  Latif Nassar They could not deploy it they could not deploy it.  Jad Abumrad Meaning they could not capture it?  Latif Nassar That is right and part of the problem here and ... Although once again we are getting a little ahead of ourselves.  Robert Krulwich We will be right back  let us just finish this series.  Latif Nassar Is that nitrogen is .  Jad Abumrad Trivalent. In other words nitrogen has really strong attachments to itself.  Latif Nassar What he means is that when nitrogen atoms are just free floating in the air they will cling to each other. These little nitrogen atoms will fiercely hold together and it is almost impossible to pry them apart.  Jad Abumrad His calculations showed that it could not be done.  Robert Krulwich At least not without a-  Jad Abumrad Tremendous amount of energy.  Latif Nassar More energy that seemed-  Robert Krulwich Possible to make.  Latif Nassar Yeah. Yes but-  Jad Abumrad Being ambitious-  Latif Nassar Haber starts thinking In order to do this we need to pressure this we need to put it under a lot of pressure.  Jad Abumrad So he starts experimenting. He figures out a way to take a lot of air that is filled with these little nitrogen bonds clinging to each other and pump it with big iron tank.  Robert Krulwich Under extreme extreme pressure at high temperature and then he forces hydrogen into the tank.   Get in there.  Jad Abumrad And the number of chemical reactions. And what happens is that your elbowing the nitrogen apart from itself and then forcing it to bond with the hydrogen in a new way. And when hydrogen and nitrogen bond together the thing you get-  Robert Krulwich Is ammonia.  Jad Abumrad A liquid that has captured the nitrogen right out of the air. You literally get a drip drip drip of ammonia.  Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich It is arguably the most significant scientific breakthrough of them all. Bred from the air was the phrase. Because Haber figured out a way to take nitrogen from the air put it into the barren ground and grew wheat.  Latif Nassar This has allowed the world to have 7 billion people. This is what is driving the world towards 10 12 by 2050. Now we are seeing about 100 million tons of synthetic fertilizer produced industrially each year. And that tonnages then moves into our food source our food source then moves into our bodies and the rough statistics are that half of each of our bodies contains nitrogen from the Haber process.  Jad Abumrad No  really.  Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich And so in 1918 Fritz Haber gets the Nobel Prize. But this is why this is such an interesting guy around the same time officials in the U.S. government are calling him a war criminal.  Jad Abumrad All right just to back up for one second.  Robert Krulwich After Haber's nitrogen discovery-  Jad Abumrad He was promoted.  Dan Charles He takes over leadership of this institute in Berlin and he starts hobnobbing with a whole different level of society.  Robert Krulwich That is Dan Charles again.  Dan Charles I mean it is a pretty heady thing for a Jewish kid from Breslau to be hobnobbing with the Emperor and cabinet ministers he is part of the club and he really really relished it.  Jad Abumrad And not just because he was vain which everyone agrees he was but because he loves his country.  Robert Krulwich He loves the fatherland and he loves Germany.  Dan Charles So-  Jad Abumrad When World War I begins-  Dan Charles He signs up immediately sends a letter volunteering for duty-  Robert Krulwich Saying You know the process that I used to make food? Well I can use that same process-  Jad Abumrad To make explosives.  Robert Krulwich Because the thing that you put into the ground to grow more food is also the thing you can explode to make a bomb?  Dan Charles That is correct because it takes such energy and pressure to separate it its trivalent bond is so strong that when it comes back together that energy is released it can be used for life or death. In any case-  Jad Abumrad Back to World War I.  Dan Charles There is trench warfare it gets bogged down and Haber has an idea.  Jad Abumrad He goes straight to the German high command and he pitches this idea.  Dan Charles He says Well we can drive those enemy soldiers out of trenches with gas.  Jad Abumrad Chlorine gas.  Dan Charles We will basically bring it to the front and when the wind is right we will just spray it.  Fred Kaufman But the generals were not all that convinced.  Jad Abumrad No.  Fred Kaufman They just did not like it.  Dan Charles A lot of them are like This is not how you fight a war.  Fred Kaufman It is like playing dirty.  Dan Charles Yeah sort of unsportsmanlike.  Fred Kaufman But he organizes soldiers he organizes whole gas units.  Dan Charles And nobody even had to ask.  Fred Kaufman He takes command of them partially he travels to the front.  Robert Krulwich And on April 22-  Jad Abumrad 1915.  Dan Charles Of 1915.  Robert Krulwich Haber finds himself in a little town in Belgium called-  Dan Charles   Jad Abumrad Y-P-R-E-S Actually the Americans called it .   Whatever you call it.  Jad Abumrad This was one of the bloodiest-  Dan Charles Arenas on the Western Front.  Robert Krulwich The Germans were on one side the French the Canadians and the British on the other. And they are behind the German lines is-  Fred Kaufman Our friend our frien-emy Fritz Haber.  Dan Charles He is bald he has a potbelly he has these pince-nez spectacles he is chomping on a Virginian cigar he was always smoking these Virginian cigars and he is wearing a fur coat.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Dan Charles And what is basically like the Baghdad of his time.  Jad Abumrad But-  Dan Charles Nobody had done what she was about to do on the scale that he was about to do it. So basically at 6 p.m. on April 22nd-  Jad Abumrad When the wind was just right he says-  Dan Charles Haber's gas troops unscrew they open the valves on almost 6000 tanks containing 150 tons of chlorine. That is like an adult blue whale of chlorine.  Jad Abumrad Just trying to imagine that. Is that like a green cloud?  Dan Charles Some people describe it as a cloud and then others describe it as this kind of 15 foot wall kind of hugging the land and it is just sort of approaching. And it is moving in about one meter per second.  Jad Abumrad And according to some accounts as it crept across no man's land-  Dan Charles The leaves would just sort of shrivel and the grass was turning to the color of metal. Birds would just fall from the air.  Jad Abumrad Within minutes the gas reached the allied side. And as soon as it did soldiers began to convulse.  Dan Charles They were gagging they were choking hundreds of them were falling to the ground like-  Jad Abumrad What is the gas doing to them exactly?  Dan Charles I think what it is doing is it is ... If you breathed it in it sort of irritates your lungs to the extent that they sort of fills up with fluid so quickly that you sort of drowning in your own phlegm.  Jad Abumrad So they were drowning?  Dan Charles Literally drowning on land.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Dan Charles Yellow mucus was frothing out of their mouth those who could still breathe would turn blue.  Jad Abumrad This is a description of hell.  Dan Charles Yeah.  Fred Kaufman But harbor saw it as a wonderful success and wished that the Germans had been better prepared to exploit it because he felt they really could have made a terrific advance if they had had more confidence.  Dan Charles And he is celebrated for it. He gets promoted to the rank of captain-  Robert Krulwich And he goes home for a few days a hero. But when he gets there he has to contend with his wife Clara Immerwahr.  Dan Charles Clara also from Breslau also from a Jewish family.  Robert Krulwich And also a scientist.  Dan Charles Unusually so in those times. She was actually a sort of a genius herself. She was one of the first women to earn a PhD in her country.  Robert Krulwich And shortly after his return Clara allegedly confronts him and says Look you are morally bankrupt. How could you?  Dan Charles But Haber just kind of ignored her and-  Jad Abumrad According to legend.  Dan Charles He actually threw a dinner party in celebration-  Robert Krulwich Of the big victory.  Dan Charles Invited his friends over.  Jad Abumrad Now we do not actually know if he threw a party.  Dan Charles I consider that apocryphal.  Jad Abumrad Dan does not think so but what is clear is that he saw no reason to question what he had done and that infuriated Clara.  Dan Charles Especially because she found out he was leaving the next day to direct more gas attacks.  Fritz Stern And they probably had an argument.  Dan Charles Yeah.  Fritz Stern Undoubtedly had an argument.  Robert Krulwich That is historian Fritz Stern who also happens to be Fritz Haber's godson.  Jad Abumrad They had a quarrel?  Fritz Stern More than that.  Robert Krulwich Let us call it a fight.  Dan Charles And later that night after party Haber takes a bunch of sleeping pills goes to sleep. And she takes a service revolver-  Fritz Stern Fritz Haber's pistol-  Robert Krulwich Walks outside to the garden-  Dan Charles And pulls the trigger.  Robert Krulwich Shoots herself in the chest and is found by her son.  Fred Kaufman By her son?  Fritz Stern Yes age 13 I think.  Dan Charles And he finds her actually still alive with the life about to run out of her.  Robert Krulwich Haber it is unknown what happens for the rest of the evening but it is a well documented fact that the very next morning-  Dan Charles On schedule he goes back to the front-  Robert Krulwich To the Eastern Front.  Fritz Stern Leaving his son alone with his dead mother.  Robert Krulwich That is cold and yeah heartless.  Fritz Stern It was a terrible moment.  Sam Kean Did he run away? Was it duty?  Fred Kaufman The son eventually after he emigrates to America kills himself.  Robert Krulwich See now around this point I just do not have anything to do with this guy I just want to take a shower walk-  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich Walk away.  Jad Abumrad Yeah me too. On the other hand I mean if you look at the grand calculus people he is helped or fed versus people he is killed I mean he is fed billions of people. I do not know that you could entirely call him bad I might even tilt towards saying he is a little good to be honest.  Robert Krulwich You would not though would you really? Would you really think that this guy's a good guy?  Jad Abumrad Honestly yeah.  Robert Krulwich Just because of a mathematical summing up.  Jad Abumrad We are talking billions of people.  Robert Krulwich He is standing there on the front pushing the gas into the lungs of other human beings admittedly it is a ware but still. Then he goes and celebrates that and then walks away from his child and his wife dead in the garden and says More of that please.  Jad Abumrad Well there is something distasteful about the fact that he was too into it but I do think on some level you have to divorce the man from his deeds and you got to ask Is the world better with him or without him? I think you got to answer it With him. Right?  Robert Krulwich Well-  Jad Abumrad Should we keep going with the story?  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Robert Krulwich Well Sam what happened to this guy after World War I?  Sam Kean He actually was very humiliated that Germany had lost and especially humiliated over the fact that they had to pay enormous war reparations to other countries. So he decided he was going to invent a process to pay for these reparations by himself. And what he decided to do is go into the ocean into sea water which contains very small levels of gold. But over the entire ocean there is a lot of gold dissolved into the sea.  Robert Krulwich And he spends five years and a futile effort-  Sam Kean To distill gold from the oceans waters.  Jad Abumrad Sounds insane. On the other hand if anyone can do it-  Sam Kean He was trying to repeat this master stroke.  Robert Krulwich Needless to say-  Jad Abumrad He fails.  Dan Charles It was actually a crushing blow for him.  Sam Kean And then things really take turn.  Dan Charles 1933 comes and Hitler takes over. And one of the first acts that the Nazis do is to-  Robert Krulwich Basically issue an order-  Dan Charles That says There shall be no Jews in the civil service.  Sam Kean Now Haber was Jewish but because he would served in World War I-  Dan Charles He technically would be exempt.  Sam Kean But 75 percent of the people who worked for him at the institute they were Jewish-  Dan Charles And they would have to be dismissed.  Sam Kean So he decides to take a stand-  Dan Charles And says This is intolerable. I am going to resign.  Fred Kaufman He says that he is always been hiring people based on how smart they are and not who their grandparents were.  Dan Charles So he sends a letter to the Ministry of Education resigning and he leaves Germany. Telling a friend he felt like he would lost his homeland.  Sam Kean And then he starts this period of roaming. He eventually goes to England-  Dan Charles But in a famous incident one of England's leading scientists refuses to shake his hand.  Sam Kean And he is basically homeless at this point. He is a man adrift.  Dan Charles Meanwhile-  Sam Kean His health is failing in 1934 he takes a trip to Switzerland to a sanatorium-  Dan Charles But before he can get there-  Sam Kean His heart fails and he dies.  Robert Krulwich Now there is a footnote to this that is very strange. My dorsal hair stood up when I read the end of this.  Dan Charles Right. So during World War I Haber's Institute had developed a formulation of insect killing gas called zyklon.  Sam Kean Zyklon A which was originally just a pesticide-  Dan Charles And once again another nitrogen compound.  Fritz Stern It was developed in his Institute. He knew about it.  Robert Krulwich In fact his chemist had given this particular pesticide a smell. It was a warning smell so that people did not inadvertently breathe it in and get sick.  Dan Charles But after the Nazis take over-  Jad Abumrad This is after he died.  Dan Charles They reach back to the shelf and they find this zyklon stuff. And they ask for it to be reformulated to take out the warning smell and it becomes zyklon B the killing gas of the concentration camps.  Robert Krulwich Did members of Haber's family die in the concentration camps?  Dan Charles Yeah members of his extended family did certainly friends of his did.  Fritz Stern There is something deeply deeply wounding stressing upsetting at the thought that he had anything to do with zyklon B but he did. The use of it he could not have imagined.  Jad Abumrad So how do you feel about him now? Because ... I do not know I cannot help but feel bad for the guy. Despite the chlorine gas he did not intend for that to happen. He could have never imagined that.  Robert Krulwich No but there is part of me says You know here's a guy who just wanted to do everything better than had ever been done before. Whether it was feeding or killing or-  Jad Abumrad And he does.  Robert Krulwich And he does. But he does it with a kind of amoral athleticism he does it without humility without a lot of doubt. And it is a craft but it is a craft with consequences and to approach it with kind of crazy joy? I do not know I would rather have scientists who carry doubt with them as they proceed I-  Jad Abumrad Yeah I agree with that. Maybe it is all about doubt in the end. Thanks to all our great storytellers Dan Charles Sam Kean Latif Nassar Fred Kaufman and Fritz Stern. You can find out more information about all those guys on our website radiolab.org.  Josh Hi my name is Josh and I am calling from Harlem New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thanks.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab and today talking about?  Robert Krulwich Well we are trying to think about what goes on in the mind of a bad person.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich And what makes a bad person so bad that he is different from the rest of us? And-  Jad Abumrad And we did not really come to any kind of agreement with the Haber thing.  Robert Krulwich Yeah I do not think we quite.  James Shapiro Let us go .  Jad Abumrad But we ended up walking this question around different people-  James Shapiro Want to talk about bad people in Shakespeare.  Jad Abumrad And oddly enough we got a really interesting take on the true nature of badness from this guy-  James Shapiro James Shapiro Professor of English at Columbia University.  Jad Abumrad And he said to start You want to know about bad? I will give you bad.  James Shapiro In Titus Andronicus there is a character by the name of Aaron the Moor-  Jad Abumrad And there is a moment in the play where Aaron gets up on stage looks at the audience and says Let me just tell you the kinds of things I have been up to recently.  James Shapiro Said Deadly enmity between two friends make poor men's cattle break their necks set fire on barns and haystacks in the night and bid the owners quench them with their tears. Oft have I digged up dead men from their graves and sit them up right at the dear friend's door.  Crowd Oh.  James Shapiro Even when their sorrows almost were forgot and on their skins is on the bark of trees have written my life with my knife carved in Roman letters. Let not your sorrows die though I am dead.  Crowd Whoa.  Robert Krulwich So he is bad?  Jad Abumrad Yeah so here's the interesting thing. According to James he is not the baddest-  Robert Krulwich No.  Jad Abumrad In Shakespeare or life. Because ultimately the play offers up a reason for his nastiness.  James Shapiro The reason why he is telling all this stuff is because he has cut a deal. They will spare his son if he fessed up and tells them what they need to know. So there is a way in which there is a touch of spark of humanity.  Jad Abumrad Just a little glimmer. And he says That is what people wanted. They wanted someone who was really thrillingly bad but in the end was redeemed a bit.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad This was not just a theater thing.  Robert Krulwich No because if you could not afford a ticket for a play you would seen all the plays in the 1500s you could always go to a public hanging.  Jad Abumrad And you would go-  Robert Krulwich For much the same reasons.  James Shapiro In those days if you are a convicted male felon you are strung up but you are not allowed to hang until you die you are cut down before then.  Jad Abumrad Warning. This next part's a little graphic.  James Shapiro Then the executioner castrates you cuts you open and takes out your internal organs and then separate your head which is put on a post.  Robert Krulwich But even with all that gore and horribleness there was often a moment that people waited for and in a way we wait for it still even now.  James Shapiro We want what Elizabethan's got at the scaffold which was a confession. Before the guy is cut to shreds he is allowed to confess I heartily regret the fact that I killed the young maiden or defamed the king. Whatever it is. The expectation is somebody is made to make his peace with his maker before he dies that is what you do.  Jad Abumrad And that is what Shakespeare did in all of his plays. He would give all his baddies at least one moment where they could be understood.  James Shapiro Except this one time.  Iago So will I turn her virtue into pitch.  James Shapiro Iago. He is a solder he works for a general the general's name is Othello. They are supposedly chums but General Othello has no idea that that Iago-  Iago I hate-  James Shapiro Hates him.  Iago .  Jad Abumrad So he plans to destroy Othello. Now we do not exactly know why there are hints of reasons that maybe he thinks Othello's sleeping with his wife we are not sure. But the weird thing is that he decides not just to take down Othello but everybody.  Iago I do not know what he did. What lie.  Robert Krulwich He stirs up hatred between friends between lovers he even schemes against his own wife.  James Shapiro This is just somebody who is performing brain surgery without anesthesia on other people. He is a master planner.  Robert Krulwich And as for why?  James Shapiro Maybe Othello was sleeping with Amelia.  Jad Abumrad But as the play goes on you begin to think that maybe that is just another lie.  James Shapiro Eventually Iago convinces Othello that his wife has been disloyal which she has not.     James Shapiro And then Othello goes and kills his own wife smothering hew with a pillow. This is just a tsunami of evil-  Othello   James Shapiro That passes through the play.  Othello Desdemona's dead. Desdemona's dead.  Jad Abumrad And at the very end of the play when everyone finds out what Iago's done Othello asks him Why? Why did you do this? And Iago-  James Shapiro He refuses what we fully expect and what everybody on stage at that moment fully expects from him. What does he say? Demand me nothing what you know-  Iago You know.  James Shapiro From this time forth I never will speak word. I am not saying a word I am not going to give you what you want I am not going to give you ... I am not going to help restore the sense that there is a moral order to the world and a moral norm. What you know you know.  Jad Abumrad If this is the singular moment in Shakespeare where he gives you an un-understandably evil man no motives no reason any idea what the hell he was intending?  James Shapiro What you know you know.  Jad Abumrad What is -  James Shapiro You missed it.  Jad Abumrad Meaning any idea what was in his mind? Was he trying to make a commentary and so was he grappling with something? Do we know?  James Shapiro No you know.  Jad Abumrad Dammit.  James Shapiro The good Iagos make you want to shower the minute you leave the theater. Because you are sullied by them.  Robert Krulwich Thank you to Jim Shapiro whose most recent book is called Contested Will.  Jad Abumrad You know what? I am left-  Robert Krulwich He has you there.  Jad Abumrad Yeah well. You know what I am left thinking though is if you could somehow ... I mean that was make believe. But if you could somehow get a real Iago in the room and subject that person to questioning and really get them to sort of fess up as to why they did it would that make a difference?  Robert Krulwich We should say that this next section of the program has some references which are extremely graphic-  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich And not to everybody's taste. So if you have kids in the room maybe this is a time to tell them to go brush their teeth or something.  Jad Abumrad Yeah yeah.  Robert Krulwich It comes to us from our reporter Aaron Scott.  Jeff Jensen  Jeff Jensen.  Aaron Scott Nice to meet you.  Jeff Jensen Nice to meet you.  Jad Abumrad All right so who is this guy over here?  Aaron Scott This is Jeff Jensen and he is a reporter in LA. And he wrote this graphic novel that I read about one of the most prolific serial killers in U.S. history Gary Leon Ridgeway the Green River Killer.  Jeff Jensen The first victims of the Green River killer were found in the summer of 1982.   The Green River murders terrorized Seattle in the 1980s.   In Seattle today a man called the Green River killer-  Jeff Jensen Ridgeway murdered at least 49 women.   The so-called Green River killer-  Jeff Jensen But it is--   Was blamed-  Jeff Jensen Suspected that it could be upwards of 75.   Making him the most prolific serial killer in American history.   All the victims were prostitutes.  Jeff Jensen He buried them or left their bodies in these little clumps in the woods-   The killer seemed to have placed the bodies as if they were mannequins.  Jeff Jensen And in January of 1984 the Green River Task Force was formed and my father was recruited to the task force.  Aaron Scott So Jeff wrote this book because his father Tom Jensen was one of the lead detectives tracking Gary Ridgeway. He ultimately spent 17 years searching for this man.  Jeff Jensen In December of 2001 my father and his colleagues-   Have arrested-  Jeff Jensen Make the arrest.   DNA testing matched him to the crime.  Aaron Scott They arrest Gary Leon Ridgeway-  Jeff Jensen And on June 13 2003 Gary was secretly taken out of his jail cell and brought to a sort of very nondescript concrete ugly office building.  Aaron Scott And over the next six months-  Jeff Jensen From June to early December-  Aaron Scott It was Tom's job to get Gary to open up-  Jeff Jensen And give up the few details that they really needed to link him certifiably to all these crimes.  John Matsen Today's date Is June 17 2003. The time now is 0836 hours.  Aaron Scott So every day they would bring them into this conference room-  John Matsen This is a continuation of an interview with Gary Leon Ridgeway-  Aaron Scott And interrogate him.  Tom Jensen What did you remember since we last talked ?  Gary R. I got those all at night mostly. That I remember picking her up and-  Aaron Scott It immediately became apparent that there was going to be difficulties.  Gary R. As far as I know I do not know if I did or not.  Aaron Scott He would deny things he would obscure he would dance around things.  Jeff Jensen He did not really want to cop to everything that he did.  John Matsen I got to tell you I am not totally comfortable that you are providing all of the information -  Aaron Scott Especially when it came to one particular fact.  Jeff Jensen What my father and his colleagues know is that something was done to these bodies many of them after they were murdered.  John Matsen Tell us anything about -  Aaron Scott Is he saying what I think he is saying?  Jeff Jensen Yeah necrophilia. Gary is dancing around this topic Gary had denied this to his own lawyers.  John Matsen And that we are not going to be shocked with anything-  Jeff Jensen So my father and the other interviewer in that room that morning Detective John  they start using a line a tact of interviewing that was very.  Tom Jensen It is okay. It is okay if you did.  Jeff Jensen Stunningly shockingly empathetic.  Tom Jensen Nothing to be ashamed of.  Gary R. Mm-hmm .  Tom Jensen Thousands of people have done it before you. You are not the first one.  Jeff Jensen You know you are not the first person that is ever done this.  Tom Jensen Not going to be the last one.  Jeff Jensen You will not be the last.  Tom Jensen That is one of the things that we need to know.  Jeff Jensen Father's trying to reach out to him-  Tom Jensen Okay I know it was more than courage.  Jeff Jensen It is okay to admit this you need to admit this.  Tom Jensen Okay it is all right but we have got to know that. That is one of the things we have to know and that is why it is okay to let it out.  Jeff Jensen And he does.  Gary R. Yes I did lie about that.  I went back one time before and  that I ... Like I said I got to give it out cannot keep holding it in.  Tom Jensen  it is building up   Jeff Jensen This is a major breakthrough.  Aaron Scott So he ends up admitting it?  Jeff Jensen In graphic detail. And it gets even more disturbing for my father as the conversation suddenly pivots to another victim.  Gary R. Other than one that was close to me-  Jeff Jensen By the name of Carol Christensen.  Gary R.  Christensen. I dated her several times a year. Three times a year two times before-  Jeff Jensen He brings her up as an example of a woman that he actually had strong feelings for.  Tom Jensen You liked this girl?  Gary R. Yeah I liked her.  John Matsen She was good to you?  Gary R. She was good to me.  Jeff Jensen And as it happens my father has very vivid memories of investigating the Carol Christensen murder. Speaking with Carol's mom Carol's little daughter-  Gary R. Killed her. I knew she had a daughter and-  Jeff Jensen And so-  Gary R. The last one-  Jeff Jensen Gary starts going through this narrative of what he did to Carol.  Gary R. The last time she was in a hurry.  Jeff Jensen She was allegedly in a rush.  Gary R. And she did not-  Jeff Jensen And it kind of hurt his feelings.  Gary R. Was not satisfying me it made me mad that she was very much in a hurry she had something else on her mind and I killed her.  Tom Jensen How did you kill her?  Gary R. I choked her.  Tom Jensen With?  Gary R. With my arm. And why I cared for her because I dated her before but this day did not turn out right.  Jeff Jensen Up until that point Gary refused to say That from the minute I picked these women up I wanted to kill them. He claimed they were in the middle of a sex act he would get distracted something would happen he just kind of went crazy he had snapped and almost blaming the victims. And my father was not buying it.  Tom Jensen So let us backup a little bit.  Jeff Jensen The fact that he kept on doing it over and over and over again was like Come on.  Tom Jensen Been through this a lot of times before and she is already told you she is in a hurry.  Jeff Jensen You knew what was going to happen.  Tom Jensen You have done how many times before?  Gary R. A lot of times.  Tom Jensen Ten 15 20 -  Gary R.   Tom Jensen Times. You know what is going to happen if she pisses you off.  Gary R. Mm-hmm .  Tom Jensen And you like her. You are telling us all this.  Gary R. Yes.  Tom Jensen Yet you go into this anyway knowing full well that it could-  Gary R. Yeah.  Tom Jensen End up in her death.  Gary R. Yeah.  Jeff Jensen And Gary just says-  Gary R. Yes.  Jeff Jensen That is true. When I picked them up I was going to kill them. Finally acknowledging Yeah that is true. There is a pause and my father just says-  Tom Jensen Why?  Jeff Jensen Why? Why did you do this?  Tom Jensen Did you need to kill?  Jeff Jensen And that was a question that had haunted my father for decades.  Tom Jensen Why?  Jeff Jensen In that Why? That one simple Why? That he asked Gary there was a lot of questions he was asking. Why did you inflict all this suffering on them on us? Why did you take these women off the streets and want to destroy them?  Tom Jensen Why?  Jeff Jensen Why? And the answer is unsatisfying.  Gary R. Yes I did need to kill. I needed to kill her because that-  Aaron Scott Wait what?  Jeff Jensen I just needed to kill because of that. And then he just trails off.  Aaron Scott I need to kill because of that. That is it? It just that-  Jeff Jensen Yeah. Just wanted to kill them I just needed to kill them. In that moment my father he stands up and he says-  Tom Jensen Touched me Gary.  Jeff Jensen You have touched me Gary.  Tom Jensen You have touched me. I am going to take a break.  John Matsen Okay we are going off tape now. It is 0924 hours on June 17th year 2003.  Jeff Jensen He walked out of the room and just started weeping.  Jeff Jensen They spent the next six months interrogating him they brought in psychiatrists and forensic psychologists to try to get an answer. Gary says I needed to kill. And they go Why? And he says Because of the rage. And Well why the rage? And Because women have stepped on me all my life. Well why cannot you deal with it in a normal way?  Jeff Jensen Each answer just begs another why. And even though in the end they got him to confess to these 49 murders they never really get any closer to an answer than this first one. That afternoon he gets in his car goes home he finds my mom on the deck sits down next to her. She says What happened today? And my dad said I do not want to talk about it. And to this day they have not talked about that day and he has not talked about it with anyone until I interviewed him for the book.  Aaron Scott And why is it so important do you think to understand the why behind such an evil act?  Jeff Jensen Well the thing that haunts me about the why question is that I am reminded of one of the oldest stories in the Bible which is the story of Job. The story of Job is that one day God and Satan are having a conversation and they are saying Have you checked out Job? I am really proud of Job he believes in me and he trusts me in so much and he has such great faith in me.  Jeff Jensen And Satan is like Well I bet I can change his mind. And so Satan basically systematically destroys Job's life. Takes away his wife his children all his material possessions. What follows is this ongoing conversation between Job and his friends about why does this happen? Why does God allow this to happen? Only then does God speak up and kind of say like You are going to question me? Who are you?  Jeff Jensen My point is sometimes when we ask the why in the face of profound evil I kind of wonder if what we are doing is that we are daring God to show himself. And I think what we want out of the why is meaning. Meaning to life to reveal itself in a way that restores order and gives us hope that all of this is not just meaningless chaos.  Robert Krulwich Jeff Jensen's book is The Green River Killer A True Detective Story. It is a graphic or an illustrated novel.  Jad Abumrad Thanks also to reporter Aaron Scott for that story.  Robert Krulwich This is Radiolab.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Dan Charles Hi this is Dan Charles.  Jeff Jensen Hi my name is Jeff Jensen.  Fred Kaufman Hey it is Fred Kaufman I am calling to read the credits here we go. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad.  Dan Charles Our staff includes-  Jeff Jensen Ellen Horn.  Dan Charles Lauren Wheeler.  Fred Kaufman Pat Walters.  Dan Charles Kim Howard.  Jeff Jensen Lynn Levy  Dan Charles Brenna Farrow.  Jeff Jensen And Shawn Cole.  Fred Kaufman With help from Adam Cole Rachel James and Matt .  Dan Charles Othello recording courtesy of BAM-  Jeff Jensen Brooklyn Academy of Music ham archives.  Dan Charles Special thanks to Louie Flack-  Fred Kaufman Eugene  Sierra Hahn and everyone in the manuscript and archives department at the Yale University Library. Thanks.   End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 