   Jad?   Hey!   Hey.   How is it going?   Good!   I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab with Dispatches six through ten. Pat Walters Senior Editor is gonna start us off.   Okay.   Okay. So you and Molly had this idea to do an episode about the 1918 flu.   Mm-hmm.   And whenever I get into something historical I go to the newspaper archives. I just -- I think they are so cool. You know coronavirus is in the news everywhere. We have been talking about this on the show and I thought like Oh what did this look like in 1918? But yeah so I decided to just like go to the New York Times archive.   Mm-hmm.   Start in October which was like the peak of the second wave of the 1918 flu.   Gotcha.   So sort of like people are talking about how things are opening up again and like we might have a second spike of the coronavirus. And like what people are afraid of is that what happened in 1918 will happen now which is it was pretty bad when it emerged in the winter of 1918 in the beginning of the year.   Uh-huh.   And then it kind of went away. And then everyone was like Oh it is gone! And went back to normal and that fall it spiked and like most of the people who died in that flu died in this second fall.   I did not know that that is -- I actually honestly did not know that that is the trajectory it took. It kind of freaks me out I have to be honest.   Oh yeah.   Anyhow okay. Sorry.   So ...   Yeah.   So you go to the New York Times in the fall of 1918 and I remember struggling to find the flu.   Hmm.   It is all World War One. The front page of the paper on October 1 1918 has huge like 20-point font headline across the whole page Bulgaria Quits the War Turkey May Follow. War's Fiercest Fighting on Cambrai Front. I do not know what these things mean. I do not understand World War One enough to know what any of this means but it is just like all war ...   French Advance On Every Front.   ... every day ...   British Take Many Towns   ... all fall.   Turkey Also Seeks Peace.   Austria Seeks To Quit War.   Page two page three.   U.S.S. Tampa.   There is little maps there is profiles of officers and different units and what they were doing in the war where they were killed.   692 casualties.   You have entire articles which are just names of all the people killed. And you keep going page five six seven pretty much all war stories. You know as you get into the low teens you get the flu stories. Just little briefs saying like St. Louis closed its businesses or The Health Commissioner has decided not to close the schools even though everyone's saying you should close the schools. Or like The flu is in China now and that is the whole story. It is just like ...   Really?   Flu in China is the story.   Just that sentence?   That is it.   Whoa.   So this is how the coverage goes all fall war stories war stories war stories. And so my favorite example of this situation is December 20 1918. It is another day another typical day at the New York Times with no flu coverage on the front page pretty much no flu coverage until the last page. And there wedged in between a very fussy long story about like who owns some cable lines -- it is like a half a page-long story I do not even understand what it was about -- and an ad for shirt collars you know which were a thing then is this tiny five-sentence story with this headline Six Million Died of Influenza.   Oh  off.   And the subhead is Regarded As World's Greatest Plague Since the Black Death. So this five-sentence story stuck in the last page of the paper says this The Times's medical correspondent says that it seems reasonable to believe that throughout the world about six million persons have died from influenza and pneumonia during the last three months.   Oh my God.   It has been estimated that the war caused the death of 20 million people in four and a half years. Thus the correspondent points out influenza has proved itself five times deadlier than war. Because in the same period at its epidemic rate influenza would have killed 100 million.   Oh my God.   Never since the Black Death has such a plague swept over the world he says adding that the need of a new survey of public health measures has never been more forcibly illustrated.   Oh my God. That is -- I just ...   And I just -- I just ...   That is just -- that is crazy!   Yeah.   Okay so the 1918 flu is kind of famous for being forgotten. It was not widely taught in schools. You will not find it written about in a lot of novels and plays. But what I did not realize is that it was not just forgotten after the fact it was ignored in the moment as it was happening. And there are a lot of reasons for this. I mean you had censorship in certain countries. You had self-censorship in this country journalists feeling like maybe they had to keep morale up and stay focused on the war. Not to mention there was not much anyone felt that they could do about the flu. It was even kind of familiar came around every year. And that year there was just more of it. But on top of that and this is what I find interesting they did not even know what it was. Like think about a couple months ago March coronavirus. Immediately you began to see these illustrations in the paper of this spiky ball. My kids started drawing pictures of the spiky ball. We all had something we could visualize. Back then they had no picture of the enemy. They did not even know the flu was a virus. It was truly invisible.   And yet this tiny unseen unspoken of force was reshaping human history in all kinds of surprising ways. This show began with a simple question. What happens afterward after this? And Molly Webster who you will hear from later in the program suggested well let us look back at what happened after that one. And that is what we are gonna do today. As we enter the summer of coronavirus and look forward to the fall we have five stories of how the invisible hand of that flu has continued to guide and shape us for the last hundred years and has left the world a very different place.     Okay so these dispatches are a full team affair. We are gonna start things off -- well we started with Pat. We are gonna keep it going with reporters Tad Davis and Matt Kielty.   Yeah so Tad and I we talked to a couple of historians.   I do not hear. Can you hear?   Yeah I can hear you.   Okay.   John Berry.   Professor at Tulane University.   And ...   Hello?   Margaret?   Oh hi. Good.   Margaret MacMillan.   Professor at University of Oxford.   Yeah.   Yeah okay. So if we jump in near the end of 1918 there is a ceasefire. World War One is coming to an end. And I am just wondering like what is the general mood?   Well you know there was this sort of mixed feeling that on the one hand in the Allied countries they would won the war and that at least was over but it also left a tremendous amount of chaos. Large parts of Europe were in revolution empires were collapsing and probably nine million dead of the combatants and goodness knows how many more who died of starvation or disease. So there was a lot of grief a lot of concern about where the world was going. But also I think there was a real longing for some sort of better world.   And that new better world was supposed to come in the form of a peace treaty.   So January 1919 all the Allied leaders come together in Paris.   And who all were the Allies in World War One?   The key ones were France Great Britain and then of course the United States.   And John told us that when the President of the United States Woodrow Wilson arrived in Paris ...   He entered almost as a conquering hero.   Huge crowds turned out to see him because for a lot of Europeans -- and not just Europeans a lot of people around the world -- he represented a new hope.   Because for the past year Wilson had been giving these speeches about what the war meant to the United States.   And in them he called for things like peace without victory. That there were no losers in this war.   He called for the end of colonialism imperialism. He called for the creation of this thing that had never existed before that he was calling the League of Nations where countries could just come together to talk through their differences rather than going to war over them.   It was all of this that had people calling Wilson the God of Justice.   But worth mentioning that Wilson ...   You were for him or against him.   ... was a bit of an ass.   And that if you disagreed with him he would cut you.   And more importantly he was also extremely racist.   He is not my favorite President. You know his personality ...   which is a whole 'nother story. But with a lot of historical accuracy and a little bit of drama ...     ... to continue with this story ...     January 18 1919.     In the office of the French Foreign Ministry ...   37 nations 200 delegates packed into this big conference room ...   With lots of gold and mirrors.   ... to come up with this peace treaty that they would eventually send to the enemy Germany.   And at the front of the room at this long table were our two main players.   Woodrow Wilson ...   ... and right next to him ...   ... this short bald man with a big white mustache.   The prime minister of France Georges Clmenceau.   He looks like Mr. Monopoly.   But Clmenceau was ferocious.   His nickname was The Tiger.   And unlike Wilson he was someone who quote Had no real interest in humanity as a whole. His sole concern was for France.   And this would be a bit of a problem because Clmenceau when it came to the enemy Germany ...     He wanted them treated like an enemy.     Because as the French kept on saying We did not start the war. Germany declared war on us and ...     ... the damage done to France was enormous.   The French had lost more men in the war than any other country.   Everyone in France had someone who died knew someone who died.     Whole villages had been wiped out towns destroyed.     He was saying someone should pay for this and it should be Germany.     He essentially wanted to put the boot on Germany's neck.   He did not want Germany just to pay he wanted payback for what Germany did.   He wanted revenge.   Problem was ...   Wilson did not.   Wilson wanted to go easy on Germany. It was his whole peace without victory thing.   So Wilson and Clmenceau they would get together ...   Virtually every day.   ... privately.   Often in Woodrow Wilson's study.   There would be a nice little spread.   Tea and coffee and chocolate clairs and things.   And the two of them ...     ... would go at it.     Wilson preaching peace and unity.     And Clmenceau ...     ... being just like Look the Germans ...     ... need to be brought to their knees.     And they would argue back and forth ...     ... and back and forth.     And they would argue about the League of Nations ...     ... about German reparations.     And these negotiations ...     ... started to drag ...     ... and drag.     No one seems to be ...     ... budging.   And eventually things started to get diplomatically heated.   John done told us after one meeting Wilson turned to an aide ...   And called the French quote ...     In another meeting ...     ... Clmenceau called Wilson ...     Pro-German and left the room.   At one point the British Prime Minister who was always in these talks ...   He said I feel as if I am sitting between Napoleon ...     ... and ...     ... Jesus Christ.    s Clmenceau Mais monsieur vous rigolez.   And this went on January ...     ... February March.     And then eventually Wilson ...   He gets angry.   So much so ...     ... that he threatens to just leave to go back to the States.   On several occasions.   And Clmenceau said rather unkindly ...     Because Wilson could never actually bring himself to go.   In late March Wilson told his wife quote Well thank God I can still fight. And I will win.   A few days later he tells an aide ...     That was April 2.   And the next day after that April 3 ...   Wilson gets sick.   To quote his doctor Wilson was seized with violent fits of coughing which were so severe and frequent that it interfered with his breathing unquote.   He had a fever.   His fever hit 103.   His health starts deteriorating so fast that his doctor thought he was poisoned.   Because of intestinal symptoms.   Does that just mean like stomach pain?   Yeah. And vomiting and diarrhea.   Turns out all symptoms of ...   Influenza.   By this point April of 1919 millions of people had already died of the flu. There had been these three big waves. And John told us this kind of remarkable thing is that as the flu had been rampaging Wilson had never spoken of it.   Not once.   Not publicly.   He was focused entirely on the war. That is all he cared about.   And here's Wilson in Paris trying to put an end to the Great War trying in some ways he thought to put an end maybe to just like war forever while the third wave of the flu was moving through Paris. Now whether Wilson contracted the flu ...   I think we will never know.   Margaret points out like we truly cannot know.   It could have been. I think it was more than a cold. I mean he really was very sick.   But for John who wrote a whole book about the 1918 flu he is like a lot of the classic symptoms were there diarrhea nausea fever coughing shortness of breath. And also this one peculiar symptom.   Mental disorder.   John said for people who contracted the flu back then ...   It is extremely common to be disoriented ...   ... to feel restless ...   ... to become delirious. And Wilson ...     ... definitely showed those symptoms.     One of Wilson's closest aides ...   ... said Nothing we could say could disabuse his mind of the thought ...       ... that the home was filled with French spies.     Also around this time Wilson ...     ... according to an aide ...   Acquired a peculiar notion.     He was personally responsible ...     ... for all the property in the furnished place he was occupying.     Something queer was happening in his mind.   The British Prime Minister referred to it as ...   Quote Nervous and spiritual breakdown.   Clmenceau when he got wind ...     ... said to someone ...     At the same time Wilson's doctor is saying these are terrible days for the President.   Wilson would be sick and in bed for about a week. But even after he recovered one of his aides said ...   Quote One thing was certain. He was never the same after this little spell of sickness.   April 8.   He goes back to the peace conference.   Back to negotiating with Clmenceau.   But he is a different man. He is weaker.   Even one of his Secret Service aides noticed ...   Wilson lacked his old quickness of grasp and tired easily unquote.   And this is the thing is that John said after Wilson got sick ...   He gave in on practically every point.   He seemed to just fold to Clmenceau.   He went in with this idea to go light on Germany and came out with almost the opposite.   The final treaty called for everything Clmenceau wanted harsh reparations on Germany a huge reduction in its military loss of a bunch of territory.   Germany was pretty much eviscerated.   As Germany's foreign minister put it quote They could have expressed the whole thing more simply in one clause Germany renounces its existence unquote.   Now Wilson did end up getting his League of Nations but Germany in the end was not allowed to join it which was pretty much a slap in the face. But some people say because Wilson got this big thing that he wanted all along that is why he was willing to give up on everything else.   But I do not think so. What he did in caving in was so foreign to everything in his personality and everything in his history. I cannot prove it was the disease but I do not see another reasonable explanation. And after Wilson made the concessions a whole group of his top but younger aides met and considered whether they should resign in protest. One of them wrote Wilson a blistering letter of resignation.   It came from a diplomat named William C. Bullitt.   Quote I am sorry that you did not fight our fight to the finish and that you had so little faith in the millions of men like myself in every nation who had faith in you. Our government has consented now to deliver the suffering peoples of the world to new oppressions subjections and dismemberments. A new century of war.   June 28 1919 the Germans would eventually sign what is known as the Treaty of Versailles. And what happens next is something that is debated by historians. There is some like Margaret who say ...   There was a real problem here and that was increasingly Germans felt they had not lost.   There was this growing sentiment amongst Germans that they could have won the war. It was just that like these liberal leaders surrendered too soon.   And so if you feel you have not lost no treaty is going to seem fair.   But there are many historians who say that this treaty the Treaty of Versailles which was so harsh on Germany pretty much forced them into a depression humiliated the German people by blaming them for the war that this treaty would sort of create this foundation for the rise of the Nazis and obviously everything that followed the Holocaust Pearl Harbor D-Day Hiroshima Nagasaki the deaths of upwards of 80 million people. And it is kind of made me think a lot about Paris 1919. How there was this moment where you had these two important men Wilson and Clmenceau who would be sitting at some table in Wilson's study or that big long table in the conference room and argue about what the world should become after the end of this first Great War. And I keep -- I sort of keep imagining that like in those rooms where Wilson and Clmenceau are sitting that there is this other chair there this empty chair. You know it is over by itself no one's paying attention to it. And I just keep thinking how it was almost as if the virus itself kind of had a seat at the table.   Reporters Tad Davis and Matt Kielty. Okay so a lot of the recorded history of the 1918 flu is rather Eurocentric. In this next dispatch which comes from reporter Sarah Qari we are gonna tell a story about how the flu gave the arc of history and this one particular individual a little nudge all the way on the other side of the world.   So the place where it starts kind of is its May of 1918. I think it is like May 29 1918. There is a ship that docks in the port city of Bombay now known Mumbai. It is carrying Indian troops home from World War One.   I did not know India fought in World War One.   Yeah.     India was a British colony at the time so about a million Indian soldiers were off fighting the war for the British.     Some of them were in like France and Belgium. Also others like the ones getting off this ship were coming from Mesopotamia which is now Iraq.   Huh.   Anyways so this ship it is only there for about 48 hours but in those 48 hours in addition to those soldiers the flu also disembarks. A few days later this one police officer that had been stationed at the dock shows up at the hospital running a fever. Then six other police officers get sick. A few days later it is a bunch of men working for a local shipping company. Then its people working at the dockyard. The disease starts to spread through the city of Bombay and from there throughout India. Now meanwhile just north of Bombay in the state of Gujarat theres a man thats taking the train from city to city giving speeches.     He is a lawyer activist big proponent of nonviolent resistance and his name is Mohandas Gandhi.   Ah!    This is him speaking much later but just to help you imagine.     And the thing is like in these speeches hes actually recruiting people to fight in World War One for the British.   Really?   It is very surprising right? I mean Gandhi definitely had some blind spots. He even like made some racist comments about Black people when he was in South Africa. And when it came to India he had this idea that like if Indians fight for the British then they will in return get more autonomy. To quote from some of these speeches that he gave ...   India has altogether lost the capacity to fight. It has not a particle of the courage it should have.   We are regarded as a cowardly people. If we want to become free from that reproach we should learn the use of arms.   So for him it was a show of strength but also kind of like a bargaining chip.   I see. So he thought if Indians prove their strength the British would reward them?   Yeah something like that. So through that summer the flu is spreading through India Gandhi is running around giving speeches. And then all of a sudden on August 17 he writes a letter where he says I am on my back.   Is that what he literally said I am on my back?   Yeah.   That is like the letter equivalent of a text message.      Like Sick. Cannot talk.   Exactly.   What else does he say?   He says Dear Mr. Henderson. I am on my back. I am passing through the severest illness of my life and I was incapable of sending you a letter earlier.   And he -- so he got the flu?   Well it is kind of unclear. Like one person I spoke to argued that it could have been the flu other people said it probably was not. We honestly cannot know for sure. According to Gandhi's own account he got food poisoning from something that he ate and came down with a case of dysentery. But the thing is it was really bad.   The appetite had all gone. I had all along thought I had an iron frame but I found that my body had now become a lump of clay.   I have almost to crawl to reach the lavatory and I have such griping pain that I feel like screaming.   I wanted to scream all the time but controlled the urge with great effort.   I longed to die and be free from it all.   Whoa.   It went on for about five months. Like approximately from August of 1918 to somewhere around January of the next year which lines up exactly with the time of that terrible second wave of the flu in India. And so at the exact time that Gandhi was on his back so was India. Like it was utter devastation. And the colonial government was basically doing nothing. The sanitary commissioner of the state of Punjab writes The hospitals were choked so that it was impossible to remove the dead quickly enough to make room for the dying. The streets and lanes of cities were littered with dead and dying people.   Wow.   The postal and telegraph services were completely disorganized. The train service continued but at all the principal stations dead and dying were being removed from the trains. The burning kot -- which is a cremation site -- and burial ground were literally swamped with corpses whilst an even greater number awaited removal. Nearly every household was lamenting a death and everywhere terror and confusion reigned.   Whoa!   You know in the US we had about half a million people that died from the flu. In India it was somewhere between 10 and 20 million people that died in just those few months.   Oh my God!   Which is more than the number of soldiers that died in World War One globally. Like we talk about the Forgotten Flu but the part that was most forgotten was what happened in India.   Wow yeah. And Gandhi's on his back through that whole period?   Yeah! He finds out that his son and daughter-in-law have come down with the Spanish Flu as well. His daughter-in-law actually ended up dying from it.   Wow.   I actually started reading through some of his letters from this time and theyre fascinating because you see him go from like writing these long screeds about politics and war recruiting to like real soul searching. For instance around October or so about two months into his illness he is so sick that he starts to think that he might die.   Dear Harilal. I have a feeling that I am now going. I have very little time left. The body is becoming weaker and weaker.   You start to see him kind of contemplating his own life.   But the inheritance of character which I am leaving to you is invaluable in my view. I wish you to cherish it. Follow the path of religion.   The more I contemplate this illness the more deeply I realize what love of man to man must be and therefore love of God to man.   He is like reflecting on God and ...   Nature is God and God is love.   ... and nature. And Gandhi had this philosophy about illness where ...   Mysterious is the way karma works itself out.   Any illness that you experience often it is something that you have brought onto yourself.   Hmm.   We reap as we sow we get what we deserve. In this illness I can see my own fault at every step.   Because he thought that way about illness when he would actually got sick he started to reflect What have I done to bring this on? And if you read his letters it seems like part of that was realizing that recruiting for the war effort was misguided.   One need not assume that heroism is to be acquired only by fighting in a war. One can do so even while keeping out of it. War is one powerful means among many others but if it is a powerful means it is also an evil one.   That the way to have strength is not to fight for the British in a war of all things ...   We can cultivate manliness in a blameless way.   ... it was to fight against them through non-violent means.   Hmm.   What ends up happening is he emerges from his illness ...     ... and begins speaking to crowds again. The war is over he is done recruiting and he says now that ...     ... we have to resist. By this time the British have passed a law allowing them to arrest people without really any reason. And the people of India meanwhile have been through all of this death and suffering and seen that the colonial government was powerless to help them or just did not care to. So this time the crowds are much bigger. They are ready for Gandhi's message.     To which the British respond by ...     ... cracking down even further.     Massacring hundreds of people in a city called Amritsar. And in the wake of that Gandhi writes ...   It seems I shall have to fight the greatest battle of my life.   Wow.     It is a long time before Indians actually get their independence. I think 28 years to be exact. But this moment when the Spanish flu sweeps India and both India and Gandhi emerge from this time of extreme hardship I think you can say that this is the moment where independence really starts to take shape.   Coming up dangerous bodies ether ghosts pig reservoirs and whale flu. That is right after the break.   I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. The idea for this set of dispatches is simple As we head into the summer of corona and into the uncertainty of the next few months we thought it was a good time to sort of look forward by looking back to the aftermath of the 1918 flu and to chart the many ways that the silent invisible hand of that flu virus has shaped human history. This next one comes from producer Latif Nasser.   All right I am ready.   Okay.   Take me on a journey Latif back in time.   And you are going back in time and you are going across the globe.   Nice.   To Vienna.   Okay.   In the early 1900s.   Okay.   I mean it is the capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire but it is really it is like -- it is like one of the cultural capitals of the world. It has this you know great classical legacy you know like Mozart and Beethoven and Hofburg Palace and that kind of thing. But at this moment in the early 1900s it is just like bursting into modernity.   Hmm.   And there was one point in 1913 where within about two miles in central Vienna you could find Stalin Trotsky Freud and Hitler.      Like they would have been going to the same coffee shop.   That is insane.   Is not that crazy?   Is that true?   Yeah. Yeah.   Oh my God. That is amazing.   So anyways so Vienna was this place and time where it is like wow this has a sort of disproportionate mark on the 20th century right? And I want to tell you about a guy who was at that place at that time named Egon Schiele.   Egon Schiele. Okay.   So 1907 at the time he was a teenager. He wanted to be an artist studied at the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts but he found his teacher so stifling that he drops out and he decides to seek out his idol one of the best-known artists in all of Vienna Gustav Klimt.   Oh! He had the famous painting that there was like a woman that people put up on their dorm rooms.   Yeah yeah yeah. It is like she is like in gold-leaf. It is called The Kiss.   Yes that one. Yeah.   That is Klimt. So you have this like teenaged art school dropout approaching his artistic hero who is 30 years his senior. And supposedly kind of the way the story goes Schiele shows him some of his sketches. He asks him whether he has any talent and Klimt says Much too much.   Mm!   It is this sort of monumental moment. And within a few years Schiele skyrockets to success and in exhibitions like you will find their work alongside each other.   Wow no kidding!   Now just to give you a sense of what this guy Schiele what his work is like like this guy's not a bowl of fruit guy. He loves drawing portraits and including and especially nudes. Like he draws men women male couples female couples himself masturbating women masturbating. A lot of people at the time considered him a pornographer. He even gets arrested and thrown in jail at one point and then they just let him out of jail a few weeks later. And you can see why people found some of his work unsettling. Like he would be drawing his sister like very detailed nudes of his sister detailed nudes of like underage girls you know sickly people. There is a drawing he does like of the scrotum of a newborn baby boy.   Wow.   Like it is weird it is really weird. And one of the Schiele experts I talked to Verena Gamper she was like to Schiele painting bodies was a way of investigating the deepest questions about life. And just looking at the myself like you can see like he just wanted to see people.   Yeah.   And the way people actually were not the way they were supposed to look. Like just the way they really actually looked.   Hmm.   So a few years later 1915 he marries Edith Harms.   Okay.   Three days after the wedding he has to report for active duty in the Austrian military. Couple years later he gets reassigned back to Vienna. And soon after he finds out that his mentor Gustav Klimt is in the hospital.   Hmm.   Klimt had a stroke and while he is in the hospital recuperating he contracts pneumonia. So Schiele goes to -- he basically goes to see his mentor on his deathbed but he is too late.   Oh.   So instead he goes to the morgue and sits next to Klimt's body and starts to sketch him. Like almost like a -- like a death mask you know? Like it is like he is making a death mask or something like that.   Like trying to freeze him or something or hold him or something.   Yeah.   Yeah.   Yeah exactly. So Klimt dies and sort of as Schiele is reeling from the death of his mentor he is actually professionally doing better than ever. The whole Vienna art scene sees him as this rock star. He buys a new like big studio and he talks about how he was going to convert his old studio into this kind of new revolutionary kind of like art school. It was not just gonna be a kind of a traditional art school the way that he had gone to. He hoped that there would be these kind of cohorts of artists behind him that he could help train the way he wished he had been trained. And besides that his wife Edith she becomes pregnant. But then comes the fall when the big second wave of the flu pandemic hits. And according to the Schiele biographer Jane Kallir there is this family story that Edith who was by this point six months pregnant she decides to go out and get some groceries. She goes downtown and comes back with the flu.   Oh wow.   So Schiele just attends to her over the next couple of days and just has to watch as she is you know struggling to breathe and as she and also obviously their unborn child just kind of start to fade away.   Whoa.   And the night before she dies she asks for a pen and paper and writes this kind of barely legible note with super loopy handwriting which says something like I love you and I love you endlessly. Edith.   Wow.   And Schiele he is sort of sitting next to her and just like he did with Klimt he just sketches her. So he makes this really gut-wrenchingly sad portrait of Edith.   You see her in the bed.   Schiele biographer Jane Kallir.   Her head is propped up on pillows her eyes are half closing but trying to stay open. You see her fading away.   So ...   She died that night?   So she lived through the night. She died in the morning and then it is that same day that Schiele first starts to shiver.   Oh wow.   So for the next three days he lays in bed with a high fever and he dies the same day as her funeral.   Whoa.   Yeah he was 28. She was 25.   Wow so that is -- that is horrible. Like this guy who is about to -- whose life is about to just explode suddenly has these three deaths in rapid succession.   Yeah.   Wow. What do you make of that?   One of the ideas that the biographer Jane Kallir brought up was this term that Gertrude Stein coined called The Lost Generation.   And when we hear that phrase usually you think of F. Scott Fitzgerald or Hemingway.   The nihilism of young people who lived through the 19-teens but there is another way to read it.   The Lost Generation were people who were literally lost. They were not there anymore. They were gone.   And in a way Schiele is one of the kind of the crystallizations of that. Like he is one of the clearest examples of that. Someone who was brilliant someone who is prolific. Like he had this sort of spark that was -- that was snuffed out.   Hmm.   So that made me wonder like what would it be -- what would it have been like if they had survived? Like how would modern art -- how would the modern world be different? And so I -- it is funny. Like I asked these two different scholars and they had kind of the same answer which was sort of striking. They were like Schiele was into drawing people right? He was into drawing bodies he was into drawing these human figures. But after the war modern art in Europe moves away from figural work like human figures and then towards abstraction. And it was only relatively recently that Schiele's work became in vogue again.   Wow. That is kind of -- that gives me chills just thinking about that. It is like for somebody who so passionately took in the human form to then in the wake of the pandemic and the war it is just too painful to take in the human forms anymore and so we have to look away.   Hmm.   You know?   Yeah.   That is kind of what I hear in that story.   Yeah. Yeah and it does feel like between the war and the pandemic like that whole generation must have seen the human body in such -- like in its most -- like seen it in the frailest way and the most visceral way. Like it is like oh I do not want to see that anymore.   Well do not you have -- I mean I remember you saying something like this. I mean I -- bodies look dangerous now.   Mm.   I saw this picture. It was one of those -- like it was a Cond Nast publication that I guess had been done right before the pandemic. And it had on the cover these two Millennials embracing and kissing each other. And I remember seeing this photo and just recoiling. The idea of two human bodies touching? I was like Oh! No! Get away from each other! Like there is some way in which the human body like the -- it is radioactive now.   It is weird because there is a way in which -- I do not know it is like at this moment our bodies are simultaneously -- they seem so dangerous and like weapons. But then also like our bodies seem so vulnerable. Like the idea that like someone's you know knee on a neck like could be that devastating you know? Like it just -- like you feel -- I do not know. It is like at this moment there is these two conflicting things. Like it is like bodies as so vulnerable and bodies as so dangerous.   Hmm. Producer Latif Nasser. Next up? Rachael Cusick.   Okay. I am at your service.   All right.   Ready to be inspired and amazed.   Well I do not know how much I am gonna inspire you because I think you know a lot of what I am about to say because you are a radio man but I appreciate you faking enthusiasm for the next 30 minutes. I am really ...   No I am not gonna fake it. It is sort of like -- oh my God! My -- sorry my child just scared the  out of me.   That is so good!   But anyhow okay. So where -- where would you like to launch in?   Let us start in the fall of 1919. The war's over the flu is winding down and we are in Pittsburgh with this guy.   Frank Conrad who had been a ham operator before the war. And once the war ends in his garage he you know sets up his -- or resets up his amateur station.   So that is Susan Douglas radio historian.   And I am a Professor of Communication and Media at the University of Michigan.   And back then radio broadcasts were really just Morse code. Just a bunch of beeps and boops. But Frank was about to change that.   He worked for Westinghouse which was an electrical manufacturing company. So he thus had access to vacuum tubes that were used for transmission.   And all you need to know about vacuum tubes is that they were the secret bit of technology that let radio go from  this to this thing that is full of life. But also in that moment in history in the wake of the flu weirdly made us confront death.   Absolutely.   So on October 17 1919 Frank is in his garage with these fancy vacuum tubes. And then he picks up a microphone ...   Pushed up to you know a phonograph.   ... and music floated out of Frank's little garage into the air. There is no recording of this broadcast. All we know is that Frank talked a little played some music. And about 35 miles away all the way across Pittsburgh those sounds reached the ears of a little boy named Harry Mills.   I remember it was 10 or 11 oclock at night and all at once this voice appears. And I remember letting out a yelp or a shout of some sort and my dad who had just gotten out of the bath come in wrapped in a towel to make sure I was all right something had not happened to me. And I said Dad look! I am hearing this fellow talking! And we shared the headphones we only had one pair of headphones. And he allowed that I was right.   That -- what a moment that must have been!   Can you -- right?   To suddenly like ...   Imagine that -- that like that is never happened before. You did not realize that the radio could even do that.   Yeah.   And then this voice like fills your bedroom. I think that is just the coolest thing ever.   It is super cool.   And other people thought it was pretty cool too.   One of the Pittsburgh newspapers began reporting on this.   And once word literally got out ...   That it was this guy broadcasting voice and music from his garage in Pittsburgh.   Soon all of these places ...     Religious organizations ...   The union makes us strong.   ... labor unions ...   ... wanted to do what Frank did in his garage.     ... colleges and universities ...   Newspapers the Boy Scouts ...   ... everybody wanted in on this.   And at this moment the radio you would have in your home is really just a bunch of coils and wires ...   And a crystal. There was this little wire and it was called a cat whisker.   Oh!   And you would basically move it around the crystal until you got something.       And ...     ... as you would move the whisker around that crystal ...   You were not just hearing voice and music. You were hearing howls. You were hearing screeches. You were hearing static. All of this kind of atmospheric noise that was ...     ... really creepy and really weird you know?   You heard all of these sounds that lived between the voices between the everyday human world and something that stretched beyond it.   And let us remember the context. By the end of World War One between 10 and 20 million people had been killed.   And then another 50 million or so were killed by the flu. Pretty much everybody knew somebody who had died a friend or a family member or a loved one. And they were ...   Desperate for some kind of way of coping.   And so when people heard these mysterious voices on the radio ...     ... a lot of them wondered ...   Is somebody trying to reach me? Are they okay on the other side? Is there another side? Can I communicate with the undead?   Susan says this was a real moment where spiritualism took off.   Ouija boards were flying off the shelves people did go to seances.   People thought maybe my brother or mother or cousin or whoever else I lost was out there floating around in this space called the ether which is also where people believed the radio waves lived.   And so explorations of the ether you know via radio might be the way in which we could connect with the dead.   Hmm. It is so interesting. Like I do not think I ever would have come across these stories in any other moment in time like in my own heart and head and felt like any sort of sympathy for the people who wanted to believe in the spiritualists like who would go to seances and buy Ouija boards. But like the moment we are living in right now where I am speaking to you from my closet and I have not seen anyone besides my roommate in weeks and like the other day I was like -- because I am in an apartment with one other person and I would just been talking to my roommate for so long and I was like All right I gotta get out of this but there is no excuse to get out of here. And then I was just like Oh yeah. I got a phone call with my siblings. I gotta go. And then I walked into my room and just to like play it off like I actually had a phone call.   Yeah.   I just like began speaking as if I was speaking to my siblings and like responding to these imaginary things that they would say. Like I imagined my sister would be talking about her baby and then my other sister would be talking about this dinner she made. And I would respond and imagine. And I must have sounded crazy and I do sound crazy.      But it felt so good to like do that. It was like -- it was like playing house or like make-believe but it felt so real. And I just -- I do not think I ever would have done it before this moment. But I just -- I just have the sense of empathy for those people. And I am just as crazy as they are I guess.   Yeah.   Producer Rachael Cusick. Okay rounding things out Molly Webster.   So so far we have done a lot of stories about human history and human experience.   Hmm.   But my 1918 thing was what happened to the virus?   Yeah.   Because I mean at the time we could not see it. We did not have the technology to see it. We did not even know it was a virus. We did not know that much about viruses. And so it really was an unseen force. But that all changed in 1997 thanks in a big way to a guy named Johan Holton.   Johan Holton?   Yeah he is like a legend as a science adventurer. And so basically the story goes is like Johan got very interested in trying to see if they could get a sample of the 1918 flu and learn about it. So he went to Brevig Mission Alaska which is a very very cold place where bodies would be preserved and there was a known flu outbreak there late in the pandemic that killed most of the village.   Hmm.   And so he dug down into the permafrost where there was essentially this mass grave went into bodies took out portions of the lungs then sent those samples to a lab in Washington DC run by this guy.   Hello. It is Jeff Taubenberger.   Hey Jeff it is Molly Webster. How are you?   Good. How are you?   Doctor Jeffrey Taubenberger.   I am a Senior Investigator at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda Maryland.   Anyways back in 1997 Jeff took those samples into the lab and he was able to kind of really see the virus itself.   So if you sequence all the genes of the 1918 virus which ...   As you did.   ... we did in my lab back in the 1990s ...   And what he saw so to speak was all of this genetic material called RNA.   Influenza is an RNA virus but the RNA that makes up the genome of the influenza virus is not just on one string one continuous strand of RNA.   Oh.   It is on eight separate little pieces called segments.   Really?   According to Jeff you can think of those segments as genes so there are eight different genes all doing different things.   And once you have that exact sequence now you can do very careful geneaologies.   By comparing those genes to other genes and other flus from 1918 all the way up to today ...   You can just follow it and you can look at how things change over time.   ... you can put together a very thorough life history of this virus.   Yeah. It is a crazy story.   The first thing to know is that when the pandemic petered out like around 1920 or so the virus itself did not.   No. The pandemic virus never went away. It just started circulating annually causing influenza.   And as more and more people became immune to it it basically became like the normal flu.   Spread person to person.   Through 1921 and '22.   Changing a little bit every single year ...   Enough so that it would not die out because of immunity but we are still talking about the same baseline flu that infected and killed everyone in 1918 running around dominant virus traveling all over the world.   ... throughout the '20s and beyond.   Through the 1920s the 1930s 1940s goes into the 1950s. And then we get to 1957.   Somehow in 1957 a dual infection occurred between the human virus that derived from 1918 and an unknown bird virus.   Wait so there is -- there is a meeting of two viruses right at the doorstep to a cell?   So now there is two. Yeah.   Yes.   And because they were both flu viruses they both had those eight gene segments which means they could ...   Mix and match those genes to create a new virus.   It is like a Plug and Play or something.   Yeah. Think of Lego blocks. You know you can put them together in different ways as long as you have a complete set.   So these two viruses end up swapping their genes and the 1918 virus ends up with three new genes. Now two of those genes make very important proteins.   The two major proteins that are sticking out on the surface of the virus like the little spikes that stick out from membrane around the virus ...   Those two proteins are abbreviated H and N. So the 1918 virus was H1N1 and when it bumped into this other virus it got a new H and a new N.   When that happened what you had was a new virus that had all the core machinery that had already been adapted to humans of the 1918 virus but it now had proteins on the surface that nobody had immunity to and so it could cause a new pandemic.   After almost 40 years of you know being the regular old flu and making people sick but like not that sick in 1957 all of a sudden there was a new version of this virus.   H2N2 virus.   And thanks that new H and N it killed over a million people worldwide and over a hundred thousand in the US.   And it is ...   It is like a serial killer that went and changed its clothes or something.   Yeah exactly. But you know the core of the virus was still derived from 1918. And then the crazy thing is that just 11 years later in 1968 that 1957 virus interacted in some way somehow with another bird virus ...   Did the gene-swapping thing again got itself a new H.   ... and that became H3.   What?   But the N2 from 1957 stayed the same.   With the backbone of -- yes! Go ahead sorry. Oh!   It is five genes from the 1918 virus two genes from the 1968 virus and one gene from the 1957 virus. And then in 1977 the H1N1 virus all eight genes from the 1918 virus that stopped circulating in 1957 came back into human circulation 20 years later.   No!   Yes!   Wow!   And that H1N1 virus co-circulated with the H3N2 virus so that we had two different strains competing with each other for annual flu season. And then that circulated until they were replaced by a new pandemic that had a really complicated and mixed-up origin in relation to 1918.   Okay so to understand this next part you have to know that most flus come from birds and they go into us. But they can go into other animals too.   Horses or dogs whales and seals and camels and bats that have flu that ...   Whales!   They probably all have a -- yes whales. Influenza viruses are in ...   The reason that that matters is it turns out that way back at the beginning of our story ...   The 1918 virus most likely went from humans to pigs in 1918.   Whoa!   And then the virus adapted to pigs and made a pig-specific lineage of the 1918 virus that became swine influenza.   Oh my God!   And so the human strain of 1918 goes off and it goes through the '20s and the '30s and the '40s and the '50s and onwards and onwards while the pig strain is doing the same thing. It is going through the piggy 1920s and then the piggy 1930s and the piggy 1940s and it is doing little changes along the way. And at some point they give it back to us.   In a complex set of swapping genes between human viruses pig viruses and bird viruses a new virus was created that has some of the genes from the 1918 virus. But some are derived from its human descendants two of them are derived from its swine flu descendants and then a couple other genes from a bird virus. And that led to a new H1N1 virus in 2009.   This is so wild!   I know. But pig detour aside I think the thing that was crazy about what Jeff told me is that the -- that virus the one that had the backbone of 1918 the one in 1968 ...   The 1968 H3N2 virus became the dominant form of influenza and it is still the dominant form of influenza today.   Really?   More than 50 years later.   Does that mean that like the flu I might have gotten this past winter is built on the backbone of the 1918 strain?   It absolutely is. And you know here's the thing I think that is important to think about If our data are correct that a single transmission event from a bird virus to humans say just before 1918 that led to the emergence of this new pandemic virus not only the tens of millions of people who died in the pandemic itself estimated at least between 50 and maybe even a hundred million people but that the tens of millions of people who have died of influenza in the last hundred and two years are all directly related to a single event in which a bird virus adapted to humans.   Sometime before 1918 -- and no one really knows when -- like a human you know touched some bird poop and scratched their nose or ate an infected chicken or like hugged a turkey or something and this virus went from that bird snuck into that human and from there it went from human to human to human to human to human to human to human every day of every year for the last a hundred and two years.   So the 1918 virus is ultimately responsible for all the flu deaths that have occurred in a hundred years which is stunning to think about.   Wow so the pandemic never finished in a way.   Right.   It does also make you wonder. I mean like here we are with the coronavirus six months in like are we at the start of some crazy 102-year journey with this virus?   Hello.   Hi.   Hi.   So we actually called up the best person we could think of to answer that question.   Okay Doctor Fauci. Such an honor to talk to you.   Sure.   Dr. Anthony Fauci who probably at this point does not need an introduction but when we got him on the line we told him what we had learned about the 1918 virus.   ... transformed several times into smaller pandemics.   Right.   Stretching all the way into the '70s.   And then we just asked him.   Do you see that sort of legacy stretching forward for COVID-19? Like in a hundred years are we gonna look back on it the way we look back on 1918 now?   Yeah you know it is conceivable but unpredictable and not inevitable. So COVID-19 is a brand new virus. It does not have the reassortment capabilities that the flu has. It does not have gene segments that would allow for what we call easy reassortment.   The first thing he told us is that the coronavirus does not have those eight segments that the flu viruses have so it cannot do that same swapping of parts.   All those genetic shenanigans as it were.   But on the other hand the coronavirus ...   It certainly has the capability to mutate. So it could change.   Gotcha.   So I guess the question people are asking is it conceivable that with this particular coronavirus that we are gonna see versions of this as the years go by? You can never predict with certainty but what I think we will see over the years is that we will either control it very well with a vaccine which I do hope is the most likely option or it will go through a couple of cycles of seasons and then will take its place at a low-level threat. Something that is present that can be dealt with that it does not you know impact us in a way that it is impacted now.   Gotcha. Gotcha. I guess that is comforting to hear. I mean the best case scenario being that we see a couple of cycles of this and then a vaccine kind of tempers it and gently guides it into something of a low level ...   Right.   ... something of a seasonal variety. What is the worst-case scenario that keeps you up at night?   Well I have to tell you the worst-case scenario that keeps me up at night I am living through right now. A brand new virus that jumps species infects humans and has the combined capability of spreading extremely rapidly from human to human at the same time as it has a relatively high degree of morbidity and mortality. And that is exactly what we are in right now. Literally the perfect storm of a pandemic which is the reason why unlike other pandemics of different years with the exception of 1918 which has some serious significant similarities we have an epidemic that has essentially gripped the planet. So this is indeed an unprecedented situation. We have not been here before certainly no one in our generations.   You know this whole show I feel like it started because of a conversation you and I were having about what would it be like to emerge from this COVID-19 era. So okay. Let us look back. Let us look back at 1918 and see what happened in the years after that. And in doing that we found all of these tendrils artistic technological social things that reached out not just past 1918 but all the way to now. And it just -- it just makes me feel like the way in which we think about the rulers of our histories are just not the rulers. It is like somehow we are not the masters of our destiny in the way that we think.   It is interesting because it is like the things that catch our eye are not always the things that define us.   Yeah that is a better way to put it. Yeah.   Okay very special thanks for these dispatches to Verena Gamper Rajmohan Gandhi Siddharth Chandra David Arnold Laura Spinney Simon Jutras who played the role of Georges Clmenceau. Our own David Gebel who played the role of Woodrow Wilson. Dan Fink for casting and also the National Film Board of Canada for use of the film based on the book by Margaret MacMillan Paris 1919. Okay I am Jad Abumrad. Thank you for listening. Please stay safe everybody.    Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 