Jad Wait you are listening--  Okay. Robert All right.  Okay. Robert All right.  You are listening- Robert Listening  -to Radiolab?  Radiolab?  Shots.  From? Robert WNYC.  C and NPR. Jad We should run just a classic intro. Robert Sure. Jad Hey I am Jad. Robert And I am Robert. This is the Radiolab-- Jad Podcast. Robert Yes the podcast. Jad I have got to be honest I have no idea what we are about to do. Whoa what is this? Are we in a boat? Robert No but we are going to be. This story actually starts in a supermarket. Jad Why did you give me the boat as a tease? Robert Yes. That is a tease. That is a classic tease. Jad Give me some supermarket then. Robert I will give you some supermarket.  Soy sauce every  Robert That is Pat Walters. I asked Pat a few weeks ago to- Jad Hi Pat by the way. Robert Yes Pat Walter is a regular person here. Jad Pat is one of our producers. Robert I said I want him to look for stories about old lobsters. Jad Why? Robert Well I am not going to tell you that right now but you will see later on why. Jad Come on give me a hint. Robert No I am not going to give you a hint. He found a lady. Pat Walters If you could just introduce yourself. Bonnie Hazen What do you want me to say? Pat Whatever you want to say? Bonnie Hi I am Bonnie Hazen. I am a registered nurse. Pat Bonnie told us a pretty crazy story. Bonnie To just tell you briefly what happened was I had just gone to our grocery store. Pat Just any old day. It was not-- Bonnie Just any old day. Nothing special about that day. Pat Where is this? Bonnie In McMurray where I live little McMurray Pennsylvania. We are about 15 miles south of Pittsburgh. Robert The year Jad is 1990. Pat August of 1990. Bonnie I was looking around admiring the new seafood department and I noticed this tank. Pat A lobster tank. Bonnie There were only two lobsters in the tank. Pat One she says was really small but the other one-- Bonnie This huge behemoth that was just so massive. Pat How big is big in this case? Bonnie He was like from the tip of my finger to my elbow. Jad Oh that is big. Pat She sees this big lobster and she is like That tank is way too small. Robert She thought the lobster look cramped. Pat She goes over to the guy behind the seafood counter and she is like- Bonnie I asked somebody Well what are you going to do with this big lobster? He just let me know that it was a promotional for the new seafood department. Pat It was just this big lobster that would get sent around to different supermarkets when they wanted to attract attention. Bonnie I just made a few more inquiries and worked my way up to the store manager and he referred me to the vice president of the chain and got-- Pat Oh straight away. Bonnie Oh yes because they could not answer my question. I probably was a little bit of a pain like What are you going to do with him? Robert This is the moment where the manager of the store decides Okay we have a complaining lady I think I can solve the problem. He makes her an offer. Bonnie The bottom line was that I could have him if I could arrange for him to return to Maine. Pat She could have him if she could somehow get him back to Maine? Robert Yes. Bonnie To Maine. Robert I do not know why I guess all lobsters are from Maine he thought. That is the offer. Bonnie Okay. How do I do that? Pat That is a good question. Robert Is this an unusual experience? This is one case. Trevor Corson This actually has a long history of people rescuing large lobsters. Robert That is Trevor Corson. He is the author of what is it The Secret Life of Lobsters? Trevor Yes The Secret Life of Lobsters. Some people may remember the story of Mary Tyler Moore. In 1994 Mary Tyler Moore developed a crush on a large lobster 12-pounder. Robert Who was named Mr. Grant? Trevor No. He was named Spike in Malibu California in a restaurant called Gladstone. She put up 1000 for the right to rescue him 1000 and then Rush Limbaugh heard about this and he called the restaurant and offered 2000 for the right to eat Spike. Robert Well what did the restaurant do then? Trevor It refused. It still refused. There is been other cases since then. Jad Trevor told us that he is actually read about dozens of these lobster rescue stories. Robert Our lobster story is the original lobster story. Jad The very first. Robert I do not want to make the claim forever for sure but I am just saying this that if you Googled it this is your opening lobster. It is still 1990. Bonnie having now left the supermarket she is at home thinking now. Bonnie I did not know what to do. Jad She does not have the lobster yet? Pat She has no lobster yet. Bonnie That was when I started calling some of the local animal organizations Animal Rescue League and the ocally trying to see if there was anybody out there that could help. There really was not. They are more into mammals dogs and cats. Pat They would probably never even heard of such a thing. Bonnie No they basically told me Just forget it. Jad What are we talking weeks of research here? Pat Seven hours. Jad Really? Bonnie Oh I was on the phone for hours. Pat A little obsessed. Bonnie I had the time and it was fun. Pat This had become a project for her. Robert Yes it is a project. Pat Yes. Bonnie Then I called Cousteau Society because I was a member of the Cousteau Society and they suggested I call our local newspaper.  Pat The press. Bonnie The article appeared in the Saturday morning paper. Pat Oh really? Bonnie I have it right here the cruisin crustacean. Pat Cruising like cruise? Bonnie Not cruising but cruisin C-R-U-I-S-I-N crustacean. McMurray woman talks supermarket into releasing large lobster.  I am just quoting now. Yes it is a long story. It began Friday morning when Mrs. Hazen entered the Giant Eagle Supermarket. There in the store's newly opened seafood section she encountered Nick. Jad Nick? Pat Oh the lobster has a name. Bonnie Nick.  Jad Nick. Bonnie Nick  the king of crustaceans was lounging in a large circular saltwater tank along with several lesser lobsters they were just the little ones. Something in the way Nick moved spoke to Mrs. Hazen so she spoke to several Giant Eagle employees. Mrs. Hazen who describes herself as environmentally active told them she thought Nick might be happier back home in Maine than on someone's  I really did not say that.  Bonnie Do not worry Mrs. Hazen was told Nick was a professional lobster 70 years old. Jad 70 years old? Bonnie Yes. Jad Well we do not actually know. There is no way to technically age a lobster perfectly. Estimates are from 50 to 100 years for those big suckers. Pat Wow. Bonnie I did not say this. I am not an environmental crazy. I eat lobster but I think they are over-harvested Nick must be set free. I did not say that either.  Pat I see you pounding your fist on the desk.  Nick must be set free.  Bonnie They told me I could have Nick if I promised to take him to the ocean. Mrs. Hazen has no money for such a trip.  Sounds like a destitute. Anyway I guess that is what appeared in the   Pat That could have been the end of it but-- Bonnie Saturday morning we got an early phone call and there was this woman on the other end of the line. Toni Leone I am Toni Leone. Bonnie She was saying she was in town.  For my dad's funeral. Bonnie She was returning that afternoon to Maine. ? No. ? Yes. ? To Maine? Robert Portland Maine. Toni So I figured I will just bring him back with me. Jad Why would you even think to do something like that? Toni Because he was a massive lobster in a teeny weeny tank that literally he could barely move in. Robert Now there is one other thing remember she was back in Pittsburgh for her dad's funeral. Pat Was this in any way an homage to your dad? Toni Oh my God he loved lobster. He absolutely loved to eat lobster. Pat To eat lobster? Toni Yes he would eat them like crazy. Robert He also loved that his oldest daughter would do things that none of his other kids would ever do. Toni Yes he would know that I would do something like that. He would expect me to do something like that. Robert Anyway Toni and Bonnie they were on the phone. Pat At first Bonnie is actually a little suspicious. Bonnie I said Are you sure you are not just saying this to eat him because I mean-- Toni I said No I would not eat anything this big. He is too old. Bonnie How she reassured me and she sounded very nice so we agreed to meet at Giant Eagle.  Bonnie Of course now I am getting my daughter my youngest daughter Oh my God hurry up  we have got to go to Giant Eagle. Toni The woman met us at the store. Bonnie Because she had I think it was a two oclock flight or something like that. Toni She was there with the manager and--  Bonnie I did not know there was going to be a photographer there from our local TV station in Pittsburg. Anyway Toni bought the biggest styrofoam cooler she could find. Toni Which really still was a little too small for him. Bonnie He barely fit. Toni We got him there taped it up as best we could. Bonnie Put him in a van and away they went. Toni When we got to the airport we get up to the reservation desk handed him to the stewardess and she put him in a chair in first-class. ? What kind of a-- wait a second. Toni We were in coach. This lobster is up in the first class.  Robert The plane then touches down in Portland Maine where the wildlife police are waiting. Toni Again. Robert Is anyone able to determine what everyone here seems to have assumed that this lobster comes from Maine? Toni No. In fact it probably was not caught here. Robert Why do you say that? Toni In Maine you cannot catch big lobsters like that that is illegal. Jad Because the big lobsters are the ones that make more babies. Robert Oh. Toni They have size limits that they have on their lobsters. Robert You are bringing a lobster then to a venue that you reasonably suspect is a foreign place to him. Toni It is a foreign country. Pat Wow. Toni He could make friends.  Pat The next morning. Toni The harbor patrol called and said Do you want to go with us we are going to put him in the water? We jumped on their boat. Pat A newspaper reporter went out in the boat with them that morning too. Bonnie Okay this is from Maine Pat Bonnie read it to us. Bonnie Just after 00 PM as the Marine patrol boat locked in 30 feet of water Toni Leone carefully dropped Nick over the side. She watched him sink in the choppy fog-shrouded water then grinned I am glad he made it. Is not that nice? Robert It is nice but here's the real deep question here. When we look at our fellow creatures and we decide Well who do we want to protect? We include some groups and we exclude others. It seems almost entirely arbitrary. For example why would someone save this lobster? Pat Yes. I mean a lobster is not cuddly by any stretch of imagination certainly not soft. Robert Was it it is beauty? Well? Pat I actually think that lobsters are very attractive. Robert Really? Do you always think that? Pat I have always thought a lobster is-- it is-- how can I say this appropriately for radio? They are muscular and curvaceous at the same time. They are like Popeye arms those claws. Then there is that nice curving tail and I just think that lobsters-- Robert You likely have a hunky lobster calendar. Lobsters of 2008. Pat I am not talking about that on the radio. Jad That is just weird of you. That cannot be the reason why people keep saving lobsters. Bonnie No. Robert No. Jad So what is it? Pat I think that it has partly to do with our obsession with longevity. When it is one that big and that old suddenly the rules are changed. Here is a creature that has made it through all the tests of life and it deserves our respect now. Bonnie He was unique he was special. I just felt that he just did not deserve to be in that tank at his age. Everything converged at that moment. That is the only way I can explain it is-- I just went with it.  Jad A story about lobsters. Thank you Pat. Robert I thought of dropping Pat into the ocean along with Nick but when I had him upside down I realized he was kind of attractive in his own right. Pat As if you could pick me up.    Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.