 01 . Radio Lab is supported by Transfer Wise they cheaper way to send money internationally. The Economist says Transfer Wise takes a machete to the hefty fees banks charge. But do not take their word for it. More than four million people are already saving. Sign up at transferwise.compodcast or download the app. Olivia Fritz 27 This is Olivia Fritz from Sheboygan Wisconsin. Radio Lab is supported by Math For America. Here's a brain teaser. Every wonder where the best math and science teachers across New York City come together to lead learn and share? MFA Fellowships inspire great teachers to stay in the classroom. Learn about the power of the MFA community at mathforamerica.org.  48 Wait wait you are listening. Olivia Fritz 49 Okay.  49 All right. Olivia Fritz 49 Okay.  49 All right.  51 You are listening to Radio Lab. From WNYC and NPR. Jad Abumrad 11 No this is fine. Robert Krulwich 12 What are we doing about the podcast by the way? Jad Abumrad 14 Oh should we do that now? Robert Krulwich 16 Yep. Jad Abumrad 16 Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radio Lab. Robert Krulwich 20 Yes it is. Jad Abumrad 21 No we are doing the introduction. Robert Krulwich 22 Oh.  Jad Abumrad 23 Here we go. Let us do it for real. Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 26 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 27 This is Radio Lab. Robert Krulwich 28 The podcast. Jad Abumrad 28 And today on the podcast we will tell you about a guy who hears music in a way that is just extraordinary. Jessica Benko 36 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 37 And painful. Jessica Benko 37 Just thinking about this story makes my head hurt. Jad Abumrad 41 That is Jessica Benko. She is a reporter. Jessica Benko 43 Yep. Jad Abumrad 43 And she is the one who initially told me the story. Jessica Benko 45 So a little while ago I went up to visit this guy Bob Milne. Bob it is nice to see you! Bob Milne 53 Nice to see you. Jessica Benko 54 Excuse my snowy feet here. And he lives in a tiny town in Michigan with his wife Linda. Jad Abumrad 00 And who is he? Jessica Benko 01 He is an amazing piano player. The library of Congress actually called him a natural treasure. Jad Abumrad 09 Really? Jessica Benko 10 He is had this special relationship with music ever since he was a boy. Did you grow up with any other instruments inside the house other than the piano or was that what you started out on? Bob Milne 20 Well my mother made me take piano lessons and I hated it. I did not like the sound of minor keys and the piano teachers had me playing a recital in which there was a Schubert minor key piece in it. So on the recital I played it in major and everyone thought that was a travesty. Jessica Benko 54 These days though his main music is not so much Schubert. It is actually ragtime. Bob Milne 58 Ragtime is actually one two three four. One two three four and the rhythms. Jessica Benko 04 So the thing about ragtime is that often times the player is actually playing two different rhythms at the same time.  One with the left hand. One with the right hand. Bob Milne 12 And then you put the rhythms of three on the right hand. Jessica Benko 19 The thing about Bob is he can do this like times a thousand. Jad Abumrad 23 Oh. What does that even mean? Jessica Benko 26 Well let me back up. I first heard about Bob from a neurologist named Kerstin Betterman who is now at Penn State. KerstinBetterma 33 First time I heard about Bob Milne was through friends.  Jessica Benko 36 Kerstin heard about Bob from a colleague who would seen him play for an audience. Bob Milne 39 Well I might just take a tune like a... Jessica Benko 43 He was actually playing multiple rhythms with his two different hands and switching back and forth between different pieces of music and carrying on a conversation at the same time. You can look up videos of Bob on YouTube and you can see him performing and throwing out jokes but at times you will see him carry on a full conversation while playing. From the perspective of a neurologist this is actually really hard because the part of your brain that should be engaged in playing a piece of music that complicated should also be engaged in having a conversation. Jad Abumrad 19 The talking part and the playing part are the same part? Jessica Benko 21 They are the same part in most of us. For most people that sort of thing playing a complex piece of music and having a conversation would interfere with one another? KerstinBetterma 29 Yes that is what you usually would think unless you are highly skilled and you play maybe one piece of music at a time that you have done multiple times but even then it would be very difficult to this degree. Jessica Benko 39 So Kerstin got in touch with Bob and she started asking him some questions. KerstinBetterma 43 About the way he would perceive music and  Jessica Benko 46 In the course of chatting with him and talking about he perceives music and all of this he happen to say to her... Bob Milne 54 That I could hear an entire symphony in my head and I did not think that was too big a deal because I always listened to two of them at once. Jessica Benko 03 He told her KerstinBetterma 03 I only have to focus on the one melody that I want to hear at a given time and then that is the piece I play but I hear them all ongoing. Jad Abumrad 11 Did he just say he can hear two? Jessica Benko 13 Two different symphonies. Jad Abumrad 14 In his head? Jessica Benko 15 At the same time. KerstinBetterma 16 And we thought this was very unusual. Jad Abumrad 17 Yeah. Are we talking the full symphonies or just the melodies? Jessica Benko 21 Every instrument. Jad Abumrad 22 Every instrument huh. Jessica Benko 23 And he can focus in and- Bob Milne 25 Turn one of them off one of them down and they both are in the same  Jad Abumrad 25 Huh. Bob Milne 29 So then she pushed at the envelope and asked me if I could hear a three. KerstinBetterma 35 Three pieces of music. Bob Milne 37 And I said Well I do not know. I never tried. Jessica Benko 39 But he was like Yeah I think I could do three. KerstinBetterma 41 When we challenged him a little bit actually he said I can do four if you ask me. Jad Abumrad 44 What?! Bob Milne 45 But I would not go any further than that. Jad Abumrad 46 No. That is total . Just four symphonies at the same time? That is just nothing but noise. Jessica Benko 58 Absolute  KerstinBetterma 00 You know the four pieces of music that is just was Wow. I said nobody can do this. I was really critical. Jad Abumrad 07 Yeah because it is not true! KerstinBetterma 08 We had to think about how to test this. Jessica Benko 10 Let me tell you about how the experiment worked and then tell me if you think it is true. Jad Abumrad 13 All right. KerstinBetterma 14 We came up with the behavioral test. Jessica Benko 17 So the first thing Kerstin had to do was find a control. Someone to compare Bob to. So she found a conductor. KerstinBetterma 23 Peter Perret who was the former conductor for the Winston Salem Symphony. Jessica Benko 27 Who is himself an accomplished musician. Before the test she sent him and Bob- KerstinBetterma 31 Four pieces of music. We had Schubert's Symphony we had Brahms we had Beethoven. Jessica Benko 50 And finally one from Mendelssohn. So you have to keep in mind these four symphonies are in different keys and different tempos. KerstinBetterma 02 Very different in themes and instrumentation and the challenge for them was to learn these four pieces of music. Jessica Benko 10 Completely memorize them. Bob Milne 12 Four different tunes and they only gave me a couple of days to listen to them. KerstinBetterma 16 And then play them in their mind and we would then ask them where in certain piece they would be after an arbitrary time. Jad Abumrad 22 I am not really following...what did they do? Jessica Benko 24 So here's what they did. They put these guys in a scanner and they said to them I want you to play the music in your mind. Jad Abumrad 31 Play the music in your mind. Jessica Benko 34 Close your eyes and imagine the music. Jad Abumrad 35 So no music is playing out loud? Jessica Benko 37 No music playing just inside their head. Jad Abumrad 39 And are they imagining it however they want or- Jessica Benko 39 No no. They- Jad Abumrad 40 Or on the CD? Jessica Benko 42 Exactly what they had heard on the CD. Jad Abumrad 44 So same as music coming in and out? Jessica Benko 46 Yep. Jad Abumrad 47 Same tempo? Jessica Benko 47 Yep. Jad Abumrad 48 So if it was Vivace on the CD Vivace in their head? Jessica Benko 51 Exactly. Jad Abumrad 51 And why were they doing this again? Jessica Benko 52 Well they wanted to see if these guys could track via memory these really complicated pieces of music. Jad Abumrad 58 I see. Jessica Benko 58 So they put the guys in the scanner and they are laying there and on a screen in front of them the word Start flashes and at that moment they start playing the first piece of music back in their head. In the control room they are tracking the music themselves to follow the timing. Jad Abumrad 18 The researchers? Jessica Benko 19 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 19 Oh so while Bob and this dude are imagining it they are actually keeping track of where the real CD is? Jessica Benko 24 Exactly. They let it go for awhile...and at an arbitrary moment they say stop and then they say Sing to me exactly where you are in the music. Jad Abumrad 43 Like the note? Jessica Benko 43 The exact phrase. They go back they compare the timing. Jad Abumrad 48 To the CD? Jessica Benko 49 Right. To find out if these guys can really recreate inside their heads exactly what they heard. Jad Abumrad 54 And? KerstinBetterma 55 So our conductor our control was able to listen to one piece of music at a time and was really right on target with the right answer on timing was in a second. Jad Abumrad 05 Wow. So this conductor's imagine symphony was only a second off from the real one? Jessica Benko 09 Yep. Same with Bob. So Bob's within a note or two. Jad Abumrad 12 Not bad. Jessica Benko 13 Now round 2. KerstinBetterma 14 The multi song task as we called it. Jessica Benko 16 They told them both to start that first piece of music again and then a little bit later they said start the second piece of music in your head. Jad Abumrad 30 Simultaneously? Jessica Benko 30 Yep. Jad Abumrad 30 All right I am already like...come on. This is crazy. We slipped into fantasy. Jessica Benko 46 Well and that is what happened for the conductor. He could not do it. KerstinBetterma 49 He could not do two simultaneously. Jad Abumrad 51 Well of course he could not do it! It is impossible. KerstinBetterma 53 There was no chance. He said This is an overwhelming impossible task. Jessica Benko 56 His brain just shut down. Jad Abumrad 57 Well like he died or something? Jessica Benko 59 He stopped even being able to track the first piece of music. Jad Abumrad 02 Ah. Jessica Benko 02 He just got confused. Now we go to Bob. Bob Milne 09 They put me into the MRI and they asked me Start tune 1 in your head. So I did. Then roughly 10 15 seconds later I got a message on the screen that said Continue listening to 1 start 2. And then 15 seconds later Continue listening to tunes 1 and 2 start 3. And then the same thing with tune 4. Then on the screen it said stop and then Kerstin came out on a little...I could hear her talking to me from somewhere and she said Bob... KerstinBetterma 20 Tell us. Where are you? Bob Milne 22 Where are you in tune 1? KerstinBetterma 23 Beethoven's Symphony right now. What do you hear? Bob Milne 26 So I told her and I described what the piece was playing at that point and the same thing with tune 2. 3 and 4. She announced that I was exactly right on to the note in each one of those symphonies. Jad Abumrad 47 Jess...you are telling me something that is just not- Jessica Benko 50 Kerstin is a really  Jad Abumrad 50 It is just my common sense right now is yelling like a three year old. Jessica Benko 57 It really is mind boggling to think about. It makes my brain hurt. KerstinBetterma 00 But you know we proved yeah he can do it. Jessica Benko 03 When Kerstin gave you the different pieces of music to listen to did any of them clash? Bob Milne 10 No. No they do not clash. They are all just playing different pieces. There is nothing chaotic about it. Jad Abumrad 17 All right. So assuming this is true how does he do this? How does he explain to himself how he does this? Jessica Benko 26 So I think there is two things going on here. The first has to do with emotion. Jad Abumrad 30 Emotion? KerstinBetterma 31 Bob was using different brain areas I think. In his case probably more emotional brain cells. Jessica Benko 37 Yeah emotion deepens the way that we experience things. Makes stronger memories and Bob has a really strong emotional relationship with music. Jad Abumrad 45 Well do not we all? Jessica Benko 46 Yeah but it is a little bit beyond the whole minor keys make me feel sad. He has really specific emotions associated with individual keys on the scale. Bob Milne 57 When I hear C major it is a very bland key. It is like...I do not know how to describe. It is like eating water soup or something like that. But D major is a bright key that makes me want to dance even though I cannot dance and every key every one of the keys on the piano had a different emotional attachment to me. Jessica Benko 21 So for Bob if just the keys are triggering different emotions imagine what it must be like when you get to actual music. Jad Abumrad 33 So you think that is something about how he experiences the emotions of the music makes it etch more deeply in his brain or something? Jessica Benko 39 Yeah I think when he is got these four pieces of music going he is not thinking hard about tracking each one of them. He is already in them. He feels them inside his body and you can feel more with one feeling at a time. Jad Abumrad 52 Huh. Jessica Benko 54 So that is one idea. The second idea has to do actually more with image and space really. So Bob often closes his eyes when he is talking. It just helps him focus so I asked him if he could try playing back two pieces of music right now and I asked him When you hear these two symphonies in your head what are you seeing? Bob Milne 21 I can picture two symphony orchestras sitting side by side. Jad Abumrad 27 He actually sees the literal orchestras in his head? Bob Milne 30 Yeah. And I see them as silhouettes. There is no conductor in front of either one. There is a brownish hue out in front of them like it is the floor. It is more the color of a the deep brown of a violin and in back of them and there is a semicircle that is blueish in color. Then when I listen to them I am going to listen to Brahms Second Symphony over in the left side and over on the right side I will turn on the Emperor Concerto Third Movement of Beethoven. So I am listening to that now these are in two different keys. Emperor's in E flat Brahms is in D. So now if I want to pay particular attention oh let us say I am going to listen to the Emperor here. I am going to go into the E major. I just sped it up. I can speed the thing up to go to some other part in it. I can jump backwards. Let us see just a minute I can hear it in F I can put it in any key I want to but I am going to roar forward in this third movement of the Emperor here and listen to the E major variation on the piano which is just rocking on this beautiful E major part. Pivoting around to E flat note and going up and down from there on the piano. Jad Abumrad 55 Wow...wow! So his crazy talents may have something to do with this movie making thing that he does in his head. Jessica Benko 01 Yeah but it is not just a movie it is like a 3D movie. He can use it to find out where a specific instrument is. Jad Abumrad 08 How do you mean? Jessica Benko 09 In his mind's eye he can fly out over these orchestras and actually look down on the individual instrument he wants to see. Bob Milne 16 When I am looking down and I see the piano out in front of him. Jessica Benko 20 He can zoom in and see them playing their instruments. Bob Milne 23 Okay now I am up there in the air listening to this thing and over on my left side I can still hear this Brahms going along. Now Brahms I can only see the silhouettes from the front whereas the Emperor over here I can see full color and every person's face in it plus hear the lines that they are playing. Jessica Benko 42 And as he is flying out over these orchestras the instruments actually get louder and softer depending on where he is. Like if he goes behind orchestra number 1. Bob Milne 51 I can hear the base much louder. Then if I go over to the left side I am hearing the violins. Jessica Benko 58 And he says he can float right above the players and actually see what they are doing. Bob Milne 02 I can see every raincoat and the pleated shirts of their tuxedos and I can see the deep brownish orange ish color of the violas and I can hear the deep sound beautiful sound of that low viola and I can hear every little razz and scratch across their bows. Jad Abumrad 30 God listening to music for this guy must be like an acid trip! The way that he is describing it? Jessica Benko 37 I think it is and when he listens to recorded music it is so much diminished from what he feels when he is imagining it. Jad Abumrad 43 Huh. So he does not listen to CD's. Jessica Benko 44 He cannot stand listening to CD's. Jad Abumrad 46 That wow. Jessica Benko 47 Yeah. He is a real example of the extremes of the human mind. Jad Abumrad 53 So what does he do with these crazy talents? I mean is he like a billionaire? Jessica Benko 00 Nope. First of all ragtime's not exactly the most popular form of music in the United States at this point but it is what he likes to play and he plays 250 shows a year. A lot of them are at historical societies or churches. Bob Milne 16 Linda and I we have got a small motor home. It is an airport bus. One of those little 15 passenger buses. It is got a hot shower and a bathroom and a bed of course. Jessica Benko 27 So he travels around in his little motor home with his wife when he can and without her when he cannot and sleeps in Walmart parking lots. He is working on an opera which is mostly done and he writes it in his head while he is driving and then he sits down at a McDonald's and writes it out on paper and you know that is pretty much what he does with his life. Jad Abumrad 11 Thanks to reporter Jess Benko for that great story and also to producer Mark Phillips for making it sound so good. Robert Krulwich 18 But why should we share the information on what we just did? Why not do the outro in a way that Bob Milne will fully and completely appreciate? Jad Abumrad 25 You mean so we should say it all together in a big- Robert Krulwich 27 Simultaneously. He will be able to thank the Jad side and then the Robert. Jad Abumrad 31 Okay. Ready? Robert Krulwich 32 Yep. Bob Milne 35 One two three four. Jad Abumrad 36  Thank you to people who play the piano thank you to listeners of the piano players who play the piano thank you of course to tuners of those pianos. Robert Krulwich 44  Bob Milne 46 The left hand hitting the piano. Robert Krulwich 47 Thank you Bob. Jad Abumrad 48 Thank you Robert. Bob Milne 52 See that? Ann Anderson 54 This is Ann Anderson a Radio Lab listener from Regland Michigan. Radio Lab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Have a great day! Bye. 