 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Before we start just want to let you know there is a moment or two of strong language in this story. Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To  RADIOLAB.  From...  WNYC.  See?  Yeah.   Hey. I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Latif Nasser. This is RADIOLAB. And today we have the story of a journey you could call it.  Yes - sort of the journey really.  'ecause it is - the journey 'ecause it is all of our journey. It is a journey we are all on at some point.  Yes. And the person who is going to take us on that journey today - you are on your own after this - but today is our very own producer Rachael Cusick.  So back in the early 2000s when I was five years old my favorite thing on TV was this infomercial...   Are you ready for the wildest paint set you have ever seen? It is the amazing Rainbow Art Set. Painting has never been this...  ...For the Rainbow Art Set.   Create amazing drawings and works of art instantly.  Whenever that commercial came on I lost my shit.   Now that is magic. As easy as one two three - simply dip dab and draw.  It was this little foam brush that you could swipe across these six wheels of colors - stacked like Oreos. And then you could paint rainbow dragonflies and rainbow bicycles and rainbow palm trees. And amazingly...   With Rainbow Art look - no splatter no drips. And the colors dry instantly - amazing.  ...The colors never bled into each other. I begged for that art kit for months. And eventually for my birthday I got one. I remember painting with that thing for hours twirling the foam brush across the blank page into circles and butterflies and butterflies made of circles each swipe this perfect tidy little rainbow of colors. And those pictures - they were cards really - I would tape them to the bed frame where my mom slept - while she recovered from chemo while she was put in hospice and when she eventually died - when I was six. After she died I do not remember seeing her body. I do not remember crying. I do not remember any of the eulogies. And I do not remember what we had for dinner that first night that her seat at the table was officially empty. But I do know that we were not supposed to talk about the sadness of that empty chair. And during those years I really remember sitting at our dinner table looking around at my older siblings and the grown-ups in our lives and they just looked so normal. And I know it did not feel normal to them and it was not this simple. But to me as this like little sister looking up to everybody it looked like they had figured out how to handle this thing that had happened to us. And I tried to act normal too. But this mess inside me would snowball. Like I would sneak cookies in my pockets and binge eat them until it hurt. And I would slam doors and burst into tears so easily. It just felt like I spent my childhood fighting off these feelings and failing and fighting and failing and thinking there must be something wrong with me. But then one day when I was older in my late teens I think I finally found what I thought was a way out.   Grief often comes in five stages.  I am not sure when or how exactly I came across it but...    You are going to go through what we call the five stages of grief.   Five stages of grief.  It was this five-part checklist.   There are five stages of grief.   What are you talking about?  You might have heard of these stages. The idea is pretty simple. It is basically that in the wake of losing a loved one you will go through a series of feelings.   First...   Stage one.    Denial.  Denial.   Denial.  Then stage two.   Step two that is anger.    Anger.  Then bargaining.    Bargaining.   OK.  After that is...   Depression.  ...Depression and...    Finally acceptance.  ...Last but not least acceptance. I think when I first came across the stages they were really like the first time I had heard this word grief kind of underlined as like this thing to go through. Like oh maybe that door slamming the other week maybe that was the anger stage. And finally those things were OK to feel. Like they were these designated stops on a bus to acceptance. And so I just let myself be angry. And then I would be depressed. But anger always came back. And the feelings they just kept coming at the wrong times and repeating. And I felt like I should have been over this. Like it was exhausting. And like it felt like when it came to grief I just could not do anything right. The stages they became these like supermodel-tight-jean versions of quote-unquote normal grieving that I just could not fit into. And I was finally just like fuck this.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Like who the hell sold me this crock of shit? Like...   And I remember like the night.  Right.  I felt like I was like interrogating Google. I was like who gave me the stages?  Like I want to strangle them.  Yeah. And so then I went over - one thing I do a lot when I like find something or someone that like I do not like is I go to Google Images.   In my head I am picturing like this slicked-back sleazy car salesman with like a grinning smile and like self-helpy  Dracula caped monster.   But when I Google the stages of grief the first image I see is this woman who is like - has this old gray wispy hair and is wearing like this purple button-down shirt that is like the color of Barney The Dinosaur. And she is crouched in a pile of daisies. And I am like this? Like this is the lady?   You were like wait. Like...  I was like I kind of want to borrow that shirt. Like I was feeling so complicated.  .  I remember staring at it for a few minutes just thinking who is she? So the daisy lady her name was Elisabeth Kubler-Ross.  Oh I have heard that name before maybe.  I had not but at a certain point in time she was pretty famous. And actually the thing that made her famous is not studying how people grieve. It was studying how people die.  Huh.  And I was like OK I am curious. And so I started digging around. Problem is there is endless crap about the stages but not really any one place where you can go to learn about Elisabeth and her story. So I ended up on this very odd journey that is taken over my life for the past year. I spent my days and nights digging through archives reading and listening to whatever interviews or talks of her I could find and calling up anyone I thought might have anything to tell me about her. And what I was eventually able to piece together was a story of this incredibly complicated woman who single-handedly changed the way that we all face dying and the way that we all deal with being left behind.   Well all right.  OK.  Yes.  OK .  Take us on the journey.  Yeah let us go. Let us do it.  OK so Elisabeth died back in 2004 but I called the photographer of that daisy photo.  Hi my name's Ken Ross. I am the son of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross and I am also the president of the Elisabeth Kubler-Ross Foundation.  Growing up like did everybody know her? And then you are like gosh my mom is famous for dying and I just want to blend in like a normal teenager.  Oh yeah totally. It was just hugely embarrassing when she is on the cover of People magazine or especially when she was on the cover of Playboy. You know things...  She was on the cover of Playboy.  Yeah. I mean not...  Wow.  ...Obviously you know her picture but...  Yeah not a centerfold . So let me back up just a little bit and tell you how Elisabeth Kubler-Ross became the face of dying.   She was born in Switzerland...  In Zurich.  ...In 1926 and she was the first of triplets.   And so I grew up being very famous.  That is Elisabeth by the way.   We had big billboards.  I guess it must have been exciting back then to see a triplet. But this was so much of who she was because her parents and like everyone in their world could not tell them apart.   I cannot remember anybody who knew that I was me. We were the famous triplets.  And so you know it really set this thing off in my mother that she had to find her own voice.   And so as she grew up she kind of became the rebel of the family.   My father was a very authoritarian Swiss. You know he told you what to order in a restaurant what to eat when to come home. Everything was his control. And I said no thank you. And so I left home.  She joined a peace group the day the war ended.  World War II.  She would have been - what - 19 years old.   Went all the way to Russia and back.  In all these war-torn villages and like goes to a concentration camp - and after a few years she comes home signs up for medical school and she is in medical school standing over a cadaver when she meets her husband.   My soon-to-be dad.  His name is Manny.  He was from Brooklyn.  They fell in love.  My parents got married. She had graduated a year ahead of my dad and she was put in charge of seven villages out in the country.  And she is like the only town doctor.  And my mother loved it. She had a little moped and she would go from village to village fixing up farmers and being a Swiss country doctor. You know you do not go in and spend five minutes with a patient and leave. She would sit on the corner of the bed with a patient and she would hold their hand.  And oftentimes she would be a witness to death.   When somebody is dying the attempt is to keep them at home. And the family including the children are preparing themselves slowly to face the fact that this loved person is going to die soon.  According to Ken that was really meaningful to her.  But my dad had other plans and so he kind of dragged my mom back reluctantly to New York.  The family moves around a bit. Eventually Elisabeth becomes a psychiatrist at the University of Chicago. And one day she is sitting in her office when these four theological students walk in.   Theology students had a research project on crisis and human life. And four of the whole class have chosen dying as the biggest crisis human beings have to face. But you cannot do research on this. You cannot verify it. You cannot make double-blind studies.  They were like we do not know what to do.   They were stuck.  But Elisabeth was just like why do not we just go talk to someone who is dying?   And this seemed very simple. And since I was a physician at the hospital I volunteered to get such a patient.  So she starts going to each floor of the hospital asking the nurses and the doctors if she can talk to any of their terminal patients but...  She was universally told on every floor and every ward that there was no dying patients.   In this big big hospital there was no dying patient - nobody.  And she was like OK this is really weird. Like what are the odds that in one of the biggest cities in America in a world-renowned hospital there are no dying patients? So she just started walking the halls on her own going room to room.  So she always had these Hawaiian aloha shirts on. She had her Birkenstocks.  Tiny little woman walking down these long hallways with green tiles shiny floors and bad lighting.  So my mother walked to a few rooms and OK they got a broken leg. They got this. They got that.  But still no dying people. Next day she walks the halls again and same thing. And then one day she gets to the end of this hallway. She looks in the room and there in the bed is an old man who is dying.   And I enter this old man's room. And I just bubbled out and told him that I wanted to learn what it is like to be very sick and dying does he feel like talking? I just had to get it out. And this man looked at me with a big amazed surprised very happy face very relieved and put his arms out and said please sit down now. This welcome of this old man was something I will never forget. I saw his pleading eyes. I heard him say please sit down now. I saw his arms stretched out clearly an open welcome to sit down now.  But Elisabeth...  She is like no no no no no. I am sorry. We need to have the students here.   I had walked miles. I had asked dozens of people. I was on the telephone. I was begging. I was frustrated. I was insulted. I was not about to give up my first patient to interview him in front of my students. And I walked out and I said very grateful to him I am going to see you tomorrow at 00. Tomorrow at 00 came. I went in there with my four students terribly proud that I had a patient. The patient was on a lot of pillows an oxygen tank and he could hardly breathe. And he looked at us with the same kind of pitiful look that he had on his face the day before when I left. And he said thank you for trying anyway. And he died about half an hour later. We were never able to listen to him. We did not hear what he really wanted to share with another human being.  This moment it grabbed a hold of Elisabeth and just would not let her go because that man he wanted to talk about dying but Elisabeth missed it. And really at that time in America we were all missing it.   Ladies and gentlemen nowhere in the world except in the Americas is it possible for any nation to devote a great sector of its effort to life conservation rather than life destruction.  We were waging a war and the enemy was...   ...Cancer...  ...And smallpox...   ...Diphtheria...  ...Syphilis...  ...Whooping cough...  ...Tuberculosis.  And at this moment in time we finally had some...   Serums vaccines.  ...Weapons in our arsenal.   The powerful and invisible X-ray.  Penicillin.  The new improved iron lung.  And the army we recruited for this war on death...   The soldiers of the treatment front.  ...Were of course...   The doctors.  ...The doctors.   For on him now rests all responsibility.  And in the heat of that fight the possibility of defeat became something you were not even supposed to acknowledge.   I think there is a great attempt to deny the reality of death in this country.  This was a time when like doctors did not even tell patients like what their diagnoses were.  In the mid-1960s I have heard that doctors did not tell their patients they were dying of cancer. They would say well there is a spot on the X-ray. We are doing more tests.   The families tell us I know he has cancer but do not tell him. The doctor tells us I know he has cancer but he does not know so do not tell him. And the patient tells us I know I have cancer but my family and my doctor do not want to talk about it. So everybody plays kind of a conspiracy of silence.  I get it on some level because you know the Hippocratic oath is - if you push it all the way it is like you do not do harm right? Like you do not do anything to hurt the patient. Death is...  Exactly.  ...A failure. And so you do not lean into that.  And maybe they saw it as this act of compassion but in the process the experiences of the people who are actually dying and really the people themselves got pushed aside.  All the dying people were at the backsides of the hospitals you know floors people did not use much.  Wait is that really something that happened?  Oh absolutely. Yeah. They were put in the farthest corners of the hospital. So the medical staff did not even want to see them or walk by the room to be reminded that they have dying patients.  Ugh. But after Elisabeth found that man and saw how desperately he wanted to talk to someone about what he was going through...   This started the stone rolling.  ...Suddenly she needed to find out like what did the dying want to tell us?   What kind of fears fantasies turmoils they go through what kind of hopes and expectations perhaps they wish to share.  And she just decided like I am going to start a seminar where we find dying patients and we talk to them.   You know let us get as close to them as they allow us to come. Let us sit with them and listen to them as long as they allow us to sit and listen.  She would just start going to these rooms. And you know nurses would try to kick her out. Doctors would try to kick her out.   It took an average of 10 hours searching for a doctor who gave us permission to see one single patient.  So she teamed up with the theology department of the school.  We were not looking for a particular thing. We were just looking for somebody with a terminal diagnosis.  This is Dennis Class . He was Elisabeth's research assistant.  And there were four research fellows. I was only one of them.  Elisabeth's team would just start going into people's rooms saying we want to talk to you about dying.  You know if they said yes I would say OK. And then I would just start wheeling her through the corridors down to the seminar room.  The patient would come in.  There is a smaller room where Elisabeth and a chaplain - a chaplain often came to be able to like mediate these conversations about faith. So Elisabeth a chaplain and a patient are sitting in this tiny room.  Behind a two-way mirror.  And on the other side of that glass there is a group of people watching and listening because Elisabeth made these interviews open to students to other doctors to cleaning staff anyone in the hospital who wanted to come and hear these voices.   Which the patient is fully aware naturally that it is tape recorded and of the audience who he cannot see and hear but they can see and hear us.  And then Elisabeth would start asking questions.   Does death mean anything special to you?  No.  Like all of us have a certain concept of what it is like.  I do not know. I have never been dead.  That was a young dad diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma at 30.   I have lived a very good life so far. I mean I have heard people say well I am 90 years old. I have had a full life. While this is true maybe...  But you are 30.   But I think I have had a very good life for 30.  Yeah.  And much of what you hear is maybe less dramatic  than you would have expected. But you have to remember the people listening in had never heard from someone who knew they were going to die.   What is the worst that can happen?  The worst that can happen to me?  Yeah.  Well I can die.  Yeah.  That was the only original recording I could find. But there were bunches of transcripts of these interviews. And so we asked people to come and read a few of them.   It is not the big things that count when you are so sick and so weak. It is the little things that count.  And the thing you hear so clearly is that the patients themselves felt forgotten.  Why in the world cannot they talk to me? Why cannot they tell you before they do certain procedures?  What really upset you that much yesterday morning?  It is really very personal but I just have to tell you. Why do not they supply you an extra pair of pajamas when you go for this colon X-ray? When you get done you are in an absolute mess. And then you are supposed to sit in a chair. And you just do not have any desire to sit in that chair.  Nobody had asked them even the most basic questions about what they wanted.  I requested a chaplain in the middle of the night. And there was no chaplain. I mean this is just unbelievable to me unbelievable because when does a man need a chaplain? Only at night. Believe me. That is the time when you get down with those boxing gloves and have it out with yourself. That is the time you need a chaplain. And if you were to show a chart it would probably have a peak at about 3 oclock.  Or about the pain they were feeling.  Because you see if you have an illness and you have the pain and you have the grief that is unresolved and you have a person that you were living with who meets every aspect of the grief business you know you say well I do not know how I am going to live through this business of our daughter dying and that sort of thing.  This guy was dying but had also lost his own daughter. And he talked about how his wife when they discussed grief or the fact that he was dying...  The answer comes right back. Keep your chin up. Positive thinking.  And he said that being told that just made him feel totally alone.   Nobody knew who was behind the medical diagnosis. The implication was nobody cares.  I have thought of the worthlessness - that if I were to die tomorrow my wife would go on perfectly normal.  Just like nothing happened?  That is the way I feel. And she would not miss a beat.  My sisters only come once a week. And sometimes they do not come at all. I need people and then they do not come.  This was a young nun with Hodgkin's disease. And she was in the hospital for the 11th time because of it.  When people are sick they stay away from you you know? They think you do not want to talk even though you cannot respond. Even if they just sit there you know you would not be alone.  Why do you think loneliness is so dreadful to you?  I think - no I do not think I dread loneliness because there are times when I need to be alone. I - it is not dying alone. It is the torture that pain can give you. Like you just want to tear your hair out. You do not care if you do not bathe for days because it is just so much effort. You still want to be a person.  But in these conversations there is also these surprising little moments of hope.  And certain things happen. You may watch a good TV program or listen to interesting conversation. And after a few minutes you are not aware of the itching and the uncomfortable feeling - all these little things that I call bonuses. And I figure that if I can have enough bonuses together one of these days everything will be a bonus and it will stretch out to infinity and every day will be a good day. So I do not worry too much.  I found these conversations to be so beautiful. But the doctors back in the '60s - they were not fans of what Elisabeth was trying to do.   Some of them became very rude and very inappropriate and very angry and called us names. We will call them - what you call it?  Vultures.  Vultures.  And if you can imagine I mean doctors would literally spit on her in the hallways leave her...  Wow.  ...Nasty notes in her room. And then so the administration called her in. And they are like hey we do not want to be known as a death and dying hospital.  But more and more people kept showing up to these seminars and...  Eventually the hospital had to acknowledge that the classes were extremely popular. So after two years they made it an official class of the school.  Even though the doctors did not want to deal with death in this way outside the walls of this hospital...   Our country is at war.   ...We were on the heels of two world wars.   Suicide pilots off Okinawa.  And then the Korean War. And by the time Elisabeth moved to Chicago...   Sweaty  jungles of South Vietnam.  ...The war in Vietnam had been rumbling for years at this point.   Many of your pals left you that day.  Over 600000 Americans killed from more alone in two generations. Not to mention all the other kinds of death there are in the world. Death was everywhere.   And now here was this woman who really for the first time ever was helping us look directly at this thing that was happening all around us.   Soon Elisabeth starts putting these interviews and her thoughts about them down on paper.  After about 10 30 at night the clicking would start.  .  And she was typing with two fingers. I remember the click click click click you know? And she would have her coffee and cigarettes probably some Swiss chocolate.  And then in 1969 she published this book.   Dr. Ross's first book On Death And Dying is about to appear.  It is called On Death And Dying. And when she started going around and giving talks about the book...  You know it was like going on a rock tour.  These talks...   So all of the people in this room are going to die.  They exploded.   You know I was traveling with her all over the world. I think I went to 19 20 different countries with her. Go outside and it is like a line you know down around the block. And it is like wow she sold out the Sydney Town Hall three nights in a row - 2000 people 5000 people.  And she was getting stopped in airport bathrooms and people were slipping her books under the stalls to autograph. She was like the fuckin' Rolling Stones man. Like people rolled out the carpet for her.   I am imagining all these young kids in the streets going ahh ...  .  ...Like The Beatles.  Elisabeth.  Oh my god.   Start crying.  What struck me was one of the neurologists man I had great esteem for was standing on his tiptoes. And the first line at the back you know is like seeing Jesus carrying out the garbage you know? I mean I could not believe what I was seeing.  That is Balfour Mount. He is the founding father of palliative care in Canada. And he actually got into that work because he went to go see Elisabeth speak at one of those early lectures.  She was remarkable.  Even though it was like a rock hall on the outside on the inside of these seminars things were intimate.   I think he did bother her.  She would not stand behind the podium.  She chose to sit on the lecture table swinging her legs back and forth.  She would just talk.   With a horrible question that we are all afraid of and that never happens - that the patient looks at you and says am I going to die?  But when she started speaking in that little soft voice she could have an audience in the palm of her hand for the next 45 minutes.  I mean there was not a sound in the audience.  She just had them.  Like I did not think it was possible to see a twinkle in someone's eyes from like fuzzy YouTube archival videos. But when she speaks about this you just see this superpower in her.   And how do you react to a nasty unpleasant mean patient? What do you do? Honest...  At one point she was recalling a discussion with somebody. And she said and what do you think he was saying when I heard that? And a young guy sitting close to me answered the question. He said he was afraid.   That you come in peppy that you come in and actually function.  He was afraid.   Because you are going to rub in all the things that is in the process of losing.  Just the level of connection that she could generate.  This is actually where we get to the stages - like the five stages - because during these speeches...   And if we summarize we have found that most of our patients go through similar stages.  ...Elisabeth would talk about this series of reactions she had seen her dying patients go through.   Then this denial will be replaced with a tremendous anger.  Denial anger bargaining depression and acceptance.   And this is true for all patients...  Yes.  ...without exceptions.  Sort of used them to organize her talks.  She said back in the '60s there was no common language. There was nothing they could talk about. So she said by creating five stages it is something simple that any layman or any family member can remember.  'ecause I mean look it only takes you five minutes to learn the stages.  My whole problem with the stages is that they were these tidy little boxes that my feelings would never fit into. And on top of that there was this prescriptive order that never worked for me. But the thing is when Elisabeth created these things they were stages a dying person would go through not a grieving person like me. And they were not even as tidy and orderly as the world made them out to be. If you actually go back and read Elisabeth's book - On Death And Dying -  - which I did... I just had to take my retainer out for reading this. I would read it every night before bed. So yeah there is like how many chapters? Oh my God. I am so bad with Roman numerals - one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12 - 12 chapters - only five stages. And the stages really just serve as these chapter headers. She starts each chapter with these poems. Like when you get to those pages it is really hard to find - just all these beautiful transcripts - one singular emotion.  These means will last for different periods of time. She says you could go through all of these stages and then repeat some.  Replace each other or exist at times side by side. This book is not a five-stage-shaped anything. What does the preface say?  I have worked with dying patients for the past 2 12 years. And this book will tell about the beginning of this experiment. And the first page literally says...  It is not meant to be a textbook on how to manage dying patients nor is it intended as a complete study of the psychology of dying. It is simply an account of a new and challenging opportunity to refocus on the patient as a human being. This is the goal of the book. Like that is it.  I am simply telling the stories of my patients. The real substance of this book.  It is hoped that it will encourage others not to shy away from the hopelessly sick but to get closer to them. The ocean of color and texture that the stages are tucked inside is not escaping death. It is standing in it and not running away.   If we do not come and give them a pat on the back and say do not cry it is not so bad. It is bad to leave...  ...Everything...  ...And everybody...  Yes.  ...You love. So if we help them be angry and help them be sad and let them express it and cry not say you are a man it is not manly to cry.  Yes.  I said this is terrible.  And like everything that you are feeling is OK. And none of it should fit into these boxes. But like the best thing that we can do for each other as human beings is to just sit there and listen to it as it is coming up.   Just be you. If you feel like screaming you scream. If you feel like crying you cry. Do not try to follow a textbook or have somebody else tell you what to do. Trust yourself your own natural emotions.  Like when I read it I shot up in bed 'ecause I was like oh my God this is it. This book - it was not meant for me. It was meant for my mom. And like she never let herself feel those things. I think it was 'ecause she was just trying to fight it for so long and be there for us. And like death was not an option for her. But it was like the only thing. And so when she when she died I do not know. For me at least I felt like I had to stay strong for her. But then here was Elisabeth in some way kind of talking to both of us and saying like it could have gone differently. And I guess because of that I just started building this little pedestal for her. And like every day I was shining...  .  ...It and like putting flowers on it.  .  But then as I kept digging into her story all that changed.   We will get to all of that in a moment and honestly to a truly incredible conversation one of the most honest conversations I have ever heard on tape after a short break.  And just shortly before that short break Rachel hooked up with our friends at the podcast Death Sex  Money - and not just Rachael Rachael and her grandmother her mother's mother. And so when you get to the end of this episode you are going to want to hear more from Rachael I promise you. That is where you can go to hear her talk about more of this stuff. We will give you more details about that at the end of the show - in the meantime break then back with Rachel and the rest of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's story.  OK. Here we go. All right.  Jad.  Latif.  RADIOLAB.  And...  You good?  Rachael Cusick.  So we are talking about Elisabeth Kubler-Ross this woman I came to idolize because of the way she embraced death. But when I learned about the next part of her life there was kind of this pileup of things that happened all together that just made me feel differently about her and what she could teach me. And it all started with this thing...  Elisabeth had some other realities.  ...Elisabeth's former assistant Dennis Klass told me.  Did you read about Mrs. Schwartz?  No. Who is that?  Well I did not recruit Mrs. Schwartz for the seminar but somebody did.  Dennis said Mrs. Schwartz was one of Elisabeth's patients. But then one day...  Mrs. Schwartz appeared to her in the hallway by her office and said something about you are called to this. Keep it going.  The only problem is...  Mrs. Schwartz is dead.   .  And Elisabeth asked for - she said would you write this down so that I can show people that you were really here? And Mrs. Schwartz wrote it down and she signed Mrs. Schwartz.  Was it one of those - like where you write a letter knowing it is going to be delivered after your death or did she...  No. No. Elisabeth told Dennis that she had received a letter from a dead lady. And Elisabeth's son Ken said it was not a one-time kind of deal. Like around this time Elisabeth started talking about these things she called her spooks.  You know that word I think in particular really set off the media. Elisabeth is talking about her spooks.  Other dead people like Mrs. Schwartz but with names like Mario and Willie.  The only one I remember her mentioning by name was Joseph.  Yeah. That is kind of bizarre.  Yeah. It is a little bit funny. But it also was a turn that ended up taking her to a very dark place.   Hello?  Hello?  I am just going to let these two guys tell it.  Don Schumacher.  And Tom Frantz - or Frahntz ?  Frahntz  - I was a faculty member at the University of Buffalo.  My most recent job was as the president of the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization.  Both these guys spent their lives working in dying and grief. And they both got into this work because of Elisabeth.  It really changed my career dramatically meeting her.  Oh absolutely - for me life-changing.  They both went to Elisabeth's lectures after the book came out.  We were all enamored of her and thought she was fantastic.  And they kept going to these talks Don and Tom and five of their friends.  There were seven of us.  They started calling themselves the Buffalo Seven.  I suppose we were sort of groupies.  And they were Elisabeth's biggest fans until...   Shanti Nilaya.  Elisabeth eventually got fired from the hospital in Chicago for reasons that are kind of unclear. But after that she bought some land out in Southern California so she could start a healing center. She called it...    Shanti Nilaya.  ...Which means final home of peace. And I have heard from numerous people the center - it kind of looked like a motel. But the idea was people could come and take workshops with her to talk about dying and grieving. So in 1977 Don and Tom took a visit to Shanti Nilaya.  This was a little - well not - a very far-out experience.  But it was not at all anything that I thought it was going to be.  So Tom and Don - they go with Elisabeth into this room...  Very large room like a cafeteria room.  ...With a couple dozen other people there.  So we all sat in chairs around the edge and then the lights were turned down.  And it just got stranger and stranger and stranger. It really did.  People began singing. You Are My Sunshine was Elisabeth's favorite song. We sang the hell out of it.  Then Tom said through the dark in the middle of the room he saw these scarves...  Scarves. They would light up.  ...Shimmying and dancing around.  Two or three of them in different colors.  And then...  We were told that we would be approached by our spirit guide.  An entity...  Our soul mate in this experience.  ...Would take human form and be created and speak to you.  A moment later Don says...  Your spirit guide approached you.  It was pitch black.  But Tom says he could tell that a person - like an actual person - was standing there.  A human being seemed to be there.  And that spirit guide would lead them into another room.  Like a closet because it was very small. It needed to be isolated and free of all other human contact during this time we were told.  And they would talk to you about your past lives.  And who is your spirit guide? Do you remember? Or was it so dark you could not see them?  Well you could not see them. But you could feel them because - you know you could absolutely feel them .  Wait what does that mean absolutely feel them? Just like you were like up close to them?  Oh. Oh no. You were holding them. Like you were hugging them.  In Tom and Don's case their spirit guide was clearly a woman.  And she had no clothes on.  And it was not quite sexual.  Wait but you hug them when they are talking?  Yes. Well yes you were hugging them while they were talking.  OK.  Yeah. It was weird. It was very weird.  Well do you remember thinking  like what is going on here as it was happening? Or..  Oh God yeah.  I did not know what to expect. You did not know for sure what was going to go on.  How long were you in the dark room for?  I would say two hours. And the lights came on and I just know that it stopped.  Oh God.  Oh no.  Yeah. And if you think about it like these two guys flew across the country to California to just think deeply about working with dying people. And in this room they just ended up having this weird uncomfortable encounter that they did not really even understand.  So it was hard. It was hard to go through.  And it got worse. Like fairly soon after Elisabeth opened Shanti Nilaya the man who ran these dark room sessions - this guy named Jay Barham - was accused by numerous people of engaging in sexual misconduct in these dark rooms.  Oh no.  Yeah. And Elisabeth protected this guy saying like he could not possibly have done this. He is one of the most gifted healers I know. And she said that for over a year before she eventually fired him.  And everybody was shocked and dismayed I think when we get out of there that we had been taken advantage of.  Did you have to pay to go?  I do not think so but I do not recall.  So when you say taken advantage of it is more like emotionally and psychologically not like...  Yeah.  ...Financially?  Oh yeah. Yeah. And that - more than that that Elisabeth was being taken advantage of.  A lot of people I talked to about this said that they do not think Elisabeth really knew what was going on that she was manipulated by Jay just like everybody else. But I do not know. Like I have a really hard time figuring out how to feel about this and so did a lot of people. Like her husband divorced her. And at this point Elisabeth left California and ran away to this small town in Virginia to get another center off the ground. But the locals there did not want her there. People protested. They sent her death threats. Someone killed her pet llama.  Oh damn.  And then eventually her house mysteriously burnt to the ground. She and Ken both suspected arson. And after that she ended up having a series of strokes. So again she moved back across the country to Arizona. And at this point she kind of fell off the map for years until...   ...She herself started dying.   Elisabeth Kubler-Ross - she was in preparation for dying herself. So the death and dying lady was getting ready to die.  All of the sudden everybody wanted to hear from her again.  My name is Don Lattin. And I am a journalist. So yeah I wrote an article about Elisabeth Kubler-Ross which appeared on the front page of the San Francisco Chronicle on May 31 1997 - Expert On Death Faces Her Own.  The whole world wanted to know.  This is the death and dying guru. And how is she dealing with it personally?   But I went out to Arizona to talk to her and found out that she is not so keen on dying right now.  Don says it did not look like she was handling it too well.  Her house was very cluttered - not exactly a hoarder but you know getting there.  She is sitting in this beige lounger chair.  She was chain-smoking and it was Dunhill cigarettes.   Elisabeth says she is ready to die but she is not going gently.  And it was a pretty similar scene to the day Oprah was there. Like she is grouchily fielding questions about...   Did you go through those stages yourself?  ...Which stage of dying she was in.  She did not miss a beat. I said what stage are you in? And she said anger. I am pissed.   I am angry angry angry and enraged. Nothing but anger and negative.  So no denial for you?  No. Are you kidding?  No .  No. No denial.  And it was this massive train wreck of a story people could not look away from. Like Elisabeth Kubler-Ross the queen of dying could not die in peace herself. And on top of that during this time she started working on another book called On Grief And Grieving where she talked about those stages of death as stages of grief. It was published after she died in the years following my own mom's death. And these stages...   Five stages of grief...  The five stages of grief.  ...They took hold.   Grief often comes in five stages.  Everyone just could not stop talking about them.  They were everywhere...    You are going to go through what we call the five stages of grief.  ...From Scrubs to...    ...Which are denial...  ...The Office...    According to Elisabeth Kubler-Ross...  ...Grey's Anatomy...    ...We all move through five distinct stages of grief.    Big Bird do not you remember we told you...  ...To Sesame Street...    ...Mr. Hooper died?   Well yeah. I will give it to him when he comes back.  ...To...    ...Because I am not dying.  ...The Simpsons...    Why you little...  ...Even...   This May...   There are five stages of grief.  ...Movie trailers from this past summer.   And I know pop culture has a habit of doing this - stripping out all of the nuance of things. But it felt like on her way out the door she leaned into the stages and then aimed them over at grief. And then really just the hardest part to watch for me was just the way she died. She was so angry and disgruntled. And it just felt like she was turning away from everything her work was telling me to look towards. It was like she was saying do not trust anything I taught you. But then...  Can I share my screen with you?  Oh yes. Hold on. At one point Ken... Oh my God. ...Showed me all these pictures of her from her final years.  So there is Elisabeth on Halloween. She used to dress like ET on every Halloween.  Oh wait every Halloween? I started seeing all these colors of that last part of her life like how she absolutely loved ET. She would...  Oh my God.  ...Put her finger out when people came and say hello to them that way by touching fingers because she had such chronic pain that that was like her little hello.  So here's my mother with her finger again.  Oh her little booties.  She always had that little finger up.  Oh my gosh. These photos are amazing.  Here's my mom on her 75th birthday. We took my mom to see her sisters one last time.  You had the triplets all together.  Right. Yeah. You know here she is doing these wheelchair races  just a big mish-mash.  She looks really happy there. I do not know. I just - like she seems happier in her final years I think more so than I thought. Because I - the articles you read that she was angry or she was depressed. But like these seem a little bit more complex.  You know occasionally she had those days. But that is not who she is.  She was angry. But she was not just angry. I mean I think it is important for people to understand that. I think the source of her anger was more frustration. She just wanted people to see her in all of her humanness and fallibility and accept who she really was.  This is Joanne Cacciatore who was pretty much Elisabeth's best friend during that time.  Yeah we were very very very close. I would take her shopping. She loved shopping. She loved Costco .  She loved Costco? A woman after my own heart.   That is right. You know we would sit around and watch Johnny Depp movies because she had a crush on Johnny Depp and so did I. And she would get hundreds of letters every day from people. And she would say read me three letters or read me 10 letters.  Joanne told me that she and Elisabeth would have these really beautiful conversations about grief.  You know I would go to her and I could tell her you know like oh my God this happened today in class or this happened. I met a new bereaved family. This is what their doctor did or this is what their counselor told them you know? And she would she go ugh. She would be outraged. She would just share my outrage. And I felt you know seen and heard. And she was one of the few people you know in the world at that time who really saw my own grief my own deep grief for my child who died and who held space for it in a way that was congruent with the depth and breadth of the suffering.  She was still holding that space for messiness in a way that we were not holding for her.  There is a perfect irony to criticizing Kubler-Ross for dying in a messy way when she was always trying to help us understand that messes are natural and that is OK. And that is just part of the deal.  That is B.J. Miller. He is a hospice and palliative care doctor.  She was just taking her own medicine and letting it rip letting it fly.  Like that mix of rage and joy sadness and bravery and shouting and listening. That mudslide of emotions - that was her final seminar for us.   Just be you. If you feel like screaming you scream. If you feel like crying you cry. Do not try to follow a textbook.   And on Tuesday August 24 2004 Elisabeth died.   I have been thinking a lot about how - why I really like this story. And like I just - I do not think I was ever able to like bear witness to death when my mom died because of my age and because people were kind of like sheltering me from...  Yeah.  ...Having to stare at it so deeply as a kid which I think is probably like an act of compassion like for sure. But when you walk into the world and all you are left with is a silhouette of what happened to you and also to the person you love you do not have a bridge to living in a world without them. And in the end in both her life and death Elisabeth really showed all of us the power of a rich human messy maybe ugly but also beautiful picture of death. But the real gift Elisabeth gave me was making me bump into...  Hello?  ...This man.  All right.  Amazing. OK so I am going to hang up on the phone. And you are still here. OK.  I can hear you.  Great. His name is Tom Riley.  I am a 54-year-old father of three and I have stage 4 pancreatic cancer.  A very very serious form of cancer he is dying from.  So yeah the time frame I think is like 20 months.  How come you have a podcast studio in your home? What was that for?  This is actually for what I am going through right now. So I started doing this just a couple of - I do not know about three weeks ago. I call it Eff Cancer.  Eff Cancer?  Effcancer.com yeah. E-F-F cancer.  He has these long interviews with his loved ones where they talk about whatever they want to talk about with his life and death and then they get to keep those interviews after he dies.  The whole approach that I have had with my family and my friends is just kind of complete honesty.  And when I first met Tom I figured we would talk once maybe twice but...  We could do another one of these.  Yeah I was just going to ask you that 'ecause it just seems... But after that first call we just kept talking. Again...   Hey Rachael it is Tom. How are you?  Good. How are you?  I am doing OK. I had a CAT scan this morning so...  How did it go? ...And again... Does this time work?  Thursdays are always good for me.   Hello?  Hi Tom. This is Rachael. ...And again... Happy New Year. ...Not really knowing why but the two of us just kept feeling this pull to keep calling.   Tom Riley.  Hello Tom Riley. This is Rachael. And to keep answering.  Hey Rachael. Good. How are you?  Good. I just settled into a new apartment. We talked nearly every week for seven months now. And I think the reason is... Are there - this is my last question I promise. I have already taken enough of your time.  I blocked the rest of the afternoon. I really enjoyed this.  ...Because Tom...  I kind of feel like we are on this journey together so...  I kind of do too. It feels so presumptuous of me.  I mean I did not know - I felt weird even saying it.  ...Has let me ask the questions I wish I could have asked my mom. ...'ecause my mom was sick during 911 and I wondered - I have always wondered what it is like to be dealing with this really serious illness at a time of a national crisis.  I mean a very real question for me at the beginning - because I had no reason to believe that I was going to even make it past you know Halloween - was oh God I am not even going to get to see the election. And that was actually you know probably in the top 10 things that I thought of in the first you know hours of kind of facing it was like I want to see what the next iPhone looks like.   And can you tell me like the bad of chemo? Physically what is that like?  Oh sure. It feels like your arms weigh 100 pounds each without anything in them. And some of it is mental like a boredom coupled with some feeling that you are not supposed to be feeling this right now.  Boredom is not a word that I would have put in that sentence. Tell me more about the boredom.  It is the way it felt though. So you can look forward right now Rachael and you can say I have got to get this story done on deadline and I have got this weird story with Tom that might be three months away or six months away or you know whatever but like - right? - that is just life. You are balancing things that are near-term short term long term big pressure no pressure - you know all that stuff and I have virtually none of that right now. I feel like I outlived myself on some level.  What does that mean? What do you mean you are outliving yourself?  And we will make jokes about playing the C-card 'ecause you know we were trying to get a reservation at something and I am like tell them your dad has stage 4 cancer. And sometimes it actually works.  Hey if you got it flaunt it man. It has to be good for something.  Well yeah.   Do you think that that amount of acceptance is ever hard for your family? Like do you think they are like I do not want you to accept this death so much and I do not want to like feel that it is so imminent and like real?  Totally. Not with everybody not all the time and yes. Like I actually just got feedback from my kids through family counseling that I am spending too much time trying to teach them.  Wait really?  And they said you know is that deliberate? And I said are you fucking kidding me? Of course it is deliberate. I mean you think I could possibly be in this position right now and not be thinking about does each one of these kids know how to work a camera - you know really know how to do it? You know of course. You guys do not even know how the TIVO works. You know I am going to teach you everything.   Is there anything that you are still afraid to talk about with your family in relation to your diagnosis or you leaving?  Well I do not know if it is afraid to talk to them about - I do not think there is anything like that. Like they catch me crying every once in a while and they freak out. Like yesterday they all went out for a walk. And I kind of looked out the window and saw them all walking down the street and they were taking the dogs for a walk. And that really really hit me.  What exactly were you thinking when you saw them through the window?  The first thing was they are going to be OK 'ecause they were out and they were having fun and they were laughing and I just - sorry.  Do not apologize.  I had a - like a flash-forward to seeing them doing that you know a year from now two years from now whatever. And it just made me feel great and that made me feel sad. And that was easy to understand because that was - they are going to do great and you are not going to be able to see it.   Tom died a couple of months after that conversation and just weeks before the story was supposed to come out. And those conversations we had - I miss them all the time but I think I treasure them more than anything else. Like talking to him - it felt like letting out this breath I would been holding my whole life. And this thing Elisabeth tried to show us - I finally understood in a visceral way there is not a simple way out of grief. What there is is people - sitting with them listening to them while they are still here for as long as you can. So far I have been thinking a lot about like oh my gosh what is it going to be like the day that I call and you do not pick up? Like that I think about a lot. But I do not really have any dread or fear. It is kind of just like a question.  No I think about you sometimes. I am glad we met.  I am too Tom.   I am so grateful to the many and I mean many people who helped me put the story together - like so many I actually cannot fit them all here but their names are on our website. Go check that out. And I just want to send an extra special thank you to Martha Twaddle who connected me with Tom Carin Leong who made all my montage dreams come true for this episode and to Soren Wheeler for telling me to look up that lady who created those damn stages of grief and Pat Walters who received more middle of the night Elisabeth fangirl updates than any human being should have to endure.  And of course thanks to you Rachael Cusick.  Who we should say like single-handedly reported and produced this piece. As I mentioned before the break you probably want to hear more from Rachel right now. And to be able to do that you can go to the podcast Death Sex  Money. They released an episode today where you can hear Rachael talking with her grandmother.   I always wondered what it was like for me to be working on this story while you were sick. I do not know if you have any thoughts about it. Like I remember one day the nurse came to your house. And I had the On Death And Dying book. And she gave me this look like holy shit. Like you are...  .  You are really just out there doing it are not you?   And I wonder like what you feel about it. Is it weird? Is it comforting? Like what does that feel like for you?  No I thought it was something you needed to do. I just thought this was your way of you know dealing with this and that is a smart way. That is an intelligent way to delve into it and see what it is all about so I just thought that was a comfort to you perhaps and that however it worked out it would be OK.  Yeah.  Go check it out. Just search for Death Sex  Money wherever you get your podcasts. What is it called Rachael?  It is called When Grief Does not Move In Stages.  I am Latif Nasser.  I am Jad Abumrad.  Thank you for listening.  Yeah.   RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser our co-host. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Maria Paz Gutierrez Sindhu Gnanasambandan Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Alex Neason Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach Carin Leong and Candice Wang. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 