 00 Hi this is Anne Marie Woodward from the Royal Grande California. Radio Lab is supported by what the constitution means to me. The boundary breaking new play named the number one play of the year by the New Yorker and New York Magazine. Starting March 14th for 12 weeks only. Get tickets now at contstitutionbroadway.com. Robert Krulwich 22 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by IBM. 16 million new collar jobs will be created by 2024. IBM's new education model gives high school students work place experience and an associates degree. 90 P-tech schools are preparing graduates for tomorrow's STEM careers. Let us put smart to work and find out how at IBM.comPtech.  49 Wait. You are listening. All right.  49 Okay.  49 All right.  49 You are listening to Radio Lab. Radio Lab from WNYC and NPR.  04 Get everybody a level check. Jad Abumrad 07 We are going to start the show with this fellow. His names Ben Zimmer. He is the on language columnist- Ben Zimmer 12 For the New York Times Magazine. Jad Abumrad 14 Because we figured since we wanted to do a show called- Robert Krulwich 17 Oops. Jad Abumrad 17 Yeah right. We thought we should call Ben and so he came into the studio and he brought with him a bunch of his favorite oops'. Ben Zimmer 25 As an example I just wanted to give one of my favorite examples of- Jad Abumrad 29 The first one that he hit us with began its life ... Was it in an AP news article? Ben Zimmer 35 Well it was an AP story but the AP story was fine. When the AP story appeared on a news site from the American Family Association- Jad Abumrad 45 Which by the way- Ben Zimmer 45 Is a conservative Christian group. The headline first of all said homosexual eases into 100 final at Olympic trials. Robert Krulwich 54 Was it kissing guys or something that they would be good at? Ben Zimmer 01 Well if you read on ... If you are confused by that headline very here's how it starts Tyson homosexual easily one his semi finals for the 100 meters at the U.S. Olympic trach and field trials. It goes on to say throughout the entire article on Saturday homosexual misjudged the finish in his opening heat. The entire article had the word homosexual in place of gay. The sprinter's name is Tyson Gay. Robert Krulwich 25 oh my God. Jad Abumrad 28 According to Ben this is a classic- Ben Zimmer 29 Classic example of- Jad Abumrad 31 Of a search and replace oops. This group apparently did not like the word gay. Robert Krulwich 35 Because gay makes homosexuality sound very nice and- Jad Abumrad 39 Very gay. Robert Krulwich 39 Very gay right. Jad Abumrad 40 So what they did was they ran a search and replaced every instance of the word gay with the word homosexual but then you get Tyson Gay becoming Tyson Homosexual. Ben Zimmer 50 This was just a one that they were a little careless with. Robert Krulwich 54 Just to be fair heres a contrasting example. In 1990 the Fresno Bee ran an article- Ben Zimmer 00 About the Massachusetts budget crisis and it made reference to new taxes that will help put Massachusetts quote Back into the African-American and they had to issue a correction saying it should have said back in the black. Jad Abumrad 16 Now this one might have been a news room prank we are not sure. Robert Krulwich 20 It did not get into the paper right. Jad Abumrad 22 Just for the hell of it here's one last one. This one happened after the famous broadcaster Walter Cronkite died. Ben Zimmer 28 When the Chicago Tribune did their online obituary for Cronkite what happened was every instance of Cronkite got replaced by Mr. Cronkite. You can understand the thinking behind that. They are deciding okay for deceased males they should be referred to with the title Mr. But then what this turns into is an obituary where it says he was born Walter Leland Mr. Cronkite Junior. It refers to his radio show Walter Mr. Cronkite's 20th century. It is got things about his family his son Walter Mr. Cronkite the third. His daughter Kathy Mr. Cronkite. Jad Abumrad 10 I am Jad. Robert Krulwich 13 I am Robert. Jad Abumrad 14 On this episode of Radio Lab four oops'. Starting with a tree. Robert Krulwich 25 Then we have got a goose that went ... Jad Abumrad 29 And an entire town that went ... Robert Krulwich 31 And a Harvard professor- Jad Abumrad 34 That really went oops. Robert Krulwich 34 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 35 Now we should just say before we start oops can be a misleading term. Really what we are talking about here is something Greek. Robert Krulwich 43 Where you try hard to prevent one thing and then you get exactly what you did not want to get back at you. Jad Abumrad 48 Right and our first story falls into that category. Back a few seasons ago we were doing a show on deception and we ended up talking with a professor named Ruben Gur. Ruben Gur 58 Yes? Hello? Jad Abumrad 59 Hi is this professor Gur? Ruben Gur 00 Yes speaking. Jad Abumrad 01 He is a psychiatrist that works at the University of Pennsylvania and I would called him to talk about his research on self deception. Ruben Gur 06 Self deception. Jad Abumrad 07 It is fascinating stuff and I am not going to go into it now because somewhere along the way the conversation took a really weird turn. No. Ruben Gur 14 Oh yeah. Jad Abumrad 16 Get out. Ruben Gur 17 Yeah yeah. Jad Abumrad 17 It happened when he began to tell me about some studies. Ruben Gur 20 Strange studies- Jad Abumrad 22 Done by a ... What was the guys name? Ruben Gur 24 His name is hanging ... I do not remember. Hold on a second Murray was his name. Jad Abumrad 34 Henry Murray. Robert Krulwich 37 The reason we want to hear about Henry Murray is what? Jad Abumrad 40 What? I built it up. Do not you want to know more at this point? Robert Krulwich 41 Yeah no. Tell me why. Jad Abumrad 45 Okay I am going to let it unfold because we were so interested in what Ruben Gur told us that we found the guy. Alston Chase 50 Hi. Jad Abumrad 51 How is it going? Who knows a whole lot about professor Murray. His name is Alston Chase. Alston Chase 55 Very windy day today is not it? Jad Abumrad 57 He lives in a remote cabin in Montana in the woods in the foothills. Alston Chase 03 Professor Murray was a very prestigious scholar. He had been a professor of psychology at Harvard before the second World War. During the war he went to work for the OSS the Office of Strategic Services which was the forerunner of the CIA. Jad Abumrad 19 A couple of years into his government service says Alston something happened that really spooked him and spooked the country. Alston Chase 26 During the Korean War- Jad Abumrad 29 There were some GI's he said who would been captured in Korea and afterwards- Alston Chase 33 After the Korean War- Jad Abumrad 34 ... they refused to come home. Alston Chase 35 ... they appeared to have betrayed their country.  39 Renounce their own country and disappeared behind red China's bamboo curtain.  43 Now does anybody want to go home?  45 No. Alston Chase 46 The CIA and the military establishment was very much concerned that the communists had found techniques for brainwashing. Jad Abumrad 57 Murray and other psychiatrists in the government were charged with preparing those soldiers to resist that kind of brainwashing. Murray himself developed a style of interrogation. Alston Chase 07 Stressful interrogation was the term used. Jad Abumrad 10 That the army could use on its pilots. Ruben Gur 12 Yeah they developed this method of kidnapping them before they were sent onto mission. Jad Abumrad 17 Then says Ruben Gur he would run them through a battery of tests ... Ruben Gur 20 To see if they break and if they did not break then they were fine to fly. Jad Abumrad 24 This kind of psychological training was almost a new front in the cold war. In the 1950s Murray is back at Harvard and he is thinking of ways to fine tune his techniques and this is where things get interesting. Alston Chase 37 He took a class of Harvard undergraduates 20 some odd- Jad Abumrad 40 Sophomores mostly. Alston Chase 43 The students were told to write an autobiographical essay. Jad Abumrad 45 Like a diary and he told them you know what- Alston Chase 47 Make it very personal. Jad Abumrad 48 ... write your deepest thoughts in there. Alston Chase 50 Highest aspirations and hopes- Jad Abumrad 52 And while you are at it write about your sexual fantasies. Robert Krulwich 57 Quite a class. Jad Abumrad 57 Go ahead. After the students were done he said to them Now I am going to pair you up into groups of two. Alston Chase 01 To debate or discuss what they would written. Jad Abumrad 05 Students were like okay we will share no big deal. But- Alston Chase 11 They were duped. They were walked into this very brightly lit room- Jad Abumrad 17 Which turned out to be an interrogation room with a one way mirror. Alston Chase 19 ... put in a chair strapped in electrodes were attached to their arms chest their heart. Jad Abumrad 27 To measure stress basically. Alston Chase 29 They were also filming through the mirror. Jad Abumrad 32 Then instead of a classmate in walked a total stranger. Alston Chase 36 Older man- Jad Abumrad 36 This guy was holding their essay. They did not know it but Murray had trained him- Alston Chase 40 To do everything he could to anger and humiliate the undergraduate. Jad Abumrad 45 He just tore them apart piece by piece. Alston Chase 49 Using the essay to mock the students aspirations and thoughts. Then after this was done the students have to come back week after week to view themselves on film being humiliated. Jad Abumrad 07 That to me seems like the worst part. After they would been humiliated they had to watch themselves being humiliated over and over. Alston Chase 14 People became tearful and miserable and he was proud how he destroyed people. Robert Krulwich 19 What kind of a person is this? Jad Abumrad 22 Like why did he do it? Robert Krulwich 23 Yeah. Alston Chase 23 Why Murray did it there are any one of a number of explanations and they all could be true. One is it was grant grabbing. He was getting money to do these things. Jad Abumrad 33 Also this was the Cold War he was fighting communism maybe he thought it was justified. Robert Krulwich 37 Yeah but he just said he was proud of this. Jad Abumrad 40 Well it also happens to be the case that he was having an affair. Alston Chase 44 For about 30 years with a woman not his wife and they had a sexual relationship that border on in fact was sadomasochistic. In other words Murray's interests in these was intensely personal. Jad Abumrad 00 Whatever the case in those Harvard experiments there was one student who was just not prepared for any of it. Ruben Gur 06 His code name was Lawful. Alston Chase 08 They gave each of these students a code name. Ruben Gur 11 Because he was considered so conventional. Alston Chase 13 He was- Jad Abumrad 14 Really still just a boy. Alston Chase 15 Graduated high school at 16. Ruben Gur 16 Was living a thousand miles from home two shirts and two trousers to his name. Jad Abumrad 21 And Lawful apparently was an especially lonely kid. Ruben Gur 24 The notes I found of Murray did refer specifically to Lawful's essay which he saw as highly alienated. Jad Abumrad 31 When Lawful walked into that room sat across from that stranger- Alston Chase 35 The guy really made a job on him. He was young so he was barely growing a beard. The first thing that the guy tells him is what is this on your chin? Something trying to look like a beard. Jad Abumrad 47 Then the guy opens up Lawful's essay and lets him have it. Meanwhile like all of the students Lawful had been hooked up to all of these stress monitors. Alston Chase 55 I analyzed his data compared to all the other participants and he had far and away the strongest response physiologically. Jad Abumrad 03 You mean like his heart beat the fastest and all that? Alston Chase 05 Heart beat everything through the roof. Jad Abumrad 12 Amazingly this experiment went on for three years. Decades later a lot of the subjects were still upset. Ruben Gur 19 Considered it one of the most traumatic experiences they would had in their 20s. Jad Abumrad 23 Lawful never forgot it. Ruben Gur 25 That is right. He was resentful at the way he was treated at Harvard. He had nightmares about professor Murray after he left Harvard. Robert Krulwich 33 So what happened to this guy? Jad Abumrad 36 Well he finished up his four years at Harvard got his degree then got a PhD in math. Then he began to teach math and then he became a household name. Robert Krulwich 45 What do you mean? Jad Abumrad 46 Well I mean this ...  48 The FBI raid began just after noon in a remote mountainous area called Stemple Pass about five miles outside the town of Lincoln Montana. Jad Abumrad 56 Turns out that Lawful's real name- Ruben Gur 58 Theodore Kaczynski. Jad Abumrad 00 No? Ruben Gur 01 Oh yeah. Jad Abumrad 01 Get out. Ruben Gur 02 Yeah.  03 The FBI dubbed him the unabomber. In nearly 18 years he found targets all over the country.  09 His meticulously made bombs have killed three people and injured another 23.  13 Blew my arm off to the side like this and the first thing I thought was why did they do that. Jad Abumrad 20 Do you think that this study had anything to do with Ted Kaczynski's subsequent very infamous acts? Ruben Gur 28 Well I think he probably would have if it had not been for that experiment he still probably would have been maybe reclusive living somewhere in a cabin in Montana regardless. I think the evil twist was done there. Jad Abumrad 45 Years later while he was researching a book Alston Chase corresponded with Kaczynski. Alston Chase 50 In one of his letters he mentioned that he participated in some psychological experiments conducted by professor Murray. Of course I was very curious and I wrote it back Can you tell me a little bit more about it? And he said Well I do not know if you want to go into that can of worms. Jad Abumrad 19 Ruben Gur is a professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania and Alston Chase is the author of the book Harvard And The Making Of The Unabomber. Heres one more from Ben Zimmer. What is the Coopertino effect? Ben Zimmer 46 The Coopertino effect is the name given to the phenomenon of when you rely on a spellchecker too much. It will give you a suggestion and very often it is a suggestion that you really should not take. Jad Abumrad 01 Why is called the Coopertino effect? Ben Zimmer 03 Well in early spellchecker's if you wrote cooperation the word cooperation C-0-0-P-E-R-A-T-I-O-N perfectly typical spelling of the word cooperation. In early spellchecker's that word was not there because it expected you to spell it co- and so what it would do is it would give you a suggestion and the suggestion was coopertino a little town in California. If you look at documents that are still online from the UN from the EU from NATO you will find dozens and dozens of coopertino's that have found their way in there. For instance heres a German NATO officer was quoted as saying the coopertino with our Italian comrades proved to be very fruitful. Then there was a proposal from the EU scientific and technical research committee. They proposed quote stimulating cross border coopertino. Jad Abumrad 01 Oops number two you go. Robert Krulwich 04 The next one is just a different flavor entirely. We are going to meet someone ... I do not know I cannot really say that he did anything wrong- Jad Abumrad 13 Yeah I mean this one is more like would you say luck? Robert Krulwich 16 Suppose we just picked up a toothbrush and it was connected to a snake that was connected to a monster that was connected to the devil himself. You would not know. You are just picking up a toothbrush. So this is a case where really bad things happen. This story comes from our own reporter Pat Walters. Jad Abumrad 32 Yeah. Robert Krulwich 33 It concerns ... Well I do not know you go ahead and ... Pat Walters 35 Okay so just to start I want you to imagine you are on a mountain top. Robert Krulwich 40 Okay. Pat Walters 41 This mountain is in Western Nevada. Michael Cohen 42 The second highest peak in the state of Nevada. Robert Krulwich 45 Got a name? Pat Walters 46 It is called Wheeler Peak. Robert Krulwich 47 And who is this? Pat Walters 48 This is Michael Cohen. Michael Cohen 50 I go by Michael P Cohen. Pat Walters 51 He is a nature writer and he tells me that up on top of this mountain- Michael Cohen 55 There is a grove of old trees. You can see the trees from a distance and their wood is so bright that it actually glistens in the sun. Robert Krulwich 06 What do they call it? Pat Walters 07 Oh Bristle Cone Pines. Michael Cohen 08 Yes. Pat Walters 09 Can you describe what they look like? Michael Cohen 10 Sure they tend to be shorter broad at the base. They get very very old and as they get old they become tortured or gnarled. Pat Walters 20 They sort of twist up towards the sky. Michael Cohen 23 The overall effect is sort of electrical. Pat Walters 25 They look kind of like what you would see in a Tim Burton movie. You have that picture? Robert Krulwich 30 Yeah. Pat Walters 31 In mind. Robert Krulwich 31 Yep. Pat Walters 31 Okay so the story is about this scientist named Don Currey. Michael Cohen 36 I am going to take a drink of water wait I am going to take a drink of water. Okay. Pat Walters 41 Story starts in 19- Michael Cohen 42 64. Don Curry was a graduate student from North Carolina and he was young. Pat Walters 48 Do we know how old he was? Michael Cohen 49 He was 30 years old. Pat Walters 50 He would just gotten the big grant from the National Science Foundation to do some climate change research. Not like climate change now though climate change thousands of years ago. He learned that you can actually sort of travel back in time. Ron Lanner 02 Go back into the past using the spacing between tree rings the annual rings. Pat Walters 09 This is Ron Lanner. He is a retired Forest Service scientist. He says you can use the width of the tree rings- Ron Lanner 15 To determine whether it was colder at one time or rainier at one period in the trees life or whatever. Pat Walters 21 So Curry is up on top of this mountain amongst these trees and he needs to find one that he can look inside and kind of see what the weather was like way back in- Ron Lanner 30 The past.  31 Five minutes of looking is all that was involved. Pat Walters 35 This was from a NOVA documentary Curry died a few years ago and this is actually the only time that he ever talked about this story on tape.  42 Literally- Ron Lanner 43 He found a tree there-  45 The first old tree that we climbed to- Ron Lanner 49 ... that he described as looking super super old. Pat Walters 53 So Curry takes out this special drill which scientists use to take a core sample to look at the rings. Ron Lanner 59 Yeah. Pat Walters 59 Presses it up- Ron Lanner 00 Against the tree give it a good push to get it through the bark- Pat Walters 03 And he starts twisting it in. Ron Lanner 05 Clockwise into the tree but he was not having much luck.  12 The normal approach to coring the tree was not working. Pat Walters 18 It becomes harder and harder for him to turn this thing into the tree. Ron Lanner 21 And eventually the bit of his drill broke off in the tree. Pat Walters 30 This is not just any drill he ordered it from Sweden. The whole time he is thinking if I cannot get this thing out of the tree-  36 That would mean the research project would be lost for the year. Ron Lanner 41 At this point- Pat Walters 42 He kind of lumbers back down the mountain dejected. Ron Lanner 46 He managed to find the district ranger and told him the problem. Pat Walters 51 Guys my drill it got stuck in the tree what should I do? They tell him do not worry about it Don- Ron Lanner 58 We will just cut the tree down. Pat Walters 59 This is one tree there are dozens of these trees all around. So they start slicing into the tree. It takes a while to cut it down because it is really dense full of knots and gnarls. Eventually the tree falls over. Ron Lanner 17 Then they cut some slabs out of the lower part of the tree. Pat Walters 21 Curry gets one of these slabs back to his lab throws it on a big desk finds a magnifying glass because the rings are really small and he starts counting.  29 One two three ... Pat Walters 32 As he counts he is making little- Ron Lanner 33 Pin holes or pencil marks every 50 or 100 years.  38 317 ... Pat Walters 39 By the end of the first day he gets back to 1000 years. Like the dark ages we are in Europe eating raw possum. Day two-  51 2006 2007 ... Pat Walters 53 By the middle of the day he gets back to like Jesus Roman Empire gladiators and Centenarian but even at that point he was only like half way finished. He kept counting.  05 We could begin to see that we were getting over 4000 years over 4500 over 4600 and we ended around 4900 years. Ron Lanner 16 It had 4844 annual rings in it. Pat Walters 20 And at that point the oldest tree that anyone had ever found was 4600 years old. In other words- Ron Lanner 28 He had himself the oldest tree ever. Pat Walters 32 But he had killed it.  35 You have got to think I have got to have done something wrong. I better re count. I better re count again. Pat Walters 41 No matter how many times he counted the rings the number never went down. The worlds oldest tree was dead.  58 It was truly ... It was horrifying. It was like a family tragedy. Pat Walters 07 People had given these trees names.  09 There was Buddha and Socrates and Mathusala. Pat Walters 12 They called Curry's tree-  14 The Prometheus tree. Pat Walters 16 The guy who named that particular tree was so angry that he wrote a magazine article where he called Don Curry a murderer. Michael Cohen 22 All across the country there was a tremendous uproar. Jad Abumrad 26 Saying what? Michael Cohen 27 About killing the world's oldest living organism. Robert Krulwich 34 I thought we were just saying ... I thought it was the oldest living tree. Pat Walters 36 It is both. It is the oldest tree and it is the oldest organism. Robert Krulwich 42 Wait wait wait. You mean that the oldest continuously living animal shrub mushroom are you sure about this? What you just said was this is the oldest living continuous individual alive on the planet. Pat Walters 00 I know what I said. This tree was older than any other tree on the planet older than the oldest sponge which is like 1500 years old. Older than the oldest animal which is some sort of oyster which is 405 years old. Older than any other living thing on the entire planet. Robert Krulwich 18 Oh God. Pat Walters 24 Where do we go from there? Robert Krulwich 26 So where does that leave Mr. Curry? Oh God. So what happened to him? Pat Walters 32 Well right after this happened Curry pretty much stopped doing research on trees. He basically studied salt flats for the rest of his career. Big treeless salt flats. Aside from that little NOVA clip that we played before he has not really ever gone on record talking about this. It is hard for us to say how he really felt about it but there was this one moment. He was being interviewed by a TV reporter about his salt flats research. Michael Cohen 59 This would have been in the 19 probably the late 80s early 90s. Pat Walters 03 Years and years after the whole tree incident. Michael Cohen 06 All of the sudden out of a clear blue sky the television reporter asked him oh are not you the Curry who killed the world's oldest tree. He was completely ambushed. And Curry just turned his back and ran away. That is stain that does not wear off somebody. Robert Krulwich 36 He did have the incredible misfortune to kill the oldest living organism on our planet. Pat Walters 41 Yeah but this is 25 years later and he is still getting hassled about this tree. We are talking about one tree here. Robert Krulwich 48 Well no. We are talking about the tree here. Pat Walters 51 Right. Robert Krulwich 52 The thing about a tree that lasts for almost 4000 years. Pat Walters 57 More than that. Robert Krulwich 58 5000 years. Pat Walters 59 Almost 5000 years sure. Robert Krulwich 01 Is that it is a repository it is a talisman for 5000 years of Earth history. Pat Walters 07 But I mean would it be any less bad if the tree were three and a half thousand years old? This is just one more old thing. Robert Krulwich 14 No it is not. It is the oldest of all. Pat Walters 17 Your thinking like the Guinness Book of World Records. Robert Krulwich 19 Yes. Well you keep making me into like a Ripley's Believe It or Not guy but no. Pat Walters 22 That is exactly what you are being. Robert Krulwich 24 No. No no. There is a ... When you have been around longer than everybody else there is a sort of- Pat Walters 29 Which I have never experienced. Robert Krulwich 31 Yeah well- Pat Walters 32 Have you? Robert Krulwich 33 Well I am older than you. I walk in here and I look at you and I feel pity for all the things you do not know imagine what the tree must have felt. Jad Abumrad 47 That was reporter Pat Walters. We are happy to say that sense our original broadcast of this story a new oldest living tree has been found. It is also a bristle cone pine also in the white mountains and it is current age according to Dr. Peter Brown of the Rocky Mountain Tree Ring Research Group is just about 5060 years old. Which makes it actually older than Don Curry's tree when it was cut down. So Don Curry if you are out there listening from the after life you can now rest in peace. We will continue in a moment. Chuck 24 Hi this is Chuck from Albany New York. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Ashley Harding 49 Hi this is Ashley Harding from Saint Johns Newfoundland Canada. Radio Lab is supported by what the constitution means to me on Broadway starting March 14th for 12 weeks only. Named the number one play of the year by the New Yorker and New York Magazine this boundary breaking new play breathes new life into our founding document and imagines how it will shape the next generation of American Women. The New York Times says it is shrewd crazy funny and shattering and Rolling Stone calls it bracing and strikingly relevant. What the constitution means to me written by Obe award winner Heidi Shrek. Get tickets now at constitutionbroadway.com. Robert Krulwich 34 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by Royal Caribbean. If you knew what was going to happen in this Radio Lab episode would you keep listening to us? I do not think so. Not knowing is part of the adventure part of the fun. Adventure is what Royal Caribbean is all about. Each day they give you something to do that is totally different from the day before. You can soar inside Sky Pad which is a VR thrill ride. You can discover different island destinations day after day different places all on the same trip and so much more. Why just vacation in the Caribbean when you can go on an adventure on Royal Caribbean. Come seek at RoyalCarribean.com ships registry Bahamas.  14 Hi this is Ira Plato host of the weekly public radio show Science Friday. We are excited to be coming to BAM in Brooklyn for a special live edition of our show with a special topic. The secret sciencey lives of city pigeons I know you have always wondered about that. Plus you can enjoy music live demonstrations and a lot more. Join us Saturday April 27th for one night only. Details and tickets at bam.orgsciencefriday. Saturday April 27th. Robert Krulwich 48 And now to keep us in our oopsy mood- Jad Abumrad 50 Here's another coopertino oops from language expert Ben Zimmer. Ben Zimmer 54 Back in October '06 Reuters the news wire had an article about honey bees and there were some very interesting sentences in this article about honey bees. For instance did you know quote Queen Elizabeth has ten times the life span of workers and lays up too two thousand eggs a day. Robert Krulwich 15 That is why she is a very nice girl but does not have a lot to say because there is all these eggs dropping on the floor. Ben Zimmer 19 With it is highly evolved social structure of tens of thousands of worker bees commanded by Queen Elizabeth the honey bee genome could also improve the search for genes linked to social behavior. Robert Krulwich 28 I get it so every time a queen reference came in they were commanded to that particular queen. Ben Zimmer 33 Whenever the words the queen appeared in this article it had to be the queen. Robert Krulwich 37 Oh. Ben Zimmer 37 So the queen was being replaced with Queen Elizabeth. Jad Abumrad 40 Oh. Ben Zimmer 40 Unfortunately in an article about honey bees. Robert Krulwich 54 This next oop- Jad Abumrad 55 Singular oop? Robert Krulwich 56 Would not it be? I mean if you have one oop would not be a- Jad Abumrad 59 Never heard that. Robert Krulwich 00 No it is just a new coinage. Jad Abumrad 01 Oop. Robert Krulwich 02 This next one it raises a question of I guess you would say moral balance. Jad Abumrad 07 A question that I do not think any of us would want to have to answer. Robert Krulwich 11 Comes to us from our producer Lulu Miller. Jad Abumrad 14 Okay so set up the story. This story happens where? Lulu Miller 18 It is in a little town in northern Michigan called Mio. 7AM just drove through the Delaware water gap. That is me on my way out there from New York. The sun is rising and- It is about an 800 mile drive. ... it is just gorgeous out here. Jad Abumrad 35 Dude listen to you- Lulu Miller 36 Lush and- Jad Abumrad 37 ... all into the outdoors. Lulu Miller 38 It is nauseating. Jad Abumrad 39 Yeah a little. Lulu Miller 39 I know but I am just one of those people when I get out into nature that I feel my place in the world. Anyway- Just crossed into Mio. Jad Abumrad 50 What was the reason you were going again? Lulu Miller 51 To see a bird a very not just rare not just the kind of bird birders get obsessed about this is a bird ... This is what they call a life bird. Jad Abumrad 02 A life bird? Lulu Miller 03 Birders wait their life to see it. Jad Abumrad 05 Really? Lulu Miller 06 Yeah. Only found right here. Jad Abumrad 08 What is the bird called? Lulu Miller 09 The Curtland Warbler. Now have you seen a Curtland before?  12 No I have never seen one. This is my first trip up here. Jad Abumrad 15 This right here where are you right now? Lulu Miller 17 We are just outside of the town on the edge of the forest about to go in and I am standing with about 15 people who have come from everywhere. Where are you folks coming from? To see this bird.  26 Toledo.  27 I am from South Carolina. Rita 29 We are from Oregon.  30 Wyoming.  31 We will walk out to a spot try to stay single file. Lulu Miller 34 The park ranger leads us down the path into a little clearing and pretty immediately-  39 In the background there.  42 Way back there?  42 Mm-hmm . Lulu Miller 43 A guy from Ohio spots a Curtland. Oh there he is yeah.  47 Oh good he turned around. Lulu Miller 48 A tiny yellow bird.  50 Back there. Lulu Miller 51 Up high in a jack pine tree. Oh yeah oh great it is singing like crazy. A lady from Dayton starts clapping. Can you describe what you are seeing? Jim Coleman 59 I see a lovely bird with a gray back. Lulu Miller 02 This is a guy from Oregon. Jim Coleman. Rita 04 Blue gray back. Lulu Miller 05 And his wife Rita. Rita 06 It is smaller than a Robin yellow. In the sunlight it is just an absolutely radiant bird. Yeah. Lulu Miller 12 Is this worth the trip from Oregon? Jim Coleman 15 Oh you bet. I do not know it just makes me thankful that I am here and it makes me grateful that my wife is here. I know this is something that she is wanted to see for a long time. Lulu Miller 28 Yeah. Jim actually starts to tear up. Jim Coleman 29 It is a very special bird. Lulu Miller 34 That is what this story is really about how special is this bird. Jad Abumrad 42 Meaning? Lulu Miller 43 Well how much is a species worth. Jad Abumrad 45 I do not- Lulu Miller 50 Well here's the back story. Jad Abumrad 51 Okay. Lulu Miller 52 In the early '70s the warbler almost went extinct. The reason why it was thought was because of a little creature called the cow bird. Chris Mensing 00 Want to go in? Lulu Miller 03 Okay. That is just the sound of them- Chris Mensing 06 Its a parasite you know and some- Jad Abumrad 08 Who is this guy? Lulu Miller 08 This is Chris Mensing. Chris Mensing 09 Fish and wildlife biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Lulu Miller 13 We are standing in this cage full of cow birds. Chris Mensing 16 Well it looks like we have got six males and one female. Let me crab a couple. Lulu Miller 21 He just reached out and grabbed two of them. Your good at that. Chris Mensing 24 The males- Lulu Miller 24 Can I try? Chris Mensing 25 Yeah go ahead. Lulu Miller 25 Okay. Imagine a tiny little gnarly crow. That really sharp little beaks. Chris Mensing 31 Yeah. Lulu Miller 31 But with this blunt dagger like beak. Chris Mensing 33 It has a very drab body very dull. Lulu Miller 36 Here's what the cow bird does to the warbler. While the warbler is out of it is nest- Jad Abumrad 40 Like getting a worm or something? Lulu Miller 41 Yeah. The cow bird lays one of its own eggs in the nest to make room for it so the warbler does not know anything is up it pushes out one of the warblers eggs. Jad Abumrad 50 Oh. Lulu Miller 51 Out of the nest? Chris Mensing 52 Mm-hmm  and the timing is such that the cow bird egg will hatch first and will double it is size in 24 hours. Lulu Miller 57 Wow. Chris Mensing 58 So by the time that the host birds hatch that cow bird may be up to four times the size and when they start begging for food from the parents the loudest most aggressive chick is going to get fed. The cow bird chick. Jad Abumrad 09 So the warbler mom ends up shoveling food into this cow bird chick? Lulu Miller 12 Yep. Often times it gets so much food that another warbler chick will die. Jad Abumrad 16 Wow. Lulu Miller 16 So when the cow birds first showed up in this area- Chris Mensing 19 In the late 1800s early 1900s. Lulu Miller 21 ... the warbler population just started plummeting. Chris Mensing 23 This huge drop. Lulu Miller 24 By 1971- Chris Mensing 26 There were only 200 males- Lulu Miller 27 On Earth. Jad Abumrad 28 Wow. Lulu Miller 28 So what do you do? Jad Abumrad 31 Are you asking me? Lulu Miller 32 Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 34 I guess you have got to kill the cow birds. Lulu Miller 36 Exactly. Chris Mensing 37 This is one of 54 traps. It is a new one that we just built this year. Lulu Miller 40 Which is why we are out in this cage. It is actually a cow bird trap. Chris Mensing 45 Yeah she is biting me. Just like anyone that is scared of someone larger grabbing you. They do not appreciate it too much. Lulu Miller 50 And you want to know how they kill them? Jad Abumrad 51 I kind of do yeah. Chris Mensing 52 Thoracic compression is the term we use. We basically squeeze the bird suffocating it preventing it from breathing. Lulu Miller 58 Just with your hands there is no- Chris Mensing 59 Yep. Lulu Miller 00 Wow. Chris Mensing 00 Yep. Lulu Miller 00 Yeah. Do you have to do that? Chris Mensing 00 Yeah. Lulu Miller 02 Like all the time? Chris Mensing 03 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 04 Did you see this? Lulu Miller 05 No. But 1972 Fish and Wildlife Service sets up a bunch of traps a few years and about 12 thousand dead cow birds later. Chris Mensing 16 It works. Lulu Miller 23 Kind of. The population stopped dying off but then it did not start bouncing back. Rita Halbeisen 29 What is going on? Jad Abumrad 31 Yeah. Rita Halbeisen 32 Why are not we seeing bigger numbers now that we are catching the cow birds Lulu Miller 35 That is Rita Halbeisen. She worked with the Forest Service back in the '80s. Rita Halbeisen 38 We thought well. We finally concluded it must be just there is not enough habitat. Jad Abumrad 44 Like they do not have enough trees? Is that what ... Lulu Miller 46 Well no. There are plenty of trees but the thing about warblers is they like a specific kind of tree. They like them very young. That was weird. I could feel it as I was saying it. They like them young. Jad Abumrad 00 No but they like young trees is what your saying. Lulu Miller 01 Yep. Jad Abumrad 02 And there are not young trees in this place? Lulu Miller 04 No it is really weird. When they started looking around this forest they noticed all the trees were really really old. Jad Abumrad 10 Why? Why would not there be young trees? Lulu Miller 12 Well us. Hey hey Smokey Bear. See when humans began to settle in this area of Michigan in about the 1880s they brought with them that certain human disdain for fire.  31 Only you can prevent forest fires. Lulu Miller 36 Fire is exactly what is needed up there to make new trees. Chris Mensing 39 Yeah this ecosystem is a fire ecosystem. Lulu Miller 42 Says Chris. Chris Mensing 42 It burns. Lulu Miller 43 Because when these trees burn they release their seeds and make room for new trees to grow. Chris Mensing 48 It is a fire ecosystem. It is made to burn. Lulu Miller 51 So I ask you again what do you do? Jad Abumrad 55 Do you start fires would that be the solution? Lulu Miller 56 That would be the solution. So the Forestry started doing- Rita Halbeisen 00 What we call a prescribed burn. Lulu Miller 01 Basically says Rita they burn down a little patch of forest. Rita Halbeisen 04 A few acres. Lulu Miller 05 To regenerate it. One windy spring day in 1980 at a place called Mack Lake the Forestry Service started a fire that they probably should not have. Dick Lord 14 Okay my name is Dick Lord. At the time of the Mack Lake fire I was part of the ignition crew for the prescribed burn. Lulu Miller 23 What is an ignition crew? Dick Lord 25 They light the fire. Lulu Miller 27 So at ten in the morning Dick and his crew go out into the woods. Dick Lord 31 We went out with a plan. Lulu Miller 31 Start setting up perimeters and they begin lighting a few stands of shrubs. Bob Burner 35 I was driving home. Lulu Miller 37 That is Bob Burner best name ever for a firefighter. Bob Burner 39 I could see the Forest Service starting to do a burn and I thought this is not a good time. It was windy. They did not have the manpower. I said we will probably be getting called out here shortly. Dick Lord 52 Basically we did not realize that the weather was going to change as rapidly as it did. Rita Halbeisen 59 The wind came up suddenly something nobody could predict and it took the fire across the road into a stand of mature jack pine and took off. Dick Lord 12 There were flames probably 100 to 150 feet in the air. Bob Burner 17 The sound was like a roaring train. Lulu Miller 19 The forest guys jump into their bulldozers trying to plow trenches alongside the fire. Dick Lord 24 To pinch it off. Bob Burner 24 You could feel the heat. Dick Lord 27 It was way out of our control. Bob Burner 29 Hitting the tops of the trees rolling. Dick Lord 33 I knew at the rate it was traveling that it was going to be a major catastrophe. Lulu Miller 40 Within six hours it had burned over 20 thousand acres. It is one of the fastest moving fires ever documented. Bob 48 I went through there. As far as you could see was all black. Lulu Miller 51 These are two guys. Bob 52 I am bob. Mike 52 I am mike. Lulu Miller 52 Who own houses in the area that got burnt. Bob 54 I remember the guy down there on the corner. Grounds all burned up black charred. Lulu Miller 58 Their houses were okay but 41 houses were destroyed. Mike 02 All the way up to the light. Lulu Miller 02 So just completely- Mike 02 Yeah. Bob 02 There was not nothing green nothing. Mike 08 Like something out of a moonscape. Bob 09 As far as you could see everything gone. Rita Halbeisen 12 The worst part about it for all of us- Lulu Miller 14 That is Rita Halbeisen again. Rita Halbeisen 15 ... was that it killed one of the Forest Service employees a very young wildlife technician who was very well loved by his coworkers. Lulu Miller 25 A guy named Jim Swidarski. Dick Lord 26 You know Jim was a good friend as well as an employee. Lulu Miller 32 Dick Lord again Jim's boss. He told me that Jim had been a post man for a few years but just loved birds so much that he took a huge pay cut to come and help protect the warbler. Dick Lord 42 Basically what happened was the fire overran him. Rita Halbeisen 51 Oh the press was having a hay day just tearing in to the Forest Service for what had happened. Dick Lord 56 The towns people were very angry at the Forrest Service. Rita Halbeisen 59 How could you do this. Lulu Miller 00 Rita says they were told not to wear their Forest Service uniforms in town. Rita Halbeisen 03 Gosh it was so terrible. Lulu Miller 06 The forest itself- Rita Halbeisen 08 There was nothing there. Lulu Miller 09 ... was completely silent. A year later a little bit of green started to poke up and the next year a little bit more and- Rita Halbeisen 20 Eight to ten years after that Mack Lake burn just seemed like everywhere you turned around it stop for and listen and there were five or six birds. A tremendous number of warblers. That was the answer to the mystery. Lulu Miller 35 The fire. Chris Mensing 36 If you look at a population graph- Lulu Miller 38 That is Chris Mensing again. Chris Mensing 39 ... after that Mack Lake burn the population went like that ... Lulu Miller 42 He points his hand straight up. Chris Mensing 44 That is pretty dramatic. Lulu Miller 45 Today the numbers are up to almost 4000 birds. Rita 49 Oh there he is yeah. Lulu Miller 49 And growing. Rita 49 Singing like crazy. Lulu Miller 56 Now that the birds are back but a man is gone when you walk around this town a question lingers in the air. Dick Lord 05 Is the life of a fireman worth the life a bird. Rita 05 Oh take a look take a look. Dick Lord 05 Is it? Jim Coleman 05 That is incredible. Rita 05 I got him. I got him. Ed Faucet 20 No in my opinion it is not. Lulu Miller 22 This is Ed Faucet. Ed Faucet 23 I would not trade your life for a bird. Lulu Miller 26 I am sitting with him and his wife Mary Jane in a diner. No matter where you go in this town-  33 What is the government doing? Lulu Miller 34 People do not tend to be huge fans of the warbler.  37 It is just a small bird.  38 I have been up here since '68. I have never seen one. Lulu Miller 41 Did you ever see one? Ed Faucet 42 No.  42 Never have I seen one.  43 I have never seen one. Ed Faucet 44 No. Lulu Miller 45 And back to Ed. Ed Faucet 45 I just got to say to you what would you think about it if your father or brother were killed for a bird. It would be pretty hard to accept would not it. Lulu Miller 55 But if you zoom out one human life versus the end of a species. Ed Faucet 01 You know how many warblers there are in the United States? There is something like 37 species of warblers. Lulu Miller 08 The real number is actual closer to 60. Jad Abumrad 08 Whoa. Ed Faucet 11 I mean that is kind of ridiculous. Lulu Miller 13 That is not all. Chris Mensing 14 They ask you Well when are you done? And we really say never. Lulu Miller 17 Chris explained to me that they have to keep killing the cow birds and they have to keep doing burns smaller burns but every single year. Chris Mensing 24 If we let things be the bird would be extinct. Lulu Miller 27 Wow. Chris Mensing 27 That is the hard thing about this job is knowing that we are never done. Lulu Miller 31 How many people are working how much ... Chris Mensing 35 You are probably looking at 100s of people. Well over a million dollars a year is spent. Lulu Miller 39 All this began to really sink in on one of my last mornings out there. All right it is five in the morning. It was the annual Curtland warbler census. Chris Mensing 53 Good morning. Lulu Miller 54 Where birders from all over the world show up to help count how many warblers there are out there. Jad Abumrad 59 Is it like there is a warbler step step step there is a warbler. Lulu Miller 02 Yeah that is actually exactly how it works. I was paired up with this guy Dave Mendez. Dave Mendez 07 We are going to kind of walk through the middle of these transects. We are going to come up- Lulu Miller 10 He is kind of a dude dude. He is an older guy got a beard. Dave Mendez 13 I work for an electrical contractor. Lulu Miller 15 Told me he is got a man room. Dave Mendez 17 My man room. Most guys got sports but I have got Curtland's warbler pictures up on the wall. Jad Abumrad 23 Nice. Lulu Miller 23 So I went into it thinking this will be really cool. We will march along we will count them. Dave Mendez 23 Pretty good to go. Lulu Miller 28 I looked at the map it was a mile maybe of a walk. We will be done in twenty minutes. Well okay maybe not we are walking through the forest an hour tops. Jad Abumrad 37 And? Lulu Miller 38 We set of dense brambly forest still dark. Is that one? Dave Mendez 45 That was a hermit thrush. Lulu Miller 46 Oh okay. Let me just play you a quick little time lapse. Dave Mendez 49 20 to seven right now the sun's just coming up and it is getting a little muggy out here. That was a curtlands. Lulu Miller 56 Oh yeah? Dave Mendez 57 Yep. We cannot count him though he is not in our section. 07 I heard one way back that way. Lulu Miller 04 Yeah? Dave Mendez 05 Yeah there he is again. Lulu Miller 06 Yeah. Dave Mendez 07 But I am not going to mark him in because I do not know exactly where he is at. 33 there he goes. Lulu Miller 15 Yeah? Dave Mendez 16 Yep right there. Lulu Miller 16 So do you count him now? Dave Mendez 17 No no no. Lulu Miller 18 Not yet okay. Dave Mendez 19 We want to be a lot more accurate. We want to triangulate him. 56 and all is well in the warbler woods. Lulu Miller 25 Oy a couple of ants are biting me. Dave Mendez 26 Ants? Lulu Miller 27 Yeah. Dave Mendez 28 They hurt do not they. Lulu Miller 29 They do a little bit yeah. Get out of there. Dave Mendez 33 45 AM. I know that there is a bird out there. I can still hear that bird way back there. Lulu Miller 41 So we end up staying out there for seven and a half hours. We just marked one right? Dave Mendez 46 Yep we have only marked one. Lulu Miller 48 I do not mean to sound like I am making fun of Dave. I mean he is doing his job well but at some point in between the fire ants and taking four hours to confirm this one bird- Dave Mendez 59 He is going to be right off over here. Lulu Miller 01 I just started thinking about all the effort it takes. Dave Mendez 04 Two rows of trees over from us and we cannot see him. Lulu Miller 06 I just suddenly thought it is this fussy fragile little bird and it has not evolved who cares. Jad Abumrad 15 Yeah. Lulu Miller 15 I mean this is not worth it. So I started asking people who protect the bird ... Why do it? So much money and it is all for a bird. I could see it maybe if it was for some ... But it is just one warbler of 18 million different kinds of warblers. Why do it? Chris Mensing 33 Well we do it because we should. You know we are stewards of the land. Lulu Miller 37 That is Chris Mensing again cow bird killer. Chris Mensing 39 It is for future generations. Lulu Miller 42 Heres the fire starter Dick Lord. Dick Lord 44 The Curtland's warbler was listed under the endangered species act and we had a charge under the law to do what we could to recover its existence. That is the only thing that I can say. That we had to do what the law required us to do. Lulu Miller 03 So we should do it and the law tells us we have to do it unconvincing. That question- Ed Faucet 12 Is the life of a fireman worth the life of a bird. Lulu Miller 16 ... and that guy Ed at the diner it just stuck in my mind. I realized I could not leave this town until I talked to the people who lost the most. Can I just get you to introduce yourselves- Robert S. 25 Whole name or- Lulu Miller 25 Yeah sure. Robert S. 27 Robert Swidarski age 54. Katheline S. 27 Katheline Swidarski. Florence S. 31 Florence Swidarski. Katheline S. 32 The mother- Robert S. 34 Mother- Florence S. 34 I am the mother. Jad Abumrad 34 Of the guy who died? Lulu Miller 35 Yeah. Florence S. 36 I guess that is it. Robert S. 37 Want ice tea or water or anything? Lulu Miller 39 We are all sitting around the kitchen table. Robert S. 41 There is a lot of hotdogs and beer over there. Lulu Miller 43 Jim's brother-in-law is there too. Kevin Dupre 44 So I am Kevin Kevin Dupre. Lulu Miller 46 I asked them to tell me about Jim. Kevin Dupre 48 Quite a guy. Soft spoken ... Robert S. 52 Smart. Kevin Dupre 53 Quite a character. Robert S. 54 Yep. Lulu Miller 55 They told me at first they were furious. Florence S. 58 They should have never ever sent him in there. Lulu Miller 00 Angry at the Forest Service angry about this bird. Robert S. 03 Very angry. Lulu Miller 04 Now three decades later. Robert S. 07 I say you keep that little bird going. Kevin Dupre 09 Exactly. Jad Abumrad 10 Really? Lulu Miller 11 Jim's younger brother Robert said that the thing he wanted the most is for the Curtland's warbler to become the- Robert S. 17 State bird. That would be the ultimate. That would be the biggest accomplishment ever would be that being the state bird. Lulu Miller 26 Wow I guess in some ways I am surprised. I did not mean to come here with expectations but in some ways I thought if it was my family that I would hate that bird that I would just hate that bird. Florence S. 38 No it is not the bird. I mean that bird did not do anything to any of us. Robert S. 42 That is right. Florence S. 44 If we can keep it going ... I mean that is what he set out to do let us keep it going. Lulu Miller 49 They think about Jim's death like the death of a soldier. Kevin Dupre 53 Where would you be sitting right now if we would not have lost all those soldiers in World War I World War II. Lulu Miller 59 That he died protecting us. Kevin Dupre 02 You know it is only one species. Well then it is going to be another species and another species and another species. Next thing you know you will walk out in the morning and it will be quiet. Thank God for Teddy Roosevelt and them boys that made our National Parks. Imagine if we did not have those. It costs money it is painful blah blah blah. You have got to have the guts to do that and Jim was really that kind of guy. Jad Abumrad 31 Wow that is convincing. Lulu Miller 32 Yeah. I mean do you agree Florence? Then I asked the mom. Florence S. 38 What can I say the birds are coming back but the life is gone. Why bring it up again? It is done you cannot bring it back so you have to live with it. There is always a whole in your heart something that none of us will ever forget forever. Do not ask me any more questions please. Lulu Miller 12 And then- Kevin Dupre 12 There she goes again. Lulu Miller 14 The power went out. Florence S. 15 Geez Louis give me a break. Robert S. 21 Let me go home and get the generator. Kevin Dupre 29 Going to have to. I think we are done. Robert S. 29 Boy it is pretty dark. Jad Abumrad 43 Lulu Miller. If you want more information on warblers or anything or if you want to subscribe to our podcast go to RadioLab.org. Gretchen C. 49 Hey Radio Lab this is Gretchen Corsmill and I am sitting in Oakland California looking out over beautiful Lake Merit. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad 16 Hey I am Jad. Robert Krulwich 17 And I am Robert. Jad Abumrad 19 And the topic remains- Robert Krulwich 21 Oops. Jad Abumrad 23 Final oops coming up. It is sort of a double oops I would say. Robert Krulwich 28 We start with an oops that leads to another oops that then self negates. Jad Abumrad 32 It comes to us from a fellow who within the confines of the show we will call Oopsy Wheeler. Soren Wheeler 38 Maybe we could just start with both of you kind of introducing yourself and saying who you are and what you do. I mean just something basic like- Andrea Stierle 44 Hi I am Andrea Stierle. Don Stierle 46 Oh me. I am Donald Stierle. Soren Wheeler 48 This is Don and Andrea Stierle they are chemists. They are actually a research team. Don Stierle 51 Here at the University of Montana. Soren Wheeler 53 They met back in the '70s. Andrea Stierle 55 Back in 1979. Soren Wheeler 57 At the University of California in San Diego. Andrea Stierle 59 We met and almost fell in love at first sight. We dated for a week he proposed I accepted. Soren Wheeler 07 They got married and not long after Don got offered a job. They left their home in sunny California. Andrea Stierle 13 Mind you we lived about half a mile from the ocean. Soren Wheeler 17 Nonetheless they- Don Stierle 18 Packed up a truck with all of our stuff. Soren Wheeler 19 Including ... Andrea Stierle 20 About 200 plants. Soren Wheeler 21 And they moved to- Don Stierle 22 Bute Montana. Soren Wheeler 27 Which is a different thing all together. Don Stierle 29 An old mining town that barely had a tree in the city limits. I do not know if you want to know Andrea's first impressions of Bute or not. Soren Wheeler 38 Sure. Andrea Stierle 39 I actually burst into tears and then started laughing. I think we call that hysterical. Barret Golding 47 Yeah the viewing stand used to be up on the hill over here when this was an operating pit. Soren Wheeler 54 I actually grew up in the town over from Bute in Montana. It is kind of that town that you were afraid to go to when you were a kid. Filled with abandoned buildings depressed. Actually if you walk through town right there right next to the middle of town- Barret Golding 10 I do not remember exactly where it was I remember being here in the late- Soren Wheeler 13 ... is this enormous- Barret Golding 14 ... '70s. Soren Wheeler 14 ... open wound on the hill. Barret Golding 16 Oh wow. Soren Wheeler 19 This deep pit. Barret Golding 21 This is where the pit is. Soren Wheeler 23 The Berkeley pit. The guy saying wow is Barret Golding. I could not get back to view it myself so I asked Barret to go over there and visit with a couple of engineers. Barret Golding 32 So tell me who you are go ahead. Joe Griffen 34 Well I am Joe Griffen Montana Department of Environmental Quality. Nick Tucci 37 I am Nick Tucci I am with the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology. Soren Wheeler 41 The three of them are standing at the edge of the pit which is kind of hard to imagine especially the size of this thing but when you are at the edge of the pit and you look down in what you actually see is ... Barret Golding 51 How can you convey what we are seeing? Soren Wheeler 53 This enormous lake kind of. Joe Griffen 57 Well it is 40 billion gallons of water which is a lot of water. It is one of the larger lakes in the united states. Jad Abumrad 03 Just carved into this hill? Soren Wheeler 05 Yeah. The main difference between this lake and one that you might decide to take an afternoon dip in is that this lake is a bizarre- Barret Golding 14 The color of the water is red. This kind of sickly red. Soren Wheeler 21 And also ... Barret Golding 22 Greens and gray and black. Soren Wheeler 25 It is technicolor. It shimmers in this way that words cannot describe. When you are standing there you cannot help but wonder ... Barret Golding 38 The question I really have and I will rephrase it after I ask it because it is not quite ... What the ... happened here? I do not think that is going to air. Joe Griffen 38 Yeah. Barret Golding 47 I mean what happened? Joe Griffen 48 Well it is just the price of copper. Soren Wheeler 53 In the 1920s when we were stringing up telephone wires and electrical wires and going through world wars a third of the copper in the U.S. came out of this hill. Joe Griffen 01 The long and the short of it is you would not be standing here broadcasting this or recording this without copper in your wire right there. Soren Wheeler 09 In its hay day you know before the pit was even around Bute was this mining boom town. By the 1940s the price of copper had dropped the company that owned all of the mines in Bute was not doing so well and so they figured it would be cheaper and easier to just blow the top off the hill. Things just kept getting worse and by 1982 right around the time when Don and Andrea were coming to town the mines completely shut down. Andrea Stierle 41 When they shut the pit in early 1980s the- Soren Wheeler 45 Here's the thing while they are actually mining they keep all the ground water pumped out of there so that it is dry and they can work. When they shut the mines down they shut off the pumps. Andrea Stierle 53 The company turned off the pumps I think it was Earth Day 1982. Soren Wheeler 59 Yeah on Earth Day. Andrea Stierle 00 After that the pit started filling up with ground water. It took a good ten years to actually see a kind of a rust colored puddle in the bottom of the pit itself. Soren Wheeler 12 But it was a puddle that was growing and growing and growing and growing. Now here's the thing about that water the rock around the pit is filled with pyrite and when the water hits the pyrite and the air the three react to create sulfuric acid. Jad Abumrad 30 Uh oh. Edwin Dobb 31 In turn- Soren Wheeler 32 That is Edwin Dobb. Edwin Dobb 33 Freelance writer have been for about 20 years. Soren Wheeler 36 Who actually grew up in Bute. Edwin Dobb 37 The sulfuric acid hastens the removal of the medals from the ore itself like gold and silver and copper. Andrea Stierle 44 Copper cadmium zinc iron sulfate- Edwin Dobb 48 Arsenic. Andrea Stierle 49 Arsenic. Soren Wheeler 50 What you end up with is this toxic acidic disaster. Andrea Stierle 55 And it is still rising. Soren Wheeler 58 In fact since we started working on this piece Jad it is risen about a foot. Edwin Dobb 03 There was an infamous incident in the mid 1990s. Soren Wheeler 08 Anybody who grew up anywhere near Bute knows this story. Edwin Dobb 11 One stormy night some 340 snow geese landed- Joe Griffen 16 They landed on the water- Edwin Dobb 17 Looking for shelter- Joe Griffen 18 And they of course drank some of it. Soren Wheeler 19 The next day there were 342 goose carcasses floating on the water. Edwin Dobb 25 They were all dead and the autopsy showed legions in the esophagus throughout the digestive system- Jad Abumrad 33 Oh so it is like the water ate their insides? Edwin Dobb 35 Yeah. Soren Wheeler 36 Were you struck at all like upon arriving there did you actually kind of go visit the mine the old mine site. Andrea Stierle 42 No avoided it like the plague. Soren Wheeler 44 Oh. Andrea Stierle 45 We were too staunch environmentalists and the idea of living in a mining town was so completely foreign. Soren Wheeler 53 When they first showed up in Bute Don and Andrea they were kind of struggling to fit in at the University because they are trying to study this little microorganism. Andrea Stierle 01 The sponge in Bermuda. Soren Wheeler 02 But they are in Bute. Andrea Stierle 04 Land locked Bute Montana. Soren Wheeler 06 To make matters worse when they took off for a year on sabbatical ... Andrea Stierle 09 Our college accidentally unplugged our refrigerator destroying all of our samples. Soren Wheeler 13 oh my God. Andrea Stierle 15 Desperation. Soren Wheeler 16 Definitely. Andrea Stierle 16 We had no funding. We decided we just needed to start over. Soren Wheeler 21 But one day ... Andrea Stierle 22 A scientist named Bill Chatham ... Soren Wheeler 24 Came into their lab. Andrea Stierle 25 With a piece of wood and on this wood there was some green slimy stuff. Soren Wheeler 30 He says You will not believe this but I found this stick with the slime on it in the pit. Andrea Stierle 36 Floating about a foot below the surface of the water. Soren Wheeler 39 Now here's the thing I mean that lake this is like ... This is the most deadly place you can imagine. Nothing grows here nothing should grow here. Jad Abumrad 48 Nothing. Soren Wheeler 49 Absolutely not. Jad Abumrad 50 Not even anything but nothing. Soren Wheeler 51 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 52 What is less than nothing? Maybe absolute nothing. Soren Wheeler 55 Like negative numbers- Jad Abumrad 56 Of nothingness. Soren Wheeler 57 It is more than nothing. It is an active getting rid of thing. Jad Abumrad 00 It is a negating nothingness. Soren Wheeler 02 You know how there is love and hate this is not a lack of love this is hate. Jad Abumrad 07 Okay. Soren Wheeler 07 But they got together with some colleagues they looked at the slime and they realized against all odds this stuff was alive. Andrea Stierle 16 Life and acid mine waste. Soren Wheeler 18 Life that no one had ever studied before. Andrea Stierle 21 Yet it really is what started everything we have been doing now. Gosh for the last 15 years. Soren Wheeler 31 So far- Don Stierle 32 We have found virtually hundreds of compounds organisms that were growing. Soren Wheeler 37 Organisms that make molecules that can fight viruses. Don Stierle 41 Several turn out to be good in our anti cancer screens. Jad Abumrad 44 They fight cancer? Really? Soren Wheeler 45 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 45 Wow. Andrea Stierle 45 We found Berklic acid and Berkeley Amits and the Berkeley Acitels. Soren Wheeler 49 They have now published tons of papers. I mean their work has just taken off. Don Stierle 54 It is been pretty exciting research. Soren Wheeler 00 But then they told me this story that totally took them by surprise. It was about a year after they would first started looking at the pit water. Andrea Stierle 08 We found this sort of a sticky opaque thick gooey black organism. Soren Wheeler 16 Then they noticed that weirdly if you put this little guy into a thing of the water from pit the pit. Andrea Stierle 21 It actually absorbs the metals in pit water. Jad Abumrad 25 What does that mean like they are taking the metals out of the water? Soren Wheeler 27 They become little metal sponge yes. Jad Abumrad 29 So they are cleaning the water is what you are saying. Soren Wheeler 31 Yeah and there is lots of people that work with microorganisms to try to clean up metal laden water but usually these things take in maybe like I do not know 10 15 of the metals. Jad Abumrad 31 Mm-hmm . Soren Wheeler 41 This little guy ... Andrea Stierle 42 Will actually absorb between 85 and 95. Jad Abumrad 42 Whoa. Soren Wheeler 47 So they got really curious about it and they started to figure out where it had ever been seen before. Andrea Stierle 52 We had it identified. Soren Wheeler 54 They eventually discovered ... Andrea Stierle 55 That the only place this yeast had ever been found was ... Jad Abumrad 00 Where? Don Stierle 01 Well ... Andrea Stierle 02 In the rectal swabs of geese. Jad Abumrad 06 You mean like the snow geese that landed on the water? Soren Wheeler 09 Yeah. The geese left a little something behind. Jad Abumrad 19 Wow. Soren Wheeler 21 A present. Jad Abumrad 35 Soren Wheeler. More information at Radiolab.org. Don Stierle 40 My name is Don Stierle and Radio Lab is produced by Jad Abumrad and Soren Wheeler. Andrea Stierle 49 Our staff includes Ellen Horne Lulu Miller Michael Rayfield Brenna Farrow Pat Walters ... Don Stierle 55 And the one and only Tim Howard. With help from Sharon Shaddick Raymond Tugicar Nicole Curry and Sam Albright. Special thanks to Barret Golding Phil Hubor and the whole Hubor Family and Aaron Sands. There you go. I hope I have not made too many mistakes. Robert Krulwich 12 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by IBM. By 2050 the world population will reach nearly 10 billion and food production will need to grow by 70. So what if artificial intelligence could help? Farmers are already using it to help increase crop yields. Watson and the IBM cloud provide access to weather data and analyze satellite imagery to help them monitor soil moisture levels and reduce water waste. So as the population grows more food can be put on the table. So let us put smart to work and find out how at IBM.comsmart. 