The Vanishing of Harry Pace - Episode 1  Before we start today's show just want to let you know this episode contains a few moments of content and language that might be upsetting for sensitive listeners or young kids.  Hey. This is RADIOLAB. I am Jad Abumrad - really excited to bring you a project I have been working on with...  Shima Oliaee. It is me.  You.  Yeah.  Co-creator of Dolly Parton's America with me.  I jumped in too quick. I jumped in too quick.  Perfect timing. No. This project runs for about a month. And...  Yes.  We are really excited.  Let us do it.  Yeah. Start us off.  OK. So every family has a secret but some families' secrets are bigger than others.  We will start with Eric Pace the great-grandson.  My sister had gotten me a job at this YMCA camp.    Eyes and ears and mouth and nose.  This is 2006.  And we got a message from my dad...   ...Saying we have a mandatory family meeting. You guys need to leave work to come and talk to us.  Did he tell you what was up?  He did not give us any other information. He said no you got to come to the family meeting and I will tell you everything. We thought like OK this has got to be divorce. We told everybody at the job and they are like - they are just like good luck with the meeting you know? This sounds really heavy really serious.   So he and sister hop in the car.  Kind of just like trying to hurry up and get there so we can see what this is all about.  Three hours later they walk into their childhood home in Redding California. And the whole family is there - like eight of them.  My dad tells us to go sit in the living room. And we are not a very formal kind of family and so that was strange. We are like OK. This is getting weirder and weirder. And then he holds up a picture that had been on our wall our whole lives.  It was a really old picture.  It is kind of the sepia tone.  Guy in a pinstripe suit really good-looking but kind of a weary look on his face like he is being told to smile but he does not really want to smile.  And he says do you all know who this man is? And we said yeah. That is your grandfather Harry Pace.   What did you know about Harry Pace at that point?  I mean not much.  This is Susan Pace granddaughter.  Well he was a lawyer.  He was a lawyer. We knew that.  Peter Pace grandson.  We knew he lived in Chicago and he lived in New York.  He is the one who called the meeting.  And I was told he was like Italian.  And somehow the notion was presented that Pace was an anglicization of Pace...  Pace Pace.  ...An Italian name.  Wow.  They told me it means peace. And so I was like ah like peace - cool.  You know we grew up thinking maybe we are Italian.  You put together Italian and lawyer.  So we thought oh well maybe he is a lawyer for the mob .  We just kind of made this stuff up.  In any case at the meeting Peter sits everyone down.  I think I told them - I said you know how we have never really known anything about Grandfather Harry Pace? Well we have discovered some interesting information about it.  Then he handed us the packet.   It is about 10 pages long.   And so we started reading. And within like about 30 seconds I was just like...  Oh my God.  Oh my God.  It was mind-blowing.  Oh my God. This is crazy.  I cannot believe this has been kept from us.  It was really...  You know it was just so shocking.  Wow.  How could it even been a consideration that I would not need to know this?  What they discovered is that this man Harry Pace whose picture had been hanging on their wall their whole lives...  Well first of all he was not Italian.  It turns out that he was African American.  He was Black.  That is how he identified. That is how he was seen.  And he was someone who literally changed America.  In like 19 different ways.  Music.  Culture.  Theater.  Housing.  Law.   He proceeded to fight the case all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States.  The decision opened 500 new properties to Black residents.  He desegregated whole neighborhoods laid the groundwork for so much music.  Like without him...    Fell down on my knees.  We would have no Robert Johnson.    Please allow me to introduce myself.  No Rolling Stones and no Eric Clapton.    Singing I love rock 'n' roll.  He even had a hand in coining the term rock 'n' roll.  I mean this dude's - good God. Why do not we have like three movies about this dude right? I mean you know hello Ava DuVernay right? Good God. I mean this dude is like - he is like the vocational MacGyver.  But then somehow right at the peak of his power...  It is like poof.  He vanishes.  So completely that none of us know his story not even his own family.  Wow. So you are telling me we are related to this unsung hero and you want me to just sit here and laugh about it. I got to go understand this.  For the next three episodes we are going to dig into some of these questions. Who was he? Why did he disappear?  And why did America let him? This is The Vanishing of Harry Pace a miniseries on RADIOLAB.  Now this was a tricky story to report and tell.  Where did you all get all this about him? He can be hard to research. Is there a book about him? There is ever a single book?  There is not a lot out there about Harry. He is a hard guy to know. We do not have his voice. We barely have his words.  So to try to help us make sense of all this we assembled an amazing team of collaborators.  I am Jami Floyd.  I am Terrance McKnight.  Imani Perry.  Kiese Laymon.  Cord Jefferson.  You will hear all of them along the way.  And I will just say full disclosure one of the things that drew us to Harry's story is that he is a guy who just did not fit the categories that the world offered him.  He slips between the cracks.  Yeah. And in a very different way - I say this cautiously - I feel like as Middle Eastern people that experience - there is something about it that makes sense.  Sometimes it feels like people do not know how to see you.  And I think a lot of people have this experience in all kinds of ways.  My parents say...  For example Cord - filmmaker Cord Jefferson one of our collaborators...  My parents tell this story about when I was about 2 putting me in front of a mirror with them and just sort of letting me take in the differences in all of us and the fact that I neither looked...  Wow.  ...Entirely like my mother nor entirely like my father. Because they said that I asked what am I? What am I?  I cannot remember a time when I was not aware of being different from everybody else I knew.  This is journalist Jami Floyd another of our collaborators. She runs WNYC's Race and Justice Unit.  I mean everybody I knew was either white or Black. There was nobody else who was kind of coffee-colored with an afro like me . And I mean coffee with some milk in it.  .  To this day I feel a lot Blacker than I really am. Like in my mind I am really Black.  .  That does not mean my Black friends and colleagues always see me as Black. And so it is complicated. And then when you step into the multi-racial...  OK. So we will get back to Jami and Cord and the family soonish. But we have got a lot of ground to cover. So first...  We are going to take you on an audio roller coaster through what they discovered in those pages.  Chapter 1 - The Rise.   OK. Let us go. He was born in 1884.  1884 in Covington...  Georgia.  Georgia...  Scholars David Suisman and Emmett Price.  ...Which is about 32 miles east of Atlanta...  ...A very picturesque place that is been used for a lot of movies and TV shows like...    Just the good ol' boys...  The Dukes Of Hazzard was shot there. And...    In the heat of the night...  In The Heat Of The Night and other films and TV shows that needed a good antebellum background.  Now remember...  Scholar Willie Ruff.  ...Harry Pace was born just a few years after emancipation...  ...About 30 years after the Emancipation Proclamation.  His parents were slaves.  Grandparents actually.  One of the things we know about Harry - or we think we know - is that his grandfather owned a plantation raped one of his slaves. She had a child and that child was Harry's grandfather...  ...Which helps to tell us why Harry himself was so fair-skinned which played quite a role throughout his life.  This is journalist Paul Slade. To our knowledge he has written the only book that is out there about Harry.  What do we know about Harry's father and mother?  So we know that his father was named Charles. Charles was a blacksmith.  We know that his dad died when he was really young.  Five or six dad's gone. Mother is Nancy Francis Pace. And we think that Harry's mother was a laundress. So...  ...If that is true...   ...Then we do know that the type of folks whose laundry she would be doing would be of significant means.  She was a single mom so no doubt she took Harry around town with her as she was picking up laundry and dropping it off.  And so he was able to see a huge swath of people that most average kids would not have access to.  It was probably pretty eye-opening for him at a young age.  Cord Jefferson again.  I have no idea. But I just think that he probably saw people treat his mother pretty horribly as a servant as somebody who you give your dirty underthings to. My grandmother and grandfather were domestic servants at a rich white man's estate in Ohio. If you see yourself as being part of the underclass I think that there is some anger that develops with that.  One of the things we do know about Harry is that later in his life he would write a brutal revenge story...  Through all these years he had held this bitterness this desire for revenge against those of his own blood who had cheated him out of the heritage and the life that properly belonged to him.  ...About a young mixed-race kid like him who tracks down his white ancestors and kills them.  He thought of himself as being a special avenger of God an instrument to be used in bringing about punishment.  So yeah. There might have been some anger there.  In any case by the time he is 10 11...  Harry clearly excelled in Latin in Greek.  He played music. He sang.  I think even at that point it must have been pretty clear that Harry was a phenomenally bright kid.  And at the age of 12 he is sent to Atlanta University.  Who paid for it by the way?  From the brochures of the school that I went through from that time they had donations.  Got it.  So...  So he basically - so he got a scholarship.  Yes.  I mean Atlanta University was the spot.   It was the intellectual mecca for Black folks.  I think the motto of Atlanta University is I will find a way or make one. How boss is that? What? I will find a way or make one. Watch me.  Professor Charles McKinney.  OK. So take us back to Harry. Like what do we know about his life on campus?  We know that when he gets to school this cat was well-dressed. This dude...  He is a handsome man.  There is one picture you can find where he is about 17...  ...Dark jacket starched white collar...  ...Closely cropped hair wavy...  ...Slight smirk that seems I would say pleased with himself.  All of the Black - young Black women would have fell for this dude.  Writer Kiese Laymon by the way.  He could not be the country boy that he was from Covington.  His first few years he sings acapella in the choir...    Oh I know the law ...  ...Joins a debate team writes for the school newspaper.  He works his way through school...  ...Working as a printer. He was what was known as a printer's devil...   Sorry.  ...Which is some kind of print shop job.  A printer's devil.  Yeah.  A young boy at or below the level of apprentice in a printing establishment.  Are you just getting that from the internet just now?  Just looked it up.  Oh wow.  While he is at Atlanta University he finds out that the white printer's devil is making more money than him. What does he do? He quit. He says enough of this. I refuse to be treated in this manner.  OK. So he is printing. He is singing. He is learning to advocate for himself. All that is just a warmup because by far the most important thing that happens to him at Atlanta University...  Well the most significant thing that happens to him there is that he meets W. E. B. Du Bois.  William Edward Burghardt Du Bois.  One of the greatest thinkers America has ever produced.   In 1897 I went to Atlanta University and stayed there 13 years making a systematic study of the American Negro. It is fair to say that for the next 25 years there was not a book published on the Negro problem that did not have to depend upon what we were doing at Atlanta University.  Well with Du Bois I mean you know he is sort of who all of us Black studies academics are chasing because he is the ultimate like Renaissance intellectual.  This is scholar Imani Perry.  You know he is the father of American sociology. He is a novelist. He is you know one of the founders of the NAACP also.  In 1903 he writes The Souls Of Black Folks.   It is a peculiar sensation this double-consciousness...  We get his phrase of double-consciousness.  ... The sense of always looking at one's self through the eyes of others of measuring one's soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity.  Which is deep.   One feels his two-ness...  The - it is the most critical work for Black people still - still.  I mean he is like...  Published this in 1903.  Many of us even if we have very different politics we are all chasing Du Bois.   Negroes had to have some voice in their government and trained men to lead them.  On that point of who would lead Black America it is exactly when Harry steps foot on campus that Du Bois writes the following phrase.   The Negro race like all races is going to be saved by its exceptional men. The problem of education then among Negroes must first of all deal with the talented tenth.  W. E. B. Du Bois coins and brings to life this idea of the talented tenth...  Scholar Bill Doggett.  ...That African Americans Negroes only 35 years earlier slaves could improve its lot in America by investing in the talented tenth - the brightest the most intellectual of the race.  Certainly you know Du Bois was an elitist.  But his idea was I want to find people who can accomplish things that are so great that even the most bigoted white person cannot deny it.  And Harry was almost a personification of that I think.  In the talented tenth Pace is No. 1.  OK. If we were to imagine then Harry has just started there like what would have been the first interaction like?  Harry Pace would have heard about him. But then when he sees him Du Bois is light-skinned. So you could only imagine Harry Pace following this guy around trying to figure out what makes him tick.  Easy to imagine that one day after class he is like excuse me Mr. Du Bois. I have a question.  And boom.   I mean you see this bond that is there. I mean if we think about Star Wars...   ...Harry Pace is the Padawan you know to the Jedi Master Du Bois.    Yes a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  W. E. B. Du Bois more or less adopts Harry. He recruits Harry to help him with some of his own research projects. He I think gives Harry the father figure that this fatherless kid has never had.   And he also gives Harry a whole outlook.  For - to be a race man driven by a sense of service to Black people.  The talented tenth - that it is up to him to lift up the race. Double-consciousness - it is up to him to see himself through the hostile white gaze and manipulate that gaze for his own benefit.  In fact later in his life he would give speeches about how important it is to use public opinion to make equality happen.  Question was how do you do that? How do you show white America what Black America is capable of?  That is after the break.   OK.  OK. This is The Vanishing Of Harry Pace a miniseries on e 1.  That is Jad Abumrad.  I am Jad. You are...  I am Shima Oliaee.  And we are here.  Yeah we are two people making a podcast.  Let us do this. So get us back to the story.  OK. So Harry Pace - Talented Tenther DuBoisian race man that wants to uplift as he climbs. The question is how? How are you going to do it?  And the answer he comes up with through a roundabout series of events ends up creating this amazing thing that we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of pretty much right now. But it begins...  At a bank.   So 1907...  Harry is working at Solvent Bank on Beale Street in Memphis. He taught Latin and Greek for a while. He tried to start a magazine. And now he was working at a bank.  Harry's there at Solvent Bank.  Sitting at his desk.  And a man who turns out to be W.C. Handy walks in. Now Handy...   The father of the blues.    When I did not love you.   W.C. Handy.  ...Who we now know as the father of the blues the man who really introduced blues music to America and to the world...   It is my good fortune...  This is Handy from an oral history.   ...To live for two years in the state of Mississippi and to hear the crude singing...  ...Of the Negro down there.  Harry would have known who W.C. Handy was.   Obviously first of all they have to talk about the mortgage business.  Mr. Handy please sign this form and that form.  As the meeting draws towards an end all the mortgage business is completed. I imagine Harry hesitating for a moment and wondering do I dare do this? He might not like it. What is he going to say? Should I show him my lyrics?  . Turns out Harry had been writing some song lyrics that he probably had in the top drawer of his desk.  The way I imagine it he gets up his nerve. He takes a deep breath. He does show Handy his lyrics. And lo and behold Handy rather likes them.  Shortly after that meeting they get together and start writing songs.  The first song that he collaborated on Harry with was called In The Cotton Fields Of Dixie.   I can do any of this.  Like that - Shima are you a sight reader?  One of the most exciting moments in this series was I finally found the sheet music for the song after much hunting and Jad Jami Floyd and I ended up visiting John McWhorter at his home in Queens.  John McWhorter - and I teach linguistics and some other things at Columbia University. And in my off-time such as it is I am a great lover of music. Right now I am in a room where I believe there are 850 Broadway cast albums and I am straight.   I do not know.  He agreed to sight read the song for us.  Can you sing it a little bit so we can hear it?  It is out of my range but...  In the cotton fields of Dixie is a dear old southern home where the mockingbirds and moonlight love to sing. Though it is just a lonely cabin it is mine though far I roam in the land where cotton is king. I am not a tenor. I am a baritone.   That is where it is written. So it is not a good song but that is what he did.  What? You know it is better than I thought it was going to be.  Yeah.  It grows on you does not it damn it?   The chorus grows on you.  I think the chorus is not bad. If you squint your ears and do not listen to the words...  Yeah.  If you do not think about what it is about.  You know we are struggling to understand what are they trying to accomplish? Are they trying to advance a people?  Oh they wanted to make some money.  The they in this case was probably more Handy than Pace. Of the two of them he was far more famous and far less political and he knew that these plantation songs - they sold.  There was not a market for conscious sheet music back then.  But John who were they writing this song for?  Good white people who want to hear about that wonderful period when everybody was so happy in the South - and you would bring you know Trixie  and Rebecca  and Uncle Bill  around the piano and everybody would sing along to it. And then they would laugh and clap and then you know die of typhus or whatever. Bill I can play this. Will you sing along with me?  Oh sure honey. And so...  In the cotton fields of Dixie is a dear old Southern home where the mockingbirds...  Oh get that flossy .  And moonlight love to sing.  OK Wilbur  can you come do harmony with me?  Well I guess I could. OK so...  Just a lonely cabin - it is mine though far I roam in the land where cotton is king. That is what this was for.  .  And then Aunt Madge  would bring some lemonade.  Here you all go.  Because this is their form of entertainment.  That is all there was.  This particular song - they wrote it paid a guy 50 bucks to publish it and he ran off with their money which is karmically something. I do not know. Then they make another song called Beale Street Blues. It sells pretty well. And then suddenly they move from Memphis to New York City.   When they move to New York their goal is to set up shop in and amongst all of the other Tin Pan Alley housing...  So all white.  ...Which are all white-owned. We are going to compete with everybody else show them we have just as good if not better material.  Problem is unsurprisingly...  They run into a lot of racism.   There are accounts of white music publishers literally accosting them in the street.  Now at this point the way that things worked was the sheet music was sold in dime stores. And most of those stores were white-owned. So what Pace and Handy decided to do is they hired white piano players - song pluggers as they were called - to go into those dime stores and demonstrate their music.  Oh so would this be the thing where you would walk into a place and you grab a sheet music and be like huh I wonder what this sounds like. Mr. Demonstrator can you play this for me?  Right.  And then they would key it out.  Or Ms. Demonstrator - they were often women?  Yeah some of them.  It is so interesting to think about the sheet music passing for Black or white just like - you know like a person.  Right.  This is historian Elliott Hurwitt. He says the strategy worked.  You know they are making all this money. I had mentioned 1918 1920...    Cablegrams goes off in inquiry.  ...Yellow Dog Blues people love it. It sells huge numbers of those recordings - .  And then...   .  ...The big one.  St. Louis Blues.  Maybe the most popular song of the 20th century. It is recorded over 2000 times.  Wow. Wow.   There are St. Louis Blues recordings by Stevie Wonder...   .    St. Louis Woman.  Nat King Cole Louis Armstrong.    Oh I hate to see...  The Beatles.    The evening sun...  ...Herbie Hancock. People will be recording that for another hundred years. So the product that these guys produced was immensely important and spread all over the world and really helped American folklore and American styles and ways of thinking. It is through these two men primarily - through Pace and Handy - that this pervades and permeates mainstream American society. So white people in Ohio have their sheet music on the piano and they are playing it at parties. People are buying recordings of their records in Australia in England eventually in Korea and in Russia. This is how America really invades the world.   So Pace and Handy are killing it...   ...Absolutely killing it.   But at the height of their success...  There is this sharp division.  Handy is really stuck on sheet music.  The old world of sheet music sales.  You know he was 11 years older than Harry. He liked how things were going.  But Harry that is not what he wanted.  He believed that records are the big new thing.   Now records at this point were just a few decades in but people were just starting to get into them. Pace was like let us do it. Handy said no.  So right at the peak of their popularity with barely any notice...  He quit. He rolled out. He was like enough. I am done.  Harry Pace bailed out of Pace and Handy. Harry also poached a good number of Pace and Handy's staff...  Oh.  ...Right the way from the post room to the accounts department mostly people in their 20s.  Do we have any idea how Handy - how this hit him?  Oh yeah.  What does he say?  He says all in down and out. He talks about I was broke in the bank and blind you know...  Blind?  ...How could Pace do this to me? - kind of thing.  But for Harry this was about more than just music.  Remember Pace is a race man.  He is got a mission.  He is a race man the same way that Du Bois is a race man. Harry Pace is all about Black people of how do I uplift - right? - while I climb?  And in the record industry there was a lot more uplifting to do there than in sheet music.  Because basically you had three main white record companies and what they were releasing was almost entirely these really demeaning minstrel songs.   All Coons Look Alike To Me.  Like All Coons Look Alike To Me and The Phrenologist Coon.   The Phrenologist Coon.  Bill Doggett again. He says it is impossible to overstate just how massive minstrelsy was at this point in time.  The minstrel show is the behemoth of American entertainment at the turn of the century. It is based on the demonization of Blackness.  You had white bands dressing up in blackface singing outrageously racist songs based on overblown stereotypes.  You know the watermelon the fried chicken the big lips.  And he told us about a songwriter Bob Cole - Black man - who Harry definitely would have known about.  What makes it even worse is when a song like this is good.  John Wortham  actually played us one of Bob Cole's songs.  This is Robert Cole. And so  if you like-a  me like I like-a you and you like me just the same and then they are under the bamboo tree. And it is about a jungle person from Matabooloo and it is in this dialect. And Jesus Christ the song is very catchy.  Bob Cole had an issue with the coon song all of the extremes. He had a lot of trouble with that. And so all of a sudden one day - I believe it was 1910 or 1911 - he made a decision. I do not know if he was drunk or what. He walked into a lake and drowned.  Wow.  Here is the most successful Black writer of his time period.  Wow.  I do not think it is an accidental drowning.  So the idea that Harry would want to move on from sheet music this was the context right?  The white companies were releasing these minstrel songs. That is all they were doing. They were putting out circular platters of white supremacy and destroying lives in the process. And Harry wanted to change that.  And if Handy did not want to be involved with that their partnership was over.  Harry Pace obviously saw the need. He - I cannot - I mean...  This is performer Rhiannon Giddens.  Why are we are we neglecting all of this talent? You know I mean that is the kind of rage to be honest. Like I mean I cannot speak for the man 'ecause I - you know he is obviously dead. But I can only imagine that it would be rage-inducing...   ...You know to put it mildly. So I can only imagine you know that that all got funneled into you know let us do this ourselves.  He understood that who makes records under what conditions and to what effects really matters. He understands that those are political issues.  To him...  This is not going to be a regular business.  No no no. Pace definitely saw it as a social movement as much as a purely commercial one.  But Pace being the businessman he was went out and got funding for it. He got a board of directors with Du Bois and others on the board.  Media historian Tim Brooks.  Well how old is he?  Harry would have been 36 at the time.  The first question he had to consider...  What to call it - well he wanted to call it something that spoke of Black pride.  Do you know who named it?  I do. For several months at the end of 1920 Harry was writing letters to W.E.B. Du Bois. The idea of calling the label Black Swan actually came from Du Bois.  He told Harry before you were born there used to be this singer.  She was a soprano.   .  So Black Swan - the name itself you know was named after an opera singer...   .  ...You know Elizabeth Taylor Greenfield. And that was her moniker. She was known as the Black Swan.  The first concerts were 1851 1852.  When she made her debut in New York City...  Curator Dwandalyn Reece.  ...She was brought out on stage. And there was laughter. Audiences were jarred and laughed at her. They could not make sense out of what they were hearing out of that body.  She had a magnificent voice. Looking back it is this magical moment even in slavery days when a Black woman could command this kind of attention. So that was very much in the air.  So in May of 1921 almost exactly a hundred years ago Harry Pace launches Black Swan.  When he launches the company it is hailed in the Black press.  Chicago Defender May 7 1921.  News of the completion of the first list of Black Swan Records which are now ready for delivery will be received with great interest and enthusiasm by our people all over the United States. When the announcement was made that a company had been formed to manufacture phonograph records by our artists a great uproar was caused among white phonograph record companies who resent the idea of having a race company enter what they felt was an exclusive field.  They could see what a huge deal it was. I have got one of their first press ads here from May 1921.  Ask your dealer for Black Swan Records the only phonograph company owned and controlled by colored people using exclusively Negro voices and musicians.  So the only records using exclusively Negro voices and musicians. Yes. That was a slogan and a fact.  You remember FUBU?   FUBU runs the fashion world.  FUBU - FUBU clothes. FUBU right?   The look the style the vibe the feel.  For us by us.  This was the 1920s version.   Did it - I am just keeping it real.  All stockholders are colored. All artists are colored. All employees are colored.  And what did they release? What was their first record?  That was At Dawning by Revella Hughes.    Hear the song .  OK.  And For All Eternity...    Air is faint with magic power.  ...By Carroll Clark.  It is more opera-y  than I expected.  Well it is - this is classic talented tenth stuff - uplift the race by trying to encourage people to listen to better music quality music.    I love thee .  A lot of the Black Swan material is boring as  to be honest because it is just this hoity-toity white light classical crap. But I get why he recorded it because the idea is to show that Black people could do that too.  So At Dawning? Comes out. And Harry releases a couple other classical records. How did these do? Did anyone buy them?  Yeah I mean - Ah.  They sell only 674.64 worth of records.  .  Wow.  So that sort of level they are not going to survive too long.  So now he has to figure out - what is he going to do?   This is one of the many moments we wish we could get in Harry's Pace head. But we cannot. There are no journal entries. There is no letters to go to. But we can say that it probably hit him pretty hard. Like we know he had a stubborn will. But we also know that when he met failure at other times in his life it really rocked him. There is a short account from a writer named Mira Stewart  who apparently knew Pace personally. And he describes a moment after Atlanta University when Harry was working on Beale Street trying to start a magazine with W.E.B. Du Bois. It failed. And as he describes it Harry looked out the window and quote There was the Mississippi River swift and deep at the foot of Beale Street. And according to this writer Pace very seriously considered throwing himself in and committing suicide. And maybe that is how he felt at this point but then a very lucky break that would change him and American music forever.  Can you describe the moment where all of the fortune changes?  So Harry Pace trying to figure out what to do - it is 1921 - Harry walks into a bar called Edmond's Cellar in Harlem. It is the spot. This place is small. It seats maybe 150 175 on a good day.  But on that night...  These folks are jammed in elbow-to-elbow.  They would all come to see this one hotshot 21-year-old.  And you imagine just a very tiny spotlight on her.    Down in Georgia got a dance that is new. As not nothing to it. It is easy to do called shake that thing.  And she is amazing...    Oh shake that thing.  ...So full of life.  Some artists you listen to them you can have light conversation and they are the backdrop. But when Ethel Waters sings...    Now the old folks are doing it.  ...She is the oxygen in the room.    But the old folks learn the young ones what to do about shaking that thing.  Harry is spellbound.    I come along. In that era I was working in nightclubs .  That laugh of hers oh.  Willie Ruff got a chance to interview Ethel Waters about those early days.  I cannot tell you what a thrill it is for me these 45 years later to hear her voice.   They would call me then Sweet Mama String Beans.  Sweet Mama String Bean.   That is because I was so thin.  And you got it before you started in show business?  Yeah. But I was awfully thin. That was one of the things the Lord stopped me from grieving over because I was always a tall child.  She was tall elegant pretty.    I got rhythm.  She could dance.    I got music.  She was a good dancer.  Well she did the shimmy.  The buzzard lope the Charleston of course.  You know that song Back That Thing Up ? She knew how to back that thing up.  Ethel Waters is one of those entertainers - I wish I would have been alive to see her on stage. She can get something across.   I could sing dance talk and whistle. I would make you laugh. And I would make you cry.  Make you laugh and I would make you cry.   To me baby I got to tell the story. When I say a thing I am envisioning a picture. And I am trying to paint that picture for you to see. I want you to see what I see.  Now in terms of what did Harry see when he walked into Edmonds and saw her? - it is interesting to imagine because on the one hand Ethel Waters is as un-Paceian as you get.  He says look you know I grew up - by 4 I know how to curse like a sailor. I knew junkies. I knew sex workers.  Author Randal Jelks.  She is a woman of the streets so to speak.  But perhaps he also saw something in her that was in him.  It was a peculiar sensation this double-consciousness the sense of always looking at oneself through the eyes of others.  So she understood the use of masks...  This is writer Margo Jefferson.  ...The love of and the absolute immersion as if it was her birthright in masquerade and disguise.  Ethel was a chameleon.  She played with styles doing what you might call vocal blackface and vocal whiteface.  Can you give us an example of that? What does that mean?  Well you can hear that - good question - in the for example...    I cannot give you anything but love baby.  ...In I Cannot Give You Anything But Love. The first verse she sings you know with what we might call whiteface gusto.   I cannot give you anything but love baby.  I cahnt   you know? And you can just hear having a wonderful amused time with I cahnt  give you anything but love. Then...    I cannot give you anything but love baby.  The second verse...  She drops her voice.  She finds Bessie Smith you know much lower. She does that. And then the little grace notes start going into blue notes. The phrasing changes. So you can absolutely hear the two.  Oh my God. When Harry saw her at the bar it must have been like oh you are the person I have been looking - you can do it all.  You know it. You have got it all.  So in between sets...   ...Harry or maybe one of his associates elbows his way to the front of the room where Ethel is lounging by the piano.   I - he said well will you do me a favor? - this man I cannot think of his name. He was a very nice man and a very intelligent man colored man. And he said there is a colored company. He said the Black Swan Records. He said why the Black Swan is starting out. And that was Pace and Handy.  It was actually just Pace.   And I knew both of them. I knew Mr. Pace from Memphis Tenn. when he was in the insurance business. And I knew Handy when they - and they was in the music publishing business because you had to get permission from him to sing the St. Louis Blues. But I knew it. And they had this little office on 139th Street down in the basement. So he said just go out there and talk.  So the - I go - I make an appointment to go with him down in this basement to where this office was - very nice place and very dignified because I was from the - other side of the tracks. But it was all colored. It was us . But we still had lines of distinction  still do. So Mr. Pace was at the office at the time - very nice friendly man. Anyhow the result was they said would I be interested in making a test recording? So we went to a place in Jersey. That was when they were singing through horns.  But this was before the invention of the microphone. You and I are talking with good microphones. They had to do that in the recording studio with a megaphone.   They would have these horns drop down tubas and bass horns and things like that you know? And that dominated.  As the story goes Harry Ethel and Harry's arranger Fletcher Henderson get into a discussion about what Ethel's going to sing.  Do we do more classical concert you know elevating elite kind of music? Or do we go popular?  No doubt Harry was like can you do some opera? But it seems like what happened is Ethel said no we are going to do popular and you are going to pay me 100 which was three times what she was making at Edmonds.   And so I went in this little hot studio. It was a little hot room. And I sang the Down Home Blues.    Woke up this morning. The day was dawning. My loving daddy was not about. And he is got that loving that always makes me shout.   So when they put it out it was an instant sensation in New York.  An absolutely massive hit.    Before it all gives out.   It was a big hit and it got Pace of the Black Swan Records off the hip.  She says that recording got them off the hip you know put them on the map.    ...Or make me glad.  Down Home Blues just completely transformed tour tunes. It was night and day.    'ecause I as not been gotten that do not mean I cannot be had.  The success of Down Home Blues was so big.  It kept on going back to the press again and again.    Some men like me 'ecause I am happy some because I am snappy. Some call me honey. Quite a few think I have got money.  Harry always used to claim he sold 500000 copies of Down Home Blues in six months.  Probably a bit of an exaggeration.  Harry is hyping it up for all he is worth when he gives that figure.  But it is hard to appreciate. You know music of the past can sometimes sound really far away. It is hard to appreciate what an atomic bomb Ethel was. You could argue that from this moment forward she became the first crossover artist in American history.  She was Beyonce before Beyonce right? I mean she was on stage. She was in the movies. She was a recording star. So she is a superstar.  As soon as Ethel hit Harry basically does a 180 from opera to blues. And he starts spitting out press releases full of lies just to stoke the hype.  So this was dated December 24 Christmas Eve 1921 in my newspaper The Chicago Defender. How I loved that paper.  Ethel must not marry sign contracts for big salary providing she does not marry within a year . That is the - this is the contract.  Ethel Waters has signed a unique contract with Harry H. Pace which stipulates that she is not to marry for at least a year and that during this period she is to devote her time largely to singing for Black Swan Records. It was due to numerous offers of marriage  many of her suitors suggesting that she give up her professional life at once for domesticity that Mr. Pace was prompted to make this step.  Side note - Ethel Waters was openly in a relationship with a woman. Harry would have known this. She was dating another woman named Ethel a dancer. And they were famous in Harlem for getting into screaming matches in the streets.  New York Age on the must-not-marry contract.  But she played along.  Upon receipt of these documents Ms. Waters is reported to have smiled and prominently attached her signature to the contract which was returned to New York without delay.  Mr. Waters contract makes her now the highest salaried colored star in the country.  There is no diminution in the number of perspectives swains - I am sorry.   Swains is a word that we should bring back - information as to the effect that there is no diminution in the number of prospective swains however and that each city visited adds its quota to the list of victims.   List of victims.  This is an amazing sentence. I mean what a beautiful - she must have felt amazing. This is in the newspaper.  Oh my God. Yeah.  It is just like everybody's famously aroused by you.   In any case only a few months after that big hit after Ethel signs the contract...  Harry was getting the tour underway.  They start touring...   ...As Black Swan Records. I mean we will later see Motown Records do this Stax Records do this you know Bad Boy Records do this. All of the record labels that come later in terms of Black-owned for Black folks - they take the same model.  The tour actually kicks off in Washington D.C. November the 17 1921.  Paul spent months scouring old newspapers to put together the only full account that we know of of this tour.  Started in Washington then Philadelphia. They played in New York. A little later it was Baltimore - spent a long time touring around small towns in Ohio.  Paul says at first they played little nickelodeons in Black-run theaters.  Cincinnati. They played Little Rock.  Ethel would always headline.    Woke up this morning.  She was the big star - lower down the bill maybe a comedian. I mean one case had some acrobats.   And all along the way it is like one of those Avenger movies where superheroes just keep making cameos. Like that just keeps happening. For example in New Orleans...  That is where Fletcher Henderson met Louis Armstrong.  Was on this tour?  On this first tour? Dang.  And it is - ultimately that is the meeting that led to Louis Armstrong joining Fletcher Henderson's band and you know inventing swing music.   Oh my God.  Louis Armstrong was an unknown young trumpeter at the time.  So there was Louis - also in a few of the early days Jack Johnson.   One of the greatest fighting machines in the history of boxing.  Jack Johnson was the first heavyweight boxing champion in America maybe the most famous person in the country at that point. And he was the reason for that phrase great white hope. White people hated that he was so good kept throwing up challenger after challenger.  He always beat them.   Johnson rushes in lands an uppercut three left hooks - a tremendous barrage of punches.  Apparently on the tour he would do little comedy skits.   I have been requested to tell just how I knocked out so many of my opponents.  And he would tell stories.  He put the moves on Ethel at one point but she brushed him off.  Speaking of Ethel...   Julie  is proud to have with us tonight a talented lady Ms. Ethel Waters.  Thank you Ernie  and hello men . It is a privilege to be here.  Another thing that happens is that Ethel Waters appears on this new thing called the radio...    Here I go again.  ...Sings a few songs.    Just hearing trumpets blow again.  So that makes her the first Black woman to ever sing on U.S. radio.  Wow.  Oh.   I was the first - and I was the first colored person...  Having that voice transmitted across the airwaves was extremely significant.  But anyway let me get back on track. As the tour gathers force Ethel was determined that they should play dates in the South because her argument was that all the records that have sold for Black Swan all that music originates from the South. We have a responsibility to let the people there hear us play it.  As soon as she suggests this...  ...Four members of the band...  ...They quit. They were not going down South. You got lynching going on. You got a clear Jim and Jane Crow going on.  But Ethel said she would not perform unless they did.   They went South January February 1922. This was the second leg of the tour - Cincinnati Memphis Pine Bluff Little Rock Ark...  And so in many ways...  ...Nashville Chattanooga...  ...Ethel Waters and the folks who were on this tour...  ...Savannah South Carolina...  ...These artists felt that they were activists...  ...Paris Texas Fort Worth Texas Waco Texas Dallas Texas.  ...That Black people not only can excel in Texas but we actually come in peace.   We literally come in peace.  But that is not always what they found.  For example Macon Ga. - moments before they show up to perform at the Douglass Theatre...  There is a white race riot essentially in Macon.  A young Black man had been accused of attacking a white police officer. A white mob then invaded the Black section of town searched homes trashed businesses. Eventually they found the man shot him hundreds of times tied him to a tree and then lit a fire at his feet.  They then take the body they throw it into the back of a truck and they drive it into the center of Macon's Black neighborhood which is...  Oh my God.  ...Where this theater the Douglass Theatre is. And they - depending on which account you believe they either throw the body actually into the lobby at the Macon or they throw it up against its main entrance.   I played Macon Ga.  Here's Ethel remembering that moment many years later.   And I got there just a few - oh they had just removed say about a half hour before I got there the remains of a person that had been lynched a man that had been lynched. And you would never sense the pall that comes over it. It - oh it was - it just - you could feel it. You did not see nothing but...  Ten years later when Irving Berlin writes the song Supper Time...    Supper time...  ...For Ethel which is an anti-lynching song...    ...I must set...  ...That is the incident that Ethel thinks of to fuel her performance.   When Mr. Berlin was telling me about  I only had to remember...    Somehow I as not able 'ecause that man of mine as not coming home no more.   ...The grief and the fear.  In any case...  I got to say - the fact that this tour even happened is kind of a miracle .  Yeah absolutely.  As the Troubadours toured through the South something surprising happened.  Black Swan became quite a chic thing for people right at the top of white society.  He says nouveau-riche white people started giving each other Black Swan records as wedding gifts. And Harry started adding shows to the tour.  What would often happen is that they would organized what they called a midnight frolic...   ...After the main show on a Friday or a Saturday night. It would start about 11 oclock at night and would run probably till about 2 or 3 in the morning. And this would be a whites-only show.  This is like the equivalent of Brooklyn hipsters coming in and slumming it.  Yeah.  .  I think that is probably right.  One of the strangest most amazing details of this tour is that at a few of these midnight shows for Ethel Waters' big entrance the electrician would...   ...Kill the lights.  The stage would suddenly be plunged into complete darkness.  Ethel would then walk onto stage holding a giant Japanese fan that covered her entire body. And behind the fan was her dress made of a 100...  Radium.  What? You mean radium like the element?  .  Yeah. Absolutely.  Oh.  So the whole building is pitch-black. And all you can see is Ethel on stage.  She then snaps shut her fan. And what the crowd suddenly sees is this woman...  Illuminated by the light of this radium dress.   And you know you imagine the whole house just going crazy.  Wow.  Wow. That is so cool.  This is 1922.  It is so good.  No one would have seen anything like that.  There is so - that is crazy on so many levels.  It was Black Swan Records' most incandescent moment. But ultimately...  That was the beginning of the end.  Almost yeah. I mean it is like a wave cresting and breaking. Everything was brilliant. It looked as if you know the company's good luck would never end. And then suddenly the wave...   ...Crashed. And...  Wow.  ...Everything just went to .  Chapter two the fall.  Now it went to  in stages. When Harry got back from tour things were going great.  I have got an extract here from one of his letters to Du Bois.  We were selling around 7000 records a day and had only...  Wow.   ...Three presses in the factory which could make 6000 records daily.   Oh my God.  Oh dang.  He is - literally he is selling records faster than he can make them.  Desperate to keep up he buys an entire record-pressing plant in Long Island.  And then the white response that backlash - the white record owners got pretty pissed.  September the 1 1922 you have got workers at the plant. They are shoveling coal into the furnace which powers the plant. And one of them discovers a three-inch shell in the coal.  They discover a bomb...   Chicago Defender September 16 1922.  ...At the Black Swan plant.   Just where the bomb came from could not be ascertained. The officials of the company were alarmed at first lest they were the work of white competitors. The Daily News carried a picture of the bomb which was of unusually large size.  And if that shell had gone into the furnace...  Oh my God.  ...It would have blown the whole place up.  Yeah. I have in my hand here a letter from Harry Pace to the board of directors of Black Swan Records.  During the past few months we have been the target of attack from our competitors. The desire seems to be that we must be put out of business by any means fair or foul.  The white labels had woken up. And they were coming after Harry.  The white backlash.  It was clear then that there was profit to be made producing and distributing music for Black people.  Harry's success had proven to the white companies oh there is a market here.   There are over 12 million colored people in the United States.  There are millions of people who have money and do not want to buy minstrel songs. So all of a sudden in the space of just a few months...  Just about every record label every white-owned record label launches its own specialist race records imprint.   My dear Dr. Du Bois this summer has been very dull for us. The white companies have every one of them gone in for colored business teeth and toenail.  Paramount comes along in August 1922 launches its own race label. Columbia was early as February 1923. And the really big one was Victor.  August 1923.   It is caused a serious slump in our sales.  Well that is like suddenly discovering Google or Facebook have decided to operate against you.   Another phase of oppression from which we are suffering is the attempt that is going on to wean away our singers from us.  And so the poaching begins. Trixie Smith gets pulled away.    My man rocks me with one steady roll.  Trixie Smith - we have not talked about her yet. She was a Black Swan artist - coined the term...    He kept rocking with one steady roll.  ...Rock n roll on this Black Swan release. She gets poached.  They also...    Nobody knows the...  ...Poached Carroll Clark.  Who recorded spirituals for Black Swan.  And of course Harry hit the roof.   There is a very good news report from the Chicago Defender. It says  Mr. Pace is advised by his attorneys that another company has bribed certain dealers to damage their Black Swan records before selling them to consumers with a view of making the consumer feel that the race product was sent out in that condition and to cause him to cease buying them.  Oh man if I am Harry at this point I am hiring some thugs.   Yeah. I mean this is...  That is low.  ...The sort of stuff that was going on.  Harry is a gentleman Jad. He is a gentleman. He is not going to do that.  They are scratching his records.  Making things even worse in the middle of all this...  You get Ethel Waters...    Am I blue? Am I blue?  ...Who gets pulled away.  Ethel.  Ethel no.  Ah.  Ethel's Aeolian sides start appearing in 1923.  This feels like the end of like Scarface.    You want to play rough?  Like Harry in a room alone with a bunch of cocaine...  .  ...And some like big guns.    Say hello to my little friend.   And it is just not going to...   Harry Pace like Tony Montana in Scarface he goes down ugly. First thing he does is he starts running ads in newspapers saying...   Do not be deceived.   Do not be deceived.   Do not be deceived.  Passing for colored has become popular since we established Black Swan Records the only genuine colored records.  Harry would accuse white companies of passing for Black.  Every white phonograph company is now issuing a Jim Crow catalogue of records.  .  He says they are operating a Jim Crow annex.  Whoa.  And I have saved the best 'til last.  Oh no.  .  Oh no . It gets worse?  This is desperate measures for desperate times.  Harry at this point is in a bind.  What he desperately needs to do is to get some kind of Black Swan product out there on the market to fight back.  But the white companies had stolen all his stars.  What is he going to do?  So he decides - what he does is...  He does the exact opposite of what he is known for.  As he accuses the white labels of passing he himself gets his hands on a bunch of unreleased music by white bands. He gets them through a white lawyer by the way. And he changes the names - not the music just the names.  He takes white artists' recordings and he passes them off as Black.  Mamie Jones for example - she was really a white singer called Aileen Stanley. Henderson's Dance Orchestra - that would have been either the Merry Melody Men or Lanin's Roseland Orchestra. Rudy Wiedoeft's Californians - that is a German name Wiedoeft - they became Haynes' Harlem Syncopators.  .  I have to say I am really on the fence about the morality of this move. Is this a badass move or is this just like the opposite?  .  What it is is a premonition of things to come.  Make a long story short just a few months after Ethel Waters records Down Home Blues and literally lights up the night in a radium dress...  Harry is basically broke.   We are cramped now very seriously for cash. We are cutting down to the bone in every way although I have personally put in large amounts of money and have used my personal credit to borrow more.  Harry was forced to cut the price of Black Swan's discs. They had started off at a dollar. He had to cut them first to 85 cents and then to 75 cents.  Eventually he is selling whole bundles of discs.  And he is throwing in a free 10-cent pack of needles. So...  What ?  Phonograph needles .  OK .  So you know at prices like that there is just not much room for profit.   Harry holds out for as long as he can. But then ultimately...   Chicago Defender April 19 1924.  ...He sells Black Swan to Paramount Records a white company.   White combinations of white businesses are frequent. It does not often occur where there is a combination of a white and a racial business. It is of more than local interest therefore to note the recent consolidation of the phonograph record business of the Paramount a white organization and the Black Swan.  Black Swan Records came and went in just two years. But if you think about it if you think about what came before and what came after it was a pretty gigantic domino to fall.  Black Swan really hastened the process of the white labels giving Black artists a chance. And it only needs to be a couple of years for Robert Johnson to have died before he ever recorded a note. That process had been delayed by just a couple of years we would have no Robert Johnson. And with no Robert Johnson...  Oh my God.  ...You have got no Rolling Stones and no Eric Clapton.  Oh my God.  That is weird to imagine.  Once you take that brick out you know the whole tower starts to look pretty shaky.  I mean it is all historical speculation really.  Here's what we will say. Everything that we just told you about Black Swan and Ethel and all the stuff - that is just the first part of Harry's story. This guy lived five lifetimes in one.  And the craziest part is yet to come.  There is a conspiracy. There is. Like they threatened my family. They threatened Harry Jr. your father. They threatened Josephine.  It is like poof. That  haunting.  In the next episode Harry's record roulette starts to spin out of control.  You know so after - basically after 60 years of of battle you know how many more years did he owe you right? How many more years did he owe?  That is on the next episode of The Vanishing Of Harry Pace.   The Vanishing Of Harry Pace was created by Jad Abumrad and Shima Oliaee and is presented as a collaboration between Osm Audio RADIOLAB and Radio Diaries. The series is based on the book Black Swan Blues The Hard Rise And Brutal Fall Of America's First Black-Owned Record Label by Paul Slade. We had original music from musician Hania Rani - her song Buka off the album Esja.  Our editorial advisors are Kiese Laymon Imani Perry Cord Jefferson and Terrance McKnight. Jami Floyd is our consulting producer. Our fact checker is Natalie Meade. Series artwork was created by Katia Herrera. And special thanks to Nellie Giles Ben Shapiro and Joe Richman.  Next episode is right on the heels of this one.  Thank you for listening.   Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.