   How would it end? I as not got a friend. My only sin is in my skin. What did I do to be so Black and blue?    To be so Black and blue.  Child this is why I have been feeling like I am blue in the face for years. I am just like this period - basically between emancipation and the Harlem Renaissance - it is the key to our American character.  Could I get your name and your title just to begin?  My name is Rhiannon Giddens. And I am a singer player composer and an armchair historian.  OK - quick intro - this is The Vanishing of Harry Pace a miniseries on RADIOLAB. I am Jad.  I am Shima.  We begin this week by branching out from Harry. And we could not resist but bring you this short episode.  Yeah. So this one came about when we called up Rhiannon Giddens during our research.  From when I found out about Black Swan I was like yes. This is what we were doing. We are doing all of it.  I wanted to ask her a whole bunch of questions about Ethel Waters because I knew she sometimes performed Ethel's songs. But then suddenly...  You know what is Black? What is American?  ...We were on a bullet train speeding through hundreds of years of American history.  Minstrelsy.  It started with that word.  Minstrelsy was such a big deal. It was like the first American cultural export. It was like rock 'n' roll before rock 'n' roll right?  Minstrelsy is this phenomenon starting in about the 1830s - went on for about a hundred years - you could even argue longer than that - where you had white musicians dressing up in blackface and singing these disgusting racist songs using very exaggerated stereotypes of Black people. We touch on this a bit in Episode 1. But on this particular call Rhiannon started telling us about the way this minstrel past...   ...Has never really passed.  There was an Australian prime minister in a minstrel troupe...  Oh my God.  ...In this history. Like...  No.  ...Literally there is a picture. It is online. I could show it to you.  This will connect us back to Ethel in just a second.  So it is weird. You have like white people in blackface playing music that does actually have authentic African American roots. But then Black people start to join minstrelsy because you are trying to get a job honey. It is one of the few jobs that they have open to them. But to do it they have to put on blackface.  Yeah.  The very first moving picture done by the Lumiere brothers on British soil in London is of a blackface minstrel troupe outside entertaining. The other place that minstrelsy went other than Hollywood movies is cartoons right? - even Mickey Mouse - the formation of him with the white gloves.    Well shut my mouth and call me corn pone.  Then you get to like Bugs Bunny and all this coming .   Please do not beat me massa . Do not beat that tired old body.  Like Bugs Bunny in blackface.   No.    .  Multiple cartoons - you have to laugh because you would cry otherwise. And then you have the coon song where this imagery from minstrelsy is getting funneled.  The most popular song of the period...  All Coons Look Alike To Me.    All coons look alike to me.  I am so fascinated with this song because a lot of these songs are so catchy.    Any other  never thought I should be .  But this song was so incendiary that you can whistle it at somebody and you could start a fight.  Are there other songs you can point to where you are like wow this is a great song if I just listen to the music?  . All of them.   Jimmy crack corn and I do not care.  All the songs we learn in third grade or whatever these songs were originally minstrel songs.  Which ones?  Oh Jimmy Crack Corn.   Little brown jug do not I love you?  Little Brown Jug.   The Camptown ladies sing this song - doodah doodah.  Camptown Races.   I have Been Working On The Railroad.   Eeny meeny miny moe catch a tiger by the toe.  Eeny Meeny Miny Moe...   Eeny meeny miny moe.  ...In the original it was not a tiger they caught by the toe.  They have been cleaned up.  Dem bones dem bones.  Dem Bones Dem Bones. I mean anything with dem in it - minstrelsy.  .  I remember being in choir singing Jump Down Turn Around Pick A Bale Of Cotton . I remember.  Me too.   Jump down spin around pick a bale of cotton.   I come from Alabama with a banjo on my knee.  Everybody knows this song. Oh Susanna that verse - oh they took that one out. Oh that is 'ecause James Taylor sang that. Wait a minute.  .  Yeah. So I jumped aboard to telegraph and trabeled  down to riber . It is not a minstrel song if it is not in dialect. I jumped aboard to telegraph and trabeled down the riber. Riber - you know what that is going to rhyme with. De  electric fluid magnified and killed five hundred N-words.  Oh dang.  Yeah.  Wow.  Oh this is nothing. This is nothing you all. When I do a show I get gasps when I talk about coon songs. Go all coons look alike to me. And they are like oh my heavens. Pearls are clutched you know? It takes a lot of thinking to figure out what to do with this music. But shoving it under the rug is not the answer.  Do you yourself perform any of these songs when you do your shows?  The one that I do is Underneath The Harlem Moon and I do Ethel Waters' version of that song because I saw that film...    Am I going to be a great man Mammy?  Was it Rastus For President  Rufus For President ?    President.  I cannot remember. But it is with Sammy Davis Jr.    Me?   Sure.  Who is like 4 - not 4 but he was very very young.    I will be glad when you are dead you rascal you.  In the movie he gets elected president becoming the first Black president - but as a kid.    Come here Prez. You got to say something to your constituen-say .  You know it is a dream. But it is white people's idea of what would happen if Black people took over the presidency.    From now on pork chop will be free.   I do I do...   It will be his duty to plant the watermelon vine.  Talking about the watermelon amendment and  like that.    It is too many loaded dice in this country.  Shooting craps - and it is just the most horrible collection of stereotypes ever assembled on one screen. I mean they are just awful.    Hey.  At the end of the movie...  They are in the courtroom. And in strolls...    Now Senate listen here .  ...Ethel Waters in an evening gown...    Office of the president...  ...Maybe a fur. I cannot remember. It is been a while since I have seen it.  Ethel Waters plays the mother of Sammy Davis Jr.    And I am also around to...  And she sings this song...    Creole babies walk along...  ...Underneath The Harlem Moon. And I was like what the heck is this?    ...Rhythm in their feet in their lips and in their eyes.  It is so good. And then I looked it up.    Creole babies walk along with rhythm in their thighs.  And I was like whoa those are not the words that she sang.    ...Find love that satisfies - underneath the Harlem moon.  And I was like hmm she rewrote half of that song.  How? What'd she do?  Like look. These lyrics - all right I found the original Underneath The Harlem Moon. Let us see. Creole babies walk along with them in their thighs rhythm in their hips and in their lips and in their eyes. Where to high browns find the kind of love this satisfies? Underneath the Harlem moon. They do not pick no cotton. Picking cotton is taboo. They do not live in cabins like the old folks used to do. Their cabin is a penthouse up on Lenox Avenue underneath that Harlem moon.  So that is how the original goes.  She sings...    We do not pick no cotton. Picking cotton is taboo.  ...We do not pick no cotton picking cotton is taboo. Right then there is a change. She is owning it. She is like nah you all are not going to talk about us. We are going to talk about ourselves.    Underneath our Harlem moon.  Underneath our Harlem moon - that is like the biggest change. It is not underneath the Harlem underneath moon. It is underneath our Harlem moon. She is like oh no no no. I am going to talk about my people now.    We are never blue or...  Even - there is a line that is why we darkies were born. She changed to...    That is why we schwartzes were born.  ...That is why we schwartzes were born.  .  And if you know her relationship with that Yiddish song on vaudeville that was such a smash you know like the idea of Blacks and Jews all this - these are the things also that we do not talk about the different cultural connections that were going on.  It was all a melting pot - Jewish people Chinese Italians Polish people Arabs. Nobody in our race is jet black. I am a brown-skinned woman. We are many colors.    ...Underneath our Harlem moon.  I love her. Here's one of her verses. We do not pick no cotton. Picking cotton is taboo. All we pick is numbers.    And that includes you white folks too.  And that includes you white folks too 'ecause if we hit we pay our rent...    Then we pay our rent...  ...On any avenue underneath our Harlem moon. Right? Such a gravitas - like you can just hear it in her voice. Once we wore bandanas now we wear Parisian hats.    Once we were barefoot...  Once we were barefoot...    ...Now we are sporting shoes and spats.  ...Now we are sporting shoes and spats.    Once we were Republicans but now we are Democrats.  And now we are Democrats - which has a whole 'nother meaning.  My gosh.  Wow.  Right? It is that political shift that happened around that time. I mean she owns every aspect of being a Black person. I get goose bumps every time I sing that song.    Creole babies walk along with rhythm in their thighs. I do her version of Underneath The Harlem Moon. And that is the moment I unleash.    Oh now then we drink our gin smoke our reefer when we are feeling low. I unleash my bitterness . That is - like that is the moment of me kind of just giving it to the world.    Do not stop for law or traffic... Just like you know I wish I did not have to talk about this stuff but I do. But you know what?   Underneath the Harlem... Ethel gave me this vehicle to let loose.   ...Moon.   If you could rewrite all of them to be like that that is what I would do.  This is The Vanishing Of Harry Pace miniseries on RADIOLAB. Who are you?  I am Shima Oliaee.  And I am Jad. And this episode was a little bit of a shorty. But in just three days we have a bigger one coming.  And it is a good one.  His story is one of the most inspiring stories in lost sounds I think because boy he was one of those people that just knocked down the walls.   This guy was like a battering ram.  You know when he went overseas they were you know hide your daughter you know this Black man is coming close down the windows 'ecause he is dangerous somebody's going to be pregnant before he leaves - all that kind of nonsense.  When he walks out he is booed and hissed.  He believed that it was like...   .  ...The epiphany of the Apostle Paul.   .  What he accomplished was extraordinary.  This story is just bananas.   It is a story we did not expect to tell. But when we bumped into it we were so surprised that we just had to include it. That is coming up in three days.  And before we leave you we just want to say thank you to Throughline - Throughline podcast. We did a behind-the-scenes interview with them and they have just posted it on their podcast feed if you search Throughline podcast. They are amazing. Thank you Ramtin and Rund.  Definitely.  Thank you for listening. We will see you in a few days.  Bye.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 