Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by LinkedIn presenting Hello Monday. A new podcast from LinkedIn's editorial team about how we are changing work and how work is changing us. Every week host Jessie Hemple brings you candid conversation from the front lines of LinkedIn's new offices. Find Hello Monday on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen to podcasts. Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by IBM. 16 million new collar jobs will be created by 2024. IBM's new education model gives high school students workplace experience and an Associates Degree. 90 P-tech schools are preparing graduates for tomorrow's STEM careers. Let us put smart to work and find out how at IBM.comPtech.  You are listening to Radiolab from Public Radio WNYC and NPR. Laura Buxton Okay. Jad Abumrad I am going to start the show today with a truly remarkable story. Which at least initially involves this girl right here. Laura Buxton Hello I am Laura Buxton. Jad Abumrad Laura Buxton is her name remember that name. Laura Buxton We should turn my hair back. Jad Abumrad Laura let us do this like a movie okay? Laura Buxton Like a movie? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Laura Buxton Okay. Jad Abumrad Okay it is June 2001. Laura Buxton Yeah? Jad Abumrad Where are we? Oh we are in a little town in Northern England called ... Laura Buxton Stock on Trent. Robert Krulwich Stock on Trent? Jad Abumrad Yep. Imagine a little English house in this town and the camera zooms in and there standing in the front lawn is little Laura Buxton. She is 10 years old. Laura Buxton Yeah well almost 10. Jad Abumrad Whatever. She is a tall girl. Laura Buxton Pretty tall for my age. Jad Abumrad Pigtails and in her hand she is holding a balloon a red balloon. You with me so far? Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Okay so earlier that day Laura had taken a little card and stuck it to the balloon and on one side written- Laura Buxton My name. Jad Abumrad Plus a little message. Laura Buxton It just said Please return to Laura Buxton and then on the other side it had my address. Jad Abumrad Okay so cut back to the outdoor scene. There she is standing on the lawn. Laura Buxton It was very windy. Jad Abumrad She is got this red balloon with her name on it and she holds it up to the sky to the heavens. Laura Buxton I just let it go and the wind took it. We were laughing and joking because we just thought it would get stuck in a tree a bit further down the road somewhere. Jad Abumrad That is not what happened. The balloon kept going. All right now I am looking at a map here of England and Stock on Trent is at the top. Laura Buxton Yep. Jad Abumrad So the balloon would have had to go south down down down past Stratford. Laura Buxton Yep. Jad Abumrad Past Wassail. Laura Buxton Yep. Jad Abumrad Past Wolverhampton then bast Birmingham- Laura Buxton Yep. Jad Abumrad ... past Kidderminster past Worcester. Laura Buxton Yeah. Jad Abumrad Past millions of people. Past Shettingham. Laura Buxton Yeah. Jad Abumrad People with different lives different names. Past Gloucester- Laura Buxton Gloucester. Jad Abumrad ... Gloucester and all in all the red balloon goes about 140 miles south. Laura Buxton Exactly against the prevailing wind. Jad Abumrad Oh really? Laura Buxton Which is a south westerly. Jad Abumrad Okay so finally when this balloon is all the way on the other side of the country it begins to descend. Down down down and of all the places it could have landed in a river in a factory parking lot in the sea instead the balloon touches down in the yard of this girl. Laura Buxton I live in the countryside in a little village called Milton Lilborne. Jad Abumrad Just so you are not confused this is a different girl than the first one. They do sound the same but they live on opposite ends of the country. Laura Buxton The balloon got stuck in our hedge but our next door neighbor found it. He thought it was just a bit of rubbish and he collected it up so the cows would not eat it because he did not want the cows to choke on the rubbish. He was about to put it in the bin literally and then he saw the label saying Please send back to Laura Buxton. He was like oh my God. Robert Krulwich Why? Why would he say oh my God? Jad Abumrad Okay so check this out. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Remember how I told you how the first girl who sent the balloon was 10? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad The second girl who received it- Laura Buxton I am 10 years old. Jad Abumrad She is ten okay. Robert Krulwich Okay. Jad Abumrad Wait wait there is more. Robert Krulwich There better be. Jad Abumrad Remember how I told you the first girls name was Laura Buxton? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad Well girl number two can you introduce yourself? Laura Buxton Okay. Hi I am Laura Buxton. Robert Krulwich What? They are both Laura Buxton? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich No. Jad Abumrad Yes. Robert Krulwich Both named Laura Buxton? Jad Abumrad Yes. Robert Krulwich Get out. Jad Abumrad You heard me right. A 10 year old girl name Laura Buxton let us go of a balloon. That balloon floats 140 miles and lands in the yard of a 10 year old girl named Laura Buxton. Robert Krulwich Is this for real? Jad Abumrad Yeah. I think it might be the strangest thing I have ever heard in my life. Laura Buxton It is pretty weird. Jad Abumrad Been about eight years since the balloon incident and Laura's see each other a lot. We managed to get them both into a studio.  Hello New York this is London can you hear me? Laura Buxton So like we are going to hear Americans through these? Laura Buxton Yeah. Jad Abumrad Okay back to the story. Laura Buxton Yeah I got the balloon. Jad Abumrad That is Laura number two. What did you think at that point? Laura Buxton Well I was quite young so I did not really know what to think. I was just like I better write the letter because there is someone else out there called Laura Buxton. I must see them. Jad Abumrad So Laura number two wrote a letter to Laura number one. Laura Buxton Dear Laura I think I put. I am 10 years old and I live in Wilton. I found your balloon and the thing is that my name is Laura Buxton as well. So lots of love from Laura Buxton. Jad Abumrad Laura number one. Laura Buxton Yeah? Jad Abumrad You get the note- Laura Buxton Got it through the post. Jad Abumrad You remember reading it? Laura Buxton I remember reading it because I sort of opened it up whilst I was in the kitchen. It was really quite confusing actually. It was like to Laura Buxton from Laura Buxton. I took it up to my mom and we stood there arguing about it for quite a while. Jad Abumrad What did you argue about? Laura Buxton Well she was trying to tell me that it had come to Laura Buxton and it was not from Laura Buxton. She just thought I was confused. Jad Abumrad Okay fast forward a short while later the two Laura's meet. It was at one of England's most popular TV shows Richard and Judy. They would found out about the Laura Laura coincidence invited them on and here the story gets even stranger. There is Laura number two standing back stage ... Laura Buxton Around the corridor I saw this girl who looked pretty similar to me. Jad Abumrad First thing she notices is wow we are the same height. Laura Buxton Skinny and tall. Jad Abumrad Got the same color hair. Laura Buxton Brownish hair. Jad Abumrad Were even wearing the exact same clothes. Laura Buxton Pink jumpers and jeans. Laura Buxton Yeah. Jad Abumrad So you both had on pink jumpers and jeans? Laura Buxton Yeah. Laura Buxton Yeah. Jad Abumrad As they started to talk it just kept getting weirder. Laura Buxton Well we have both got a three year old black Labrador. Laura Buxton We have both got a gray rabbit. Laura Buxton We have both got Guinea pigs. Robert Krulwich Really? Jad Abumrad Yeah yeah and they both brought their Guinea pigs with them that day. Laura Buxton I remember Laura took hers out of its cage and I had mine on my lap and we were like oh my God. They were identical. Laura Buxton They were both brown with a sort of beige orange patch on their bum like completely the same. Laura Buxton I was just like oh my gosh how is this happening? Jad Abumrad Do you believe in miracles? Either of you? Laura Buxton I do not know would you call this a miracle? Laura Buxton I am not sure. I mean I guess it could be but I think it is more of a case of fate. Laura Buxton Yeah I would say it is more fate than a miracle. Jad Abumrad So you do not think that wind that blew the balloon was just wind? Laura Buxton Well if it was just wind it was a very very lucky wind. The chance is just so unlikely. There must be some kind of reason. Robert Krulwich What kind of reason? Laura Buxton Well maybe we were meant to meet. I do not know. Jad Abumrad But meant by whom or what? Laura Buxton who knows really. Laura Buxton Yeah. I mean only time will tell. Laura Buxton Yeah. Laura Buxton It could actually be like preparing us for something else later in life who knows. Laura Buxton Right when we are old grannies. Laura Buxton We will find out. Laura Buxton Now we are just young and we are just enjoying the ride. Robert Krulwich Oh Jad. I mean what are you ... Look what you are ... You know what you are? Jad Abumrad What? Robert Krulwich You are a destiny bully. No because- Jad Abumrad What'd you call me? A destinies bully? Robert Krulwich Yes. Jad Abumrad Sounds like a pop band or something. Robert Krulwich No it is what you are doing to those girls. Jad Abumrad No I was not trying to force God on them if that is what you mean. Robert Krulwich Yes you are the one who says oh whose behind- Jad Abumrad No I was trying to get to the question of how should we think about that story. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Is our world full of magic and meaning and coolness or is it all just chance. Robert Krulwich In fact that is what we are going to do for this whole hour of Radio Lab. We are going to discuss the role that chance plays in so many things. Jad Abumrad In the lottery in the flipping of coins and deepest of all you. Robert Krulwich Us. Jad Abumrad Yes. Robert Krulwich On Radio Lab. Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwhich. Jad Abumrad We are about to get random so stay with us. Robert Krulwich So let us start with a very basic question. Jad Abumrad Let us. Robert Krulwich Random sounds like it means random that is anything can happen at the next turn of the wheel. Jad Abumrad Like your phone ringing for example. Robert Krulwich Oh God. Jad Abumrad Random. Robert Krulwich Sorry. Jad Abumrad Although it is happened so many times that it is no longer random. It is completely predictable. Robert Krulwich But it does have a very nice kind of lilt to it do not you think? I am going to sing with it now. Now back to our regularly scheduled program. So let us say that something remarkable happens ... Jad Abumrad Like the Laura's. Robert Krulwich Like the Laura's. Can you tell whether this is just the random act of an indifferent universe or is there something truly miraculous and wonderful about it. Jad Abumrad Excellent question. Robert Krulwich Thank you very much. Deborah Nolland Hello. Soren Wheeler Hey we found you. Deborah Nolland You found me. Soren Wheeler So this is Jad. Jad Abumrad Hi. Deborah Nolland Hi Jad. Jad Abumrad Hi very nice to meet you. Soren Wheeler And this is Robert. Robert Krulwich Hi. Deborah Nolland I am Deborah Nolland. I am a professor of statistics at the University of California Berkeley. Jad Abumrad The reason we would come to see Deb Nolland at Berkeley is because we would heard that she plays this game. Deborah Nolland I like to incorporate lots of classroom activities and demos. Jad Abumrad One in particular has to do with randomness. Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad It is a game that helps her students understand what real randomness actually looks like and it does not look like what you would think. In any case she takes us into her classroom us and a few students. Robert Krulwich She sits us down. We all sit down. Should we sit in a semi circle? Deborah Nolland That sounds good. Jad Abumrad Then she explains. Deborah Nolland Okay I am going to divide the group up into two. I am going to divide it right here. Jad Abumrad She splits up so that group one had three of her students. Joe Chang I am Joe Chang. Richard LiYang Richard Li Yang. Margaret Taob Margaret Taob. Jad Abumrad In group two Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad Is us. Deborah Nolland The group here- Robert Krulwich She is pointing at us. Deborah Nolland ... I am going to give you a penny and I am going to ask you to flip the coin 100 times. The three of you- Robert Krulwich She points to her students. Deborah Nolland ... your job is to pretend to flip a coin. Jad Abumrad Meaning they just have to flip the coin in their heads kind of guess. Deborah Nolland How do you think that coin might land? Produce 100 fake coin flips. Robert Krulwich And then Deb leaves the room. So her students start whipping through their imaginary fake flips. Joe Chang Tails. Richard LiYang Tails. Margaret Taob Heads. Joe Chang Tails. Margaret Taob Tails. Richard LiYang Heads. Margaret Taob Tails. Richard LiYang Heads. Margaret Taob How many is that? Robert Krulwich While we actually flip the coin 100 times. Jad Abumrad Heads. Robert Krulwich Heads. Jad Abumrad Tails. Robert Krulwich Tails. Jad Abumrad Tails. Robert Krulwich Tails. Jad Abumrad Tails. Heads. Tails tails heads tails. This is exhausting. Robert Krulwich Eventually we did finish and both groups then put our strings of H and T's up right there on the black board. Joe Chang Tails tails heads heads tails. Whew. Robert Krulwich Then Deb came back. Deborah Nolland Hello. Here they are huh. Let us take a look. Jad Abumrad Okay so on the board you have got two sets of H's and T's which look pretty much the same to us. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm  but she looked at their list- Jad Abumrad The fakers. Robert Krulwich ... and then she looked at our list and right away she says pointing at our list. Deborah Nolland This is the real one. Jad Abumrad We were like wow. How did she do that? Well amazingly the way she knew had to do with one particular moment. Robert Krulwich Right. Roll the tape back to a moment right at the beginning of our coin flip. Jad Abumrad Tails. Robert Krulwich Yep. Margaret Taob Tails. Jad Abumrad Tails. Margaret Taob Heads. Jad Abumrad Tails three in a row. Robert Krulwich What was that thing is that what they have? Jad Abumrad Another tails. Robert Krulwich Oh. Jad Abumrad I feel like we have way too many tails. Robert Krulwich Seven tails in a row. Jad Abumrad It was really spooky. Robert Krulwich Completely. Jad Abumrad Like at any moment a unicorn was going to come galloping in. That is how weird it was. Robert Krulwich But as magical and un random as it felt to us. Jad Abumrad That is how she knew that we were the real flippers. Deborah Nolland As soon as I saw the seven tails and then I looked over to the other board and there were not any longer than four I think. Jad Abumrad That is how she knew. When we asked one of the guys on the other team Why did not you put more streaks in your flips? Well he said what I think we would all say. Richard LiYang I was thinking if we did that too much maybe she would recognize that we were actually doing that on purpose. Jad Abumrad In other words those streaks just feel wrong and that is the thing about randomness real randomness when you see it just does not feel random enough. Robert Krulwich But says Deb the truth is ... Deborah Nolland Strange things do happen by chance. Robert Krulwich But why is it so hard for us to emotionally accept this? Well it finally made sense to us when we spoke to this guy. Jay Kohler Hi Jad Hi Robert. Robert Krulwich That is Jay Kohler. Jay Kohler I am a professor of finance and professor of law at Arizona State University. Jad Abumrad So here's how the epiphany happened we were explaining to Jay the unicorn experience in Deb's classroom. Robert Krulwich We got one tail then we got a second then we got a third. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich Then we a seventh. Jad Abumrad And somewhere in the conversation we started to do the math. Like okay what actually are the odds? Jay Kohler Let me see was it heads in a row or tails in a row? Robert Krulwich Tails. Jay Kohler Seven tails in a row. That is one half raised to the seventh power. Jad Abumrad So we started to do the calculations and at first it looked pretty good. Jay Kohler .oo a little more than 1. Jad Abumrad Just over 1 chance. Jay Kohler Yeah. Jad Abumrad So it seemed at first that what had happened in Deb's class was super unlikely. Robert Krulwich Right. Jad Abumrad But then Soren our producer. Robert Krulwich Soren. Jad Abumrad Had to go and say this. Soren Wheeler You know to be fair you should tell him that you actually flipped the coin 100 times. Jay Kohler Oh now you ... wait wait did you ... You were holding back on me. Robert Krulwich Wait wait we are too stupid to know that. That is why we have Soren here. Jay Kohler Are you saying that somewhere in the 100 flips you got a run of seven. Robert Krulwich That is what we are saying. Jay Kohler That is not a particularly good coincidence. I am sorry to burst the bubble. Jad Abumrad What do you mean? Then Jay explained it to us. If you are just doing seven flips then yeah getting seven in a row is really unlikely but if you are doing multiple sets of seven ... Jay Kohler 14 of those sets of seven ... Jad Abumrad which we were because we were doing 100. Then the probabilities start to add up and start small like 1 but then that one becomes two which becomes four which becomes eight until when it is all said and done the chances of getting seven tails in a row somewhere in a set of 100 is ... Do not hold your breath. Jay Kohler About one in six chance. Jad Abumrad One in six that is it. Jay Kohler That you would have gotten a string of seven. Jad Abumrad So what felt spooky and almost Twilight Zone-ish in the moment is actually- Robert Krulwich It is not that improbable. Jad Abumrad Oh. Robert Krulwich See that is what you do not want to know. It does not confirm your goosebumps. Jad Abumrad No I think the goosebumps are dead now. Jay Kohler Oh I am sorry to do that. I still enjoy life. Jad Abumrad The problem says Jay that we were so focused on those seven flips in a row that we had forgotten about the other 93 that were not seven in a row. We would forgotten about what he calls the background. We were too zoomed in. Jay Kohler So you have got to back the camera up and pan around and look at the complete sample space. Jad Abumrad When you do that he says what you will realize is the thing that felt so special ... Jay Kohler Suddenly you see that it is not so odd in its real context. Jad Abumrad This sad lesson goes way beyond coins. He gave us this example. Jay Kohler In 1985 and 1986 Evelyn Adams of New Jersey wins the lottery twice. Jad Abumrad Back to back years crazily improbable right? Robert Krulwich Right. Jad Abumrad If you zoom in all the way in there she is Evelyn Adams standing outside of a convenience store somewhere in New Jersey.  I just won it again. I just won the lottery for a second time. Jad Abumrad She is completely blown away for good reason. Jay Kohler The odds that those two particular tickets would become wining lottery tickets are one in 17.3 trillion. Jad Abumrad Wow. But Jay would say if you pan the camera back away from Evelyn. Bye Evelyn. If you look at the whole world of people buying lottery tickets at this vantage point you can begin to ask a different question. Jay Kohler What are the odds that somebody somewhere- Jad Abumrad Somebody somewhere- Jay Kohler ... will win the lottery twice. In fact the answer to that is it would be very surprising if it did not happen repeatedly and it has happened repeatedly. Jad Abumrad Really? Robert Krulwich For instance ... Jay Kohler In Connecticut employees of a place called the Shuttle Meadow Country Club they won twice. The man in Pennsylvania he won twice a few years later. In California a retiree won a fantasy five and the super lotto in the same day. Jad Abumrad What? Jay Kohler The odds of that were calculated one in 23.5 trillion. Jad Abumrad That is trillion with a T. Jay Kohler One way I think to think about his whole thing I think one example that sort of brings it all home at least it did for me when I thought about the blade in the grass paradox. The golfer hits the ball down the fairway and the ball lands on a particular blade of grass. If the blade of grass could talk the blade of grass would say wow.  Oh my God. Jay Kohler What are the odds-  What are the odds. Jay Kohler ... that that ball out of all the billions of blades of grass ...  And we went to the right left ... On me it lands on me. Jay Kohler How did it come to be that it just landed on me?  I do not know. It is sort of like a miracle really. Jay Kohler It is sort of miraculous but what we know is that it was going to land on some blade of grass somewhere so it is nearly 100 chance that some blade of grass was going to say wow what are the odds that that ball was going to land on me. Robert Krulwich If I were that blade of grass I would feel so special and chosen. Soren Wheeler And crushed. Robert Krulwich And crushed. Jad Abumrad Soren. The real lesson here according to Jay Kohler and also Deb Nollan before him is that if you do not see past yourself you fall prey to superstition. Deborah Nolland Right or magical thinking. You have to be careful that you are not finding meaning here when it is just coincidence. Jad Abumrad There are some things like the Laura's that will never feel like just coincidence. Laura Buxton Well if it was just wind it was a very very lucky wind. Robert Krulwich So we had to ask Jay. I ask you sir is this a miracle. Jay Kohler This is not a miracle. It is a good story but you know there is lots of little things I could pick at in the story. Jad Abumrad Like what? Robert Krulwich Oh yeah pick away. Jay Kohler Well I mean if Laura Buxton did not find the balloon somebody else who knew a Laura Buxton found the balloon. You selected out the features that match and trust me somebody checked to see if she was an identical twin. So no no that is not a good one skip the twin. Okay how many brothers and sisters oh not the same number but skip that. Ah they both have a rabbit let us put that one in the story. Jad Abumrad To be totally honest he is right. Robert Krulwich What? What do you mean? Jad Abumrad Well when I was interviewing the Laura's I asked them a bunch of questions kind of scouting for similarities. What is your favorite color both of you? Laura Buxton Blue. Laura Buxton Pink. Jad Abumrad Scrap that. What do you guys study in school? Laura Buxton Biology. Laura Buxton Chemistry and geography. Laura Buxton Whereas I am doing English and History in classical civilization. Jad Abumrad Hmm scrap that. Jay Kohler What people do is they try to make the story better by showing more similarities. Jad Abumrad So you are saying that somebody I could not imagine who doctored the story? Jay Kohler By the way I do not want to spoil anything and this is a trivial comment but I believe that one of the girls was actually nine. Laura Buxton Well almost 10. Jay Kohler And the other one was 10. Jad Abumrad Darn it. No. Robert Krulwich Oh well that is a story for a ... Nevermind. Jay Kohler Yeah I am sorry to be your most depressing guest. Jad Abumrad Nonetheless I will continue to tell the Laura story every chance I get on the air at parties wherever because you know damn the statistics it just makes me feel good. Robert Krulwich I think Jay would agree with you. Jay Kohler Well first of all we love stories that connects us. It gives us insight into our own lives and I think it also gives us a feeling that life is magical. Jad Abumrad Maybe we do not have to call it magic to enjoy the experience. In fact I was talking to the Laura's and I asked them what if a statistician were to walk in the room right now and say to you This was bound to happen. Statistically this was going to happen sometime to someone. Laura Buxton That is fair enough really because it just happens to be us in those statistics so ... Laura Buxton Yeah. I mean if that is what the statistician thinks. I mean yeah fair game to him. Jad Abumrad They do not really care. The way they see it whatever it was in that wind whether it was fate or just wind it does not matter. It brought them together and now they are friends. Robert Krulwich Radio Lab will continue in a moment. Laura Buxton Hello my name is Laura Buxton. Radio Lab is funded in part by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation. Jay Kohler The Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the National Science Foundation. Laura Buxton Radio Lab is produced by WNYC and distributed by National Public Radio. Thank you bye.  Hi this is Ashley Harding from Saint Johns Newfoundland Canada. Radio Lab is supported by what the constitution means to me on Broadway starting March 14th for 12 weeks only. Named the number one play of the year by the New Yorker and New York Magazine this boundary breaking new play breathes new life into our founding document and imagines how it will shape the next generation of American women. The New York Times says it is shrewd crazy funny and shattering and Rolling Stone calls it bracing and strikingly relevant. What the constitution means to me written by Obe award winner Heidi Shrek. Get tickets now at constitutionbroadway.com. Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by Zip Recruiter. I do not know if you know anything about Zip Recruiter. Let us suppose you need to recruit somebody for your business for your office. You could I guess ask friends. You could put an ad out for everybody in the world to read. Zip Recruiter's idea is they have what they call a matching technology that presumably finds the right people for you and then goes and gets them to apply. Right now Radio Lab listeners can try Zip Recruiter for free at ZipRecruiter.comRadiolab. Once again that is ZipRecruiter.comRadiolab.  Hi this is Ira Plato host of the weekly public radio show Science Friday. We are excited to be coming to BAM in Brooklyn for a special live edition of our show with a special topic the secret science-y lives of city pigeons. I know you have always wondered about that plus you can enjoy music live demonstrations and a lot more. So join us Saturday April 27th for one night only. Details and tickets at bam.orgsciencefriday. Saturday April 27th. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich and we are talking on Radio Lab about things stochastic. Jad Abumrad Like coin flips and lottery tickets and- Robert Krulwich Well let us just push this whole argument another step forward if we may. Jad Abumrad What do you mean? Robert Krulwich Let us talk about human beings. Would it surprise you Jad if I told you that one the subject of predictability humans and coins are kind of similar? Jad Abumrad It would not surprise me because I would not believe it. Robert Krulwich You would believe it if I made you an argument so powerful and so astonishing that you would be falling back on your butt in surprise and staring at me with the kind of simple admiration that you rarely have. Because here it is I am going to talk to you about basketball. Jad Abumrad Basketball? Robert Krulwich That is a sport where people- Jad Abumrad First of all A what do you know about basketball? Robert Krulwich I mean- Jad Abumrad Basketball is a game of skill do not even try and pretend that there is random forces like coin flips ... No. Robert Krulwich Well let- Jad Abumrad No. Nope. Robert Krulwich Let me- Jad Abumrad Zip. No. Robert Krulwich Let me make you an argument. Jad Abumrad No. Robert Krulwich Let me make you an argument. Let us just take to make it really interesting the most skilled basketball team ever. Jonah Leer For example you could take a look at the '82 to '83 76ers.  The Philadelphia 76ers Maurice Cheeks- Robert Krulwich That is Jonah Leer regular on our show. Jonah Leer It is one of the best NBA games of all time.  Ramon to Cheeks Cheeks to Dr J swooping it underneath putting it up and in. Jonah Leer So during the playoffs the 76ers were all incredibly hot. Robert Krulwich Take my man Andrew Tony an outside shooter for the 76ers. During this run he was ... Jonah Leer Sometimes Andrew Tony would make five shots in a row. He would be considered hot. Robert Krulwich So that is the deal. Andrew hits his mark once hits his mark twice hits his mark three times now I am going to pass to him because he is obviously hot. Jonah Leer The basket looks to him that it is the size of a soccer goal. Robert Krulwich He is golden he is got the gods on his side. Jad Abumrad Why are we talking about them? Robert Krulwich Well because in this situation you would have to agree that Andrew Tony was hot right? Jad Abumrad Yes. Robert Krulwich That is the word. So let me ask what exactly do you mean when you say hot? Jad Abumrad Why are you asking me- Robert Krulwich Because- Jad Abumrad Because he is making a bunch of shots in a row and if you are on his team and you are coming down the court you pass the ball to Andrew because he is on a roll. Jonah Leer What the fan assumes is that after five shots is that he is more likely to make a sixth shot. Jad Abumrad That to me just seems like common sense. If he is making lots of buckets of course you are going pass it to him. How could that be wrong? Robert Krulwich And did the players assume this? Obviously they are going to pass right? Jonah Leer Oh the players all believe this. Robert Krulwich The coaches believe this too? Jonah Leer The coaches believe it so it actually dictates the plays they call. Everyone assumes it to be true that the hot hand is a real thing and dictates the flow of basketball games. Robert Krulwich Thank you Jonah. But ... Jonah Leer The hot hand does not exist. Jad Abumrad What? Did you just ... You just went through this whole rigamarole about the 76ers being hot. Robert Krulwich Yeah well they were a great team but a lot of scientists have looked at this question of hotness in sports. In fact there is a couple of scientists who actually looked at all of the made shots and the missed shots of this 76ers team. When they looked directly at the numbers emotions aside just the data here's what they found Jonah Leer At the very moment you think you are hottest you are actually freezing cold. Jad Abumrad Wait. That cannot be right. Jonah Leer Some of these percentages are pretty damning. Robert Krulwich Take Andrew Tony during the regular season Tony made 46 of his shots. Jonah Leer 46. Robert Krulwich After hitting three shots in a row which means he is in the zone he is totally there his field goal percentage drops to 34. That is what I am saying. That is what I am telling you Jad Abumrad. I have got the numbers here. Jonah Leer The reason seems to be is that Andrew knows he is hot or he thinks he is hot so he is taking less responsible shots. He is taking the three point jumper from way beyond the arc and he assumes his streak will somehow save him. Jad Abumrad No that cannot be because Jonah you have ... You have been to basketball games. You see what happens. Someone hits- Robert Krulwich I have been to basketball games too. All right. Jad Abumrad You have been to games and you have seen that someone makes three shots in a row the crowd gets up suddenly there is an electricity in the air. Every time the guy gets the ball everyone stands up in anticipation. You are telling me that is all a figment of our collective imagination? Jonah Leer It is a figment of our collective imaginations and it is especially a figment of the way we kind of calculate streaks. The reason Andrew seems so hot is because he makes three misses the fourth makes the fifth misses the sixth makes the seventh and eighth. We write that essentially random process this mixture of makes and misses we rewrite it in terms of oh it is a streak. Once we think he is hot we tend to edit what actually happens too kind of preserve that sense of the streak. Robert Krulwich Okay do not believe Jonah. What about Jay Kohler our statistician from Arizona State. Listen to him. Jay Kohler I have no reason to think even if whether he missed seven in a row or made seven in a row or made three of his last four. I do not really care I know that he is a machine. He is like a 52 shooting machine or whatever his number is. Jad Abumrad No but he is a- Jay Kohler And- Jad Abumrad He is not a machine though he is a person with confidence that ebbs and flows there is a difference. There is got to be a difference there. Jay Kohler I agree with you. You have just described the psychological theory that makes the hot hand belief so compelling and so hard to get rid of with data. It just does not matter whether the player made three or missed three their probability of making that fourth shot that next one I pretty much the same. Jad Abumrad This is very very depressing. Essentially what you are saying is that basketball players are like- Robert Krulwich Coins. Jad Abumrad ... coins. Jay Kohler Yes. Yeah. Robert Krulwich The fact is Jad you are and Kobe Bryant even is more like a coin than any of us had dared to imagine. Jad Abumrad No. Robert Krulwich Kobe has a pattern in his case it is what 64. Jad Abumrad Shh stop it. Robert Krulwich On any given night with Kobe you think oh this is ... He is spectacular but all he is doing is he is just having another night of his very 6040 life and that is just the way it plays out. Jad Abumrad Even on a shot by shot basis you are saying. Jay Kohler Yeah. Jonah Leer Each shot seems to be kind of a random event. Robert Krulwich Exactly. Are you willing to concede that statistically this is a- Jad Abumrad Not yet. Robert Krulwich Come on. Jonah Leer It is so counter intuitive I still as a basketball fan I was just watching a game the other night saying pass it to Kobe because he is clearly hot. The only acception to this whole whole literature of streakiness is- Soren Wheeler Hockey. Jonah Leer No is ... Jad Abumrad The sport no one cares about. Jonah Leer Is it Joe DeMatio's hitting streak where he hits for 42 games in a row? I have got it in a book somewhere. Jad Abumrad Actually Joe DeMatio's hitting streak was 56 games 56. Jonah Leer Yeah so Joe DeMatio's is just about the only Adler you can find in professional sports. Soren Wheeler He is the only real hero. Jonah Leer Yep. Jad Abumrad Well at least I have got Joe. Robert Krulwich You know what Jad one reason you have trouble I think ... Jad Abumrad More than trouble. I still do not believe this. Robert Krulwich Well because you are not the only person who is a person of pattern and habit. We all are. Pattern rules the brain. Here's another story. This is again from Jonah Leer but this one is about a woman. I believe her name is Ann. Ann Conslober I am Ann Conslober. I live in the small country town where most people know other people. Jonah Leer Ann was a high school English teacher. Ann Conslober I taught for 31 years. Jonah Leer She now lives in West Virginia. Ann Conslober Can you wait just a minute there is someone at my door. I am sorry. Jonah Leer Oops. Ann Conslober There is- Jonah Leer No no of course of course. Ann was an upstanding citizen went to church every Sunday. Was just one of those people who- Robert Krulwich Makes the world go round. Jonah Leer ... makes the world go round. Ann Conslober I am sorry. Jonah Leer Not at all. Ann Conslober Anyway in 1991 I would go to the grocery store and on the occasions I write a check for my groceries the woman would say gosh you are shaky. Jonah Leer She began to notice that her hands were start to tremble. Ann Conslober Are you all right? But I just thought maybe it was because of working that hard and trying to get everything done. Jonah Leer And it got particularly bad when she said she was just walking in the mall doing some shopping. Ann Conslober I was by myself walking and it was like I stepped off a step that was not there. Jonah Leer It was the first full body tremor. She fell. Ann Conslober Then my husband was a doctor and he sent me to a neurologist who diagnosed me with Parkinson's. Jad Abumrad How old is she by the way? Jonah Leer She was at that point in her early 50s. Robert Krulwich What is Parkinson's? Jonah Leer Parkinson's is the death of dopamine neurons in the back of your brain in the part of your brain that controls bodily movement. So when these neurons die the end result is first the shaking hand and the loss of feeling and the loss of movement. Then of course the tremors get worse and worse. Ann Conslober Anyway ... Jonah Leer Well the doctor diagnosed her with Parkinson's and he gives her a drug called Requip. Ann Conslober Requip was a new medicine in 1992. Jonah Leer It is a pseudo dopamine. It basically mimics dopamine in the synapse of the cells. Ann Conslober It was like a miracle drug for me. Jonah Leer Her tremors disappear. Her symptoms disappear. Robert Krulwich So she is cured or ... Jonah Leer If you looked at her on Requip years after she had Parkinson's you would not notice anything. She would seem symptom free. So about seven or eight years go by all the while they are upping the dosage to compensate for the cell loss that is still taking place. In the early years of 2000 something sort of unusual happened to Ann. Ann Conslober Some friends of mine had gone to Las Vegas every year for that basketball tournament the final four type thing. They asked would I like to go with them and I said Yes I would. Jonah Leer So she went to watch basketball but as often happens in Vegas one afternoon she and her friends found themselves in a casino. Had you ever gambled before this trip to Las Vegas? Ann Conslober No I was raised in a household that was fairly religious and we considered gambling a sin. Jonah Leer But as she stood there in a casino in Vegas she had this inexplicable urge to go to the slot machines. Ann Conslober They had frogs and princes and cars and cherries and lemons. Push a button the wheels spin and see what the pictures did. I have never taken any drugs. I do not have anything to compare it to but it was like a high. That was sort of the beginning of it. Jonah Leer Then when she comes back to West Virginia ... Ann Conslober I could not wait to get to a machine I really wanted to play. Jonah Leer She discovers the dog racing tracks about 15 miles away from her house. Ann Conslober I would go there at 30 be there when they opened. Jonah Leer That is where she would go and they had a wide assortment of slot machines.  Hi how are you? Ann Conslober If I had the money I would play all day. Jonah Leer From 00 to 30 in the morning. Jad Abumrad Whoa. Jonah Leer Then she would go home and play slots- Ann Conslober On the computer. Jonah Leer ... on her computer. Not even for money just for the sheer visceral thrill. Ann Conslober I would play that the rest of the night. 30 the next morning I would be back at the joint.  Hi how are you? Jad Abumrad Without any sleep at all? Jonah Leer No sleep and she could keep that up for several days in a row. Ann Conslober At the beginning of my gambling I would wake up in the night and just scream out oh God what am I doing. Help me save me but eventually I became too hard hearted I guess to even pay attention to that. Jonah Leer Her credit cards are all maxed out. Ann Conslober I sold my mother's silver. I sold my silver ware. Things that should have been my son's heirlooms. Stole from the safety deposit box. Jonah Leer She steals quarters from her grandkids. Jad Abumrad Steals quarters from her grandkids? Jonah Leer Yeah. Ann Conslober Anything I looked at around the house I thought I could get money out of. Jonah Leer Everyone who knows her is watching her life fall apart. Ann Conslober My house was filthy dirty a mess. I would not take time to even was dishes. Jonah Leer She lives on peanut butter. Ann Conslober Did not have any crackers or bread or anything I just had peanut butter. Jonah Leer Because that is all she can afford and still leave as much money as possible for the slots. Ann Conslober Even when I would be at church I would think well there is so many more minutes or so many more hours I can go gamble. Jonah Leer Her husband eventually leaves her. Ann Conslober I mean I loved my husband but- Jonah Leer They got divorced. Ann Conslober ... there is just no decision everything is gambling. One of the neat things about gambling is that you can do it by yourself. Jonah Leer How much money did you lose during those years if you do not mind me asking? Ann Conslober I lost at least 300000. Jad Abumrad Wow. Robert Krulwich 300000. Jad Abumrad Which to her is? Jonah Leer Is all her life's savings. Jad Abumrad That is one quarter at a time. Jonah Leer Yeah that is the surreal part. Ann Conslober I tried several things. I went to a rehab facility. My father I told you I was raised in a really religious home sometimes I would say my dad's watching me from heaven and he would not approve of this. He would be so disappointed in me but seemingly I just could not stop. Robert Krulwich Let me pause here for a second Jad. I want to just take a moment to try to figure out what exactly is happening to Ann. Jad Abumrad Yeah why cannot she stop? Robert Krulwich Yeah. It turns out there may be an explanation if you look into her brain. Remember earlier we talked about a little chemical called dopamine. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich And how she did not have enough dopamine in her brain so that was giving her some kind of movement trouble the Parkinson's. Jad Abumrad Right. Robert Krulwich It also turns out to be the case that any time you do something that makes you feel good your brain spurts out dopamine. Jonah Leer For years that is how scientists saw dopamine as the neurotransmitter of pleasure the neurotransmitter of sex drugs and rock and roll. Jad Abumrad But you said earlier that dopamine has to do with movement. Jonah Leer Well what is the ultimate purpose of movement from the perspective of evolution? It is to get you to food. It is to get you to sex. It is to get you to reward. Jad Abumrad Huh. Jonah Leer So that is why the same circuits the same chemical that controls motivation that controls what you want also controls movement. Robert Krulwich That turned out it was a little more complicated than that. In the mid 1970s- Jonah Leer A guy named Wolfram Schultz ... Robert Krulwich ... decided to take a much closer look and his subject was a monkey. Jonah Leer He would put these very thin needles that can record the activity of individual dopamine neurons in the monkey brain. Robert Krulwich And they put the monkey in a room and then every day they would walk down the hall too the room where the monkey was and open the door.  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich They would flip on the light. They would give the monkey some juice.  Here you go monkey. Robert Krulwich Then when the monkey sipped the juice ... dopamine. Jad Abumrad Happy monkey. Robert Krulwich Right but then comes a surprise. Jonah Leer He soon discovered something very odd about these neurons. Robert Krulwich As they juiced this monkey day ...  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich After day ...  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich After day ...  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich After day ...  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich The squirt of dopamine which they were always measuring in the monkeys brain seemed to move forward in time. Jad Abumrad What do you mean? Robert Krulwich Well at first the dopamine hit when the monkey took the sip of juice.  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich After a while the monkey got the dopamine hit when they entered the room and switched on the light.  Hello monkey. Robert Krulwich Then after a few more times the dopamine hit when the researchers feet could be heard walking down the hall. You see what is happening here?  Hello monkey. Jad Abumrad Not really. You are going to have to bring it home for me. Robert Krulwich Well then I will do it again then. What the monkey is trying to do is piece together the sequence of events that inevitably lead to juice. Jonah Leer Exactly. That is what these cells do. They try to predict rewards. Jad Abumrad Oh so this is not just about movement or about feeling good it is about finding the pattern of the thing that makes you feel good. Jonah Leer Yeah. Jad Abumrad It is pattern finding. Jonah Leer Oh this is pure pattern recognition. This is essentially how your brain makes sense of reality in some very primitive sense it parses reality in terms of rewards. This is how you get more food in the wild is you continue the reward before anyone else can. Jad Abumrad So we are talking about like basic survival stuff here. Jonah Leer Mm-hmm . There is one other wrinkle though about the dopamine system that makes casinos and slot machines so tantalizing which is that these cells are also programmed to be very sensitive to surprising rewards. So this seems to be most scientists speculate that this seems to be the brains way of telling you pay attention you just got something for free. This must be good. Sit here in this nice comfy velvet chair and try to figure out this reward. Robert Krulwich So now imagine Ann sitting there at the slot machine. She pushes the button on the machine the slot machine and oh my God- Jonah Leer Sirens and bells go off coins clang. Robert Krulwich Inside her head her dopamine neurons they are saying whoa this is wonderful but now how did this happen? Jonah Leer Where did this big reward come from? Robert Krulwich What did you do this time? Jonah Leer Why are you so happy all of the sudden? Robert Krulwich And it starts searching for something. Ann Conslober They had frogs and princes and ... Robert Krulwich Was it the number of- Ann Conslober Cherries and- Robert Krulwich ... cherries that she had just before. Was it this machine had 13 hits and this was the 14th? Ann Conslober I thought I could tell- Robert Krulwich It has all kinds of pattern like things. It has bells. It has lights but the problem is- Jonah Leer Is that there is no pattern to find. Robert Krulwich There is no pattern. Jonah Leer It is inherently random. It is inherently unpredictable. Robert Krulwich While the rest of us might just give up and walk away. Jonah Leer God I just waisted 100 bucks on this stupid machine. I should go get lunch. Robert Krulwich Ann cannot go to lunch. Her dopamine system is- Jonah Leer Too powerful. Robert Krulwich ... too potent. Jad Abumrad Oh because of that drug she is taking? Robert Krulwich Right. It keeps surging and surging forcing her neurons to fight fight hard to find a pattern. That is what is gripping her. Her brain is intoxicated at the possibility that it will learn how to succeed. Jonah Leer That it will crack an uncrackable code. Ann Conslober I thought I was good at solving the machines. In fact- Jonah Leer She told me a story about she would go to buy milk and then spend the next twelve hours with the milk rotting next to her as she puts quarter after quarter after quarter into this machine. Were you surprised when you learned that the medication might be responsible for your gambling addiction? Ann Conslober I mean if someone had said to me This medicine will cause compulsive gambling. I would have thought they were crazy. Jonah Leer It is just at that time where the first studies come out showing that this is actually a common side effect of Requip. Jad Abumrad Really? So there were other Ann's appearing in other places same deal? Jonah Leer Absolutely. Ann Conslober Basically after my neurologist took me off the Requip- Jonah Leer Her compulsion disappeared instantaneously. Ann Conslober Almost immediately. Jad Abumrad That fast? Ann Conslober Well within a week I would say. Jad Abumrad Wow. Jonah Leer It was gone. Ann Conslober I have not gambled for nearly three years. Robert Krulwich Did her Parkinson's return? Jonah Leer Yeah. Ann Conslober I have tremors a lot worse. I have recently gotten a cane. I have trouble walking. I use a walker. Jonah Leer So the price of not being a gambling addict is living with debilitating Parkinsonian symptoms. Ann Conslober My son let me finish about my son. When I told him after I quit gambling I said Son I sold things that belonged to you. That you should have and he said Mom those are just things. It is just really great to have you back. Jad Abumrad Radio Lab will continue in a moment. Mattie Whiner Hi I am Mattie Whiner calling from Louisville Kentucky. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation a by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad Hello I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab and our topic today is ... You want to say the word? Robert Krulwich Stochasticity. Jad Abumrad Stochasticity. Robert Krulwich STO ... Jad Abumrad Which is a wonderful and fancy world that essentially means randomness chance. Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Like the kind that is built into flipping a coin or playing the lottery or to take things deeper when you breathe. Krulwich think about the air that is flowing around your head right now. It is full of atoms and molecules that are flying about and smashing into each other and colliding and shooting off at different trajectories. It cannot be predicted. It is totally chaotic right? Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Until you breathe it all in. When you do things get predictable. Robert Krulwich Can I release? Jad Abumrad Nope nope. Okay. Robert Krulwich Whew okay. Jad Abumrad The point is when you breathe in all of those chaotic fluxing molecules come in and become a part of the machinery that is you. They go into your blood. They go into your cells which are themselves these little factories. Jonah Leer Factories full of even tinier factories like mitochondria. Jad Abumrad What are mitochondria? I am not really sure but I do know that is Jonah Leer again. Himself a factory of insight. Jonah Leer Factories full of these intricate things which work and can understand this gene makes this protein which makes this organo which does this thing for the cell. Jad Abumrad This process is Jonah taking in flux and giving it a shake giving it order that is what life does. In fact you might say it is the definition of life. Jonah Leer The closer you get the more you kind of stand in awe at the exquisite engineering. There is this sense that life can be the world's most elegant clock. Robert Krulwich Nicely put. Jad Abumrad Now if life is a machine you would think that the most clock like most machinery part of life would be all the way down at the bottom. Robert Krulwich I would think so. Jad Abumrad Which for our purposes is when a gene makes a protein. Gene protein gene protein. This is the basis of life. So you would think it is got to be orderly. It is got to be predictable. Robert Krulwich Genes proteins. Jad Abumrad Otherwise none of us would be alive. Robert Krulwich It it is a very predictable orderly system so we all believe. Soren Wheeler I think how kind of how it works. Jonah Leer Pretty amazing. Jad Abumrad But then we spoke to this guy. Carl Zimmer Yeah am I talking? Have I been talking clearly? Jonah Leer You are all right yeah. Carl Zimmer Okay. Jad Abumrad He mucked things up a bit. Carl Zimmer I tend to be looking this way. Robert Krulwich Well what is your name? Carl Zimmer My name is Carl Zimmer. Jad Abumrad He is a science writer like Jonah. Carl Zimmer I roulette for the New York Times and Scientific American and Discover I blog. Jad Abumrad He told us that this whole genes making proteins situation- Jonah Leer Here we are again. Jad Abumrad As tick tocking interference we have always assumed it to be in fact scientists have never actually seen it. Robert Krulwich Well I mean it is very small but finally scientists have figured out a way to turn on a light when it happens. So they now can see a gene turning on a protein. Jad Abumrad Literally see it with their own eyes. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad What they saw- Carl Zimmer Well- Jad Abumrad ... was astonishingly un clock like. Carl Zimmer At the fundamental level it is just sloppy sloppy. That is the best word for it. Jad Abumrad In fact in our interview he used that word like 42 times. Carl Zimmer Sloppy sloppy sloppiness sloppiness. Jad Abumrad Sometimes he used this word. Carl Zimmer Random ... Jad Abumrad Or this ... Carl Zimmer Fluctuating ... Jad Abumrad And this one. Carl Zimmer Noise chaos noise. Jad Abumrad Definitely used that one a lot. Carl Zimmer Jumble noise noisy accident. Noisy noise noise noise noise noise noisy sloppy chaotic noise. Sloppiness sloppy and fluctuating. Fluctuate. It is really crazy in there. Jad Abumrad He started by telling us about this experiment that happened in California at Cal Tech involving a little tiny bacteria called EColi. Which is Carl's favorite. Carl Zimmer Indeed. Yeah so these are EColi. These are harmless residents of our gut. Jad Abumrad Would you call them creatures? Carl Zimmer They are creatures sure. They sense their world. They make decisions. They feed. Jad Abumrad Okay. Carl Zimmer They reproduce they have genes like us. They have got 4000 genes. I think they are earned the title creature. Jad Abumrad These creatures are actually very similar to our own cells. Their genes make proteins just like ours so what these scientists did was they took some EColi that were exactly the same. Carl Zimmer Clones. Jad Abumrad In every single way. Carl Zimmer They are genetically identical. Jad Abumrad Then they put the whole batch in a dish and they said Okay everyone we are going to turn on your genes start making proteins now. And they watched because like you said earlier they had found this new way of getting the EColi to- Carl Zimmer Glow. Jad Abumrad Every time it is genes made a protein. Carl Zimmer It seems like it ought to be like just flicking a switch. Jad Abumrad Yeah you turn on the genes click protein protein protein protein turn it off. Turn it on protein protein protein protein protein turn it off. Carl Zimmer Could not get simpler. Robert Krulwich This is like a basic function of biology. Carl Zimmer Yeah this is biology 101 and again these are genetically identical EColi. Jad Abumrad Meaning they have got the same genes they are making the same proteins so they should glow the same. Carl Zimmer Right you just expect this steady glow in all of them. Jad Abumrad Nice and steady. Carl Zimmer And that is not what happened. You could start with an individual EColi and say okay well what happened with that one. It did not start to glow it started to flicker. There would be a little bit of light and no light a little bit more light then maybe a sudden flash then dark again. Then a little bit of light ... Jad Abumrad Hmm and they were expecting ... Carl Zimmer Yeah. Jad Abumrad What they got is technically was ... Carl Zimmer Right. Jad Abumrad It was completely defective. Like a car with no muffler going putt putt putt. More troubling still when they looked at EColi number two it too was defective except in its own unique way. Two had his own thing going same with number three. He had his own thing going. Carl Zimmer I mean they are genetically identical. Jad Abumrad Same with number four. Carl Zimmer This is essentially the same creature in many different copies. Jad Abumrad And five six too and seven. Carl Zimmer Each one was flickering in its own- Jad Abumrad Number eight. Carl Zimmer ... pattern. Jad Abumrad Nine. Carl Zimmer Chaos. Jad Abumrad 10. Carl Zimmer Fluctuating. Jad Abumrad 11. Carl Zimmer Sloppiness noise chaos noise jumble chaos sloppy chaos sloppy jumble random sloppiness noise random noise chaos noise sloppiness noise noise noisy sloppiness noise random noise. Jad Abumrad Now this noise would not be a problem if it is just a bacteria we are talking about but according to Carl- Carl Zimmer It is everywhere. Jad Abumrad Everywhere in us. We are built he says on a foundation of chaos. Robert Krulwich This is very puzzling to me because if down at the deep level of our DNA there is just this random- Jad Abumrad Mayhem. Robert Krulwich Mayhem. Jad Abumrad Bedlam. Robert Krulwich How do you go from bedlam up to the organization that I think I represent? I wake up in the morning. I go to sleep at night. I get hungry I eat. I breathe in I breathe out. Listen to my heart. I am very very orderly. I do not know how you get from this ... to this. Carl Zimmer That is right. I mean so somehow all of this sloppiness has got to be somehow tamed because we are alive. I mean it is not total chaos in our bodies but- Robert Krulwich But you keep ... This sentence never seems to quite finish. But we do not know how that happens is that what? Carl Zimmer We have some ideas of how it happens. As scientists start to understand how genes work with other genes they can see ways in which you can filter out the noise and keep the good signal keep the music. Jad Abumrad Okay so do you want to sit for something or ... Little Ling Li Sure. Where do you want to sit? Jad Abumrad Anywhere really. Now this is find really cool. The research on this stuff is really new but Carl says one of the ways that the body may do this ... Jad Abumrad Testing. Hello? Hello? Jad Abumrad May go from like ... to ... is by doing something that I actually do on this show all of the time which is use a noise filter. The body may have engineered some noise filters. I will just give you an example from my world. This is the honest to God's truth. I have a friend named little Ling Li. Jad Abumrad Hey little Ling. Little Ling Li Hello Jad. Jad Abumrad Tell me what you are holding in your hands there. Little Ling Li In my hands I have two audio tapes. Jad Abumrad Little Ling just recently called me up she said I have got these two cassette tapes. They are really old. Little Ling Li I think they were made in the '70s. Jad Abumrad Her mom found them in her attic and their of my grandmother. Little Ling Li Ones labeled Mema sings- Jad Abumrad Singing. Singing old slave songs and old hymns. Now little Ling's grandmother died last year. Little Ling Li She was 99 years old. Jad Abumrad Wow. They were really close. Little Ling Li Yeah very close. They used to call me little Mema when I was a kid. Jad Abumrad So she is got these tapes she wants to hear them. The problem is if you put it on for more than three minutes you get annoyed. Little Ling Li There is that weird like shh. Jad Abumrad It is too noisy. It was kind of like a frying sound. Little Ling Li Yeah. Jad Abumrad She wanted to know if I could do something about it. Little Ling Li Yeah. Jad Abumrad So real quick here's what I did. I put it into a computer launched an EQ program found the base noisiness which was around 600 Hertz dialed that down like so. Then I found the high hiss frequencies which are around 2000 Hertz dialed that down. Ah now as the final step I just kind of located the voice around 1000 Hertz and dialed it up. Okay so it is not a flawless process. I mean now she sounds like she is coming out of a well but for the first time you can hear her voice. Little Ling Li I do not know this is the first time I am hearing this song but it seems like she is describing the night that my grandfather passed away. Talking about the doctors telling her that my grandfather has passed and then she is describing putting a fern in his hand. She said it should be a rose. Jad Abumrad The thing that is applicable here is that we started with this and then just by bringing certain frequencies down and others up we ended up with this. This might be how it is in the body that you have got this noise all the way in the bottom these genetic circuits which are spitting out messiness but somehow just on top of that are other genetic circuits which are cleaning it all up giving it a shape. Carl Zimmer Err. Jad Abumrad What? Is that not right? Carl Zimmer Not quite. Jad Abumrad Dammit. Sorry humans. What is wrong with it? Carl Zimmer Well in our cells there is no grandma. Jad Abumrad What do you mean there is no grandma? Carl Zimmer You do not start off with some very clear signal that gets masked by noise the noise is there from the start. It is noise and then whoop all the sudden you have this beautiful song. Jad Abumrad Carl went on to explain and it took like an hour for us to finally get this. There is nothing but noise down there at the bottom and yet somehow the song emerges like a phantom. Because it seems like the noise is somehow filtering itself into music. Carl Zimmer Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich So if we were to get the analogy right Little Ling would hand Jad a tape with just fragmented sounds. Jad Abumrad Little bits of Mema. Robert Krulwich Little bits of Mema in all kinds of random ways. Carl Zimmer Maybe she gave you eight or nine tapes. Jad Abumrad And somehow he says it all starts to kind of get into a network where this one filters that one and that one filters the other one and the other one filters that ninth one. Carl Zimmer And out of all of that comes grandma comes the song. Robert Krulwich The song of a living regular organism. Carl Zimmer Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich A Mema literally I mean grandmas are made from chaos. Carl Zimmer I love that. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Carl Zimmer Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich You say mm-hmm  like it was almost like that seems like a miracle. That one evening it stands up and walks. Carl Zimmer See the thing is you have hit ... I mean we are talking about something that scientists do not understand yet. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich Hmm. Carl Zimmer So I do not have ... So there is not a ... If you want to have a part of this show where you say and this people is how it all works- Jad Abumrad Cannot do that. Carl Zimmer No. Jad Abumrad But heres the thing if you want to get fruity about this you could say and I put this to Carl that if all the way down at the bottom of us there is this fuzz that cannot be predicted then in some sense we are free to be whatever we want. Carl Zimmer Hmm well you know ... Jad Abumrad I mean look I can sit here and concentrate and I can think any thought I want to right now. Carl Zimmer Any thought? Jad Abumrad Sure. Carl Zimmer But you cannot think about a poem from second century China. Jad Abumrad True. Robert Krulwich Do you think that he ... Could you make an equivalence between lose mechanics and sense of freedom? Carl Zimmer Well you know I mean does the sloppiness and the floppiness of a protein clamping on to your DNA scale up to what you are going to be when you grow up? Jad Abumrad On Radio Lab yes. Carl Zimmer Okay. All right. Well here we are then. Hello this is Carl Zimmer. Radio Lab is produced by Soren Wheeler and Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Ellen Horne Lulu Miller and Dean Gapello. Little Ling Li With help from Jennifer Matson Michael Raphael Anne Heathermen Johnathon Mitchell Amanda Aryanczyck Charles Chilling Emma Jacobs Al Litskin and Ike Vizcantaraja. The last one is ... How do you pronounce this word? Carl Zimmer The Stochasticity theme song was created by Josh Kurts and Shane Winter. Special thanks to Little Ling Li and Mema. Little Ling Li Visit Radio Lab online at Radiolab.org where you can comment on this show ask random questions and hear the entire Stochasticity theme song. Anyways this is Little Ling. Thank you bye. 