                    Wait you are listening ...                     Okay?                     All right.                     Okay?                     All right.                     You are ...                     Listening ...                     To Radiolab.                     Radiolab.                     From ...                     WNY ...                     C!                     C?                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Three two one. Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab and today we have a legal case. Robert Krulwich          Well it is actually it is really more than just a legal case. Lisa Lerman                 This case it is what my husband and I refer to as a mental magnet. Once you start thinking about it it will not go away. It gets under your skin. Robert Krulwich          This is Lisa Lerman. Lisa Lerman                 I am a law professor at Catholic University. Robert Krulwich          At the Columbus School of Law where she teaches legal ethics and she sat down not too long ago with me and our producer Brenna Farrell who brought us this story and under whose skin it also seems to have gotten. Brenna Farrell             Yeah it just made me not know whether to side with my head or my heart. Jad Abumrad               And let me just jump in and say this episode contains some violence and explicit imagery in it. So if you are listening with kids you just know that going in and you might want to skip this one. Brenna Farrell             So to get this story started ... Jim Tracy                     Sure. Brenna Farrell             Jim Tracy. Jim Tracy                     My name's Jim Tracy and I am an award-winning journalist. Brenna Farrell             Former newspaper guy ... Jim Tracy                     For the Post-Star in Glens Falls. Brenna Farrell             He is been reporting on this story since about 2000. He is interviewed hundreds of people and I think the reason he is been so focused on it is that it is pretty close to home for him. Jim Tracy                     I live in the foothills of the Adirondacks. Brenna Farrell             Which is where this story begins. Jim Tracy                     So Saturday night July 28th 1973 four young people ... Brenna Farrell             Ages 18 to 23 ... Jim Tracy                     Three men and a woman go camping in the Adirondacks. Pulled off the road a side road off Route 30. They made up a makeshift campsite. It was a grass clearing they set up two tents and went to sleep for the night. And on Sunday they woke up and about 9 AM ... Brenna Farrell             Two of the campers ... Jim Tracy                     Heard somebody walking outside their tent. And all of a sudden they heard the zipper on the tent go up. Brenna Farrell             And what they saw was this middle-aged man peering into the tent. Jim Tracy                     Who looked like a conservation officer. He had a fedora with a feather on it sunglasses a rifle. He had a buck knife binoculars around his neck. And very calmly he told them almost politely to step out of their tent which they did. Brenna Farrell             He got the other two campers. He got all four of them rounded up together and they were kind of standing in a semicircle. Jim Tracy                     And then the man cocked the gun and said Listen I have killed before and I will kill again. I am going to take your gas. I do not want to get caught so I am going to tie you to trees. Brenna Farrell             And he started marching the kids off into the woods. Jim Tracy                     Took them into the woods near a brook in pairs of two with him behind them. The kids of course were scared out of their wits. Brenna Farrell             He pulled out some ropes. Jim Tracy                     Basically he had each of them tie themselves as he pointed the gun at them and then the last one he tied. Jim Tracy                     So after he had the four people tied he went back to the first boy 18-year-old Philip Domblewski and ... Brenna Farrell             Because the other three kids were spread out through the forest they could not really see what was happening. Jim Tracy                     But they could hear clearly and they heard vomiting sounds and then they heard Philip's voice get really high and they knew something was happening something bad was happening to him. Brenna Farrell             What was happening was the man was stabbing Domblewski with his buck knife. He stabbed him five times in the chest. Jim Tracy                     And when this happened the three of them in their panic were able to break loose and start running. Nick Fiorello ran to his car. Carol Ann Malinowski ran through the woods. But the man caught one of them David Freeman. He took the boy back to the campsite and he had him lay down in a ditch next to him. Brenna Farrell             To kind of monitor the situation I guess. Jim Tracy                     So Freeman and the killer are laying in a ditch ... Brenna Farrell             And after about an hour ... Jim Tracy                     The men come. Brenna Farrell             Men that the other two campers the ones who had gotten away had managed to alert. Jim Tracy                     Locals that knew the area they came with rifles and all of a sudden they spotted them ... Brenna Farrell             The killer and Freeman ... Jim Tracy                     Laying down in the ditch and when they did Freeman got up and ran towards the men screaming for help saying He is got a gun he is going to shoot! Brenna Farrell             And the man with the gun just kind of stood up. Jim Tracy                     And calmly and coolly walked into the forest. And thus began- Brenna Farrell             What was at the time- Jim Tracy                     The largest manhunt in state history.                   Here this morning at about 30 you can see a state police car is parked almost as far up the road as you can see. Jim Tracy                     When the manhunt commenced on Monday morning ...                   Many deputies and state police standing by. Jim Tracy                     It was a scene like had never been seen before up there.                   Today we have broken down our manpower into roving patrols ... Jim Tracy                     Men armed with all kinds of weapons rifles shotguns bloodhounds.                   That are traveling trails. Jim Tracy                     Helicopters.                   And it is a waiting game right now. Jim Tracy                     By Monday or Tuesday they had 200 men on the case.                   Waiting to flush the fugitive out of the woods. Brenna Farrell             They eventually find the man's car and they are able to run the license plate and it comes back with an ID. Jim Tracy                     A 37-year-old ...                   Robert Garrow ... Jim Tracy                     Robert Francis Garrow Sr. of Syracuse New York.                   Is the fugitive police are looking for today. Jim Tracy                     He was an ex convict. Brenna Farrell             He would been in prison for rape served seven years. Jim Tracy                     Now armed with a .30-30 rifle and knife and this story was on every TV station CBS ABC and NBC. So by Tuesday ...                   How do you feel at night when ... Jim Tracy                     People got panicked.                   When you are all alone?                   Well when I am at night the doors are sure locked. Jim Tracy                     People loaded their rifles they locked their doors for the first time and ...                   We have noticed a lot of people leaving around here. Jim Tracy                     People left the area so fast ...                   A lot of them cleared out last night and the day before. Jim Tracy                     That they left their tents up they left barbecues smoldering they left behind coolers. Brenna Farrell             So as the manhunt dragged on ... Jim Tracy                     What happened was Garrow was able to use those camps and that food and those drinks to survive. Brenna Farrell             Day after day. Jim Tracy                     The manhunt it is about 400 men now. Brenna Farrell             The police follow a lead that he had stolen a car and he had been sighted and they are kind of closing in on him. Jim Tracy                     And then ... Brenna Farrell             Day 12. Jim Tracy                     Thursday August 9th 1973 very very hot day one of the hottest of the summer. Brenna Farrell             That day a conservation officer named Hillary LeBlanc spotted Garrow. He said Freeze or Drop your gun something to that effect. And Garrow started running. Jim Tracy                     LeBlanc fired four times. Brenna Farrell             Got him in the back the arm and the foot. Jim Tracy                     Garrow went down once got back up and kept running. Brenna Farrell             They end up chasing through the forest. Jim Tracy                     Found a blood trail and just in a very short time they saw Garrow and he was laying down in the mud. Brenna Farrell             Not moving. And so they thought he might be dead. Jim Tracy                     Because he was just laying there. But they took his pulse and everything and he was certainly alive. Brenna Farrell             So they put him in an ambulance and they rush him to the nearest hospital in Plattsburgh. And according to Jim a couple of cops go with him. They are grilling him the whole time because they think that he might have been responsible for an additional murder and for a girl who is gone missing. But he would not talk. Brenna Farrell             And it is at this point that the story that I am interested in really gets started. It is known as the Buried Bodies Case. Lisa Lerman                 And I think one of the things that is so fascinating about this case ... Brenna Farrell             This is law professor Lisa Lerman again. Lisa Lerman                 Is the conflict between what a good lawyer should do and what a good person should do in this situation. Simon Adler                Okay and we are recording. Brenna Farrell             So the guy at the center of this conflict... Lisa Lerman                 Was a man named Frank Armani. Jim Tracy                     Frank H. Armani. Brenna Farrell             Hello. I am Brenna. Jim Tracy                     He is a lawyer in Syracuse. Mary Armani               I never know whether to pronounce it Armani or . Brenna Farrell             That is Mary Armani Frank's wife. Mary Armani               In our area in  they use Armeni but it is Armani. Brenna Farrell             Couple of months ago producer Simon Adler and I went up to visit them. They live right outside of Syracuse New York. Mr. Armani is now in his eighties he is retired. frank armani                My name is Frank Armani and I was the attorney for Robert Garrow. Brenna Farrell             I would love to have you start wherever you would like. How did this whole story start for you? frank armani                Well when you ... Brenna Farrell             So just to give a bit of background Mr. Armani told me that when he was a kid he got picked on for a couple different reasons and he said he was always the guy that would not walk away. frank armani                I was a fighter I liked fights. Physical fights. I liked standing up for the little guy. Brenna Farrell             And that is partly why he became an attorney. frank armani                When you are fighting a case for a defendant you are fighting the state and tyranny. Brenna Farrell             And he was doing really well. He was well-respected had a good reputation. But then he met Robert Garrow. frank armani                Yeah. Black hair strong man. To take him out you would need a .45. And I just had that feeling that this guy is dangerous and a lot of things are going to happen. Brenna Farrell             This is a year before the manhunt 1972 Frank remembers he represented him at first on two pretty small things. One- frank armani                One a school teacher had assaulted his child he wanted to sue the school and I talked him out of it. And then he had an automobile accident I represented him on that. Brenna Farrell             But then pretty quickly it gets dark. frank armani                Yeah. Brenna Farrell             Garrow was charged with trying to kidnap two college kids. That case got dismissed but then ... frank armani                He got picked up for molesting some young girls kids. Brenna Farrell             Two very young girls age 10 and 11. Garrow was released on bail. He skipped his court date and just disappeared. And then we pick up where we left off. The murder the manhunt and on August 9th the night Garrow got captured Frank gets a call from Garrow's wife. frank armani                Telling me that he wanted to talk to me. Brenna Farrell             He wanted Armani to represent him. Lisa Lerman                 My impression is that Armani did not want to do it. frank armani                In my mind I am saying What the hell do I want to get involved with this you know for? Lisa Lerman                 He had never handled a murder charge. frank armani                Full trial murder case no. Lisa Lerman                 He did not know how. Brenna Farrell             The problem was- Lisa Lerman                 Garrow would not talk to any lawyer except for Armani. frank armani                He looked at me as his attorney. Brenna Farrell             So Armani eventually decides to go and talk to the judge who would been assigned to the case and the judge is basically like We have an obligation to provide the counsel that this guy wants so I mean unless you have a good reason why you cannot do it I want to appoint you his public defender. And Armani agrees and so at that point he has to defend Garrow. frank armani                Yeah. Jim Tracy                     So. Brenna Farrell             This is reporter Jim Tracy again. Jim Tracy                     Armani decides to elicit a man named Francis Belge. frank armani                We ski together. Jim Tracy                     His friend. frank armani                Our families picnic together. Jim Tracy                     To help him with this case as co-counsel. frank armani                Because I felt I needed support. Jim Tracy                     Belge was the top criminal defense lawyer in central New York. frank armani                I needed someone with brains and guts. Brenna Farrell             So Armani goes to talk to Belge. Jim Tracy                     He kind of resembled Mickey Mantle. Blond hair blue eyes good looking. frank armani                I told him I says I just need backup. That is it. He is like No. Jim Tracy                     It was a lose-lose case. frank armani                There is no money in it. Jim Tracy                     You know the prosecution had three eyeball witnesses they had his car at the scene of the crime and they had his two-week flight. He was guilty. frank armani                And I said come on. Brenna Farrell             I am not going to try to prove he did not do it. frank armani                I wanted to go on an insanity defense. Brenna Farrell             Maybe Garrow murdered this kid. Jim Tracy                     But maybe it was because he had temporarily gone insane. Brenna Farrell             Maybe he is crazy. Jim Tracy                     He really believes this. frank armani                I am telling you about my theory. Brenna Farrell             And on top of that Armani tells him ... frank armani                I says This is going to be a big case. Brenna Farrell             If we pull this off. frank armani                We are made. Brenna Farrell             It would take Belge a while but eventually ... frank armani                He says I am in Frank. Jim Tracy                     Now we are into late August 1973. frank armani                So we went up to the hospital. Brenna Farrell             When they got there they went up to Garrow's room up on the fifth floor of the hospital. Police are standing guard. They walked into the room. frank armani                And I had not seen him in a while. We greeted each other and we talked. Brenna Farrell             And just to picture this Jim told me that the room they put Garrow in was what he described as a training observation room which meant that it had this big window that ran alongside Garrow's bed. Jim Tracy                     So they could keep an eye on him. Brenna Farrell             And the cops are stationed right outside just watching. And according to Jim and I should say I have heard differing accounts about this but apparently the cops had brought in a lip reader to try to see what Garrow was saying. Jad Abumrad               Wow. Robert Krulwich          Wait a second I do not think you can do that right? I mean that is not legal. Brenna Farrell             Yeah I think that is probably not okay. But from the cops' perspective they think that he is involved in a recent murder and a missing girl and they think that girl could still be alive. So they want to know absolutely anything they can that is going to get them closer to solving that murder and finding that girl. Brenna Farrell             But at the same time the defendant has to be able to share absolutely everything with the lawyers and know that they are in that safe space of that relationship. Lisa Lerman                 Because we have Sixth Amendment right to counsel and the Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate oneself. frank armani                If he cannot freely speak to his attorney then you have no real justice system. Brenna Farrell             And Armani and Belge they need as much information about what Garrow has done as they possibly can get so they can start to build their defense. frank armani                I do not like surprises. I am the kind that wants to know everything. Jad Abumrad               Wow so as a lawyer you are in a strange spot here. Brenna Farrell             Mm-hmm . He needed to get from Garrow his story and it needed to be just them he did not want the cops in on it yet. frank armani                And you do not know if there are taps in the room or what. Jim Tracy                     So they turn up the TV turn up the fans. frank armani                But he was playing games you know. Jim Tracy                     He would talk basically about anything but the cases. Kept saying he could not remember he could not remember. Brenna Farrell             And they are trying to convince him you have got to talk to us if you are going to have any shot. frank armani                It is like a lynch mob out there. Brenna Farrell             The police pretty much have you cold there is witnesses. And Garrow knew he could be going to prison he could be going to prison for a long time. Lisa Lerman                 Maybe 25 to life. Brenna Farrell             And a pedophile in prison? frank armani                You have to be careful. Brenna Farrell             Things can get rough. But they tell him if you talk to us maybe we can get you ... Lisa Lerman                 Not guilty by reason of insanity. frank armani                That was our only defense. Lisa Lerman                 To help get Garrow into a mental hospital instead of a prison that was the goal. Brenna Farrell             So if you have anything to say ... frank armani                Say it now. Brenna Farrell             It took several conversations to get Garrow to this point but finally ... Jim Tracy                     Garrow poured his soul out. Brenna Farrell             At this point it was just Belge in the room and he told him yes he had killed Domblewski and he had also killed other people too. Lisa Lerman                 And the episodes when Garrow killed people seemed to have followed like a pattern. He would get these intense headaches and become psychotic and do horrible things. Brenna Farrell             When it came to the details ... Lisa Lerman                 He tended to not remember. Brenna Farrell             But then Garrow mentions two particular girls. Lisa Lerman                 Who were then missing and whose parents had no idea where they were. Jim Tracy                     21-year-old Susan Petz and another girl 16-year-old Alicia Hauck. Brenna Farrell             Susan Petz was from Chicago she is the girl I mentioned earlier. The cops were already looking for her hoping that Garrow might have some information. Earlier that summer her boyfriend had been found murdered the two of them had been camping and Susan had been gone ever since. Alicia Hauck she was a high school girl from Syracuse. She had gone missing just a couple of days before Susan. Everybody thought she might have just run away. But ... Lisa Lerman                 Garrow told the lawyers that he had killed them and where he had left their bodies. One odd thing about Garrow's description of the incidents he does not say I killed her. He says She got stabbed with my knife. Robert Krulwich          She got stabbed with my knife. Brenna Farrell             Like it was not even him doing the stabbing. Lisa Lerman                 Right. Robert Krulwich          Huh. Like this is ... What do you do? Brenna Farrell             Well first and foremost you have to ask yourself is this true? Lisa Lerman                 You know your client is obviously severely mentally ill. This could be a dream he had it could be a delusion. Brenna Farrell             If you are going to go and craft an argument and present a strategy you need to know what actually happened. Belge walks out the door he grabs Frank and he says ... frank armani                He says Let us go. Brenna Farrell             So they slip outside they get in the car and ... frank armani                We take off. Lisa Lerman                 To go look for the bodies. Garrow told the lawyers that Susan Petz was in an air vent of a closed-up mine shaft. frank armani                The mine is up in Mineville. Brenna Farrell             About an hour south of the hospital. frank armani                Up in the Adirondacks there. Simon Adler                And in that moment were you scared? Were you excited? frank armani                Both. You are up high it is a high but you are scared. You are concerned you have fear. You are a fool if you do not. Brenna Farrell             In fact at one point looking in the rear view mirror they got a little spooked. frank armani                We thought we were being followed by the state police. Brenna Farrell             So eventually they pull over get out of the car. frank armani                And went into one bar. Lisa Lerman                 Where one of Francis Belge's lady friends was hanging out. Brenna Farrell             For about 30 minutes Belge talked to her. Then he asked if he could borrow her car. frank armani                And then we went out the back door and took off. Lisa Lerman                 Driving the lady friend's car. frank armani                To try to lose any tails. Brenna Farrell             And so they got back on the highway and they drove through the Adirondacks until finally they get here.                   This may be as far as we are going to go. Brenna Farrell             That is okay we can walk.                   Yeah. Brenna Farrell             Up to this old abandoned mine.                   I am going to have to back out. Brenna Farrell             Yeah. Brenna Farrell             We went out there last February with reporter Lohr McKinstry and the town supervisor of Mariah Tom Scozzafava. Brenna Farrell             So is this a road that goes to the mine? What is ...                   Yeah to the mines. Brenna Farrell             It was this sort of hilly area off the side of the road. Brenna Farrell             Is this a trail that we are on or are you just ... Brenna Farrell             It was very icy that day.                   This here? This used to be an old roadway. Brenna Farrell             We are walking up a very wooded hill. It was fairly steep there were no leaves and all the trees were black and very skeletal.                   We are walking right in the same area that Armani and ... This is the only way they could have came in here. Brenna Farrell             It is right up this hill? frank armani                So.                   Yeah. frank armani                Here we are in our Sunday suits and here we go trudging through the forest looking for the cave. We spent a lot of hours looking around. frank armani                And then ... We found this air vent. Brenna Farrell             Wow.                   You see the air shaft there? Brenna Farrell             They find this air shaft which is just a hole in the ground a couple feet across that shoots up from down in the depths of the mine. Brenna Farrell             Oh be careful. This is giving me such ...                   Yeah you do not want to slide down in there. Lisa Lerman                 And so they could not see anything down the hole so Frank Armani lay down on the ground at the edge of the mine shaft. Brenna Farrell             He is got a flashlight that he takes out. frank armani                And then Belge held my feet and let me down in there. Lisa Lerman                 And as Frank got lowered down into the hole ... frank armani                I could see her sneak. A blue shoe. Brenna Farrell             A blue sneaker? frank armani                Yeah. Brenna Farrell             And a leg. frank armani                I said to myself The son of a bitch did it. Brenna Farrell             And he yells back up to Belge ... frank armani                Get me out of here. Pull me back up. Brenna Farrell             Eventually Belge found the other body Alicia Hauck's body. She was in a cemetery where Garrow had said he would left her. But Armani was not there when Belge found her. Lisa Lerman                 So what ensued was a very long struggle where the lawyers tried to figure out what to do with the information about the bodies of these girls. Brenna Farrell             Yeah let us play that out. What are your options? Lisa Lerman                 Sure. So option one we have got to call the police. We have got to tell the prosecutor. These are missing kids we are the only ones who know should not we just call the police? Brenna Farrell             Right. frank armani                No you cannot. You just cannot. We took an oath to keep the confidences of our client. Lisa Lerman                 Under the current rules which have developed quite a bit since the time this happened anything that is related to the representation of a client is under the confidentiality umbrella. So you are not supposed to tell anybody except to prevent reasonably certain death or substantial bodily harm. Robert Krulwich          That will be that can be or will be. Lisa Lerman                 Yeah right. So in this situation the two girls are dead. Then there is no future crime it is over. It is done. Robert Krulwich          And even if the parents of the missing girls in question are frightened and waking up when even if they have hired detectives and even if the local police are combing the woods and the taxpayers are paying for that but there is no ... If the people are already dead then the law is shh. Lisa Lerman                 That is right. Brenna Farrell             It is a really tough job to be a defense lawyer. You have a very particular part to play you have a role and that role is not what you think as a person is good and right and what you would do for your friend or your family member in that situation. What your role is is to play this part of a system in which you are the one who stands up for the guy that everybody else hates. Brenna Farrell             Even if everybody hates you even if maybe you hate yourself a little bit you have to do your job and that job is to be in the role of the person that fights as hard as they can for their client. Lisa Lerman                 The lawyer is the agent of his client. Robert Krulwich          Only? Only the agent or also a citizen and a part of the justice system and there is a double murder here and families seeking to find out what happened. He now knows what happens. Lisa Lerman                 Right. Robert Krulwich          Is not there a weight here building on the side of tell? Just tell. Tell. frank armani                Of course yes and I knew Mr. Hauck from bowling because his other daughter and my daughter were in the same class and I knew him from church and whatnot yeah. You would have to be an animal not to feel the anguish of the parents of the family. And yet you have your duty as a lawyer. frank armani                You are caught between your two moralities. Robert Krulwich          So now what does he do? Jad Abumrad               Coming up that hard spot gets even harder. Robert Krulwich          We will be right back. Lizzie                           Hi this is Lizzie from Arlington Texas. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad               Okay hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab and now we should get back to our story from producer Brenna Farrell. And when we left it they were where they were stuck right? They knew this thing. Robert Krulwich          They knew the client was very guilty of something. Jad Abumrad               They had found the bodies of these two girls and ... Robert Krulwich          Now kind of ... what is their next move? Brenna Farrell             Well so they decided to- frank armani                Plea bargain. Brenna Farrell             Plea bargain. Lisa Lerman                 To take this information to the prosecutor and say- Brenna Farrell             I have information that will help you solve some cases. Robert Krulwich          Some cases. Brenna Farrell             Yes. Lisa Lerman                 And in exchange- Brenna Farrell             I want you to give me a better deal for my client. Lisa Lerman                 To get Garrow into a mental hospital instead of a prison. Robert Krulwich          Oh so right away they are going to use this as leverage. Lisa Lerman                 That was the idea. frank armani                Yeah. You are going to give a little and you are going to take a little. Robert Krulwich          Well that is kind of gross no? Brenna Farrell             Yeah he is trying to get a better deal for this murderer. But I mean if you think about it from Frank's perspective he is got this information. As a person he does not want to have to keep that secret so if he plea bargains then that is a way for him to get some closure for the family because he can give the information to the prosecution but he is also not selling out his client. Jim Tracy                     So. Brenna Farrell             Reporter Jim Tracy again. Jim Tracy                     They called a meeting with Henry McCabe. Brenna Farrell             Investigator from the state police. Jim Tracy                     Detective McCabe and the district attorney at Armani's office. And when they met Armani and Belge search the briefcase of the D.A. and the investigator to make sure they were not wearing a bug. Brenna Farrell             Because they are paranoid there is going to be a wiretap or some sort of bug. And then Belge presents the deal. He says listen I have got information on two bodies. I want you to agree to put my client in a mental institution instead of sending him off to prison. Brenna Farrell             And the prosecutor apparently very quickly puts two and two together and immediately thought Holy shit are you talking about Susan and Alicia like these are the two girls that we are most concerned about we think they are alive. And Belge said I am not telling you anything unless we have a deal. Jim Tracy                     Both the D.A. and the investigator thought that the lawyers were absolutely ludicrous. They thought they had lost their mind. Brenna Farrell             Like are you kidding me? Are you trying to get a better sentence for a murderer by offering his murder victims? Jad Abumrad               Are you seriously bargaining with people's lives. Brenna Farrell             Yeah. Lisa Lerman                 But also I am sure that the prosecutor knew that this was doubtless the highest-profile case that would ever come to him. Brenna Farrell             And so as the prosecutor you are not going to look so good if you give a deal to this reprehensible man. Lisa Lerman                 No. frank armani                Well what the hell's the difference? He is going to get life no matter what. How many times you want to give him life? Jim Tracy                     But the meeting only lasted like five minutes. frank armani                It went nowhere. Brenna Farrell             The deal collapses completely. Jim Tracy                     And to back up a little ways- Brenna Farrell             When that deal fell apart that was actually that was particularly devastating for Armani because just the day before ... Jim Tracy                     Susan Petz's father- Brenna Farrell             Had flown in from Chicago. Jim Tracy                     To Syracuse. frank armani                I remember Mr. Petz coming to my office. Jim Tracy                     And he said Could I meet with you and talk to you? And Armani agreed to it. Brenna Farrell             So he comes in he takes a seat. Jim Tracy                     And he asked him father to father ... Brenna Farrell             Is there anything you can tell me about my daughter? The papers think that Garrow probably had something to do with her disappearance is there anything at all that he is told you that can help me? frank armani                But I could not tell him anything. Brenna Farrell             And Armani just ... He says- frank armani                No. Brenna Farrell             I cannot tell you there is nothing I can tell you. frank armani                I remember trying to assure him that look I have got a meeting set up. Brenna Farrell             All he can say is it is with state investigators and the prosecutor on the case. frank armani                They could have some information for you. Trying to give him hope that we would bring it to a conclusion. I thought we would but we did not. Brenna Farrell             So then when Mr. Petz leaves Mr. Armani he loses it. He threw a bunch of books. frank armani                I think I threw my phone. Brenna Farrell             Basically just you know destroyed his office. frank armani                Just trying to relieve my ... That I could not help the man. Brenna Farrell             Because he is looking right at this man knowing exactly ... Well imagining what he is going through. Armani had lost a brother. frank armani                Yes. He was much younger he was four years younger than me. Brenna Farrell             He was an Air Force pilot. frank armani                He had three kids. Brenna Farrell             And in 1962 his plane went down and he was lost at sea. So after that Armani said his mother she would be up at night crying she would go to bed at night- frank armani                And my mother would wake up screaming The fish are eating him. You know she could not ever recover from it. Brenna Farrell             Because you cannot you do not really know but you know. frank armani                It is ... I can understand it. Brenna Farrell             And that is partly why this was so hard for Armani because when that plea deal fell apart that was his chance to try to get this information to the families. When the plea fell through he did not have any other options for sharing that information. He was stuck. Jad Abumrad               What ... So what happens next? Brenna Farrell             So they have to go to trial and that means that Armani and Belge have to knuckle down to try to present an insanity defense. Meanwhile Armani he said he could not sleep he was having nightmares. frank armani                Wake up 30 in the morning with the sweat running down your back. Brenna Farrell             Go sit at the kitchen table drinking coffee and just waiting for the morning paper to come because he was just alone with it. He was alone with this secret and he knew at that moment the police are trying to find these girls. He knows that the parents are holding out hope that they might still be alive. frank armani                You are questioning yourself very ... You are hurting people so you begin to wonder Am I in the right profession? You are looking for a way to get the information out. You know we will make an anonymous call. Brenna Farrell             Did you ever think of that? frank armani                Sure. Brenna Farrell             And why did not you? frank armani                Well if I am going to do it I am going to do it openly you know? I do not know. Robert Krulwich          Did he ever break? Brenna Farrell             No. According to him no. frank armani                You know in my mind I was doing what I thought was the proper ethical legal moral moral thing to do. Brenna Farrell             And then in December of 1973 five months after the girls disappear their bodies happen to be discovered within two weeks of each other. Susan's body is discovered by two kids who were playing up in the mines. Alicia I guess I think a student from Syracuse University which is right next door to the cemetery is walking through and stumbles upon her and so she is discovered then too. Jim Tracy                     And then- Brenna Farrell             Six months later. Jim Tracy                     In the summer of 1974. Sharon Smith               Opening day of the trial might be one of the most significant even though ... Brenna Farrell             Robert Garrow's trial. Jim Tracy                     For the murder of Phil Domblewski. Brenna Farrell             Begins. Sharon Smith               Robert Garrow's primary line of defense will apparently be not guilty by reason of insanity. Brenna Farrell             So in order to make that case what they decide to do is to put Garrow on the stand. frank armani                And just get the facts. Jim Tracy                     And Garrow would tell his whole life story. frank armani                To shock the jury's mind. Jim Tracy                     Including all these murders and all these rapes. frank armani                To see that at the time he was nuts. Sharon Smith               Sharon Smith Channel 6 News in Lake Pleasant. Brenna Farrell             So the trial opens the courtroom is jam-packed. Prosecution starts they have a really good case they have got a good lawyer from Syracuse that joined to help the guy from Hamilton County and then it is the time for the defense to start their case. Brenna Farrell             So Belge stands up and he calls his first witness Robert Garrow to the stand. Garrow gets on the stand and he starts telling his life story and it is horrible. Severe beatings and abused by his parents. Very little education he basically gets sent off to a farm to work like as an indentured servant when he is seven slaughtering bulls when he is eight years old weird stuff like that. He starts drinking blood having sex with the animals and then he starts admitting to a series of rapes throughout his adult life. Brenna Farrell             And he admits to killing Alicia and Susan. And what happens next nobody's quite sure if it was a slip-up or if maybe it was on purpose but when Garrow's talking about Susan Petz Belge says Is that the one I found? Jad Abumrad               Is that the one I found? Brenna Farrell             Mm-hmm . Jim Tracy                     So the cat was out of the bag then. Brenna Farrell             The next day Belge and Armani hold a press conference to try to explain why they had not told anyone.                   Today in a surprise announcement Robert Garrow's defense attorney- Brenna Farrell             Because they had this duty to protect their client's secrets.                   ... Said they knew the body was here and they had seen it. Jim Tracy                     But. Brenna Farrell             Everyone is disgusted. Jim Tracy                     There was columns written editorials written letters to the editor.                   There is just no way in the world you are going to convince your average non-lawyer- Jim Tracy                     Everybody turned against them.                   ... That this is anything short of shabby subversion of the law and of justice. Brenna Farrell             Pretty soon one of the prosecutors let out that Armani and Belge had actually tried to use these dead girls as leverage for Garrow. Jim Tracy                     The headlines in the Syracuse papers would say Bodies used as pawns in a game of law. frank armani                It was bedlam. Brenna Farrell             Armani was getting death threats in the mail. frank armani                Then I would get these crazy phone calls. Brenna Farrell             People calling saying stuff like How can you live with yourself I am going to kill you. frank armani                We are going to get you. Brenna Farrell             At one point he finds a dead fish in his car. His wife finds an unlit Molotov cocktail in the backyard he started to carry a- frank armani                Pistol on my back. Brenna Farrell             He kept a shotgun in the car he kept one in the house. frank armani                So we could sleep. That was the worst moment of my life. I had some horrible thoughts. I had some horrible thoughts. Brenna Farrell             June 27th Robert Garrow is convicted for the murder of Philip Domblewski. He is given the maximum sentence he is given 25 years to life in a maximum-security prison. Brenna Farrell             How did that feel? Were you- frank armani                Relief you know. It is over with. Brenna Farrell             But then-                   It is up to the grand jury itself in their investigation to determine which charges they should bring against the two attorneys. Brenna Farrell             Pretty soon after the verdict Armani and Belge learn that they could be facing criminal charges. No one's really sure exactly what those might be but it could be something like tampering with evidence obstruction of justice or-                   The state's public health law and provision that says that a body must be given a quick and decent burial. Brenna Farrell             And on top of that ...                   One of the cutting questions and the one that has raised the greatest amount of controversy is the one over the attorney-client privilege. Brenna Farrell             There was an ethical complaint filed against Armani and Belge. So basically they were then facing disbarment. And the investigation into the ethical complaint that would drag on several years. Jim Tracy                     Belge started drinking heavily abandoned his law practice and moved to Florida. Armani toughed it out but he suffered. Brenna Farrell             No one wanted him as a lawyer anymore. frank armani                I was thinking about What else can I do to make a living? Brenna Farrell             He was just barely getting by for a little while I think. frank armani                All the distress and pressure you know takes its toll. Brenna Farrell             In fact he has a heart attack while this is all going on. Brenna Farrell             But eventually the criminal charges are dropped and the ethical complaint is dismissed and the reason in the opinion of the court and the state bar is that what Belge and Armani did was right. What they did was good. Lisa Lerman                 Exactly. Brenna Farrell             According to the law. Lisa Lerman                 And my view is Frank Armani is a real-life hero. I always say you know people so admire Atticus Finch and the difference between Atticus Finch and Frank Armani is that Armani is a real person. Brenna Farrell             And Lisa told me about this panel she organized back in 2007. It was for the American Bar Association a big conference on professional responsibility. Lisa Lerman                 And there were about 400 people in the room. Brenna Farrell             Most of them lawyers and they were there to watch onstage the featured speaker Frank Armani. Lisa Lerman                 And it was a love feast. Brenna Farrell             What does that feel like and did you ever think you would get to that point when you were in the midst of the hardest parts? frank armani                No. Never dreamed that ... I do not think I was a hero I just was a lawyer that did his job. I mean I was a good lawyer at least I thought so.                   All right everybody this is Brenna Farrell. Brenna Farrell             And now over 40 years later this case-                   Let us talk about- Brenna Farrell             ... and what Armani and Belge did ...                   The Dead Bodies Case. Brenna Farrell             It is taught in law schools across the country. Lisa Lerman                 Everybody teaches the case. It is like a touchstone.                   What do people think what do people think? Brenna Farrell             So I went to a couple of classes. I went to one legal ethics class and I also went to a criminal defense class here in New York that was being taught at Fordham.                   Want to just stand up.                   I agree. His duty is to his client he represents his client's best interests- Brenna Farrell             And in sitting in on these classes and then talking to law professors I think one of the reasons that this case is taught so widely is because professors can point it they can point to a real human being at the center of a really tough legal situation and they can say In this situation this is what a lawyer should do. This is what a lawyer should be. Brenna Farrell             So from the moment I started thinking about this story I always wanted to talk to the families involved which proved really difficult. I wrote letters to both families and I made a bunch of phone calls and understandably no one wanted to talk to me. But eventually I did start corresponding with a family member of one of the victims. And she initially did not want to go on the record but we emailed and after a few phone calls she ended up changing her mind and decided that she did want to go on the record. Roberta Petz               Okay all right. Brenna Farrell             Yeah so. Brenna Farrell             With me on a phone call. Brenna Farrell             Would you mind just telling us who you are your name and introduction? Roberta Petz               Okay. Okay I am Roberta Petz and I am Susan's mother. Brenna Farrell             Susan was the girl from Chicago she was a college student who would gone missing while she was camping with her boyfriend and she is who Armani and Belge found in the mine. Brenna Farrell             You know as I have explained before my interest really in this story has to do with the fact that it seems that it is become sort of a key part of how a lot of legal ethics classes talk about the concept of confidentiality and so I sort of wanted to just start with that idea to ask if that is something that you knew that law schools were teaching and if you had any feelings or thoughts about that. Roberta Petz               I had no idea that this was being taught in law schools and I am pretty horrified to think that this is what is considered to be correct. Because I do not think it is ethical at all and to think it is being taught as the right way to do things in an ethical class is totally incomprehensible to me. Brenna Farrell             And was the first that you would heard that it was being taught when I reached out to you? Roberta Petz               Yes. Brenna Farrell             It was. Roberta Petz               Yes you were the only in talking to you did I know that yes. Maybe they ought to think not only about the criminal who they are trying to defend but what about the victims? And I think that that should at least be an equal thought in their mind if not a greater consideration. Brenna Farrell             Did you have a feeling that you really were not taken into consideration as all of this was happening? Roberta Petz               Yes and only my husband and I when we first heard that she was missing we flew immediately in and went to the police station. And when we were there sitting with the policemen they received ... The policemen at the time that we were with received a phone call that Danny's ... my daughter's boyfriend his body was found. And that is all we knew and we never really had any updates and nobody told us what was going on and obviously there was no closure and it was just getting worse and worse. Roberta Petz               And then the only other time we were contacted by the police was or some authority I cannot even remember who was when my daughter's body was found like five months later. And in the meantime of course we were all going crazy. My father as a matter of fact even went so far as to contact a psychic. That is how important it was and how it was our entire lives during that period and as far as visiting the lawyer which my husband did it was a totally lie. The lawyer maybe he considered it to be ethical but what he was doing was lying to my husband and causing us more months of horror. Roberta Petz               And this is what is being taught in law schools. So anyway. Brenna Farrell             Just to try to be fair to everyone involved as far as I have encountered anyone law professors law students when they approach this it is with a lot of sensitivity and they are struggling with the pain. I think the instinct is to side with the families and to imagine what they went through but my feeling is that how could any of us possibly imagine that if we had not gone through it? And so I guess that is why I was hoping to talk to you to kind of let you have a chance to communicate some of that experience. Roberta Petz               Yeah well it is impossible to really communicate in words. I mean 40 years later I am still ... It is still a struggle to discuss this because it will never go away as long as I live so. Brenna Farrell             I do not know I guess ... I am wondering we have been talking a lot of sad stuff. I am wondering if there is anything you would like to say about Susan that does not have to do with any of this that you would want people to know? That you would want to share I do not ... You do not have to but ... Roberta Petz               Well what can I say. She did receive her degree posthumously. We did not go and pick it up at Boston University it was too difficult for us. And Danny who was her boyfriend had been just that summer and he had a full scholarship to Harvard and he had graduated just the year before. So two lives and I am sure the other two children had great futures ahead of them too and it is just a horrible tragedy. frank armani                It is ... It is horrible you know? To be in their position. To have to live through that I mean how do you relate losing your daughter you know? What excuse is there for it to protecting the person that killed her? There is no justification you could not justify it in my mind. I do not expect them to accept it. frank armani                But that is the way it is. Brenna Farrell             I am gonna get just a minute of silence up here if that is okay. Yeah. Brenna Farrell             Okay. I can hear the echoes of dogs down the mountain things tend to travel up the hill and kind of bounce around. That water I think it is from deeper down in there dripping I cannot tell where it is dripping everything up here is frozen solid so I am not sure what that is. But I think I am going to turn back around now. I sort of wish I would brought some flowers or something. Brenna Farrell             All right. Robert Krulwich          Thanks to our producers Brenna Farrell and Matt Kielty and to Jim Tracy who is currently writing a book about all this. The working title is Twisted Soul. Robert Krulwich          Thanks also to Tom Alibrandi author of Privileged Information with Frank Armani. Also to Laurence Gooley the author of Terror in the Adirondacks. Charl Bader and the students at Fordham University Leslie Levin and the students at the University of Connecticut School of Law. Clark D. Cunningham at Georgia State University's College of Law Debra Armani Brian Farrell Jennifer Brumback Nick Capodice and archive researcher Stephanie Jenkins.                   Start of message. Robert Krulwich          This is Beatrice Bastedo from Toronto Canada calling to read the credits. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is senior editor. Jamie York is our senior producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Brenna Farrell David Gebel Matt Kielty Rob Krulwich Annie McEwen Andy Mills Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Kelsey Padgett Arianne Wack and Molly Webster. Robert Krulwich          With help from Alexander  Stephanie Tam and . Our fact checkers are  and Michelle Harris. Thanks.                   End of message. 