 Jad Abumrad  Latif Nasser  Jason DeLeon  Donald Trump   Hey Im Jad Abumrad.   Im Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab.   And...lets just um lets just begin.   OK cool. So umm...   With our reporter and producer Latif Nasser.   I think the best place to begin it sounds like is in 2008.  Yeah I think that sounds about right.   So this is Jason DeLeon.   I am an associate professor of anthropology.   At the University of Michigan.   And I direct the undocumented migration project   But uh back in 2008 Jason had actually just finished grad school.   And my doctoral dissertation was on ancient stone tools.  MUSIC IN  Quote The lithic industries of San Lorenzo and Nochetitelon an economic and technological study   About as far removed as you can be from the stuff that Im doing right now.  Quote Using obsidian technological data from 11 domestic and non-domestic contexts.   Just to explain Jason was on his way to being an archaeologist so he would go out into the field do these digs in different parts of Mexico and find these little fragments of old stone tools   This study focuses primarily on percussion flake tools   Dating back to about 1000 BC   An industry that has often been ignored in mesoamerican lithic analyses   And then uh he would write these papers   I evaluate these models by comparing differences in the frequencies of various tool types   You know in these journals that just that really just a handful of people would read  News Clip Previous meso-american   But like many academics and I can say this because I was an academic  News Clip The study also finds that the introduction and adoption of prismatic blade Technology   He had this moment where he just kind of...hit the wall   Like okay this is enough Im not Im not doing this.   I want nothing to do with this anymore.      You know when I finish my dissertation I had really become kind of disillusioned with the work that I was doing.   And I had no idea what I was gonna do. I remember telling my wife at one pointI feel really bad. I feel like I have wasted the last ten years of my life doing archeology.   And to make matters worse   Id taken this job at University of Washington   Hed just gotten this job where he was supposed to teach the very thing hes was now sick of   Yeah. Uh just like uh just an exit...just a full-blown crisis.   But then uh fate stepped in. While Jason was preparing for one of his freshman classes someone handed him a book  By a writer named uh Luis Alberto Urrea called The Devil's The Devil's Highway.   Five men stumbled out of the mountain pass so sunstruck they did not know their own names could not remember where they had come from had forgotten how long they would been lost. One of them wandered back up a peak one of them was barefoot They were burned nearly black. Their lips huge and cracking.   So the Devils highway is actually well its a true story. Its the story of 26 men who came to the US hiking their way through the Arizona desert. Fourteen of them died along the way.   And so I start reading it and   Visions of home fluttered through their minds soft green bushes waterfalls children   it just shocked me I mean I knew a lot about the border. At least I thought I did I would grown up you know in South Texas my parents were immigrants but just like I could not believe that um that that you know that this was this is somebody's world.   They were drunk from having their brains baked in the pan. They were seeing God and devils.   Days and days of walking um running out of food.   And they were dizzy from drinking their own urine.   You know dying of thirst.   The poisons clogging their systems.   And at a certain point Jason comes across this passage where the author is describing  The things that were in these mens pockets.   Belt buckle with a fighting cock inlaid. One wallet in a right front pocket of his jeans.   You know some change some keys a silver belt buckle.   Fake silver watch one comb.   Um you know these personal effects   Green handkerchief.   And he is trying to reconstruct the story about who these men were that died from from from exposure.   John Doe number 42. Pure jeans. Colored piece of paper in pocket.   Jason says when he read that book a lightbulb went on   And so I bought a plane ticket and a month later I was in the Arizona desert.  MUSIC IN   Jason gets out to Tucson Arizona and he manages to convince someone from a local NGO to basically like show him around and be his guide   And I said I want to look at the stuff that migrants are leaving in the desert. He was like All right you want to see this stuff. I am gonna take you real deep into the desert and see what you- what you are made of.   This guy just ran me through the wringer.   That part of the Sonoran desert its uh hilly covered in sage brush cacti everywhere red sand and Jason says at a certain point a few hours into the hike they walked up this incline and got to this ridge where they could kind of of look out over this huge expanse   Just imagine like a ravine or a wash   And Jason says he suddenly noticed that the the desert ground below them was just covered in stuff.   Over a thousand backpacks and water bottles I mean the just-   What?   That much?  Well what ends up happening is stuff gets left behind for a couple of different reasons if youre en route you might throw something down because you get so tired and your bag just gets so heavy. And those things are kind of sprinkled across these migrant trails. But once you get to the end past the checkpoint your smuggler says ok were safe now weve got to a new road where we can get picked up someone else will show up in a truck and then they will say alright the 30 of you get into this van leave everything behind change your clothes so it doesnt look like youve just walked for two weeks through this desert umm and so when groups were moving really big you would see things the size of like football fields   Just stuff everywhere gatorade bottles Bibles photographs um toys. The kind of random of things that you might throw in your bag and say I am leaving my home forever and these are the things that I want to take with me. You know you see things like a diaper bag or a baby bottle and you wonder my God you know who who just came through this and what is what is happened to them?   So...  MUSIC IN   For the next several years Jason just keeps going back to this stretch of the Sonoran Desert.   Ripped clothes. Fragmented clothes in bushes.   Gathering whatever he could find.   Dirty socks.   And yknow like an archaeologist he would collect this stuff.   Bandages.   Itemize it. Categorize it.   Cocktail dresses. High heel shoes.   Try and figure out who it came from. Why it was there.   Baby bottles. Hair curlers. Toys. Wrappers.   He did this year.   Sneakers. Photographs.   After year.   Socks.    Picking up this.   Shoes. Dresses.   Picking up that.   Backpacks. Bibles. Bottles.   And then one day...  MUSIC OUT   Uh. Human arm...   He finds an arm.   Wedged between some rocks.   Like an entire arm up to the shoulder.   Just sort of sticking sticking out between two rocks. I mean there was no flesh other than the...the...the things that were holding the joint together.   Oh wow.   Yeah.  SILENCE   Jason and his guide the folks he was there with they began to search the surrounding areas for other parts of the body.   I mean really the goal was to try to find this skull. Um because in terms of you know um identification I mean your best luck is gonna be if you can get if you can get the um pieces of the skull.   Because if you can find pieces of the skull maybe you can ID the body and if you can ID the body maybe you can tell the family heres what happened to your loved one   And so we were out there basically digging around for...for other parts of this person.   We come across a human tooth.   Some little tiny bits of rib bones?   But we never find the skull. And I realize that nobody's ever going to identify this person. There is just not enough left of them. And this is not...not likely to be a case that will be solved.   Now Jason says he knew of course that people were dying in a desert but to see this   The fragments of a person...   Whod basically been erased  MUSIC RISES   You know I mean its very  I mean its kind of just it sort of just kills you.   Eventually he began to have these nightmares   Snakes coming out of the eyes   about the missing skull.   Birds swooping down and pecking out the eyes. Coyotes playing soccer with this persons skull.   And for weeks he couldnt shake the simple question   You know what what did this to this person?   And how many other bodies like this might be out here?   How did it get to be like this?  JA And those questions   Would end up sending Jason down a sort of rabbit hole   Digging in the library to   Of forensics papers   Decomposing flesh.   Missing persons reports   Hikers who had gone missing.   Historical trends   Sociology papers. Demography papers.   Government documents   illustrations and the figures that are buried in these appendices.   And over the next several years Jason would end up putting together this truly startling portrait of lost stories hidden statistics little known policy decisions along our southern border that completely upended how I think about this issue  Clip  The Immigration issue poses real problems and challenges   That were constantly fighting about   We will build a great wall along the southern border.  APPLAUSE   But still never quite seeing.   This is part one of a three part series on our southern border.   Well be doing it today and then next week and the week after.   Part 1 a hole in the fence.   Alright so I thought Id start us off with Jasons question.   How did it get to be like this?  JA How did it get to be that so many people cross into America through the desert?   Like thats the classic image you have is someone walking through the desert why out of all the places along the border that you could cross why is it that so many people are are crossing in the hottest and most unforgiving place imaginable? And one of the things that Jason ended up telling us about that we found most striking was simply   The numbers   The yearly numbers of migrant deaths in the desert.   And I mean it is shocking.   If you look at the data theres a very stark moment when things shift. It turns out that if youre looking at the number of people dying in the Sonoran desert the numbers are a bit tough to pin down. But in the early 90s its single digits. Five bodies one year. Six bodies another year seven bodies another. And then all of the sudden   Overnight   In the late 90s.   You go from 5 to 10 bodies to to hundreds.   I mean it used to be that if you wanted to cross the US-Mexican border youd go down to Tijuana at dusk a place called the soccer field you would hop the fence with about a hundred other people and you would just bum rush the border patrol and half of you would get by would make it into the US and the other half would get caught and sent back and people would do it the next day. Um that was the system for a long time I mean   So what changed?   Well in the mid-90s there was a lot of pushback against the visibility of fence hopping and it all kind of starts with this little-known story. Theres a great book by this guy Timothy Dunn called um Blockading the Border and its about these Latino high school students in Texas right on the US- Mexico border.   We ended up calling up the author he mentioned Timothy Dunn and then getting so interested in the story that Dunn laid out for us that well were gonna leave Jason behind for a while and were gonna go on a little trip.   Yes.   That by the way is co-reporter Tracie Hunt.   Yes.   Alright well so where are we gonna go?   We are going to go to El Paso.  MUSIC   El Paso Texas.   Yeah so Tracie and I went to El Paso awhile back.   Latif do you ever think how your life would have been totally different if you were just born somewhere else? Of course you have thought that.   If I was born somewhere else? Yeah of course. I mean I think about that I feel like... I guess I got distracted at that point? We didnt finish the conversation but anyway.  MUSIC OUT   Two flags flying the American flag and the Texan flag.   We went down to El Paso to visit   a high school.   Called Bowie High School.   Home of the Bowie Bears.   Guys the bell rang...Well you guys are listening much to me.    You know in many respects its just you know your typical American high school.   Good morning bears! Yeah baby Taco Tuesdays.   Youve got your Taco Tuesdays.      Its ninth through twelfth grade.   And about 1200 students.   All right guys so please take out your notes ok?   Because its Texas yknow  FOOTBALL SOUNDS   Football is a big deal.  CHEERSCHANTING   And on their campus they have this huge football stadium with those big you know Friday Night Lights uh.   Its the pride of the south side.   Theyve got a marching band the pride of the south side its uh yeah your typical Texas high school.  Music In Band Playing   Its ah yeah youre typical high school.   But there is something a little different about it and that is that almost all the students here   Jennifer is here Eduardo is here Jose?   Are Mexican American   Josella Oscar   and you know we actually we talked to this former teacher...   This is Juan Sybert-Coronado. I was a teacher at Bowie High School in the 1980s and 1990s.   And what did you teach?   I taught history.   And he said that in all his years of teaching at Bowie...   I taught there for 21 years and never had a single Anglo student.   Really?   Really?  Yes.  Never had a single white student.     But the reason we went to Bowie high school is cause something happened there in the early 90s something that it sort of in a in a kinda roundabout and and totally unforeseeable way completely changed the way we think about the US-Mexico border.  MUSIC IN   So where where were gonna start the story is actually in one of Juan Sybert-Coronados classes.   The class was immediately after lunch and   And on this particular day they were gonna have a debate in class and one the debaters one of the kids who was gonna be part of the debate was late.   Yes.   Uh his name was Albert.   Albert often came came late to class. And so we would been waiting and waiting and waiting for him.   10 minutes went by. 15. 20.   And eventually he showed up being dragged in by this campus security guy  MUSIC   The school security guard.   And I thought you know the security guard brought him in because he was you know out doing some miscreant stuff like smoking pot again.     And and so I kind of lay into Albert for being late again and for you know not holding up his responsibilities to his class.   But Alberts like no. No no no no no. Albert says that he had been at the handball court playing with his friends and then when it was time to go from the court back to class   These two border patrol agents appear out of nowhere in their green uniforms and they just start demanding to see his papers. Like who are you? Where are you from? Let me see your ID.   Yeah   And he Albert tries to give them his school ID but they wouldnt take it. And they actually told him   That he needed a federal ID of some sort for them to believe at all that he was a United States citizen or belonged on the campus.   And Juan's just standing there like mmm-hmm uh-huh Border Patrol? Really?   You know I was haranguing the kid obviously and.   But then 3 or 4 other students in class...   Just kind of stepped in and said no what Albert's telling you is true.  MUSIC IN   Not only is Albert telling the truth but in the last couple of weeks   Border Patrol had been on the handball courts and on the playing fields repeatedly...   Stopping students harassing students   And I was quite frankly shocked.   Juan says of course he knew that the border patrol was around because of  where the school is situated. Which well talk about in a second. But he just never understood how present they were in his students lives.   I was having a hard time processing this.   So over the next few weeks  MUSIC IN   Juan started asking around different students being like hey have you had anything happen with Border Patrol at school?  And I got literally hundreds of stories.   I was walking home from school and you know I had my backpack on...   Nidia Rodriguez who was a freshman at the time.   All of a sudden I saw this truck - a Border Patrol truck and it was speeding my way.   A couple agents got out of the truck and started questioning her.   Where am I from or where am I going?   Basically we were all rounded up   Ernesto Munoz remembers walking to school with a bunch of kids.  We were searched our backpacks   And again you know a couple agents got out started asking him questions.   You know where were we born? Our date of birth...What classes we were taking.   We stop they get out of the truck   Marcela De Leon who was walking with a friend near school   And they go what do you have in the bag? And I go books you know what else would I have in my bag? And they were like well let us see.   I was walking and they yelled at me hey get over here!   Ricardo Thielma   They sped up to me and they stopped in front of me and asked me you know whats whats in the bag I was like books. One of them ripped the bag out from my hands as I was trying to pull it away from him the other one grabbed me and pushed me up against the truck forcibly took the bag away rifled through it pushed me off of the pulled me away from the truck threw my bag at me and told me to get out of here.   As these stories came out it became clear that even the staff had had its run ins with the border patrol. We talked to the assistant football coach Ben Mario. He told us there was this moment he was driving with two of his football players they got pulled over by the border patrol and one of them actually pointed a gun at his head.   Never had a gun pulled on me. So I thought ok my life is over and I identified myself. My name is coach Ben Murio. Coach at Bowie High School. I have my football players. I would really appreciate if youd holster your gun. And the guy barked at me Id appreciate if youd shut your mouth and get out of the car!   Eventually the agent did holster the gun. Ben did get out of the car everything was fine.   What was that like having that right in your face?   It was one of the scariest things in my life.   Wow.   Why was the border patrol on the grounds of the school? Do they have some reason?   Well so lets lets set the scene a little bit uh uh um more maybe.   Because I think to understand what was going on at Bowie High School  MUSIC IN   You have to understand something else.   The legend of El Paso.   You have to understand El Paso.  There is a spirit a flavor. So come on amigo see it for yourself.  MUSIC   It is right on the border of Texas Mexico and New Mexico. It is right there.   It is right there. It is also the biggest city.  MUSIC- The West Texas City of El Paso   That shares the border with Mexico too.   And the other thing to know about it is that it is like it kind of has a mirror city on the other side of the border which is...   Juarez   Juarez   Ciudad Jurez   The largest city on the U.S.-Mexico border.   So the two cities are separated by a this little sliver of the Rio Grande but they were essentially the same city up until 1848 when the US invaded Mexico and annexed half the country. And even now according to Juan-   This mythical division between these two cities its just does not exist for most of us. I mean I go to the dentist over there. I buy cigarettes over there. Okay I smoke yes. Ok ok? Almost everybody in El Paso knows people who lives in the Ciudad Jurez people in Ciudad Jurez know people who have family members who live in El Paso. I mean this is literally one community.   But the thing is when everything was going down at Bowie in the early 90s.  MUSIC IN   It was a community in in crisis.   So come on amigo and see for yourself  Tonight the Peso crisis has spilled across the Rio Grande.   In the 80s the Mexican peso crashed.   A dramatically devalued peso is causing havoc with prices and wages.   And so people in Juarez started flocking to El Paso because well thats where the jobs were. Like jobs in construction.  Man Or childcare gardening.   Though you had tons of people getting these permits to come into El Paso legally but then you had all these other people.  TV Presenter Workers who cant get permits required by U.S. law.   Who couldnt get permits but they still needed to work.   ...simply respond to the laws of supply and demand.   And so they started coming too...   ...making illegal dashes across the border to the United States at unprecedented numbers.   I mean it was as high as like 10000 people a day.   A day?   Coming back and forth illegally basically for their commute to work.   It was chaos. It was a mess here.   We spoke to this former Border Patrol Agent a guy named David Ham.   Anti-smuggling special agent.   He told us that when when he was on that job before dawn you could go down to certain parts of the Rio Grande   You would have 100-200 people lined up.   Waiting on the river's edge.   Sun come up and here they come.   It is morning in America and the rush hour has begun. The rush to cross the Rio Grande into El Paso...   And there are videos where you can see this you see hundreds of people wading into the shallow parts of the river.   ... To cross over to El Paso   If they do not want to get wet they can pay a young entrepreneur a small fee and raft across...   And so for people like David these border patrol agents  News Cast Ok here comes about a 100   It becomes this cat and mouse game   From the way we had always done business. They come in you chase them catch them and send them back.   Day and night and day and night it was it was   A never-ending job.   And there was something you know you can catch the same guys 2-3 times a shift sometimes.     Um so it was it was chaos.   Obviously we are not accomplishing 100 percent of our mission.   And and this is actually kind of hilarious. So like so...   Around this time in 1992 there was a television interview and Dale Musegades. He is the sector chief of the Border Patrol in El Paso. He is wearing his green hat with his green uniform with his gold shield on his chest.   If we were not here and did not keep a lid on this situation   And in this shots behind him...   Uh there would be just an absolute free inflow from other countries.   You can see people climbing up the banks of the Rio Grande and just walking into El Paso like    That is like having Wyatt Herbs standing in front of three bank robbers robbing a bank.   Yeah Exactly. And um like so ok how many entries um alright so it was reported at the time that for every one migrant the Border Patrol caught there were at least three to five who snuck in and didnt get caught. And The Border Patrol said that this was because they just didnt have the resources. They didnt have the money or the agents to apprehend all these people who are coming in.   Which finally brings us back  CHANTING  ... to Bowie high school.   Okay alright okay yeah let us try it.   Because theres two important things about Bowie.   Okay Im counting my steps actually here okay from the sidewalk.   One Bowie is right right   ...3 4 5 6   Right on the border   48 49... Basically it is 50. That was 50 steps.   Fifty steps   Fifty steps from the Bowie campus into Mexico.   Yeah.   And two uh the former assistant football coach and teacher Ben Murillo he showed me...  Whats what is that?   This fence.   That is part of the old fence.  Oh that is part of the old fence?   El Paso in the '70s put up a bunch of fencing on the border to curb illegal immigration.   Um So it is like a... It is its not much taller than us.   But but it was-it was pretty flimsy they called it a tortilla curtain and right at this spot across from Bowie High School there was a hole in the fence.  Music In   Yeah.   And David Ham a former border control agent told us that what that meant was that you had migrants you had a lot of migrants who would be coming through that hole in the fence.   Through Bowie high school.   And he claimed that it wasnt just people looking for work it was also people bringing in drugs.   And the way I know that because I worked at anti-smuggling unit. We would watch them come through.   And so...   Border Patrol agents had taken to just sort of hanging out around the school on the school's property on the football field across the street from the school like just   Yeah   They were just there all the time.   There were even rumors that border patrol agents would go undercover as students and that they would you know wander the halls that they would go into the locker rooms.   I would notice B- the uh the uh suburbans parked on the Bowie campus.   Yeah   Again former Bowie teacher Juan Sybert-Coronado.   But the whole reason you know that I thought they were there was the chainlink was cut and they need to stop people from entering into a high school.   Right   Instead of realizing that what they are doing is they are using the high school as a hunting ground.   And  so to Juan when he started hearing about all these stories of these 14 15 16 year old kids getting stopped and shaken down it wasnt about border patrol trying to stop migrants from coming in or trying to stop drugs from coming across the border it was-   The border patrol simply stopping people because they were brown. And that really uh.... This is radio? Angered me.   You can say whatever you want   But for most of these kids   It was nothing like out of the ordinary.   You know kids like Ernesto Munoz and Ricardo Thielma   That was just day to day life.   Talking to even to some other community members  Tony Santos   They told me Ah dont worry about it   Growing up in this poor neighborhood right next the border.  Man It was just like way of life in south El Paso.   It it wasnt like a concern like oh no you got stopped?  You go to the park uh and shoot some basketball. Youd tell your your schoolmates you know guess what happened after school?   He was like you know haha you got stopped! It was probably cause of your haircut or probably cause of how youre dressed or whatever.   So the students were more likely to laugh about it than be angry but in his U.S.History class that year Juan started teaching his kids about civil rights actually getting them to debate tthe ways of thinking about civil rights.   Talking about stuff like  MLK? The activities which have taken place in Birmingham over the last few days.   Uh letter from the Birmingham jail.  MLK? To my mind marked the nonviolent movement coming of age.   And   Its liberty    Malcolm Xs Ballet for the Bullet.   Theres freedom for everybody or freedom for nobody.  And so these students are learning about  Newscaster   Farmworkers strikes in California in the 1960s.   We learned about Cesar Chavez.   And the workers know that they are no longer alone.   We learn about Dolores Huerta uh Reies Lopez Tijerina. And it was like ok Im Im reading the book and then I look outside the window and there they are.   Border patrol agents in SUVs on the parking lot stopping students.   I think thats when you know we were like wait   This kinda like   It felt not okay.   I mean I didnt fully know exactly the letter of the law   Thats Nadia Rodriguez again.   but I knew that what they were doing was wrong.  And   Eventually some of these students started to get together   Met and talked  Like you think this is right? What do you think this is about?   Telling each other you know that this is wrong.   We talked about how we wanted things to be different   Lets see what we can do about it because this has to stop.  Choir teacher Alright? Alright thats whats up!  PIANO   Coming up Juan and his students fight back   Well continue in just a moment.  Choir teacher Lets do with some more warm-ups lets do ah  VOCALIZING  AUDIO VOCAL WARM UPS  FADE OUT   Latif Tracie and   Hello?   Ricardo  Umm   And Tony   Alright   So Some of these at kids at Bowie High School they actually belonged to this group   MECHA     Which is a Chicano civil rights group.   They have been around since 1960s   It actually it was a college only group but apparently these kids at Bowie um petitioned them to have a chapter at the high school.   And um   They made their case and MECHA said sure!  MUSIC IN   We were the first ones to get a collegiate group.   And they asked Juan if he could you know supervise.   We would meet about once a week and our meetings tended to be 30 40 50 kids packed into a classroom   And for one of these meetings Juan brought in one of his friends a woman named Susan Kern she who worked at the Border Rights coalition and so she comes in and starts telling her you know whats been going on and they ask her do we have any rights here? She tells them absolutely you do because according to the US constitution the border patrol or really any officer of the law   They cannot stop you without reasonable cause.  MUSIC OUT   Like they have to have seen you cross the border or when you saw them you started acting fidgety or you ran away or something!   They cant just arbitrarily stop you   Question you.   Just because the color of your skin   Thats not enough to stop you.   Because if thats the only reason they have to stop you then theyre violating your fourth amendment right.   Their right to be protected from unreasonable searches and seizures.   Exactly.   They just said you know what youre getting- your rights are getting stomped all over lets see what we can do about this because it needs to stop.   After Susan explained that their rights were being violated the conversation turned to what are we going do about it?   We have a lot of students who were suggesting things that were probably you know slightly inappropriate.   Like how bout we just like...curse em out?   Which I thought well maybe thats not a bad approach but uh apparently   According to Juans lawyer friend Susan   fuck off was not the right response     That can maybe get you in trouble?   Can be considered assault and so-   Another student said well how about if we just yknow run away from them?   Uh no   Another kid was like what if we just fight back?   Oh God   Oh definitely dont do that.   Mm-mm   But finally  MUSIC Law  Order Theme   One of the students   Whod been watching Law  Order-  L Debbie Mason youre under arrest for the attempted murder of your mother. L No this is a mistake.   Who knew all about saying  L You have the right to remain silent. L No!   The right to remain silent.  L Caroline Tyler you have the right to remain silent.   He was like thats a thing   Which is your fifth amendment constitutional right   And its something you typically hear   I have however been instructed by my counsel not to testify based on my fifth amendment constitutional rights.   When rich white dudes get in trouble.  ... On the advice of counsel I invoke my fifth amendment privilege and respectfully decline to answer your question.   But this one Bowie MECHA student was like why dont we do that?  MUSIC IN   And thats exactly what our students started doing   After that when border patrol agents would stop students and say hey give me your papers. Some of these students would say No!   I want to use my fifth amendment right   I want to take the fifth amendment.   amendment right to remain silent.   Simple as that I have the right not to incriminate myself   To remain silent.   I do not want to answer your questions.  ... Sorry had to burp ok ready?   Mhmm  I have a fifth amendment right   To   to remain silent   remain silent.   I dont want you to go through any of my stuff   Right to remain silent.   Youre not going through my backpack Im not talking to you.   I want to use my fifth amendment   Fifth amendment right   And their message started spreading around   Right to remain silent.   Remain silent.   Silent.   Silent.   Silent.   Silent.   That we really dont need to answer these peoples questions   To remain silent?   Yeah perfect you nailed it.      Nice to meet you yall have a good day.   Bye miss!   I am kind of trying to imagine myself being you and giving advice to these students and on the one hand obviously this is their legal right not to provide this information. On the other hand I can imagine that you know Ive heard that there are these Border Patrol abuses there are ug you know there are times when this does not go well and I am telling these students to go out and basically you know stonewall these agents and it could put them in harm's way at some point.   And it did frequently  MUSIC IN    Uh students were harrassed for this. Students were... the most notorious case is the case of David Renteria.   And uh the way I will start it was on June the 3rd...   So this is David Renteria from a documentary that was made in the 90s about Bowie High School.   Yeah so David Renteria he was a senior at Bowie   A legally blind student who was coming home from graduation practice.   And uh   And this one day he and a friend are just walking down the street and a Border Patrol truck rolls up.   They stop and they ask us for citizenship and I respond you know U.S. citizen my friend did the same thing. And then they ask us again what is your citizenship? U.S. citizen. They ask us again and I said U.S. citizen. And I looked at my friend and I said 'you know what let us go.' Kept on walking. And the border patrol agent on the passenger side said if we did not stop they were going to beat us up real bad to the point where we were not going to be able to move.   So this border patrol agent gets out of the truck comes up to David...   And started threatening to break his arm if he tried to walk away.   I felt his hand on my arm left elbow he jerked it back when he jerked it I turned and faced you.  And I looked and said to him. Im exercising the right to remain silent. And he got me and he slammed me against the fence and he put his left forearm on the back of my neck. And he kicked my legs.   Slapped him in the face apparently. And you know David wasnt physically injured after that. He was freaked out.   But the reason that Juan called this particular incident notorious is because  MUSIC IN   Immediately after the local news in El Paso picked it up and started doing a lot more reporting on on Border Patrol on Bowie and so did-   From the El Paso Texas Good Morning America!   National News.   Good Morning freakin America you know what I mean? Thats thats pretty huge   The daily invasion has strained the relationship between the Border Patrol and some people at Bowie High School.   Yknow and and theyre talking to us.   We all have rights and that our rights daily on a day-to-day course are being violated   Why are they harassing you?   Because were Hispanic because the color of our skin because we live right on border and because well we live in a really poor neighborhood and thats the only reason.   And as this news started to grow the Border Patrol Sector Chief Dale Musegades decided he was gonna come to Bowie to talk to the students. Is that something you remember? Him showing up to ?    Oh yeah Mr. Musegades uh that guy was kinda doing damage control at that point.   When agent Dale Musegades met with about 40 students to discuss the alleged harassment he kept us out.   We tried to contact Dale Musegades multiple times for this story but he did not reply to our voicemails or emails. But-    Wednesday morning   We were able to get footage of that meeting Musegades kept Good Morning America out of.   Because one of the students uh taped this and then we managed to get our hands on it.   Huh   So its like 30 40 kids from s classroom and Dale Musegades   He was sitting in front of us wearing a suit and tie trying to put things into perspective-  Uh   He started telling the students like look the holes in the fence?   I cant hold those holes.   We keep patching them up they keep getting cut open   And something its a commitment and I said I would try its a commitment I cant I dont think theres anyway in the world to keep those holes closed.   And he told the students they theyve busted some people who have brought drugs through Bowie   I now have another case thats under investigation   So Musegade is like were essentially trying to stop the flow of drugs here..why are you guys complaining so much?  VOICES BOO   But eventually-   Lets get some of these students- Cmon you had your hand raised over there go ahead.   The students start speaking up.  Give him your name.   My name is  Ive been living here right on the border on Delta   One student stands up and says A youre harassing us and thats why were upset and B your strategy for capturing border crossers seems to be to be to herd them all into the school where theyre penned in   You are treating human beings like cattle. What youre doing is you run them into a place where they cant get out and then you circle them in? Youre treating them like cattle not human beings.   Those people will not stop or will not obey the law. So you have to somehow or another apprehend them. I do not... I... You know I do not know a better way to do it.   But not at the sacrifice of our rights.   Its a little hard to hear but he said not at the sacrifice of our rights.   What you mean the sacrifice of their rights? Theyre illegally in this country   OUR rights  ... Alright alright   But theyre human beings! They have rights.   They do not have rights to come into the United States illegally...   What did it feel like to be sitting in that meeting? I mean...   Well it felt bizarre. I mean that you know somebody is denying what everybody sees with their own eyes.   Yeah there was no face value to what what he said yknow cause at that point we were cynic- cynical about the whole situation and yknow you cant undo the stuff that was already done   So the meeting goes poorly and a bunch of the students and some of the staff including Ben Murio the assistant football coach who had a gun pointed in his face they all together decide that they want to sue the border patrol.  MUSIC IN   The phone rings one day...   And eventually they call up this guy.   I said were getting ready to sue the border patrol. Will you be our local counsel? And I said not only yes but hell yes.    El Paso civil rights lawyer Albert Armenenener Jr.   Were you optimistic?   I mean uh its never an easy job. Suing the government is not easy.   When you live on the border and work in Segundo Barrio you are never optimistic that a governmental system is going to work for you.   So  MUSIC   October 23 1992 the trial between Bowie high school and the Border Patrol begins. And apparently the courtroom was pretty much divided in half on one half you had the border patrol like a ton of agents in full uniform sitting there. On the other half you had these Bowie students.   Dressed in their finest.   Sunday dresses slacks shirts   Those kids were little troopers. They all got up on the stand told their stories   And then eventually the border patrol sector chief Dale Musegades testifies   Yeah.   Do do you remember what the defenses argument was?   Well they had lots of arguments umm.   Now we cant verify the specifics of what happened in the courtroom because a lot of the court documents have been destroyed but Musegades got up there and his basic argument was that if you look at the... the US code of federal regulations section 1357 Powers of Immigration officers and employees um number 1 officers have the power to interrogate any alien or person believed to be an alien as to his right to be or to remain in the United States and they can do that without a warrant. And then skipping down a bit from that umm they can do that quote Within a reasonable distance from any external boundary of the United States.   Whats a whats a reasonable distance?   This is whats nuts is I dont know exactly what went into the determination of what that is but the distance is a hundred miles.   Really?   Yeah in that hundred mile zone border patrol has the power to interrogate has the power to arrest without warrant and they can also and Im quoting here uh quote search for aliens in any railway car aircraft conveyance or vehicle within that distance. And then on top of that within a narrower distance of 25 miles from the border they can go right onto private property whenever they want. Theres its like this little zone   Thats designed to prevent border patrol officers from being charged with trespass when patrolling the border. I cross examined Chief Musegades and so   What Musegades was arguing is that like if they have all of this power and if they can go on yknow private property right up on the border and you got this high school on the border then theres no question that they can be on school property and do their jobs.   Thats how they read that. What they couldnt understand is they were doing it in a way that violated the constitution and that is against the supreme law of the land.   This was Alberts argument that no matter what powers you have you cant violate somebodys 4th amendment right. You have to have a legitimate reason to stop somebody.   Hm. So what what ultimately happened?   Okay before this court uh Findings of fact and conclusions of law Bunton comma Senior District Judge before this court is plaintiff's motion for temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction memorandum of law and support pursuants to rule I do not know Does that sound like anything to you?   Yeah yeah he is saying here's what we got in front of me here.   Alright okay.   So read the next paragraph down one.   Jurisdiction and venue   Okay that means keep read the next one   Findings of fact. The litigation the name individual plaintiffs are...   Go to the very vey bottom last paragraph.     Is it I hereby order..?   The court hereby enjoins the immigration and naturalization service the INS which is above at the time was above the Border Patrol from stopping and questioning an individual as to his or her right to be or remain in the United States unless the agent has reasonable suspicion based on specific articulable facts involving more than the mere appearance of the individual being of Hispanic descent-   Okay that is a fancy way of saying stop judging people by their looks signs the judge.   Yes!   Correct.   So they won.   They won!  MUSIC   It was just absolute elation   Theres a big celebratory school assembly.   For the whole school   Oh wow   Tony Santos was there  We were yay all happy   There were all these parties   people gave us plaques I think I may even have some on the wall out there.   It was pretty awesome.   Again former student Ricardo Villerma.   It was crazy to say the least.   The final ruling holds up that the Border Patrol did violate constitutional rights.   You just dont see the agents on our campus anymore.   Thats the assistant football coach Ben Murillo who ended up being the lead plaintiff in the lawsuit.   Theyre Treating us like people not like second class citizens not like we have to be submissive simply because theyre Federal agents.   You know we couldnt believe that we took on the federal government and won. That was one of the first times I was really proud of what our government yknow stands for.  MUSIC OUT   And Ricardo said coming out of federal court that day it was like him and seven other students and they came out and there was a bunch of other students and faculty from the school there.   Everybody was like cool lets go back to school hop in the car like no we kinda want to bask in this. So we walked from uh the federal courthouse downtown to Bowie High School. And yknow when we were getting there we were all just kind of tearing up we were proud we were just happy and uh surprised all at once its we were beside ourselves. And yknow we had camera crews and news crews waiting for us as we were walking up cause I guess they got wind that we were just walking back to school.   But in the wake of this victory in the months following there would be a chain of events that would really drastically change the US-Mexico border forever and take us to really to where we are now.   When you because you wrote in that essay sort of just you dont see a connection you dont think theres a connection but the fact that the connection is being made still sort of weighs on you?   Of course it weighs on us ok? Because I mean because of us fences were built because the fences were built maybe 10000 people have died in the desert.  MUSIC  .Men tore their faces open chewing XX and prickly pears. Gutted plants that tore them apart with their claws. The green here was gray. They walked west though they didnt know it. They had no concept anymore of destination. They were in a vast trickery of sand. One of them said XX.   So how this story goes from jubilation and pride to death in the desert thats the subject of our next episode. 