 Hey wait you are ...   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are ...   ... listening   ... to Radiolab.   Radiolab.   Shorts.   From ...   WNYC.   And NPR.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab.  Robert Krulwich The podcast.  Jad Abumrad What are we going to do today Robert?  Robert Krulwich I think we are going to get rid of something.  Jad Abumrad And here to tell us what and why is producer Andy Mills.  Andy Mills Okay. So a while back I was talking with author Sonia Shaw.  Sonia Shaw I have had a very fraught relationship with mosquitoes for a long time.  Andy Mills She actually wrote a book about malaria and mosquitoes ...  Sonia Shaw Called The Fever.  Andy Mills And for her it all really started when she was a kid.  Sonia Shaw Well I grew up visiting India every summer.  Andy Mills Why were you going to India?  Sonia Shaw Because my family's from there. All my cousins all my grandparents they were all there.  Andy Mills Summer vacations.  Sonia Shaw Summer vacations in India with my cousins. All I wanted to do was fit in.  Andy Mills But the mosquitoes would always call her out.  Sonia Shaw They knew.  Robert Krulwich There was a Yankee in the group.  Sonia Shaw They would just focus on me. And see they would not bite my cousins. They would be totally unscathed and I would be covered in welts. I ended up having to sleep under a mosquito net which is even more isolating. We used to sleep on little mats on the ground. We would just roll out all these mats on the floor and everyone would sleep in a big long row except for me. I would be in a corner under this suffocating net.  Andy Mills She says at night when mosquitoes would land on her neck she would think ...  Sonia Shaw I hate you. I hate you. But at the same time I am not allowed to do anything to them.  Andy Mills And here's when you get to the fraught part. Because Sonia and her family belong to this religion called Jain Dharma.  Sonia Shaw It is kind of an extreme non-violent philosophy. You are not supposed to eat meat obviously. You are not even supposed to eat any root vegetables because then you are killing the whole plant. You are not supposed to walk on grass because if you walk on grass you can kill little insects. When you pray you are supposed to wear a mask so you do not breathe in any microbes or insects and inadvertently kill them. So I had to act like I am totally cool with the mosquitoes around me.  Andy Mills But every so often ...  Jad Abumrad Sonia says ...  Sonia Shaw I would see a mosquito land near me and when I thought no one was looking I would just sort of mush it with my hand. And I still can feel that tingly feeling on my hand just telling you that story. That tiny body being crushed by my hand just it makes me feel terrible.  Andy Mills And Sonia's ambivalence toward the mosquito it has stayed with her her entire life pretty much. Because on the one hand she knows that mosquitoes have gotten a bad rap.  Sonia Shaw First of all ...  Andy Mills They do not really want to suck your blood.  Sonia Shaw They do not want to risk their lives to get a blood meal. It is the most dangerous thing they are ever going to do because it is so easy for us to kill them. On top of that when they fill up with your blood that blood is several times heavier than their own body weight. So suddenly they are full of this stuff and they cannot fly very well anymore.  Andy Mills And on top of that the only mosquitoes that bite you are the ladies.  Sonia Shaw And the only reason they do it is because of all the protein and blood and they use that to nourish their eggs.  Andy Mills If they did not have the protein in that blood nearly all their babies would die.  Sonia Shaw So they are not even doing it for food.  Robert Krulwich So every bite is just good mommying really.  Sonia Shaw You could say that.  Robert Krulwich We have to just put out the message that when you are being swarmed by mosquitoes biting you that you are just being swarmed by good ladies who are just nurturing. That might change the attitude.  Andy Mills I do not fail to appreciate the charm of the mommy mosquito.  Robert Krulwich Good.  Andy Mills But on the other hand think of all the misery they have caused human beings.  Sonia Shaw Oh yeah.  Andy Mills Like malaria which mosquitoes spread.  Sonia Shaw There is good estimates that get bandied around by esteemed experts that one half of all human deaths since the stone age have been due to malaria.  Robert Krulwich Whoa. One half?  Sonia Shaw One half of all human deaths since the stone age.  Andy Mills More people than cancer more people than heart disease.  Sonia Shaw So it is had a huge huge impact on our species. We know this.  Andy Mills And for me this is not just some far away sad statistical extraction. I used to live and work in Sudan and while I was there I saw the children's wards at the clinics and hospitals. I saw the kids dying of this disease all from a mosquito. And where I am headed with this is in a world where we are losing animals all the time and we are sad about that maybe there is this one the mosquito that we can actually annihilate. Could this be the creature that we can all agree that we should just get rid of?  Robert Krulwich You can hope for that Andy but it is not going to happen because mosquitoes are incredibly fertile. You could make a little groove on a rainy day in the mud and they will have babies in that little patch of water.  Jad Abumrad It is like a baby party-  Robert Krulwich Yeah like a baby party-  Jad Abumrad ... in a footstep.  Robert Krulwich Exactly. So there is no-  Jad Abumrad Yeah you cannot-  Robert Krulwich ... way-  Jad Abumrad ... wipe that out-  Robert Krulwich ... you are going to be able to ...  Sonia Shaw Well remember mosquitoes they reproduce really fast. The typical mosquito only lives for a week or so. So many many many generations are evolving as we are throwing chemicals at them. And as soon as one evolves some way to withstand it a little bit better that little creature sort of sweeps it is genes throughout the population. And that happens within a few years. So three five seven years is kind of the time horizon for when you start using a chemical against a mosquito to when the mosquito population becomes resistant to it.  Jad Abumrad Wow well that is a problem.  Sonia Shaw It is a problem.  Andy Mills But but what if I would told you that we had gotten to the point where we could solve this problem?  Robert Krulwich Oh you will have to show me an example.  Andy Mills Oh that would make me so happy to show you.  Andy Mills I sent reporter David Baker down to this small town in Eastern Brazil to check out this factory.  David Baker Yeah this mosquito factory. Just as we come in a woman with a kind of electrics tennis racket is killing an insect on the wall.  Andy Mills A mosquito factory?  Hayden Perry Yeah. It sounds strange but the world's largest mosquito factory is in Brazil.  Andy Mills This is Hayden Perry ...  Hayden Perry Chief executive officer of Oxitec.  Andy Mills And by factory he means that this a place where people actually breed mosquitoes a very special kind.  Hayden Perry I think at the moment they are making about four million or so a week.  Andy Mills After you pass through a couple of VeriLocks you enter this massive room.  David Baker It is a huge concrete warehouse.  Andy Mills Where there are rows and rows of buckets. How this works is that Hayden and his company in England they will send the factory workers here a batch of eggs.  Aldo Malavasi And then we will remove the eggs and put an hour in water. I am Aldo Malavasi the director of the Medfly and Mosquito Facility in Brazil.  David Baker And inside ...  Andy Mills Each of these buckets ...  David Baker What is that a gram?   .  Aldo Malavasi How many? .   .  David Baker And then inside is 80000 eggs. And they look like just tiny tiny little black dots.   .  Aldo Malavasi .  Aldo Malavasi After you put the eggs in about half hour to one hour they start to hatch. And then we have this mo larvae.  David Baker Now you can see this is larva. These are larva lots of mosquito larva swimming in the water.  Andy Mills They look like long translucent worms with spikes all over their bodies.  David Baker If someone said Put your hand in there I am not sure if I would.   It is beautiful.  Andy Mills Now according to Hayden when these mosquitoes grow up and become adults they will look ...  Hayden Perry Completely indistinguishable from normal mosquitoes. Except except that they carry this lethal gene.  Andy Mills Hayden's company has actually put a tiny little extra special extra deadly gene inside their bodies.     Andy Mills Which-  David Baker So here ...  Andy Mills ... you can actually see. At a certain point in David's trip one of the factory workers they brought over this special UV light and they shined it over the larva.  David Baker Oh goodness me. It is like something from Alien. It is like wriggling larva that is full of these globules that are glowing red from inside it is body. Those are the genes that are glowing?  Hayden Perry Yes.  David Baker Wow.  Andy Mills Hayden and his company they have genetically engineered this glowing red gene so that when it turns on ...  Hayden Perry It actually produces a certain protein.  Andy Mills Inside of these mosquitoes the gene starts cranking out these proteins more and more and more and more until the cell basically goes ...  Hayden Perry Out of control and the insect dies.  Jad Abumrad So that means these mosquitoes are going to die?  Andy Mills No. This is the evil-genius part. They turn off this gene temporarily. Then in another room in the factory they hatch the babies grow the mosquitoes in these test tubes.  Hayden Perry Thousand parts of these plastic tubes inside of mosquitoes loads of them.  Andy Mills Then they separate ...   .  Hayden Perry Females and males okay.  Andy Mills Then they take just the males ...  Hayden Perry Put the males into little pots.  Andy Mills They take the pots out into cities and towns and every few hundred feet ...  Hayden Perry They shake these pots out ...  Andy Mills And release the mosquitoes into the wild.  Hayden Perry Those males they go out there they are just tuned in to finding females.  Andy Mills Remember those are the ones that bite.  Hayden Perry They tune into the wing beat and off they go find a female their satisfying their biological urge to mate.  Andy Mills And the female will go off and lay her eggs. The eggs will hatch and then inside each and every one of those little babies the gene will turn on. They will start pumping out those proteins the cell goes out of control.  Hayden Perry And the larvae will die before they become functioning adults. So instead of that female laying a hundred eggs at a time or up to 500 in their lifetime she lays the same number but they die.  Jad Abumrad And they are actually doing this? They have released these mutants into the wild.  Andy Mills Yes.  Hayden Perry To give an example of the last trial they were working in a town called Mandacaru. It is 3000 people there.  Andy Mills Mandacaru is this small town in Brazil that is had a really terrible time with the disease that the mosquitoes spread there called Dengue Fever ...  Hayden Perry Which can make you feel as if your bones are breaking.  Andy Mills And it can sometimes cause ...  Hayden Perry Bleeding from the eyes or ears.  Andy Mills And in kids death.  Andy Mills Now they have tried bed nets they have tried chemicals.  Hayden Perry They try everything.  Andy Mills Nothing works. Because in the past decade what you have seen is cases of Dengue going up and up and up.  Hayden Perry Yeah.  Andy Mills But in 2011 ...  Hayden Perry They started releasing our males.  Andy Mills All across town they released these mutant males. And then they waited.  Hayden Perry And within about six months they reduced the population of the mosquitoes by 96.  Robert Krulwich Wow. 96?  Hayden Perry Yeah in that town. So in six months you have pretty much eliminated the mosquito population.  Andy Mills And this was not just some one-off thing because the next year after the rainy season ...  Hayden Perry Instead of seeing that massive explosion in mosquito numbers which you get every single year you did not see an increase at all. Because there was not a population there to build up.  Andy Mills And this this is just the beginning.  Hayden Perry In Brazil there is been a series of trials ...  Andy Mills In a bunch of different places.  Hayden Perry They are all over 90.  Andy Mills As in 90 of the population was killed in the first round. And they have released them in different parts of the Cayman Islands.  Hayden Perry And again that was the same idea. We had over 90 reduction.  Andy Mills They are starting their first trials in Panama. They are in talks with local government officials in India Malaysia and the U.S.A.  Sonia Shaw Yeah.  Andy Mills Can we just think about what would the world look like without mosquitoes?  Sonia Shaw California. There is hardly any mosquitoes there. It would be like California everywhere. That would be totally awesome right?  Jad Abumrad Oh that is going to be my camp slogan Kill them all. It will be like California everywhere Sonia Shaw.  Robert Krulwich I just want to point out both of you are acting like the only thing that happens with these animals is they make humans and particularly human children sick.  Sonia Shaw It is not them it is the parasite.  Robert Krulwich Right it is the parasite-  Jad Abumrad But they are the ones who are spreading it. And so if our idea is you stop the mosquito you stop the malaria then I-  Robert Krulwich You might stop a-  Jad Abumrad I have been really-  Robert Krulwich ... few other things is all I am saying. Call David please. Do you know David? Just call David.  Andy Mills So we did.  Jad Abumrad That is a really good mosquito impression actually.  Andy Mills Is that David?  Robert Krulwich That is David.  Jad Abumrad That is David.  Robert Krulwich Oh.  Andy Mills We called David.  David Kwahmen I am David Kwahmen. I am a science writer based in Bozeman Montana.  Jad Abumrad He is actually been on this show a bunch.  David Kwahmen And what I slapped was not a mosquito.  Jad Abumrad But the reason that Robert wanted us to call him this time is because a long long time ago ...  David Kwahmen Many many many years ago ...  Jad Abumrad David wrote an article for Outside Magazine ...  David Kwahmen Titled Sympathy for the Devil.  Jad Abumrad That wrestled with the following question.  David Kwahmen What if anything are the redeeming merits of the mosquito? All the harm that they do all the disease that they cause these critters have a lot to answer for. But is that the whole story? Should we therefore dismiss them?  Jad Abumrad or destroy them?  David Kwahmen Or destroy them or eradicate them?  Jad Abumrad Did you come up with things to say about this?  David Kwahmen Well it was not easy but I did yeah. I read read and ...  Jad Abumrad And while he read he said he did turn up some interesting facts. For example there is this mosquito that lives up in the artic ...  David Kwahmen Aedes Nigripes ...  Jad Abumrad Which ...  David Kwahmen Pollinates arctic orchids and spreads no disease to anybody.  Jad Abumrad Which is nice. But then David made the following argument.  David Kwahmen Because of their pestiferous disease vectoring ...  Robert Krulwich Pestiferous disease vectoring whoa.  David Kwahmen They have made a tropical forest very very difficult for humans to inhabit to colonize over the last 10000 years.  Andy Mills Because every time that we would try and go into those forests we would get swarmed by mosquitoes and we would run away.  David Kwahmen And therefore they have played an important role in bringing those forests forward relatively intact into the 21st centuries. The Amazon Forest The Congo Forest the forests of Borneo the forests of Southeast Asia if there were no difficulties diseases threats to the people living in those forests then those forests would have been turned into settlements cities farmlands much more extensively and much earlier than they have been and are now being. I call them nature's Viet Cong because they are the resistance fighters on behalf of the rain forest.  Robert Krulwich Why do not we make it harder for you. Why do not we make you imagine that it is springtime or early summer in Alaska that there is tundra melting everywhere that there are hordes and hordes and clouds of mosquitoes. And they are forming a permanent sort of cloud around you. And then Andy Mills comes up and offers you the opportunity to eliminate them completely from the planet. And he makes this offer as they are stabbing you in the wrist face cheek and ear.  David Kwahmen Okay.  Robert Krulwich You would do what?  David Kwahmen I would do these two things. First I would unzip the mosquito net of the tent. And I would say Andy for God's sake let us have this conversation in the tent. And we would jump in the tent zip that thing and then maybe spend about 10 minutes killing every mosquito that got into the tent with us. I admit that.  Robert Krulwich Okay that is -  David Kwahmen Now I would say Okay. Now Andy we can think about this clearly. And one of the things I would say was Well look. If we are up here just two humans in the middle of this Alaskan tundra and there are these millions and millions of mosquitoes swarming around us to get our blood obviously we are a small factor on this landscape and they are a big factor in some way.  David Kwahmen So if we were to press a button and eradicate them instantly it is very difficult to know their load-baring significance in the eco system. Because they are playing lots of different roles as parasites as competitors as prey and ...  Andy Mills But one of the things that Sonia Shaw told me is that they really do not play a big role in the ecosystem.  Sonia Shaw I really tried hard when I was writing this book to get a mosquito biologist to explain to me that mosquitoes were useful in their habitats that they had some ecological role to play that was important. And no one would admit that they had any role at all. They say They are not a useful nutrition for bats or fish or any of the other predators of mosquitoes. Because their biomass is so small that those creatures would be fine without mosquitoes. Everyone would be fine without mosquitoes.  David Kwahmen She might be right about that. But that is not the only ecological dimension we are talking about. That does not-  Andy Mills What other dimension-  David Kwahmen ... prove-  Andy Mills ... might there be just as a for-example?  David Kwahmen Competition. It might be competing with other insects and if you eliminate the mosquitoes then suddenly pheleria flies become much more abundant. When you talk about trying to foresee the consequences of completely eradicating any one species we just do not know.  Robert Krulwich The real deep thought here is if you are going to destroy the only obligation you owe to yourself is to know what you are killing.  David Kwahmen Absolutely. And by that I mean yes to know absolutely the dimensions the implications of what you are doing.  Andy Mills And what I am weighing on here Kwahmen is that I too have been to some of these sub-Saharan parts of Africa. And I just was floored that we have a curable disease and how many 12 13 14-year-old kids were hauled up in this -  David Kwahmen Well I agree with you that that is urgently compelling and important. And I feel the same way that something needs to be done and that it is true to some extent ...  Andy Mills In the end after all the debate I have ended up at this middle ground.  Hayden Perry Well I think what we are aiming to do actually ...  Andy Mills Hayden Perry put it to me like this We do not have to kill them all everywhere and in fact maybe we should not but we can kill them where we live.  Hayden Perry Eliminate them in our major urban cities and towns where they no longer pose a threat.  Andy Mills We can draw a line and say You know what you stay out in the woods. We will stay here. Because the diseases that they are spreading they will go away if the mosquito goes away for long enough. In America we do not get malaria hardly ever. Because there is no one with malaria that a mosquito would bite and then give that malaria to someone else.  Robert Krulwich Oh.  Andy Mills We have a ton of Anopheles mosquitoes and we have less than a thousand cases of malaria a year. Almost all those cases are somebody like myself who gets sick in Africa comes back here. And why is that? Because we hit zero close to zero in our cities and towns. Once people stopped having malaria here mosquitoes stopped getting it and giving it to other people. You just got to hit zero for a while.  Sonia Shaw Yeah. We just have to kind of place the boundary a little bit better. The mosquito can still do their thing. We can do our thing.  Andy Mills So you do not hate them anymore is what you are saying?  Sonia Shaw I think there is a way to live harmoniously with mosquitoes. I mean we do it in this country. We have mosquitoes and we control their populations in many ways but we also get bit.  Robert Krulwich Special thanks to Andy Mills of course who learned bug tolerance through Radiolab.  Jad Abumrad Also a very special thanks to David Baker who went above and beyond in the pursuit of mutant mosquitoes. And thanks also big thanks to writer Sonia Shaw and to you guys for listening. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad See you next time.  Eric This is Eric.  Rebecca And Rebecca  Eric And we are calling from St. Croix.  Rebecca In the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Eric Where we just sailed down from Savannah Georgia ...  Rebecca In an 88 year old Grand Banks Dosser fishing schooner.  Eric Radiolab is supported in part by ...  Rebecca The National Science Foundation.  Eric And by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.  Rebecca Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world.  Eric For more information about Sloan at ...  Rebecca Www.sloan.org.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.