 Listener supported. WNYC Studios.   Wait you are...   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are...   Listening...   To Radiolab.   Radiolab.   Shorts!   From...   WNY...   C.   Si?   Yes.   And NPR.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab the podcast and today we thought we would-  Robert Krulwich We would tell a lie.  Jad Abumrad Right.  Robert Krulwich That is what we are going to... We are going to-  Jad Abumrad You know what?  Robert Krulwich I think we should get on with it.  Jad Abumrad Yes this one comes to us from our producer Lulu Miller.  Lulu Miller All right so I am going to tell you a story.   .  Lulu Miller It takes place in Germany.   .  Lulu Miller At an old folks' home.  Regina Hau   Lulu Miller And that is not where we are right now but we have brought two of the people who work at the home into a studio.  Regina Hau We have to close the door otherwise-  Lulu Miller Yeah it sounds like you are having a party over there.  Lulu Miller So the story really belongs to this guy Richard Neureiter. He is the director of the home which is called Benrath Senior Center.  Richard Neureiter In Dusseldorf.  Lulu Miller But we have also brought Regin in.  Regina Hau Regina Hau.  Lulu Miller Who also works at the home and speaks more English.  Regina Hau I would just help Mr. Neureiter translate. Shall we do it like this?  Lulu Miller Yeah.  Regina Hau Okay.  Lulu Miller So Mr. Neureiter has a problem.  Richard Neureiter .  Lulu Miller It is a problem most nursing homes face.  Regina Hau Which is that many people who develop dementia Alzheimer.  Lulu Miller They will become disoriented and confused and suddenly think-  Regina Hau Where am I? and This is not my world and I have to go back to my house my children are waiting for me and-  Lulu Miller And usually nurses will intercept them...  Regina Hau Relax you are living here  Lulu Miller But occasionally people somehow slip out the front door.  Regina Hau Yeah escapes they happen.  Lulu Miller And then they wander. They had one woman make it onto a bus.  Regina Hau And she escaped about how many kilometers?  Lulu Miller She eventually made it to a town about 20 miles away. They have had people turn up at grocery stores wandering in the forest. They have even had people make it all the way back to their old houses and find new people living there. And for the people who work at the home says Regin  Regina Hau You get crazy not knowing where is the person and where did she go.  Lulu Miller Test test test test. This is something we all know about. You do you guys know I am working on this story about the Alzheimer's. Yes. And while reporting this piece I was checking in with my parents about some stories like this. What happened to my grandpa? Well well and they told me one I never heard.  Lulu's Mother One morning...  Lulu's Father This was in February.  Lulu's Mother Yes. This was on a very very frigid cold morning.  Lulu Miller My grandpa got up...  Lulu's Mother at 00 in the morning.  Lulu Miller Left the house and walked to the train station. You probably got the earliest T took it all the way out to Cambridge because he thought he had to teach a class at Harvard.  Jad Abumrad Did he use to teach at Harvard?  Lulu Miller No but he would given lectures there. So anyway it is pitch dark early in the morning frigid Boston weather.  Lulu's Mother And he was only in his long underwear with his coat and hat and scarf on over that.  Lulu Miller He did not even have shoes on. He was just wearing a slipper.  Lulu's Mother He was picked up by the police because he was...  Lulu's Father Hypothermic.  Lulu Miller He was hypothermic?  Lulu's Father He was hypothermic. I mean when they brought him into the hospital his temperature was too low.  Lulu Miller I did not know that.  Lulu's Mother It was the moment when I knew that you know that everything was going to have to change that he would have to move into a place that had a floor for people who were suffering-  Lulu's Father A locked floor. That is what it meant.  Lulu Miller So that essentially is the problem.  Regina Hau Some people have to to be locked in which just feels cruel. Yeah. It is horrible. Yeah it is.  Lulu Miller And then in walks a fellow named Mr. Gooble.  Regina Hau No no no Gurbel not Gooble. Gooble sounds really awful.  Lulu Miller Oh really? Okay.  Regina Hau Try to make it more like Gurbel.  Lulu Miller Gurbel.  Regina Hau Yeah bravo!  Lulu Miller Okay Mr. Gooble.  Regina Hau No!  Lulu Miller No? Okay. We will just use you saying it. We will do your Mr.-  Regina Hau Mr. Gurbel.  Lulu Miller Okay. So Mr. Gurbel was an older gentleman. He sat on an advisory board at the senior center and one day he came up with this idea. That is Richard Neureiter again. And it is one of these ideas that is so out there and yet so simple that you think it just could not possibly work.  Regina Hau When Mr. Gurbel came into the office of Richard and presented his idea Richard was just laughing.  Richard Neureiter .  Regina Hau He thought it is very funny. What a funny idea.  Jad Abumrad Well what is it already? What is the idea?  Lulu Miller Well Mr. Gurbel thought that right in front of the home they should build a bus stop.  Regina Hau A bus stop.  Jad Abumrad What? Build a bus st... I do not understand. What would that do?  Lulu Miller Well think about what a bus stop is.  Regina Hau When you see a bus stop it is the first step into the wide world from the little bus stop you get anywhere.  Lulu Miller Regin says that in a lot of these wandering cases the first place people often head is to a bus stop. And so back to our friend Mr. Gurbel he thought what they should do is build a bus stop right in front of the home that has just one crucially odd feature.  Regina Hau And there is no bus coming.  Lulu Miller No bus?  Regina Hau Never. It is the bus stop to nowhere.  Lulu Miller So his thought was it would be a way of catching people who happened to wander. They would see the bus stop go and sit on it waiting for a bus that would never come and then eventually a staff member could see them and bring them back. So while Richard's first thought was this is ridiculous.  Regina Hau Second thought was hmm maybe not that bad.  Lulu Miller So they bolted in a bench made of iron put up a sign in yellow and green just like every government issued bus stop.  Regina Hau And when you get out of the home you see it immediately.  Lulu Miller And the staff said Richard and Regin just thought this was a stupid idea.  Regina Hau It is not appropriate. Or it is even cynical.  Lulu Miller And most of all that it probably just would not work.  Richard Neureiter Yeah.  Lulu Miller And at first it looked like they were right.  Regina Hau One by one the neighbors normal people they said Oh a new bus stop and they waited there for the bus. And so one by one Richard would have to run out and explain. No that is not for you.  Lulu Miller So there was this period of adjustment. And then one day and now one lady an actual patient from the home started having an episode.  Regina Hau She was very troubled-  Lulu Miller In her mind she was a little girl and she needed to get home to her parents.  Regina Hau My mother waits for me. I have to go home very quick. The nurses talk to her and try to calm her down. But she began to cry.  Lulu Miller So they thought well let us just let her walk out.  Regina Hau It was fall. It was rather cold. So she went to the bus stop in her coat and her hat. And she sat there very patient and she waited for the bus.  Regina Hau In the fresh air sun shining.  Lulu Miller And eventually a nurse came over and sat with her.  Regina Hau And they waited together side by side.  Lulu Miller Eventually she forgot why she was there.  Regina Hau The nurse said we go in and have a cup of tea together. And then she came back and everything was fine. She was relaxed. She was in the present time. Not longer in the pastime.  Lulu Miller It is been two years since the bench first went up and Richard and Regin say they use it all the time. Every couple of days sometimes the nurses will take someone who is upset and wants to go home.  Regina Hau The nurses say let us go to the bus stop. Let us see what we will do and how we plan the day. Or sometime the nurses do not see that somebody escaped and they say Oh where is Mrs. Smith? and then they look out over the wall. She is waiting for the bus and somebody goes there.  Lulu Miller But one thing is always the same. When the people get to the bus stop the mood is very dark.  Regina Hau I am feeling so lonely. I want to go home  Lulu Miller And also urgent.  Regina Hau My parents wait for me. My children wait for me. I have to go there quick quick quick  Lulu Miller But then after a while as they are sitting they are thinking their escape is on the way that urgent feeling...  Regina Hau disappears.  Lulu Miller Do you know why? Or can I guess can you describe it disappearing? Like does it go away slowly or suddenly?  Regina Hau Richard says it is like another thought comes up and then you forget what you wanted. It is like fishes coming up to the surface of the water and then going down again and disappearing. Thoughts come up and they disappear. Then you do not know that they have ever been there. You will forget.  Lulu Miller Which is it is interesting. It is the forgetting is both the problem and the solution.  Jad Abumrad But Lulu. I mean is not this maybe a little bit cruel because it is a lie that is happening here. I mean they are lying to these people.  Lulu Miller Well sure. It is definitely a lie. There is no way around that. But what is the alternative. I mean take that woman at the bus stop. What are you supposed to say to her?  Lulu Miller I know that you are utterly convinced of this but actually you are not a little girl. You live in a nursing home. As you can imagine these kinds of conversations do not go well. They say sometimes they have to restrain the people...  Regina Hau hold them back call the police. They do not accept it because it is not their world. It is two completely different worlds.  Lulu Miller And so they say why not just allow that other world to be true for just a beat and then gently coax them back.  Regina Hau That is the aim of the whole thing to lead those memories very gently into this Now this Today.  Lulu Miller And this idea has sort of spread at the nursing home. It changed the atmosphere in the home. Now they try to do this sort of time shifting in all different ways.  Regina Hau Sounds a little bit complicated but it is not.  Lulu Miller For example they had this guy who is a Baker who always used to want to get up at 00 in the morning. And they used to say No go back go back to bed. We are working. But now they just say Okay. And they let them get up every day at 00. They take him to the kitchen and let him bake.  Regina Hau And then he says Well I am always in time and I am proud I never miss an hour of my work.  Lulu Miller And the interesting part for me is that I think about my grandpa wandering through the cold and his slippers. And here's this way in which people can be somewhat lost in their memories and yet exist in the present...  Jad Abumrad safely...  Lulu Miller safely.  Jad Abumrad That is our producer Lulu Miller with the music choice. If you want to know anything more about the Benrath Senior Center in Dusseldorf Germany check our website radiolab.org. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.   Message two   And this message Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30-