 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From...  WNYC.  See?  Yeah.   Hey. I am Latif Nasser. This is RADIOLAB. And this week our story comes from...  Hey Latif.  Hi. ...Avir Mitra who is one of our contributing editors. Avir after his stint as a RADIOLAB intern and then as an international rock star became...   Why do not I go ahead and give...  ...An emergency room doctor. Actually during the height of the pandemic...   Tensions are high today - March 26 2020.  ...He brought us a gripping portrait of his ER under siege.   All the ICUs are slammed.  Today's story is not about COVID. It is a lot less scary a lot more fantastical. It is about dirt dueling statues and a secret molecule that stops time - might even reverse it.   So you know a lot of times I will be working in the ER and you know we have just so many meds going into somebody so many different drugs going through an IV and sometimes I just step back and I think like where did these come from? Like how did this drug end up here in my hands going into this patient? It is like a relay race you know and this baton has been passed forward and forward and I am the last guy and I am putting it into the patient but I do not really even know - like how far back did this baton go? So sometimes I go home and at night I will look it up. And most times honestly it is just whatever. But recently I was looking into one of the drugs that we see pretty often in all these different contexts in the hospital and ever since I looked it up I have been obsessed. I think it has the craziest backstory I have ever heard for a drug.  Recording then .  All right. We are recording.  OK so it starts with this guy named Ajai.  My name is Ajai Sehgal. And the last name you can pronounce it Sehgal Siegel  Sagal .  So back in 1982...  I remember exactly where I was. I was in Germany serving with the Canadian Forces.  His family was back in Montreal.  And one day it was just - it was around Christmastime actually. I got a telegram saying Dad and I are moving to the United States. Stop. Your room is packed. Stop. We will leave your stuff with Chaja . Stop. Chaja's my father's younger brother. And I go what? Why are you moving to the United States?  Well what happened was my husband Suren received a notice that he will be moving to Princeton N.J.  This is Ajai's mom Uma.  Uma Sehgal.  And she says her husband Suren was working for this drug company.  It was Ayerst McKenna  Harrison.  And out of nowhere one day they say we are shutting down our Montreal labs. Like if you want to keep your job you got to move to New Jersey. So...  You know my parents were moving.  Ajai he is a good son. He comes home to help them move.  The day we had to move was very cold cold cold freezing day.  My girlfriend and I were helping them pack and move.  He is like packing things up in boxes you know moving dressers.  And I was going to pack up the freezer.  And all of a sudden his dad is like whoa whoa whoa stop right there. He shows him these little glass jars.   Like a few vials.  I think like three or four of them sealed with plastic tape with some white substance inside.  I did not say anything. It is his work.  But Ajai is just kind of like what is this?  Yep.  And that is when Ajai realizes like oh my God my dad is stealing this stuff from his lab.  I said that is not legal to take that across the border.  And Suren just kind of shoots his son this look.  Of just - pack in dry ice.  So Ajai did what he was told.  I went to the grocery store bought some dry ice and we put this compound into an ice-cream container then into another container.  And you know like if you are Indian you already know. Like you open any random yogurt container in the fridge the last thing it is going to have is yogurt.  Yes.  So they took this yogurt container.  And wrote do not eat  - or something like that.  And it went into the freezer. And I sealed the freezer with duct tape so United Van Lines would not open it up.  No nobody said anything at the border you know?  .  We smuggled it across the U.S. border into the United States in the freezer.  The rest is history . Yeah.  I mean I do not know the numbers at all but like this may be one of the biggest international smuggling events in medicine.  Oh come on .  OK I actually do not know. But that stuff in those vials on its way to New Jersey in a freezer in a moving truck? That stuff was going to become a billion-dollar drug one day and save millions of people's lives and ultimately teach us some very fundamental lessons about our biologic nature.  OK but are you going to tell me what drug it is actually?  I will. But not yet 'ecause the story is not just about the drug. All right? It is like about this guy who is really possessed by this drug and led it through all sorts of obstacles to get it to us.  My father's full name was Surendra Nath Sehgal but he went by Suren.  Suren was a biologist.  A brilliant microbiologist.  And the thing he really cared about was studying drugs.  And where my father got it from was he essentially followed in his father's footsteps.  Suren's dad ran a pharmaceutical plant.  In the 1930s early 1940s in the area of Khushab.  Which is in modern day Pakistan.  And that is the environment that my father grew up in. And then when he was a teenager...   ...Everything went to hell in a handbasket and the partition occurred.   As the new dominions of Pakistan and India take over their own affairs the bloodshed goes on.  And all of a sudden Suren and his family had to abandon their home and the life that they knew.   Fleeing from their looted blood-stained towns a million displaced persons.  With the shirts on their backs and what they could carry...   Hindus and Muslims seek safety in new surroundings.  ...They boarded a train and rode to New Delhi. And the family lost everything. They were very poor.  But despite all this chaos Suren manages to go to college and then grad school.  He got his Ph.D.  At 25.  And I have - I remember this picture of my father. It says Professor Sehgal and his class. And there is this young whippersnipper  lying prone on the ground holding his head up with his arm and a bunch of old guys behind him who are the class.  And not long after that...  He emigrated to Canada. He said he had 50 cents in his pocket. So you know that was enough to buy a meal back then. And he basically started life over in Canada.  OK. So do me a favor Latif. Hold this image of Suren arriving in Canada in 1976 on one side of your mind.  OK.  And on the other side of this split screen...   ...I am going to tell you a very different migration story. This one starts in 1000 A.D.   There is some spiritual leader on an island in the Pacific Ocean. And one day he has this vision in a dream. In this dream he is like a bird and he flies over the ocean. And when he does that he sees in his dream this island that has like cliffs and it has like volcanic craters. And he tells his people that you know a bunch of you need to go off and find this island. So what they do is they send a group of about a hundred people that are a mix of like all the different facets of society. So you have got you know women of childbearing age explorers shamans farmers spiritual leaders. And they basically just take two wooden canoes and put a about 100-foot platform between them. So it is kind of like a catamaran I guess.  OK.  It is like this mini Noah's Ark.  Wow.  And they proceed to traverse these huge waves and storms and just - in the middle of nowhere for thousands of miles - at least a thousand miles they traveled - all just based on this dude having a dream.   Lo and behold they find an island. It is got tons of trees. It is got cliffs. It is got volcanic craters and stones basically just as this guy described in his dream. So they land on this island that their descendants now call Rapa Nui. These 100 people they flourished. Like their population grows. And then as the story goes their society suddenly collapses leaving behind like lots of questions about what really happened there.   And so let us hop forward.   It was a beautiful morning - December 13 1964.  A boat with a couple dozen Canadian scientists lands on the shores of this island.   It is one of the loneliest islands in the world.  This is Easter Island.   It sits alone more than 2000 miles off the coast of South America.  Oh like the Easter Island with the big heads?  Yeah exactly.   Some weighing 30 tons some 20 feet tall.  These huge two-story stone heads.   No one knows for sure who made them or how long it is they have been staring seaward to mystify the world.  And so the Canadian government had sent this expedition...   A medical expedition to Easter Island.  ...Because of like how removed the island was from the rest of the world.   Isolation has been their protection.  And so these scientists wanted to explore everything about the island and learn about the people.   Prepares blood samples.  Learn about the bacteria the plants animals. And one of the things they do is...   The island was mapped into small squares.  They take dozens of samples of soil from all over the island.   What is this soil best suited to grow?  Why would they look in the dirt? Like it seems so random to me.  The dirt was an afterthought for them.  Oh.  But they kind of just wanted to see like is there anything in here that we have not seen before? So to figure that out once they collect the soil they pack it up and send it to a bunch of different scientists all over Canada to take a closer look. And one of them is our friend Suren.  Yes.  So by this time in Suren's life in the '60s he is got a job doing drug research. He is married Uma. They have had Ajai. He is just kind of like your typical Indian dad.  What does he look like by the way?  He looks like one of my uncles. Even when I am saying his name - like Suren now - I feel like I should actually be saying Suren uncle. He is just got a very Indian uncle vibe.  You want to explain what an Indian uncle vibe is?  What does it mean to be an Indian uncle? All right.   First of all they are not your actual uncle.  Not related to you.  Not - definitely not related to you.  Yeah.  Suren - when I see pictures of him he is wearing a suit you know? That is what the Indian uncle will wear. He is got glasses on - like very like '80s glasses.  .  But then in another one he is got like sunglasses on which is like - that is also part of being the Indian uncle is you are a little cool you know? You are a little cool sometimes.  .  He is clean-shaven kind of balding. When I was talking to his son...  Before I could go out and play at night I had to read any article in the Encyclopedia Britannica and then write a one-page essay on it.  ...I feel like I already know this guy.  Probably started when I was 8 years old.  .  Like a science-oriented family man just trying to like establish himself in a new country. And it is in the midst of this you know kind of humdrum life when this dirt...  I always imagined it as a canister of dirt.  ...From this mysterious island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean lands on his desk. So he is just kind of like let us see what is in this soil.  And he began to try to isolate unique compounds from that soil sample.  So he basically takes the soil.  They examined it under the microscope.  And eventually Suren and his team...  They go oh that is interesting. They isolated a compound that was not seen before and it had a very interesting molecular structure.  And it is kind of this clear white crystalline-type of powder-looking thing. And Suren's like...  I wonder what it does.  And so...  They test it.  ...They put the compound on different petri dishes and...  They exposed it to certain bacteria certain fungi.  To kind of see how they will react to the compound.  And then they observe.  And after a few days they notice...  Any fungus they put it in contact with...  Would just stop growing.   It is like time had just kind of frozen.  Huh. Like he would have expected that like that amount of fungi would just keep like dividing and - boop  boop boop boop boop boop boop.  Exactly. Yeah. By this point it should have coated the whole plate just covered in fungi just like if you leave you know old yogurt in the fridge it will just get covered in mold you know? So that is what should have happened but instead it did not happen. So he is like ooh maybe this could be an antifungal.   Get a tough case of athlete's foot and you are benched.  Like all those creams people can use like for yeast infections like you know...   Boom - tough-acting Tinactin.  Maybe something like that right?  Right.  So for the next few years Suren is just like trying this stuff out on mice basically you know giving them fungal infections and then seeing if rapamycin works. He tries it on dogs. Ajai even says he tried it on a friend's wife who had a fungal infection on her arm. Wait. Can you even do that?  Yeah.   He is carrying it around like in his back pocket. And he pulls it out at this family friend's house and he puts it on her arm.  And she tried it and it completely eliminated the fungal infection.  So he is totally stoked at this point.  Wait. Like to me this is so strange because it like - it is like the opposite of what you expect. Like you expect like it is like OK disease - we have got a problem now let us go find a solution. But this is like the opposite. It is like OK we have a solution let us go find a problem.  .  Like it feels backwards.  Oh. So you think scientists know what they are doing...  .  ...Which is funny 'ecause they do not. We do not. Like that sort of backwards discovery I think that is actually pretty common. Think of something like aspirin right? Like people were using this bark off of this tree before any scientists ever knew what was going on. So anyhow going back to Suren he feels like he is got a hit on his hands like a perfect fungal freezer.  He said I am sure it is better than anything else I have ever worked on.  My dad used to call it my compound.  My compound.  Yeah .  He also gives it a name.  Rapamycin.  Rapamycin after the Rapa Nui Island that it came from. So he files for a patent for this drug and he publishes his first paper in 1975.  But then there is the problem.  Suren is starting to see that not only does this compound freeze the fungus.  It had very strong immunosuppressant properties.  It does the exact same thing to immune cells too.  So it is like Elsa from Frozen. Like just anything it touches it just freezes.  That is exactly his thought.  Wow. OK.  Which is a bad thing because you need immune cells to basically grow really quickly when you have an infection and kind of destroy the infection.  I sensed like a disappointment in him because he would been working on this for quite some time.  Like he felt like he was just getting started with rapamycin.  But...  Ayerst the company that Suren was working for...  Did not give a damn for that you know?  To them rapamycin is now useless.  They ordered the lab to be destroyed.  This was that moment in 1982 where Ayerst was shutting down its entire Montreal office.  They were all clearing the tables destroying so many things so much work of everyone.  What was he saying at that time? What did he say to you about his feelings on that?  Oh he was so disappointed. He said I have such a good thing in my head and they want me to destroy it.  He knew that if they destroyed all the samples that they would never be able to synthesize it again.   I think there was something about rapamycin that was still calling to Suren. Like the fact that it was freezing the fungus and the immune system - it just did not make sense. So when his bosses said throw it out...  He could not do it.  ...He could not let go.  So...  In this act of like thug passion I guess...  .  ...He walks over to the trash.  He picked up from the trash.  He pulled it right out of the trash?  Mmm hmm. Right out of trash.  .  He said we have to save this I have a feeling about this drug.  He brought it home and said Uma put this in the freezer.  And smuggled it all the way to New Jersey just 'ecause he had this feeling it was going to be big.  I do not want to stop but we have to go to break.  OK.  Do you want to tell people why they should stick around even after the break?  You should stick around because after the break Suren's feeling turns out to be right.  All right. We will be right back. Latif.  Avir.  RADIOLAB. OK so before the break we met this drug researcher Suren who ended up with a substance called rapamycin from Rapanui or Easter Island that mysteriously freezes everything it touches which looked like it could be a great thing for people with fungal problems but then not quite because it actually freezes your immune system too which you need. So now what?  Right exactly. So his bosses are over it. They are like throw it out. He steals it brings it back to New Jersey. Fast-forward five years. This stuff is sitting in his freezer and he ends up with some new bosses.   Our next major story is from our medical beat.  And by now that feeling he had always had that this drug would be big had become an idea.   Successful kidney transplantation was confined to the tiny world of identical twins.  So this is the late '80s and organ transplantation - which is this field that until recently was basically science fiction - was just starting to go mainstream.   But as the year ran on...  But the big hurdle doctors were facing was the immune system.   Patients died sometimes of rejection.  They had not really perfected how to stop people's immune systems from attacking their new organs.   Sometimes because the powerful drugs given to overcome rejection leave them open to infections.  There were not a lot of effective immunosuppressive drugs. And the ones that were out there were...  Were not exactly that great.  They had lot of side effects.  So Suren thought maybe rapamycin could be used for this. So he pitches it to his new bosses. And they are like OK this sounds good.  But they actually said well there is - this is not possible because all the samples are destroyed. And he says well...  About that.  Maybe not.  He came home.  And he took it out of the freezer. And they...  Right next to the Ben  Jerry's.  They did not know that the compound was good enough after five years in the freezer. But to his surprise it was just as active as it was five years ago. I know that he was very excited about it.  And that became the seed.  So now it is like game on for Suren. This is his world. So he is in the lab every day trying to figure out how does this drug work? Like why in the world would this drug be freezing everything it touches? And at the same time he is sending it around to all these other scientists trying to get them to help figure out what is going on. Like try this. This is like the DIY like indie band way of developing a drug.  'ecause he really just has no idea how this stuff works.  Yeah that is right. But that is about to change thanks to this guy.  Sure. My name is David Sabatini. I am a biologist at an institute called the Whitehead Institute which is...  But back in 1992 when Suren's sending the sample all over the place Sabatini was just a student.  I was about a year and a half into medical school whatever that would put you in.  He is an M.D. Ph.D. student which means he is like not just a high achiever enough to become a doctor. He wants to become like a doctor and a scientist at the same time. But he is been struggling. He cannot figure out what to do his dissertation on. So he is walking around the lab one day trying to figure out like what am I going to do my dissertation on?  And then what I found was this notebook that said rapamycin bibliography. And in fact I still have it somewhere here.  And it comes with some vials of rapamycin too.  And then I had a note.  Like a little Post-it note.  Good luck Suren.  And so Sabatini's like I am going to be the one to figure out how this drug works. Like that is going to be my Ph.D. project. And Sabatini knew that in order for a drug to work it basically has to attach to something in the body.  And the real question was what that something else was. And so I developed a way of looking for that something else.    Pinky are you pondering what I am pondering?   I think so Brain. But there is still a bug stuck in here from last time.  So literally what you do is you sacrifice a rat.  Remove its brain.  Put it into a blender.  Mix this up make a smoothie.  It looks like a milkshake at that point.  I am going to put rapamycin in the smoothie. Let us see what this thing attaches to. And the way he does that is he creates this experiment. He basically puts a little radioactive label onto rapamycin so it will light up.  OK.  And he mixes that in with the brain smoothie. Then he just dumps out the brain and looks at it and sees if anything lights up Because if it does you know that the rapamycin is there. It attached to something in the brain. And there is some part of this brain sticking to the rapamycin. So the rapamycin is doing something. It is sticking to something.  Yeah I certainly remember that first time that I ran my assay and I could tell that it had clearly bound to something.  How did you feel?  Oh it was amazing right? And that is when I basically stopped sleeping.  Because he still did not know what that thing was that the rapamycin was sticking to. That was going to take a lot more work and a lot more rat brains.  I ended up doing experiments where you know I would sometimes have 300 rats that I would have to use 300 rat brains. I mean I did those multiple times to get enough material eventually to identify what that protein was. And it turned out to be a very big protein.  And when he tries to look it up in a database it is not there. This is a completely unknown huge protein. Nobody had ever seen it before. And scientists ended up settling on the name mTOR which stood for mechanistic target of rapamycin. And it turns out Suren had sent this sample you know to other people too. So a couple other labs are just at the same time making the same discovery. And they find out that this thing that it is attaching to does not just exist in rat brains. It exists in every cell of the rat. And in fact it exists in every cell of yeast of worms and basically of every single living multicellular species.  Oh wow. So it lives in all of our cells too?  Yeah. But somehow we had never seen it before and nobody knew what it was doing.  I did not know what mTOR did. Could not figure out anything. And it took me a long time.  Like almost a decade.  I remember I once gave a talk to my lab at a laboratory and I think I called it the Dark Ages.  Obviously this requires hundreds of experiments but mTOR - what is it doing?  OK. No of course. So you know from the earliest days before we knew about mTOR we had rapamycin. And the beauty of rapamycin was that in many ways it gave us a window into what mTOR was doing before we even knew mTOR existed.  And what he realizes is mTOR - it is a sensor.  That senses nutrients and then it tells the cell grow or do not grow.  It basically receives signals from the outside of the cell right? And it is - the signals it is sensing is like how much good stuff is there that I have access to? Is there glucose you know protein fat oxygen a lack of stress? We have all that stuff. mTOR turns up and tells the cell then to grow.  Sure.  If the good stuff is not there mTOR turns down and the cell stops growing as much. It does not get as big.  And so the way I like to think about it is that mTOR is basically at a construction project. And you know in a construction project you have all these different trades right? - the plumbers the carpenters electricians the concrete pourers the bricklayers. So mTOR is the organizer of that. And in the construction trade you would call this a general contractor. So mTOR is taking the signals for example of what the owners of the building want whether there is money or not whether the concrete supplier cannot bring concrete tomorrow. It is taking all those inputs and then controlling all those processes.  And if the inputs look bad for building like say there is not enough pipes the general contractor is not going to let the plumber install the pipes if you know - if the general contractor knows there are not enough pipes to install right now. So it is going to say stop.   An mTOR is making the decision as to which of those two states you are in by measuring the presence or absence of nutrients. What rapamycin does is it tricks cells in your body to thinking there is low nutrients when nutrients are there.  So if you think about mTOR as a general contractor rapamycin is like a blindfold. It is covering the general contractor's eyes so it cannot see the plumbing or the concrete or whatever. And so the general contractor just shuts down the project even though all the things it needs are there. Does that make sense?  Yeah I think so. And so the effect of it basically is that rapamycin just slows down growth.  Yeah exactly. More or less it freezes it. Whether it is fungus cells or immune cells it just cannot grow. So and it turns out while Sabatini was figuring out all this stuff with mTOR...   Transplants are becoming so much easier to perform.  ...Suren...   Improved immunosuppressant drugs.  ...Had been sending out rapamycin to all these transplant doctors and it was working   Recent medical advances...  It was working so well in fact that rapamycin would end up getting FDA approval for immune suppression in 1999. And not only that - other doctors are starting to realize like maybe I can use this as an immunosuppressant too for like other things. Like doctors had recently come up with this new technology to save people who are having a heart attack called a stent. And what it is is it is basically a little tube that you slip into someone's artery in their heart to keep it open. The only problem is that when you put a tube into someone's body their body is like why is this tube inside of me? Like I do not want it. Get it away from me. So your immune system starts sort of rejecting it. Until one day a doctor who had read one of Suren's papers thinks let me try coating the stent in rapamycin. And boom - like that all of a sudden stents lasting.  Wow.  He was so excited that the heart stents are coated with his drug.  And one day Suren has this moment where he really sees up close the kind of impact that rapamycin is having.  Oh Pittsburgh.  He and Uma are in Pittsburgh and one of the doctors who would been using rapamycin invites them to tour the children's ward at this hospital.  There were kidney transplantation survivors who were on my father's drug as part of this clinical trial.  And as Suren's being led around this children's transplant ward the doctor giving the tour said this is the guy that invented rapamycin.  That guy who discovered the drug you are taking.  And because of rapamycin a lot of them were responding to their transplants really well.  Really really well. You have to understand that in these clinical trials the patients that they select are the ones that are not being helped by any other immunosuppressant. So this was sort of last resort for these kids.  The word starts spreading around the hospital.  Oh he met so many patients. All the patients wanted to see him.  The parents of these kids were like...  Can I shake his hand? They all wanted to shake his hand. They just wanted to thank him constantly thank him.  For keeping their kids alive.  He was so happy that it was working.  Especially because at that moment...  He was stage 4 and we did not have much longer with him.  Wait. What?  My father had been diagnosed with colon cancer.  It was pretty serious.  His doctor said he only had six months to live. But Uma says when Suren got this news...  He said to the oncologist I will be here for five years. You will see. He was very determined I have to get better. I have to get better.  He tells his wife he wanted to be around for his grandkids. But it was not just that.  He said a lot has to go on with my work also.  He has so much work that he still wants to do on rapamycin including his most daring experiment yet.  Taking rapamycin.  Taking rapamycin to see if it would treat his own cancer.  So like his doctor prescribed him rapamycin?  No. No he was getting it from the lab.  He just decided to take it.  On his own in pill form.  I believe in this drug and I think it just might be able to save me.  But why? Like why would - why would rapamycin help for cancer?  Well think about it. Right? Like what does rapamycin do? It stops cells from growing. So why not cancer cells? You know - and no human had ever tried this. It was definitely a long shot. But...  He said let me try that.  And then the six-month mark comes and goes.  The tumor action stopped.  Another six months go by he is still alive.  Yes yes.  In fact he is thriving.  We were traveling all over the world.  He is flying to conferences for work.  We went to Japan. We went to China. We went to Thailand. We went to Europe many times.  Another six months he is publishing papers.  He was very busy.  And another he is going to his grandkids' birthdays - and another.  And then he just kept living right?  Oh my God. Wow. So like what actually is happening? So like the rapamycin is like slowing - it is like freezing the cancer?  Well maybe that is happening but maybe something even crazier is happening that even Suren had no idea about. What scientists are now just starting to wrap their head around is that when you turn down mTOR because you do not have enough of the good stuff it does not just say stop. In fact it deploys a whole 'nother program. And some people call that the starvation protocol. All right. So let us go back to this general contractor guy - right? - mTOR.  Yeah.  What this general contractor actually says is like we have fallen on hard times everybody. There is no new materials coming in. Do not just sit there and wait for something good to happen. Instead start fixing yourself up. Take all this junk laying around recycle it. For example if there are no pipes - hey plumbers like why do not you go around this house and pick up all this junk that is sitting there and fix it up and see if you can make some pipes?  Oh got it. So that is what is going on inside the cell. Like it is like - it is doing that thing. It is like taking up the garbage and like making it useful.  Yeah exactly. Some people call that autophagy meaning eating yourself auto phagy - eating yourself.  But what - like what is the - what is the garbage actually though in the cell?  It is crazy 'ecause even in med school we had histology. And we would look at cells and we would be trying to identify all the little pieces of the cell. And I would always see - like you could see on one side there is this huge brown gunk just sitting there. And I would be like what is that? And I came to later learn that that is just junk. It is just deposit sitting there.  And it is like clogging up the function of the cell? Is that what is going on?  Yeah. That buildup of junk inside our cells over time makes us less efficient. It makes us sick. I talked to a bunch of scientists who study this. One of them this guy Matt Kaeberlein...  I am a professor of laboratory medicine and pathology at the University of Washington.  ...Studied the effects of rapamycin on how long mice live.  And we had this one mouse that kept going and going and going.  They named him Ike.  Ike if we translated that linearly to human years was about 125 years old - 130 years yeah.  Ike wow.   Right.  But is this just like one super old mouse who you just made super older?  No no. That is the thing. Like there is a government study that did this with a bunch of mice. These mice look and act younger. And it is not just mice. Like scientists have seen these kind of results in every species they try it on. So it is yeast worms flies. They are even doing a study to try it in pet dogs.  Wow. And so all of this is just 'ecause like rapamycin is just like clearing out all the junk?  Yeah. Because all that junk basically causes aging and over time will kill us. Like Kaeberlein says take something like Alzheimer's disease right? What is that? That is tangles of proteins and junk that is sitting around in your brain cells that is getting in the way of like you having a thought.  And there is tons of data in mice that rapamycin can improve cognitive aging in mice. Starting rapamycin before the decline starts prevents the decline and starting rapamycin after the decline starts partially reverses the decline.  So you are saying that rapamycin reverses Alzheimer's in mice?  That is right.  Wow. And it is not just Alzheimer's. It is like every marker of aging. It is other diseases too like heart attacks strokes and cancer which kind of brings us back to Suren. Like he was given six months in 1998 and now it is 2002.  Oh wow so like almost the five-year mark.  Yeah.  Five years when he was supposed to have been dead.  He is still taking rapamycin and he is still alive. And so yeah maybe some of that anti-aging stuff is happening in Suren's body.  Actually there was no cancer in his colon anymore or the stomach or the liver.  I mean but like how do you know? Like is there any way of measuring that that is the thing that is prolonging his life?  At this point it is hard to tell you know? Like at one point he also did chemo for his cancer. So is it the chemo? Is it the traditional meds? Is it the rapamycin? Suren has no idea. That is a mystery in his mind that is actually kind of eating away at him.  And one day he goes and he tells my mom - he says...  How do I know? I feel good but how do I know if it is working or not - my drug is working or not?  Is this working or am I just a fluke? Is it just so happening that I am living longer than I was expected? But he is always going to stay the scientist right? So he is like there is only one way I am going to figure out if rapamycin is keeping me alive.  Uma the only way I am going to know if my drug works is if I stop taking it.  He was experimenting on himself.  And that is what he does.  So he stopped taking the drug. And you know six months later...  It came with vengeance.  The cancer...  It was - it came into the lungs.  It was in his lungs and he was not going to last very much longer.  And so Uma tells him like you made your point.  I said to him - I begged him to take it.  Just start taking the rapamycin again.  Yeah.  He said no just - it is OK. Let nature take its course. That is all.  He worked until the day he died. He - the day before he died he was still writing a paper in bed...  Without oxygen on his face.  ...Writing a paper on advocating the antitumor properties of rapamycin.  Yeah.  Suren died on January 21 2003.  So Suren is gone but this drug is still alive. It is still here. It is still being used.  Yeah really it is just coming to life. It had been approved for immune suppression and stents during his lifetime. And then in the years after he died these slight variations on it started getting approved for all these rare cancers like dominos really - approved for this one approved for that one approved for another one.  Wow.  And today this drug is just a part of my world.  An 86-year-old male he last had stents placed at NYU three years ago.  Like just the other day. All right sir. I know a lot's going on right now. Everyone's running all over the place. We are concerned because we think you may be having a heart attack. A guy came in with a heart attack. Fifty years ago he probably would have died. But we gave him a stent coated with a variation of rapamycin and he is doing just fine. Does that sound like a plan to you? And on top of that there is like dozens of studies going on to see if rapamycin can maybe one day prevent or reverse aging in humans.  Oh wow.  But what makes this story interesting to me personally - all right - is not rapamycin per se. It is what rapamycin taught us about ourselves. And what is that? So to me it is like mTOR that general contractor protein that rapamycin showed us that we have. It tells ourselves when to grow and when to recycle the trash that is piled up inside them. If I was to design a cell if I was to design myself I would say I should be in a state where I can grow and I should also be able to clean up at the same time.  Totally.  But it turns out the way our bodies do it and the way every single living species does it is not that way. We have two states and the more you do one the less you can do the other. So you can be in a state where you are getting nutrients. You are getting the things you need. And when you are in that state you are like building. You are growing. And only when you do not have those things - in other words only the times where you run out of food - those are the times where your body doubles back and decides OK now is when I am going to fix myself up. So what I think is profound is that there is just - you can be one or the other but you cannot really be both.  Yeah.  And why would nature do that? Well I think you know life is a mix of both of those states. We are never going to be always fed. We are never going to be always hungry. We are going to be in some mix. So why do not we delegate certain activities to happen during certain times of life? I think that is the meaning to me. So if you look at us today look at the world we have created you know we do not like discomfort. We do not like pain because we are evolved to seek the good things. And that makes sense. But we are not evolved to actually have ever achieved a state where we get all the good things all the time.  .  It is actually bad for us.  .  And we see that everywhere obviously right? - diabetes hypertension obesity.  Right.  We see that on that level. But to me this is the cell saying to us - the cell is saying I was actually designed and you were designed to have a mix of times where you have everything you want and a mix of times - and sometimes where you do not have everything you want. And it is going to be painful but it is good for you. I think that is the true lesson that came from the dirt of Easter Island.  So it is like the thing that we pulled out of Easter Island it responded to a thing in us that we did not even know was there which is like a tiny switch on each of our cells that on one side says grow. And on the other side it says like fix basically.  Right exactly. And one of the coolest things I learned while reporting this story is that in a way that lesson that rapamycin is teaching us about ourselves that lesson has been present in a place that rapamycin came from for a really long time.  Huh. What do you mean?  OK so when you think about Rapa Nui Easter Island you picture these huge moai statues. They are basically like big stone old men with big well-fed bellies. Those statues were built when the culture was thriving. There was food livestock maybe 15- to 20000 people were living there. They were feasting. But what most people do not know is that there is this other kind of statue on the island. SERGIO MATA' Here I will pull one out here.  A very different kind of statue. SERGIO MATA' My uncle carved this a long time ago and I sort of inherited it.  This is Sergio Mata'u Rapu. He grew up on the island and he is the one who told me about these statues. SERGIO MATA' Yeah. These statues are about a foot high or like two-feet high made out of wood pretty fragile wood. And they represent these like very starving skinny naked almost frightened figures.  Instead of hands wrapped around a big fat belly it is these protruding ribs. His spine is sticking out. His face is sunken. His eyes are just looking at you. Sergio says these statues came from a very different time in the island's history. SERGIO MATA' At one point we lost our massive trees and resources started diminishing.  Without trees it became hard to make boats to go fishing and it also became hard to grow crops. People really started to struggle and they started to starve. And around the same time Europeans started coming to the island and they brought disease. They enslaved people. And a lot of people in Rapa Nui died. SERGIO MATA' My ancestors this massive powerful community who build these giant statues like diminishes down to about 111 people.  And that Sergio says is when they started making these little statues the moai kavakava. And I mean when you read the history books about this island Rapa Nui - right? - the history books are going to say this is a failed island. SERGIO MATA' That the moai construction is like the pinnacle of my community.  But Sergio says that is not how he sees it. SERGIO MATA' To me like the fact that people were able to adapt to difficult situations is what allows you to survive. It was important for them to understand like how to really do a lot with a little bit.  And he says that you know even though most of the tourists come to see those big giant statues for the people on the island they treasure those small skinny statues just as much. SERGIO MATA' I think the story of Rapa Nui is a metaphor for what rapamycin does in your body. The way that I understand it the way that rapamycin tricks your body into thinking that you are starving it being a positive thing. I think oftentimes we on Rapa Nui also realize that having close to nothing is also positive in some ways. It reminds you of what you have.   I think my big takeaway from this story is I - like I need to go to my parents' house and look through every yogurt container in the fridge.  .  Because there are a lot of them. And who knows what could be discovered.  Well how many of them have yogurt in them?  None. None. None.  Right. Exactly. Yeah.   Contributing editor Avir Mitra. This episode was produced by Sarah Qari Pat Walters and Suzie Lechtenberg with production help from Carin Leong and Rachael Cusick. Fact-checking by Diane Kelly. Special thanks to Richard Miller Stuart Schreiber Joanne Van Tilburg Bethany Halford and Ike the mouse. Thank you very much for listening.  Hi. This is Kira  from Philadelphia Pa. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Alex Neason Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Carin Leong. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.   