 Do not STOP BELIEVIN'     Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab Corona Dispatch 5. So I grew up in a lab and you know what I mean is my mother was a researcher. I would go to her research lab every day after school. I am very familiar with what a research place feels like. People are focused. It is very quiet. So it has been interesting to me to listen to the voice memos you are about to hear. Because it is not the sound I am used to it is not the sound that I associate with research. Like we forget that throughout much of the history of science science was done on the battlefield. There was not that sort of a division between the research people over here and the patient people over there. It was all the same thing. And maybe in this moment we have kind of gone back to that state a little bit? So some of the stuff that you are gonna hear in this dispatch might be a little hard to listen to so this might not be the one to listen to with your kids although we do have a feed called Radiolab For Kids which you should check out. But I wanted you to hear it to give you a sense of what science on the battlefield actually sounds like now.   What is up?   Hey hey!   The story really centers around this guy.   Nice.   Introduce yourself.   Okay. My name is Avir Mitra. I know you because back in the day when you guys were on season three of Radiolab ...   Wow.   I emailed you because I heard an episode and I was like This is the future! Jad I want to work with you guys. I majored in science and I have my own recording studio because at the time I was doing music. Let me hang out with you guys. And then ...   That is so crazy. Look what happened You went on to do something much more useful.   Not at all no. I made the wrong choice clearly.  After Radiolab I went to med school. Ended up specializing in emergency medicine.   I remember too also there was like a -- you were a rock star for a minute. And then -- then you went to med school?    Yeah.     Theres that chapter.   That little thing. You had just been our intern at that point.   Yeah it was just -- that was a crazy time.   I always imagined youd go back to that at some point.   I know.   All right. So you went to med school after that. Did you imagine you would end up in an ER?   When I first went to med school?   Yeah.   Not really. It is kind of a weird specialty in that a lot of ways it is looked down on by the other specialties which most people outside would not kind of see. But it is a new specialty relatively speaking. It started in I think like 1970. And so it is kind of like this red-headed stepchild of medicine.   Huh.   Because the cool thing to do in medicine is to be a specialist. You know an electrophysiologist that just focuses on the right atrium of the heart and thats their specialty. So going into one of the more primary specialties like emergency medicine isnt as sexy in some ways.   Although I wonder if that'ill change now.   Right. Maybe.   Okay so one of the ways that I have been experiencing this pandemic kind of as a voyeur is through Avir. Avir works three or four shifts a week at an ER at a very busy Manhattan hospital. And after every shift ...   Hey welcome.   Whats up? How are you?   He would send me voice memos of just what he was thinking and experiencing.   March 20th 2020. Just got into work to start a night shift.   Huh? I think so?   The good news is the city looks pretty dead but for sure there is just this underlying tension.     We are all kind of uncertain.     I dont know. What the hell do I know?   Sometimes we make some jokes about who is gonna tube us but it is a little bit of gallows humor I would say.     I am just curious like what were you thinking at that point when like people were saying It is coming it is coming it is coming. It is gonna be big but it had not yet really hit yet?   I am trying to take myself back to that shift. I do remember just thinking looking at patients because already at that point you know we had seen several coming in. They looked like they had it. And so we isolated them gowned up.   Have you any chills? Okay. Any belly pain? How about pain in your chest? And you had shortness of breath? What else?   But then I had a case where it was a patient just coming in with some random complaint you know blood in their urine or something. Just something completely random. So I was just doing my regular thing you know pressing on their belly talking to them. And for whatever reason they had to get admitted and later on they spiked a fever got tested and were positive. And that really threw me for a loop because I was like Oh my God this is just everywhere. I just remember looking at every patient with just this suspicion. Okay where is this patient sitting and how close are they to the other patient? And I just remember telling the charge nurse like You know let us just separate these patients if we can.   When you should come back is if you start getting really short of breath. Like you feel like you just sprinted a mile and -- but youve just been sitting there. Like huffing and puffing like that. If that starts to happen and keeps happening getting worse come back here because then we need to check your oxygen level again to make sure youre getting enough.   March 22nd 2020.     I already knew I had my first COVID patient. Shes an elderly lady. And she just came in for fever. I just knew right then and there that she had it. But you know I think it hit me the most because she reminded me of my own grandparents.   Was just talking with my friend and she was just telling me about her first COVID case. It made me think of mine. I dont think Ill ever forget it. It was a super nice guy. Older guy eighties brought in by his kid because he was having fevers chills cough and short of breath. Everything wed been hearing about. We all kind of had a feeling that this was it. We gowned up we went in the room and gave him a bunch of oxygen. And he seemed to be doing better. Spoke with the kid you know Why dont you go home and get some rest? Call in the morning. Couple hours later he seemed to be getting worse. Hes breathing more and more heavily hunched over trying to catch his breath. At that point talked to him and made the decision to intubate him put him on a ventilator. Ill never forget he just kind of looked at me and said Looks like Im gonna be dying here. I said No. You know right now youre just working really hard to breathe. Lets let you rest. Give you a bunch of oxygen. Its gonna make you feel a lot better. He just kind of looked at me and said All right. I was at the head of the bed and I just kind of had my hands on his head. I told him to think of a nice place a nice beach that he likes. And we gave him some meds to put him to sleep. And we put the tube in. He went up to the ICU and yeah a couple days later he passed away.   March 23rd 2020.   Hi this is Dr. Mitra.   As expected more cases. Everything's changing. Tensions are high today.   March 26th 2020. All the ICUs are slammed. I almost wonder why some people are getting -- are barely noticing anything and other people are getting rather sick from it. Obviously age has something to do with it but it is more than that.   Do me a favor. Take some sips of water.      Sip that. Sip that water. Take a sip of the water. I know it is weird.   Take a sip take a sip.   Drink that water.      Okay thats good. Thats good. Youre doing good buddy.   Regular patients have gone way down and now it seems like were seeing way more of these patients than any other type. Good friend of mine buddy from residency he is got it right now. Six seven days of having fevers but he is doing okay.   I would call again because it is just so busy here. But let me get your name and number so that we can have the team call you tomorrow. And are you the person to make medical decisions for him in case that hes not able to make them for himself? Okay. Now if he needed to have a breathing tube and be on a ventilator is that something that he would want happen? Yes? Okay. And then if his heart was to stop beating and we had to do chest compression CPR and the like would he want that as well? Okay. Okay. Do everything. Okay. Like I said right now his oxygens good his blood pressures good his heart rates good but his labs are concerning. So I just want to give you a heads up that right now hes doing good but were gonna obviously keep a very close eye on him because if things get worse they could get worse pretty quickly.   I am back home after the shift today. Basically it is just the new normal. The entire pod that I am in has COVID. It is just that is it that is the only diagnosis. I left a trash bag at the door and I am just gonna put all my clothes in the trash bag and then I guess jump in the shower. Okay.  AMIR' Every night before you go to sleep you say I got it! I got it! And then every morning I got it. I definitely have it. And you still havent gotten it. As far as we know. Maybe you have. I dont know. It seems like its constantly on your mind.   Whats it been like for you for these past two months?  AMIR' Its just -- its a lot. Its hard to deal with definitely.  I feel bad for you because -- yeah because youre with me you kind of become a high risk.  AMIR' No one wants to see me.  Like Oh you live with a doctor? Oh stay away please. Yeah. After I had quarantined myself for two weeks -- well not quarantine I mean I wasnt sick but after I isolated for two weeks and I went to visit my parents I missed my family so much and they didnt want me around.  And so that was that.   April 6th 2020.     So the patient with abdominal pain is probably going to go over to blue because were running out of isolated beds.   Its just crazy how theres no -- there is just no guidance. Like theres ...   Do you need to get an alcohol urine level?   You know we are all out here just making our own decisions.   Did you need to get an alcohol urine level?   And kind of freeballing it really. I mean theres just so much we dont know.   April 10 2020. I have never in my short career seen people spreading information amongst ER doctors and ICU doctors literally by WhatsApp texting each other images of charts that people have written kind of really just figuring it out as it goes which is kind of incredible because in medicine in general we are very cautious. We will sit in journal club meetings and debate whether we should give somebody 162 milligrams of aspirin or 325 milligrams of aspirin. We will -- we will literally debate that for hours.   Hmm.   But -- but right now we are just trying different things out almost on a whim.   So these WhatsApp groups you were telling me about where you are ...   Yeah.   ... you are exchanging information with doctors in Italy and China.   Yeah. And a lot from Washington also.   Washington state right.   Their outbreak started I dont know. What was it? A week or two before ours?   So based on -- because I find this part of it really interesting. Like so what were -- what were you hearing from them?   I guess phase one was expecting things based on what they were seeing. And at the time that was okay a virus comes to the back of your throat it is flu-like it is upper respiratory it is like up here in your neck.   Hmm.   A lot of people clear it but if it gets worse it progresses down to your lungs. It becomes lower tract and that is when you start to see these pneumonias. And then if these pneumonias get bad it becomes ARDS.   Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.   That was phase one. So that made perfect sense to me you know? But then I think phase two was seeing things that did not add up with that.   We will get into all that after the break when the battlefield science really begins.     This is Radiolab I am Jad Abumrad. Okay. Avir before the break was describing how in that moment when the ER was getting slammed and doctors were just trying to figure out what is going on what is this new disease what he and his colleagues started doing was going on these massive WhatsApp groups and exchanging information with doctors in Italy and China. It was sort of like this network of people with tin cans to their ears connected by giant strings. And he says what he was expecting to see in his ER based on what they were telling him were people coming in with respiratory infections which started in their throats and then moved down into the lungs and then got much worse. But instead what he ended up seeing was just much stranger than that.   The biggest thing that struck me is patient comes in you measure their oxygen level with a pulse ox. And to take a step back the pulse ox is that little thing you put on your finger with a laser light.   It shines a laser through your finger and reads the color of your blood. And from that ...   It tells you your oxygen concentration. If normal is you know 97 to 100 percent you know we are seeing patients that are at 60 70 percent routinely. Normally if someone's oxygen saturation is anything close to 70 percent they are not awake. They are -- they are out of it completely. They are grasping at anything trying to get oxygen. But these patients were seeing routinely that are looking at us talking to us theyre wide awake texting on their phone and their oxygen saturations are at these super low levels.   I remember you sent me a text message of somebody who had a -- an oxygen saturation reading of like in the 50s and they were on their phone.   Exactly. That one got circulated around because we were all seeing the same thing and it is like you look at someone with a 54 that is a person that you are like Okay madam you are gonna be taking a long nap. You know you are going on a ventilator. And they may be like Well can I just finish posting on Instagram first? You know it is just so surreal.   Can you tell me where you are right now?   Im in the hospital.   Okay. What year is it?   This is Avir and a colleague working with a patient whose blood oxygen level had bottomed out at around 50 and yet the patient was sitting up talking to them.   All right. Pulse ox is coming up slowly. I mean clinically she looks very well.   Are you coughing? Fevers? Try to take some deep breaths. Big breaths. Big breaths like that. Big ones big ones. There we go. Perfect perfect. Just keep doing that for me. Thats gonna get your oxygen into you better okay?   Okay so you are seeing all these patients where the numbers just seem like they should be in really bad shape but they are not.   Mm-hmm. And at the same time a pre-print paper came out. And again this is -- I mean this is a pre-print paper so who knows what validity it will end up having. But in this paper coming out of China they kind of found that one of the proteins made by this virus has the ability to attack hemoglobin.   The paper basically argued that weve been thinking about COVID as a lung disease but you know the lungs are not the only part of the equation in terms of taking in oxygen. The lungs snatch the oxygen out of the air but then they give it to the blood where you have got this little protein called hemoglobin.   And then the hemoglobin's job is to grab that oxygen and then carry it in the blood to the tissues where it ultimately needs to go.   So the idea of this paper was it could be that the virus is attacking the hemoglobin in the blood.   So maybe the problem is not the lungs so much as it could be a problem with the blood. Which was super exciting to me because that is like oh well we have all these -- this arsenal of weapons that we could potentially deploy against a blood problem. All sorts of other treatments we can do. We can replace the hemoglobin. You could just get a blood transfusion.   Oh interesting.   So that is when I started doing some of those experiments.   April 10 2020.     Well the lactate is clearing.   I have been running -- I have been running experiments.   So yeah you wanna do the AA gradient?   To see if this might be true. The way that I was thinking of -- and it turns out a lot of other ER doctors were thinking of I do not think I invented this -- is to test something called an ABG which stands for arterial blood gas.   An ABG test is where the doctor draws a little bit of blood from the wrist and looks at dissolved oxygen in the blood. The thought was if this were a hemoglobin blood issue this test would allow him to know that.   Yeah. So you know how people were talking about this being a hemoglobinopathy?   Yeah.   In that maybe the hemoglobin is poisoned and it is not so much a lung issue. But the fact that the PA O2 is low tells -- kind of goes against that. You know what I mean?   Unfortunately by testing the patients that Ive been having over the past couple of days what I found is the hemoglobin probably isnt the main problem it probably is the lung.   There a problem with the lung. Which is -- which is what we know but we ...   Which I guess now brings me just back to square one. I do not know. I was -- I was hoping for something more exciting than that.   Meanwhile ...   April 11 2020.     In ER you have a stark contrast. There is the COVID pod which is overrun and then there is the non-COVID pod.   Which is just empty. It is so surreal. I am not used to it sounding this quiet unless it is like four in the morning on Super Bowl Sunday. I do not know where all the appendicitises have gone. I do not know where the strokes are. Nobody has chest pain. Nobody has stomach pain.   Whoa what is happening with those people right now?   They are probably having heart attacks at home waiting it out because they do not want to be exposed to sick people.   This is something we are seeing in ERs across the country by the way. Non-COVID-related patients coming in has dipped by as much as 50 percent.   April 15 2020. I did an experiment on myself today to see how the PPE -- what we are doing is wearing a respirator and then wearing a surgical mask on top of that. It is pretty hard to breathe in there so I tried an experiment today to see what my pulse ox was and what my CO2 level was.   Got the VVG. One was PCO2 of 58 and the other was 62.   So you know with breathing we are trying to do two things that are both very important and somewhat unrelated to each other. One is get oxygen in and the other is get carbon dioxide out. So when I checked my oxygen levels it was not really affected by the respirator and the surgical mask. I was at like 99 percent either way. When I checked my CO2 levels though normally I am probably somewhere around 40 45. With all that on for an hour I checked after wearing it for an hour I was up to 59 on my CO2.   Which are numbers that in a regular context I would actually really worry about.   Yeah!   Like they are really retaining!   which means I am retaining carbon dioxide.   I was 59.   I really want to know you were 59. So I wanna know what I am in the middle of the night because I am also wondering if we are overdoing it in our hemoglobin.   I wanna check my bi-carb.   Yeah.   To see if I am like compensating.   Oh they were.   Their PH was normal.   Yeah PH was normal.   We need to publish this.   Yes.   April 16 2020.     Today I took a quick trip up to the ICU.   The ICU is where people who have to be put on ventilators go.   It was hard to see all the patients because we have them all in isolated rooms but I was walking by looking at their vent settings. I think one thing that really struck me is the amount of hair that I saw. You know I spent months working in the ICU as a resident. You just get used to seeing IV drips pumps ventilator equipment big bed and gray hair on it. And I am walking through this ICU and like jet-black hair brown hair blonde hair. That really struck me. I mean I wish people could see that. I guess I am used to processing the sadness of the ICU in terms of people at the end of their life who have lived a good life. And I always concoct some story in my mind of how they have lived this fulfilling life and you know their family is gonna feel sad but they are gonna feel like okay this is a sad but inevitable chapter a final chapter. But with these patients I -- these are not people who -- they are not at that chapter. Their families are not gonna feel closure when they die. Their kids still need a dad you know? Ugh it is just scary.   April 21 2020. So exploring another hypothesis. Again coming back to the same problem that coronavirus is thought to infect the respiratory tract and the lungs but we are seeing findings that are beyond that and cannot be explained just by the lungs.   One of the things he says that is been puzzling is just the crazy array of symptoms he is seeing in people with COVID. There is the usual cough fever breathing issues but you also have people reporting neurological issues. Some people including a few folks that I work with lost their sense of taste and smell for a while. Others are reporting skin issues on their fingers and toes. Migraines.   Trying to understand what is going on and more importantly what to do about it. So one hypothesis that has been kind of floating around and I have been thinking about and a lot of people have been thinking about is this idea of a coagulopathy.   He said the idea started again on a WhatsApp group.   I first heard about it from Washington. It may have gone back even to Italy or China I am not sure.   Doctor on one of these groups says Hey I am seeing these weird lab values in my COVID patients. I am not sure what it means. Avir and his colleagues start to investigate and ultimately notice that COVID patients often seem to have very high levels of this one enzyme in their blood. It is an enzyme that is often associated with clotting.   If someone's making clots and breaking down clots and just going through that clotting process. So that kind of brought up this theory of could it be that this virus is somehow inducing little clots all over the body?   Thousands and thousands of these micro-clots that might be jamming up the highways and preventing the oxygen in the blood from getting where it needs to go.   And it also could potentially explain why we are seeing heart damage because the blood thats supposed to go to the heart is getting clotted before it can get there. Same thing with the brain. And as a matter of fact we see problems with the kidneys. We are seeing problems with every end organ. Maybe it is not a problem with the organ maybe it is a problem with the blood supply that should be getting to the organ.   This might -- emphasis on the word might -- explain why there are so many different symptoms to this disease.   So in our hospital the hematology department kind of sat down with this data and came up with an algorithm for us to use in the ER and on the floor in the ICU which is to basically try putting these patients on blood thinners.   So that is good. So you want to give her -- so let us do Lovenox weight-based dosing.   So that is what I have been doing. That is what we have been doing for the past ...   She is not on any blood thinners already right?   ... this week. You know when a patient comes in COVID positive and they need to be admitted we are putting them on blood thinners.   And is that where you are right now? I mean it is May 5th we are talking for the last time before this goes out. Is that still what you are doing?   Yes.   All right. I want to ask you about one last moment in your voice memos. This is I think it is at a point at which in the arc of this whole pandemic so far that like the volume of patients is finally leveling off.   Mm.   And you are talking to these two residents who are there to help. And then there is this announcement over the intercom. Can you just -- do you remember that moment? Can you just describe what that was?    Basically the CMO of our hospital comes on the intercom and says I just want to thank you guys for everything you are doing. What you are doing is working.   340 patients with COVID disease have been discharged back to the community.   We discharged this many people today. You know just kind of a pep talk over this really shitty intercom. And then they play ...     Thank you. Have a great day. Be safe.   I have to say that is the sweetest thing I have ever heard in my life.   Its so sweet. And now what they are doing is every time they extubate someone take someone off a ventilator they play Here Comes The Sun by The Beatles.   It was really moving to hear that.   Yeah.   Huge huge thanks to Avir for sharing his thoughts and experiences with me. And to all those people on the front lines working to help people and to help us understand what we are up against. What you heard were Avir's personal thoughts they do not represent his institution. And all the science we talked about is tentative. We are still a long way from understanding the true shape of this disease.   Props to Suzie Lechtenberg for helping me produce this episode. I am Jad Abumrad thank you for listening. More stuff coming at you very soon. Science reporting on Radiolab is supported in part by Science Sandbox a Simons Foundation initiative dedicated to engaging everyone with the process of science.    Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30-