    Hey I am Jad. This is Radiolab. I want to play a story that is come up a couple of times in conversations with folks here at the show and I guess I will preface it this way. So one of the things that is been a little spooky weird about this moment is just time. You know at least for those of us who do not have to work on the frontlines and are lucky enough to still have jobs we are stuck in our homes doing the Zooms trying to get things done but the -- just the lack of routines routines that typically give a day purpose without those routines time does weird things. It bleeds it stretches and then collapses. I mean we have all had the experience of talking about something that happened on Tuesday and then suddenly we are like Oh my God that was just Tuesday? That feels like a lifetime ago. On the flip side there is April. The entire month of April which lasted a second.   And I found myself thinking back to one of the very first -- I think it actually might be the first episode that Robert and I sort of hosted the show together. It was an entire episode about time. And we talked about relativity and flower clocks and spice clocks and all these things. And in that show we played this piece of music that you are hearing. This is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony stretched from its typical 70-ish minutes to last 24 hours. I put that on the other day and it was really interesting to listen to again. The way the music builds and builds and builds and you do not know if it is gonna keep building to some crescendo which then never arrives. And then it pauses for way too long.   So no I am not gonna play you 24 hours of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. I am gonna actually play kind of the flipside because ten years after we did that first show that -- that first show was like 17 years ago. That is crazy. Crazy. Like was that just Tuesday? But then 10 years after that we ran into a different story also about Beethoven and about how he clearly had a very acute sensitivity to how small differences in time can really affect people and how he would have hated hearing his Ninth Symphony stretched. So we are gonna play you that second piece. We called it Speedy Beet. And then next week we will take some of these ideas in new directions.   Cool. Here we are.   Here we are.   Thank you for doing this.   Mm-hmm. My pleasure.   I have questions. You have some big books in front of you.   I do.   What are those?   These are Beethoven's symphonies.   This is Radiolab. I am Jad.   I am Robert.   Just drop them on the desk so we can feel the weighty massiveness of them.     There you go.   Yeah.   And this is Alan Pierson.   Conductor of the Brooklyn Philharmonic.   The Brook Phil?   The Brook Phil yeah.   The B-Phil?   B-Phil. Anyhow I called up Alan ...   That is a lot of Beethovens.   That is a lot of Beethoven symphonies.   ... because it turns out in those scores that he brought?   Mm-hmm.   There was this mystery that could completely transform how you feel about Beethoven or at least how I have always felt about Beethoven which is that I could not stand him.   Really?   Yeah.   Alan too.   And I remember growing up and thinking Well I am a musician. I should love this. And I do not. Does that mean that maybe I am a fraud? Am I a bad musician? Am I not really cut out for this?   You know like he would hear the Fifth the one that everybody knows.   You know those first measures are like bom bom bom bom. Very like heavy ponderous.   Suffocating.   No! He could put you into a meadow like nobody.   Yeah a meadow with -- with no oxygen.   That is -- no!   But whatever you think of Beethoven it turns out that the Beethoven that you and I know that we all know ...   Yeah.   ... may in fact not be the Beethoven that Beethoven wanted us to know. We may be hearing his music in a way he did not intend at all.   I have no idea what you are talking about.   All right. Let me just start the story where it really begins.   Please.   You kind of have to go back all the way to the invention of this.     So ...   That was like the sound of my childhood.   Yeah. Right.   The metronome.   So Beethoven was one of the first composers to work with the metronome and the metronome came out in 1817. So he would have been 47 when the metronome was -- you know came out for the first time.   So the metronome was this new gizmo.   Right. It was a new gizmo. And the inventor of the metronome ...   Was his last name actually metronome? Like Bobby Metronome?   No. Mlzel or Mlzel.   Mlzel.   I am sure I am saying it wrong.   However you say his name in 1817 this dude after he would invented the metronome ...   Brought his metronome to Beethoven and said ...   Check it out.   I want you to use this. And Beethoven's first response was No no no. This is not the way music works.   But then as was not uncommon for Mr. B. ...   It seemed to change his mind and got really excited about the idea of using the metronome to fix for eternity what the tempos for all of his pieces should be.     As in this piece. Do not play it at this speed. Play like this. Now keep in mind at this point Beethoven was pretty much at the end of his career.   Of the nine symphonies by the time he would gotten the metronome he would written eight of them.   So what he did was he went back ...   And he marked in metronome markings for all of his symphonies.   And here's where the mystery really begins. Those tempo markings are fast. Like really fast. Like in some cases obscenely fast.   You know like okay take a -- take a piece like the Third Symphony. For that piece the first movement is marked at dotted half equals 60. One-two-three one-two-three one-two-three.   Which is almost impossible to play.   Takka-takka-takka-takka-takka-takka ...   Holy shoot!   Really fast.   Who is playing -- who is playing that fast?   Strings.   Alan got a couple string players together from the Brooklyn Phil to demonstrate just how hard it is to play the Third at Beethoven's tempo markings. Like this part coming up. Check this out.     Wow.   That was great!   Alan says when he tried to play that piece at that tempo with the entire orchestra ...   I remember there was one rehearsal ...   Only one.   ... where we got it -- got it up to tempo.   But when you do get it up to that speed it is a completely different piece.   Yeah.   Then take the Fifth which has been played as slow as this right here.     This is 74 beats per minute. Beethoven actually marked it here.     At 108 beats per minute.   Oh now that is ridiculous.   No it is just a different feel.   That is too fast.   Well you are -- it is for a lot of people. And according to Alan for the last couple hundred years people have been arguing about these tempo markings.   You know to what extent did like those markings that he put in 1817 really represent his actual intentions.   Well wait. What is the debate? If he put them in he put them in.   There are lots of ways that people debate them. One is there is a story that goes around that Beethoven's metronome was broken.    Really?   Yeah.      Like he had ...   It was going too fast?   Not too fast but that the numbers were wrong.   Oh.   So if you were to hear this song which is -- da-un da-un da-un da-un -- which is 113-ish.   Mm-hmm.   He might look on his metronome and it would say 130 or something like that.   So inadvertently he wrote down the wrong number.   That is the idea.   Although we now have Beethoven's metronome and it seems to work fine.   You have the metronome?   I believe somebody tracked it down ...   That is music critic Matthew Guerrieri who is written a lot about Beethoven.   ... tested it and it seemed to work okay.   And it matches up to every -- all the other metronomes in the world?   Yeah.   So we eliminate the defective metronome theory.   Throw it out. Now!   And ...   Another story that is sometimes used to explain the markings it goes like this. That Beethoven actually did notate the tempos slower but then he gave the pages to his assistants ...   And now they needed to go off to the publisher but they could not find them.   They somehow lost the papers.   And so they had to rewrite them.   And in their haste they inadvertently put down the wrong numbers and sped up the pieces.   Clerical error. Explanation number two.   Yeah but this one I just -- I do not find that plausible. I mean he could have corrected them at some point. And you know he did not just do this one time. He did it for all eight symphonies.   Huh.   So I do not know.   All right we eliminate clerical error.   Yeah.   And then there was -- then there was speculation that ...   Theory number three.   This may have been affected by the fact that by the time he was doing all these metronome markings ...   Beethoven was deaf.   Oh.   So Beethoven by 1814 was basically completely deaf and the metronome came out in 1817.   What does being deaf have to do with how -- what speed you play the music? I mean you cannot hear the music in any event.   It is -- it has to do with the space in which you are hearing the music. Like if you are hearing the music just in your head ...   Yeah.   ... it is just kind of in the vacuum of your imagination.   Right.   You take that music and you put it into a room. Suddenly you have got the acoustics of that room which if it is a big concert hall are gonna make all the notes muddy the tails of one note are gonna bleed into the attacks of the next. And so Alan says what always happens when you put music in a room ...   You will play things a little bit slower.   To maintain the clarity.   Right.   But Beethoven ...   When he was making these metronome markings ...   ... he was only hearing the music in his head.   Not hearing it in the real world. And maybe had he heard it in the real world would have done something different. But the counter-argument is ...   Who cares?   If we can create the music that Beethoven heard in his head is not that something that is worth doing?   Up until recently the answer has been no because people have not generally performed these pieces at his markings. But both Alan and Matt think that we probably should just accept these accelerated tempos you know like with the Fifth at 108 just go with it.   Yeah it is very possible that that is the speed he wanted. If that is the speed he wanted it is a very interesting speed because it is -- it is a tempo almost designed to make us feel uncomfortable. It is almost designed to disorient us.   Here's where we get to a fourth explanation for why Beethoven made these tempos super fast. It is speculative it takes a little setup but it is super interesting I think. It points at a kind of human time that I had never considered and I will tell you all about it after the break. Radiolab will continue in a moment.     I am Jad Abumrad this is Radiolab. We are revisiting a piece from many moons ago about Beethoven and we will pick it back up with a fourth and final theory about why Beethoven put such speedy markings on his music.   There is something called Vierordt's law which is a law it was discovered in the 1860s by an Austrian doctor named Karl von Vierordt.   And what this law says according to Matt is that when you ask people to guess tempos or lengths of time ...   People will always overestimate short durations of time and they will always underestimate long durations of time.   What does that mean to underestimate?   Well ...   You mean you guess backwards oh that ...   Well let me just -- it is kind of a complicated thing he just said. So I am gonna -- let us just do it as a demonstration.   Okay.   I am gonna give you a test.   All right.   I am gonna give you four beats first slow then fast. Your job is to guess where that fifth beat is gonna land. So I am gonna give you four beats dat dat dat dat and then you have to hit your pen where you think that fifth beat is going to fall. Okay?   Okay.   That is ...   So you are not asking me to do a melody or invent anything.   No no no. Just hit your pen where you feel the fifth beat is gonna land. Okay here's the first one. Slow.     Okay ready?     See this is the law in action. You just rushed it.   I did not!   You so rushed it.   I did not! Do it again.   All right.       Okay you were closer that time. You were closer.   I was the same.   And you rushed it a little bit but you were closer.   I did not rush it.   Now if we do the same thing with a fast tempo like I give you four you guess the fifth okay?   All right.   Here goes.       Oh come on. Try that again.       You were late again.   I was not late. That was exactly ...   You were so late!   Measure it. Measure it.   You were audibly late.   Measure the  thing!   It is right here on the waveform. Boom. 3-7-8. Oh yeah you are 50 milliseconds late.   You think I am 150 milliseconds late?   50.   Step outside!   I am not even thinking it. I can see it in the computer right here. So the point is Vierordt's law says that when we have a slow tempo ...   We will tend to unconsciously try and speed it up.   And when we have a really fast tempo ...   We will tend to unconsciously slow it down. And if you think about that for a minute at some point our perception has to flip over.   Because if we are unconsciously speeding up slow beats and slowing down fast beats well there is got to be ...   Some particular point ...   ... right in the middle ...   ... where our judgment of time actually syncs up with actual time.   Where in other words we guess the tempo correctly.   Yeah and it is called the indifference point.   I do not know why it is called that but according to most research that point falls somewhere around this tempo.     94 96 beats per minute.   If you give people four beats of this tempo and then ask them to guess the fifth they usually get it right.   Yep.   That is human time.   Yeah.   That is kind of where humans live right in that little gap.   Yeah.   And the really interesting thing is that this tempo this little point ...   Is right about where people tend to dial back to when they do not want to perform Beethoven's Fifth as fast as it is written.   In fact when Alan asked his quartet to just play the Fifth at whatever tempo felt right they fell right back to this indifference point.   Well so you are building to some theory here are not you?   Yeah that maybe just maybe Beethoven was playing a kind of cat and mouse game. That he intuited that there was some place some point where we felt comfortable where ...   ... every beat is coming exactly where we expect it to.   And it just feels right. And he never wanted his music to fall into that place.   Huh.   So if we like 92 beats per minute he was gonna push his tempos to 108. So it was just a little too fast. Every beat kind of coming a tiny bit too early.   So the piece is always -- it always just feels like it is running away from us in a very real psychological way.   And this fits with what we know about the guy. I mean there are numerous anecdotes where he would push not just his audience but his musicians almost as if he wanted to hear them struggle.   When he was rehearsing his Ninth Symphony those soloists walked out of rehearsal because he was pushing them beyond their limits.   That is Terrance McKnight who hosts a classical music show on WQXR.   Maybe that is what those quick tempos were about.   About maybe pushing the musicians so they would miss a few notes.   He did not care about the notes.   He said that the music was right on the edge.   You know this is -- you know something's impending. This is danger. This is ferocious.   Not normally how we think of classical music.   We have a -- we have a sort of ethos of perfection around classical music now that I think makes us maybe less willing to be on the edge.   Think of it this way says Terrance.   You know Beethoven was kind of an outsider.   Did not come from privilege. He was a short dark-skinned dude.   You know some people say that his grandmother was of African descent.   He probably stood out in 19th-century Vienna.   Oh my God.   So you could say here's this guy who is always on the outside and he wants his music to always express that. But he can see into the future to a time when his music would become the canon!   The man!   Yes! And maybe that is not what he wanted.   Hmm.   If you read it that way these tempo markings are kind of liberating. It is like this message from 1817 saying Get me out of here!      And interestingly when I was talking with Alan he sort of implied without quite saying it outright that one of the ways that you can keep orchestral music exciting in a time when it is not for a lot of people is by just playing things faster.   Um ...   Have you ever done Beethoven faster than its markings?   No. I would -- the Fifth you could play faster and that would be fascinating. I would be very interested to hear the Fifth. I have never heard it done.   You have never heard it faster than 108?   I would think you could do 120-ish.   Well let us just -- let us just do this. Let us getting our metronomes out.   So here's 120.    Okay. Well make it faster. Make it 140.   140 I bet . You could do it.   Could you go to like 160?   I think that is around the edge.   But we tried it with his quartet.   All right. Ready?     Wow! I just want to go run out into the snow. That was fantastic! You totally nailed 160.   I do not know if I would say nailed.   That is a Beethoven I can dig right there.   I could just see the people in Vienna like their ties are falling off their socks are falling down they are drooling.   It is like it is a whole different thing at that point.   Yeah totally.   Thanks first and foremost to Alan Pierson at the Brooklyn Phil and to the incredible players.   I am Deborah Buck.   Violin.   I am violin too. I am Suzie Perelman.   Arash Amini. I go by Joey. I am a cellist.   Ah Ling Neu on the viola.   Thanks also to Kathleen Coughlin from the Brooklyn Phil and Matthew Guerrieri who wrote the book The First Four Notes -- dun dun dun da -- which is a great read about Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.   And thanks of course to Ludwig van B and his lovely metronome.   Yes. I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   Thank you guys for listening. More from us next week. Until then be safe.    Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 