    Picture the person you love the most. Picture them sitting on the couch eating cereal ranting about something totally charming. Like how it bothers them when people sign their emails with a single initial instead of just taking those four extra keystrokes to finish the job. Chaos will get them. Chaos will crack them from the outside with a falling branch a speeding car a bullet. Or unravel them from the inside with the mutiny of their very own cells. Chaos will rot your plants and kill your dog and rust your bike. It will decay your most precious memories topple your favorite cities wreck any sanctuary you can ever build. Its not if its when. Chaos is the only sure thing in this world. The master that rules us all. My scientist father taught me early that there is no escaping the second law of thermodynamics. Entropy is only growing it can never be diminished no matter what we do. A smart human accepts this truth. A smart human does not try to fight it. But one spring day in 1906 a tall American man with a walrus mustache dared to challenge our master.   Hey Im Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. And that was Lulu Miller former Radiolabber co-founder of the podcast Invisibilia and now author reading from her brand new book Why Fish Dont Exist. And ...   All right should we talk about your book?   Yeah lets do it.   Lulu I love this book.   A few weeks ago I called her up to talk about it.   Its funny and its poignant and its personal and its historical and its philosophical. And its also like kind of weirdly resonant with this moment were in right now in a way that is -- yeah maybe I want to ask you about.   So yeah it is -- I mean it is about -- like the book is -- I feel like self-conscious being like It is timely for our times. Because that is ...   No but its right there.   But it really is like deeply about how to move forward when everything just gets so messed up impossibly by the world.   And so the superstructure of the whole book is that youre telling the story so all of these kind of questions get filtered through this one guy. So you tell the story of a guy named David Starr Jordan. So who is he?   So he is a kind of obscure naturalist an ichthyologist. So he specialized in fish. And he was from the 1800s and then his life crossed into -- a little bit into the 20th century and he was an American. Grew up in New York and was in Indiana for a while and then ended up as actually the President of Stanford. He counts himself as having discovered he and his team having discovered a full fifth of fish known to humans in his day. So over 2000 fish. Like ton -- I mean its in most peoples life to discover -- in most scientists life to discover one species is huge.   How did you get interested in him?   He was basically this off-hand anecdote on a tour I was getting of the California Academy of Sciences so a science museum. And there was just this detail about after the 1906 earthquake thousands of the fish -- the jars broke and the fish were separated. And the person in charge of that collection instead of just giving up he invented this technique of tying a label to a fish. So tying the name to the flesh.   Hmm.   And in that moment I thought Oh what a foolish human. Like this is -- his day job hes a taxonomist his job is to order the unknown.   Hmm.   And so he -- so here he goes for 30 years do-do-do-do-do catching fish naming them putting them in jars. Stacking stacking stacking stacking stacking. And then boom! An earthquake comes and destroys it and separates the names from the fish. And to me theres something -- theres a message in that. Like the message I read in that is In a world ruled by chaos any pursuit of order is inherently doomed.   Hmm.   And then like years later when I had gone and messed up a lot of things in my life and was just in a place where I felt really lonely and unsure of the path ahead like literally that guy resurfaced in me. Like I was like Who was -- oh my gosh! Im like that guy with the needle. Am I being kook -- I mean specifically I was thinking about you know I was -- I had left Radiolab you know and I was trying to write fiction. And that wasnt going so hot . And like I was -- I had screwed up this relationship that I loved and I was trying to get him back by pining and by reaching out to him and by being patient. And years and years were going by and I -- I wondered like Am I just leading myself into real humiliation and danger? And I think I am. But then every now and then Id wonder about that guy and be like Well but maybe this is the path you -- maybe you just have to go through doubt to accomplish something. And maybe that guy wasnt a fool. Maybe actually things ended up okay for him. What happened to him? And thats what started what I thought was an essay   I see.   And then -- and then kind of spiraled into this whole book because then it just went to somewhere way beyond my need for moral instruction.   Wow okay.   Does that make -- yeah.   That makes perfect sense. Yeah. Its like a -- the -- your tour was a seed planted that only bloomed when you found yourself in that same darkness.   Totally. I just wanted to read him like a parable.   Gotcha. And so in the book you track his life through all of these ups and downs. And I wonder if you can give a sketch of that parable of his life without giving too much away.   Yeah. David Starr Jordan was born at the darkest time of the year which is perhaps why he became so preoccupied with the stars. While husking corn on autumn evenings he writes I became curious as to the names and significance of the celestial bodies. He could not just enjoy their twinkling. He found them a mess he needed ordered known. When he was about eight years old he got his hands on a atlas of astronomical charts and began comparing what he saw on the page to what he saw above his head. Night by night he went creeping out of the house attempting to learn the name of every star. And according to him it took him only five years to bring order to the entire night sky. As a reward he chose Starr as his middle name and wore it proudly for the rest of his life. Having mastered the celestial David Starr Jordan turned to the terrestrial. On his way home from school he began to ever so occasionally pluck a velvety blue pom-pom or silken orange star from the grass. Some hed sniff and let fall to the ground but occasionally one would linger in his fingers and make it back to his bedroom where it would lie on his bed and taunt him with its mysterious arrangement of petals.   Hes this sweet nerdy boy who loves stars and then he loves flowers and eventually he loves fish. And no one cares that his mom throws away his early maps and like he cant get a girl and he cant get a job and hes just like But I love nature! And how can you -- like I just loved him. And he devoted himself to what he called The hidden and insignificant. And he had learned that from a guy in his town who loved nature and told him like the good naturalist notices the hidden and insignificant. Like that the dandelions and buttercups will show you more about you know natures hidden order than the big showy roses and hibiscus or whatever.And so that is kind of what he devoted himself to looking at and studying and I -- I loved that idea. And then on that quest he eventually started getting some traction and some success and he started to really rise and rise quickly. He gets promoted he gets a wife he gets kids he gets awards. He becomes the first president of Stanford. And that is when the earthquake hits.   Imagine seeing 30 years of your life undone in one instant. Imagine whatever it is you do all day whatever it is you care about whatever you foolishly pick and prod at each day hoping against all signs that suggest otherwise that it matters. Imagine finding all the progress that you have made on that endeavor smashed at your feet. Those words go here. Fish were everywhere. Glass was strewn all over the floor. Flounders bashed further flat by fallen stone. Eels severed by shelves blowfish popped by shards of glass. There was a pungent smell of ethanol and corpse. But far worse than any of the carnal damage was the existential. For many of those specimens left intact hundreds of them nearly a thousand their holy name tags had scattered all over the lab floor. In just a few seconds Genesis had been reversed his meticulously named fish had become a mass of the unknown again.   And it was not just the earthquake. Like shortly before that his beloved daughter Barbara had died and a little bit before that his wife had died. His first collection of fish actually got struck by lightning and burned to the ground.   Oh man!   Yeah so this guys life was just uncannily plagued by chaos. And he never seemed fazed. Like he just always kept going. And that was what really drew me in about him because when I think about the chaos that rules us thats always been really hard for me.   Hmm. And you were -- you were sort of introduced to this idea when you were a little kid. It comes from your dad right?   Yeah.   What was it that he would tell you when you were young about chaos and nothing and our place in the order of things?   I mean he just jumped really quickly to everything is meaningless. Like the minute we could understand words just like Ah! Nothing means nothing and youll soon be dead! Like everything was a lecture on our place in the world and how small it was and how insignificant we were and how theres no plan and theres no God and theres no magic and theres no destiny and theres not even cosmic justice really. Like try to be a decent human for sure that matters because -- because nothing matters actually how we treat each other is all that matters. And I think hes a very joyful -- and hes a scientist -- and hes a very joyful funny life-loving person. And so I think as a little kid I made the calculation like Okay if you believe these things you turn joyful like Dad. Like okay that -- he got that way. And so then I would believe all the things but then slowly Id be like Oh why am I so sad? You know? Like or you know and I think ...    Yeah I know what you mean.   It was this weird -- yeah. So it was this weird -- you know there is the carpe diem there is the -- like there is such a bright side to that stuff you know? Like if nothing matters go taste life and go be courageous and like do the thing that might fail because it doesnt matter and -- but what do you do when that thought turns dark or when youre having a hard day and then that thought really makes it worse.   I think its -- I dont know. Ive found myself -- I thought about the people in my life. I mean you know Radiolab with the history that it has had you know weve talked to God millions of scientists. And there are -- there is a particular cast of mind that is exactly as you describe your dad and also David Starr Jordan. This kind of relentless optimist almost like somebody who embraces the meaninglessness of the world. Like an exuberant atheist in a way? Like there is no meaning ...   Yes. Totally.   ... and isnt it marvelous?   And lets party! Yes.   And lets just party!   Like totally. Hes an exuberant -- yes yes.   And I hear you asking the question -- okay I agree with you but I cant quite get to the phrase And isnt it marvelous? I cant quite get there.   Yeah.   How do I get there? Like ...   Yes.   So I feel you inquiring that about David Starr Jordan through the book. Like how are you the way you are in the face of all of this chaos?   Totally. That is so well put. Yeah. Like I hear you I hear you. And then how do I get there?   Yeah.   And maybe I dont -- you know poor David Starr Jordan sort of who I just like threw my just you know existential angst onto but I think I thought he might be -- he might have an answer to like how do you manufacture that ...   Yeah.   ... that ability to go on on a dark day if you dont believe in anything.    And Lulu does sort of find an answer for what propelled David Starr Jordan. But it turns out that thing that belief also led him down a really dark path. And well go down that path with Lulu after the break.  Hey Im Jad. This is Radiolab. Weve been talking to Lulu Miller about her new book Why Fish Dont Exist which is about the chaos and meaninglessness of the universe and particularly about a guy a scientist named David Starr Jordan who was just plagued by that chaos but somehow found a way to push through it all.   Yeah. And I think the way that he figured out -- you know the way that he kept going a key part was that he found purpose in ordering things. He thought that he was solving the divine plan this hierarchy in nature laid out by God. And he would eventually come to believe in Darwinism and let go of that idea but he still thought he was uncovering a sacred hierarchy. He just believed that this ordering of the natural world had purpose. And that alone buoyed him through really hard times. But like that very belief in an order is also what started to make things really turn for him.   And we actually touched on this part of David Starr Jordans story in an episode that we did over the summer called Unfit.   So here we go. So this -- I guess so this whole thing begins with a guy and his name is Mark Bold.   It is the story of the Supreme Court case Buck v Bell which made it legal to sterilize people based on eugenics that is the idea that some categories of humans should not exist. The story goes into the history of that idea and also the very troubling ways it is still with us today. And David Starr Jordan at a certain point quick spoiler alert if you have not read the book yet he makes an appearance.   So my dude was like one of the earliest loudest most powerful proponents of eugenics.   Got it.   You can see like in the late 1800s which is decades before most American eugenicists got the fever hes slipping it into his courses at Stanford. So hes like telling smart people these ideas that poverty is linked to the blood and can be exterminated.   Hmm.   He would trot these ideas out in front of like hundreds of politicians. And he says You know this is a matter of life and death for the nation. And he says The -- the republic will endure only as long as the human harvest is good.   Ugh. Thats a horrible phrase.   And he wrote -- this is a book.   He called -- he wrote a book called The Human Harvest?   I am holding it right here. And its ...   Oh thats -- what a horrible title!   And its -- and its -- its horrible inside. He tells -- to scare people he tells people about this town in Italy called Aosta which for about 1300 years was this sort of refuge for people you know with disabilities or deformities. People would send them there and the church would take care of them. And then they could often get married and they worked the fields and have families and theyre helped by the church. And some people see that as this beautiful tale of like helping societys most vulnerable. And he went there and wrote about it as a veritable chamber of horrors.   Hmm.   Basically he says -- he describes the people living there and say they have less decency than the pig. And he -- he like says that its a different -- its a subspecies of human.   Whoa.   And he says this is where you know Americas gonna be going if we dont take action.   Whoa. So your guy who sort of seemed to be like a guide for you out of meaninglessness all of a sudden you discover hes a eugenicist. How did you -- how did that sit with you?   Oh I mean it was just utter revulsion. Like I wanted to just throw my arms off him. And then I felt a little lost but I think I started to try to really understand like what went so wrong here. And after looking at tons of his stuff I actually think the sin wasnt so much the desire to find order in nature I think it was his certainty. Like things really began to turn for the worse when he just white-knuckled his beliefs. That the categories between people are fixed and real and immutable. And so like at the end of the book the thing I really come away with is a real wariness of the categories around us. I think you know thats why I titled the book the way I did Why Fish Dont Exist. I know its kind of an obnoxious or maybe seemingly like -- whats the word? Its like irritating. But ...    No its -- I find it intriguing. I was like what? Hmm? Its just a ...   Yeah. I think it could be just like wrong. I dont know.   Its a bold title.   But yeah.   Well I dont think it will spoil anything if I ask this question but lets explain the title. Why dont fish exist? Like what does that even mean?   Yeah. Yeah. I think the best way to do it is just to say okay so like picture a salmon and a lungfish which looks like a very fishy fish. Its kind of big.   A big chest right?   Right. And then picture a cow.   Mm-hmm.   And then just ask which of those two are most closely related.    And I think you -- you kind of intuitively a biology student would say Oh the lungfish and the salmon are -- theyre most closely related. Theyre both fish. They both live in the water theyre both ...   Yep they both swim.   Yeah.   Flop their tails.   But then these taxonomists will -- will show you slowly why actually a cow and a lungfish are much more closely related. Because if you peel them and look inside the lungfish have what are almost lungs. They have a thing called an epiglottis they have a more similar structured heart. Basically you can see that lungfish is more closely related to a cow. And when you start to accept that that all the things that are kinda swimming in the water that some of them are more closely related to us than one another then you have to start to realize that fish is like this sloppy gerrymandered category of creatures some of which are very close to us some of which are very far that we smoosh together so its like this ...   But why couldnt you -- thats completely fascinating. Why couldnt you -- like gerrymandered is a -- is a good word. So lets just -- if I head in that direction why couldnt I just redraw the boundaries in a way that makes more sense? I could say Okay we say the word 'fish' but we probably mean five or six different things. And theres this category of fish which have a whole lot to do with cows and then maybe us too. And then theres this other kind thats more fishy  in some way. Like I mean couldnt you sort of just redraw the boundaries as opposed to say there are none?   You could -- oh you totally could. And scientists have. I mean the -- the boundaries as you are talking about them would be the -- so the cow-y-like fish are the -- ugh this name is horrible but its sar -- I dont think I can even do it but its sarcotep -- sarcopterygii. And then theres the fishy fishy kind of salmon and bass fish like which are the actinopterygii. But then theres also the chondrichthyes the myxini and then there is tunicates which -- and so you can do that and you could make about five different groups. And thats fine Im great with that! Like I think -- I think its just admitting that this term fish which feels so basic and inarguable is actually a term that we use to hide nuance and to keep ourselves more separate. And thats what -- thats what matters to me. Because then its like Oh well what else do I have wrong?   Yeah.   Like you know even the other day like these -- these little just ways that we value one life over the other in terms of who were gonna give a ventilator.   Yeah.   You know? And these little judgments of like Well if theyre disabled maybe they dont deserve it. And you know people -- there are some people crying out and saying Hey look at -- what are you saying right now? Like because I fit into this category which is to me analogous to fish like because you think I am that far away from you I dont get to live? Like ...   Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm   And so I think thats how I see it alive is just like mistrust the big technical terms and mistrust the tiny basic terms because actually our understanding of our world is so just cartoonishly limited. Theres just so much wildness. Like there is just so much waiting out there.   Yeah. I wonder if we could talk a little bit about -- I mean so ...   Can I tell you something cool?   Of course. Always.    So okay I am like all -- okay so two nights ago ...   Okay.   Im like hammering this like fish is so basic and it matters. And it matters to -- it matters that like you have to believe that its not a thing. Like this is like my -- this has been my like schtick. My -- I dont know not schtick because Im just starting to say it finally.      But this has been my like driving weird obsession for 10 freaking years. Like I cannot tell you how many eyes Ive made dull over when they hear Im writing a book and then I try to tell them what its about. And then they like go and -- go off to the cheese table because they dont -- they feel so worried and bad for me. Like theyre just -- okay so like Ive been in this hole thinking about the danger of this word fish.   Uh huh.   And -- and so two nights ago I was in the bath with my kid Jude whos a year and a half years old. And theres a little cardboard -- like a little drawing of a fish by the door of our bathroom. And my wife came in to say hi. Like we are splitting up days and shes working in the morning -- you know like anyway. So she -- she says hi. And -- and he looks up. He -- he smiles at her. She gets the smile I never get. And then ...      And then he looks to the left and he just goes sheesh. And she -- and she was like fish? And he was like sheesh. And he said fish for the first time. So he doesnt have that many words. Like this -- I am -- I was trying to count it out. I think its his eleventh word.   Oh wow!   And that should be the fall from innocence. Like that should be -- like and thereth he ejected from the garden of Eden I literally just spent 10 years trying to show people the path back into. Like let go of fish you get the goodies. And then he says it and that should be like I watched my son shoot his innocence dead. Like with this word. Like that should be the fall from grace in real time. But instead I was just so proud!   Aww!   Like it was so cool! Like it was so sweet and -- and hes got it! Like he -- then I -- you know I dont know. I dont know what -- I dont know like -- but I just know that the feeling didnt line up with the meaning I was supposed to make.    Lulu Miller. Her book is Why Fish Do not Exist. It is a great book. I do not say that lightly. Thanks to Pat Walters for producing this segment. Im Jad Abumrad. Radiolab will be back with you next week.   Okay weve got a new world. Jude whats -- whats that?   Sheesh.   What is it?   Sheeshy.   Its a fish? What is that?   Sheesh.   A fish? Oh Jude! A fish!   Sheesh. Sheesh.  Oh!   Aw yeah. Thats a hard one.    Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30-