Joel 01  Quebec. Radiolab is supported by TransferWise the cheaper way to send money internationally. The Economist says TransferWise takes a machete to the hefty fees banks charge but do not take their word for it. More than four million people are already saving. Sign up at trasferwise.compodcast or download the app. Craig 27 Hi everybody. This is Craig from Washington D.C. Radiolab is supported by HSS the number one hospital in the country for orthopedics for nine straight years according to U.S. News and World Report. With locations in Nassau Westchester Bergen and Fairfield counties the best is now nearby. Learn more at HSS.edu.  53 You are listening to Radiolab.  55 From New York Public Radio.  57 Public Radio.  03 WNYC.  03 And NPR. Jad Abumrad 04 I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 05 And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 06 And this is Radiolab Season Three. And let me start with a story. Robert Krulwich 09 Okay. Jad Abumrad 09 1893 an anthropologist Franz Boas goes to the woods of British Columbia. He has a giant wax cylinder recorder with him and he records this guy singing a healing song. Robert Krulwich 27 Who is this? Jad Abumrad 28 This gentleman is an Indian from the Kwakiutl tribe and his name we are told is  or Kesalid. Daniel Moerman 37 I have always pronounced it  I do not know ... I am not quite sure how it would be pronounced in Kwakiutl. Jad Abumrad 43 That is Daniel Moerman he is an anthropologist. He is written a lot about Kesalid because it is a neat story. And it goes like this. The young Kesalid begins as a skeptic. Daniel Moerman 52 He was skeptical about the activities of the shaman. He thought they were tricking people in some way. Jad Abumrad 59 The shaman are the village healers. Very very powerful men. Daniel Moerman 02 They were scary men. Jad Abumrad 04 And he would see them doing these dramatic healing rituals. And he thought they were full of it. Daniel Moerman 08 And so he decided ... Jad Abumrad 10 ... To go undercover. One day Kesalid approaches some of these shaman and asks if he can apprentice with them. Daniel Moerman 15 Yeah the three or four of them take him out into the woods into a clearing or something and they tell him a bunch of things. And they taught him the songs. Daniel Moerman 21 And he learned that stuff. Jad Abumrad 29 And eventually after he would gained their trust a little they taught him their best trick of all. Daniel Moerman 34 The trick that is widespread in the world of shamanism where you find variations on it all over the world. Jad Abumrad 39 Here's what you do they told him. Get some feathers some down feathers and just tuck it in your cheek right ... Daniel Moerman 43 Just stick it in your mouth. Jad Abumrad 45 Secretly. Daniel Moerman 45 So that nobody knew that it was there. Jad Abumrad 47 Then during the ritual let us say the patient is there and they are on the ground maybe their chest hurts. You lean down. Daniel Moerman 52 Literally get down ... Jad Abumrad 54 Put your mouth on the patient's chest. Daniel Moerman 56 And suck. Jad Abumrad 57 And here's the last step. While you are sucking you bite the inside of your cheek to get some blood in there which mixes with the feathers. Then at the pivotal point you throw your head back and ... Cough out the feathers which were now bloody and nasty. Daniel Moerman 11 So you end up with this bit of bloody down in the palm of your hand which you would then say is the disease which you have sucked out of the body of the patient. Jad Abumrad 20 Kesalid learned all this and thought I knew it. Those liars. Daniel Moerman 25 The problem was that part of the obligation of his apprenticeship was that whenever anybody asked he had to go and treat them for free. That was sort of part of the deal of being an apprentice. And somebody from a famous family called him to come and treat a daughter who was sick. Jad Abumrad 40 Very sick according to the written account. Daniel Moerman 42 And so he went to see this family and he treated the girl and he went through the songs that he sang.  48 . Jad Abumrad 50 And then he did the feather trick which he knew was false. He put the feathers in his mouth bit the inside of his cheek pretended to suck coughed the whole thing out. Daniel Moerman 58 And lo and behold she was healed. She was fine. She was ... Jad Abumrad 01 Fine fine? Daniel Moerman 02 Yeah and it was a great success. Jad Abumrad 04 Wow. And what did he think? Daniel Moerman 05 Well he clearly indicates a kind of ambiguity. He knows that he was tricking her but he also knows that she is better. Jad Abumrad 14 Not convinced Kesalid tries the trick again and again and again. And every time he does it it works. So at the end of the story he decides to become a healer. Does that mean that he ends up believing in the lie that he set out to disprove? Daniel Moerman 29 I think that he realizes that truth and lies are not that fundamentally different as we might think they are. Jad Abumrad 35 Today on Radiolab we look at that. The true healing power of lies which in medicine we call the placebo effect. Robert Krulwich 45 No. No we do not. Jad Abumrad 45 What do you mean no we do not? Robert Krulwich 47 Well it is actually called placebo placebo. Jad Abumrad 50 Who calls it that? Robert Krulwich 51 Latin scholars I think. I mean it is a Latin word. Jad Abumrad 53 Whatever. Robert Krulwich 54 Placebo is originally a Latin word. Jad Abumrad 55 God. Alright while you call it the placebo effect I am going to try and figure out how it works. Robert Krulwich 59 And then I am going to tell some stories including one about a dramatically dressed gentleman. He dressed entirely in purple and maybe it was lilac who used a placebo effect to make the ladies feel real good. Jad Abumrad 08 That is all coming up on Radiolab. FabrizioBenedet 09 . Jad Abumrad 09 Dr. Benedetti? FabrizioBenedet 09 Yes speaking. Jad Abumrad 08 Can you hear me? FabrizioBenedet 24 I am Fabrizio Benedetti but I cannot hear anything. Jad Abumrad 27 We had a little trouble with the phone connection. Fabrizio Benedetti is a doctor at the Turin Medical Center in Italy and he is one of the most expert experts on the placebo effect. Jad Abumrad 37 Is this better? FabrizioBenedet 38 Yeah now I can hear you yes. Jad Abumrad 39 So we thought we would start with him. He is been studying the placebo effect for about 15 years. FabrizioBenedet 44 Yes. I got interested in the placebo effect because I realized that sometimes the Placebo group gets much better than the active treatment group. Jad Abumrad 56 Much much better? FabrizioBenedet 57 Yes sometimes. Sometimes. Robert Krulwich 58 For what kind of stuff? Jad Abumrad 59 Well he saw it first in pain.  01 Pain. Robert Krulwich 01 Pain? Jad Abumrad 04 Pain trials. Robert Krulwich 05 Oh. Jad Abumrad 06 And then he saw it in depression.  06 Depression. Jad Abumrad 08 As in anti-depressants. Right and then digestion.  11 Digestion. Jad Abumrad 11 Immune Response.  12 Immune Response. Jad Abumrad 14 All of these places where placebos were doing things they just were not supposed to do. FabrizioBenedet 17 Yeah it is really amazing. Particularly for some conditions like ... Jad Abumrad 22 And this one's a little surprising. FabrizioBenedet 23 Parkinson's Disease.  24 Parkinson's Disease. Jad Abumrad 26 Serious neurological disorder. People with Parkinson's have shakes they have tremors. Dr. Benedetti treats a lot of these folks. And in the really bad cases the only treatment that really seems to work at all is surgery. FabrizioBenedet 38 So this patient ... Jad Abumrad 38 You open up the patient's skull and implant a little stimulator. FabrizioBenedet 41 Stimulator. Jad Abumrad 43 Deep into their brain. FabrizioBenedet 44 Deep into the brain in two brain regions. Jad Abumrad 47 Essentially what that does is it hot-wires the parts of the brain that are not working. And when you do that and you turn the stimulator on the shakes go away. It is a real treatment. FabrizioBenedet 55 Yes. So we can switch the stimulator on or off and the patient does not know that the stimulator is on or off. Jad Abumrad 04 And that is where the trickery comes in. In one experiment he stood in front of his patient with the stimulator and said ... FabrizioBenedet 10 Now we are going to switch your stimulator on. Jad Abumrad 14 Except he did not. FabrizioBenedet 15 No of course. Of course it is a sham turning on. Jad Abumrad 18 He only pretended to turn it on but that is the weird thing. It did not matter. Pretending to turn it on worked just as well as turning it on for real. The tremors disappeared. Robert Krulwich 27 Really? Jad Abumrad 27 He even has a video of this where he is with a Parkinson's patient and he says those words. FabrizioBenedet 32 Now we are going to switch your stimulator on. Robert Krulwich 35 Which is a lie by the way. Jad Abumrad 36 Yeah but it does not matter because what you see on the video screen is a shaking hand go completely still. FabrizioBenedet 42 Yeah that is correct. In a few seconds you see that there is a dramatic improvement in motor performance even though the stimulator is still off. Jad Abumrad 52 Just from words. Robert Krulwich 55 And this is an equivalency? The lie is as good as the medicine? Jad Abumrad 00 For a while. Robert Krulwich 02 What do you mean for a while? Jad Abumrad 04 Coming out of the gate a placebo seems to be 100 as effective as say a real Parkinson's drug. Robert Krulwich 10 Yeah. FabrizioBenedet 10 But it lasts only about 25 the duration of the actual drug. Robert Krulwich 17 Oh. Oh. Jad Abumrad 17 Still it is just words. Come on. Words are cheap. Robert Krulwich 18 Yeah your words are cheaper than ...  21 Overstatement. Robert Krulwich 23 25? That is so different from 100. Jad Abumrad 26 I never said it as 100. I did not. Robert Krulwich 27 You did too. Roll the tape . Jad Abumrad 29 What is wrong with you? The fact that it happens at all. That words that is what we are talking about. Words can be as effective as surgery. Does not that intrigue you? Do not you want to know how that works? Robert Krulwich 39 Yes actually. I do. How does it work? Jad Abumrad 42 We have no idea. But for the first time we can see it. Robert Krulwich 48 See what? Jad Abumrad 50 Well see it in action. See the placebo effect in action. Testing testing. Dr. Benedetti referred us to a guy actually right here in New York. FabrizioBenedet 56 In New York probably you have talked with Tor Wager? Jad Abumrad 00 No. Should we? FabrizioBenedet 01 Yes. Jad Abumrad 01 Tor Wager are you? Tor Wager 03  Yeah. Jad Abumrad 05 Hey how are you? FabrizioBenedet 05 Tor Wager is a very good neural imager. Jad Abumrad 08 Well you should introduce yourself. Tor Wager 09 Okay. I am Tor Wager. I am assistant professor of Psychology at Columbia University. Jad Abumrad 13 And here's what Tor Wager does. He puts subjects in the brain scanner puts a hot pad on their arm like I am doing to you right now. It is getting hot right? Right? Robert Krulwich 22 So that is very ... Yes it is quite hot. Tor Wager 22 We will give them these pulses of heat. Jad Abumrad 26 Ow. And then he will give you some pain relief cream. Robert Krulwich 30 Ah. This cream here? Jad Abumrad 31 Yes. Tor Wager 31 A cream that we tell you is Lidocaine. We say This is going to be really effective. This is going to block pain. Jad Abumrad 36 It is going to take away the pain. Really it is just Vaseline but you do not know that. Robert Krulwich 41 I am having a hard time playing this role. Jad Abumrad 44 In any case right as you are putting on this fake cream and feeling better having a placebo effect in other words he takes a picture of your brain. Tor Wager 51 So I have many things I can show you. Robert Krulwich 53 Come on Tor. Show it to him. Jad Abumrad 54 He does. He shows me one on his computer. It is very pretty. Jad Abumrad 57 Oh now we have a brain in front of us. Tor Wager 59 . Jad Abumrad 58 A brain scan of a person right in the middle of being placebo-ed meaning that they have just been given the placebo cream and now they are expecting to feel better. Those expectations ... Tor Wager 08 The placebo expectations ... Jad Abumrad 10 First of all they seem to start ... Tor Wager 11 Here. Jad Abumrad 12 In your forehead. Tor Wager 13 Kind of on the sides of your forehead above your temples. Jad Abumrad 15 When you believe that you are going to feel better the belief seems to live kind of near your temples. But then once that belief is there it seems to turn on. Tor Wager 23 Turn on this. Jad Abumrad 26 This other part. Tor Wager 26 The membrane. Jad Abumrad 27 He points to it on the screen. It is a little nugget deep in the center of the brain. Tor Wager 31 And what is important about this area is that it is one of the major centers for the production of opioids in the brain. Jad Abumrad 39 Oh. Opioids like opium painkiller. Tor Wager 43 Yes right. Like opium. Jad Abumrad 47 Opium as in ... Robert Krulwich 53 Jad. Jad Abumrad 54 What? The greatest painkiller known to man. There it was inside our heads. Does not it strike you as weird by the way that that stuff actually is inside our heads? I cannot get over that that these illicit substances are actually inside us. Tor Wager 06 Right. Well you know there is kind of a neat story about that. Jad Abumrad 08 And here is where Tor blows my mind right out my face as he explains that every drug out there in the world every single one even the ones you see on TV are in a sense already inside our heads. Tor Wager 23 Your brain must have its own internal chemical. Jad Abumrad 26 The only reason those drugs work he says is because our brain has receptors for them and why would it have those receptors? Because it can already make them in house. Tor Wager 34 Every pharmacological agent or drug that there is there is a chemical that is produced by your own brain that essentially does that thing. Jad Abumrad 42 That is ... Wait a second internal pharmacy in there just stocked full of drugs. Tor Wager 48 Right. Jad Abumrad 48 And we just have to figure out how to unlock it in a way. FabrizioBenedet 50 We have a sort of as you said internal pharmacy. But we do not know why sometimes it does not work. Robert Krulwich 59 What? What does that mean? Jad Abumrad 00 Well what he means is that the placebo effect though it can be incredibly powerful it is rarely consistent. It is hard to predict who is going to get a placebo effect under what circumstances. But just imagine if we could figure this out. We could have all the drugs we ever need without those nasty side effects. FabrizioBenedet 17 Oh yes absolutely. Yes. We are working a lot with drug companies in this direction. Jad Abumrad 23 What Doctor Benedetti is looking at now which could be huge for patients with chronic pain is to take ... FabrizioBenedet 28 ... A toxic drug like morphine. Jad Abumrad 30 And gradually replace it with a placebo substitute. So say on Monday he would give you some morphine. And then on Tuesday he would slip in a placebo. FabrizioBenedet 38 And you get morphine again on Wednesday and the placebo on Thursday and so forth. In the long run you can have a reduction of morphine by 50. Jad Abumrad 47 Aha. And perhaps one day ... I am sorry I cannot contain my enthusiasm we will not need drugs at all. Maybe one day we will have a little box that I can plug directly into my mid-brain and I could just spend all day hitting the joy button. Joy. Joy. Joy.  03 Joy. Joy. Joy. Joy. Joy. Joy. Jad Abumrad 14 Sorry about that. Robert Krulwich 17 Well while we are waiting for your glorious drug-soaked future you can do it much more simply by simply telling a story. I will tell you a story about telling stories. How about that? Jad Abumrad 29 I have no idea what you are talking about. Robert Krulwich 30 Alright well let me start. It is a story I learned from Daniel Carr. Daniel Carr 32 Daniel B. Carr MD. Robert Krulwich 34 He told me about a guy who is really the father of placebo research. His name is Henry ... Daniel Carr 40 Henry. Robert Krulwich 40 Unangst. Daniel Carr 41 Unangst. Robert Krulwich 41 Unangst. Daniel Carr 43 Unangst is his original name. Robert Krulwich 45 German as Doctor Carr will tell you. Daniel Carr 46 Which given the poor quality of my German I would roughly scan as meaning anti-anxiety or perhaps anti-pain. Robert Krulwich 56 This may be one of those cases where the name shapes the man. Daniel Carr 00 It may well be. It may well be. Robert Krulwich 02 Because even though he ends up changing his name. Daniel Carr 04 To Beecher. Robert Krulwich 05 Henry Knowles Beecher. He does go into medicine. Daniel Carr 08 To become a doctor. Robert Krulwich 09 And then during World War II he joined the army as a doctor and found himself at the Great Battle of Anzio where the Americans landed in Nazi Europe. And he was right there. Daniel Carr 19 He was on the beach. Bullets were flying. Soldiers were being killed. And some were being wounded.  29 Sarge I am hit. Robert Krulwich 31 And since Beecher was the doctor it was his job to treat them. Daniel Carr 34 That is correct. The treatment at that time for pain as it still is nowadays was morphine. Robert Krulwich 43 One problem though. Beecher's division was cut off from supplies and reinforcements and he began to run low on morphine. He had to figure out which soldiers needed it the most. Scott Podolsky 55 And he is talking to them and he is asking them about how much pain they are actually having. Robert Krulwich 59 And this is Scott  who is a doctor and a historian. Scott Podolsky 01 And he would go up to these patient and say to them ...  05 Soldier?  06 Yes?  07 As you lie there ... Scott Podolsky 07 As you lie there are you having any pain?  09 Are you having any pain? Scott Podolsky 10 Quote unquote. Robert Krulwich 11 So imagine Jad you are a soldier. You are lying there with shrapnel stuck in your gut. Scott Podolsky 16 These were severe injuries. Robert Krulwich 16 And you have not had any morphine for I do not know ... Scott Podolsky 19 At least seven hours previously. Robert Krulwich 20 Yeah seven hours. So what would you say? Jad Abumrad 22 What would I say? Well I would say give me some morphine. I am in pain. Robert Krulwich 27 Well you want to know something? Scott Podolsky 28 The striking finding was that in 75 of them they would say ...  30 No. Scott Podolsky 31 No.  32 No doc. Scott Podolsky 33 I am okay.  34 I am okay. I do not need any morphine right now. Robert Krulwich 35 Three quarters of them said that. Jad Abumrad 37 Wow. Robert Krulwich 37 This did not make a whole lot of sense to Beecher because he knew about pain. Before the war he ran a clinic in Boston. So he would see people with bullet injuries and gut injuries more or less the same kind of injuries he saw in the battlefield. But back in Boston ...  50 Doc ... Robert Krulwich 51 They really hurt.  52 Could I have more morphine please?  54 Nurse. Robert Krulwich 55 For some strange reason says Daniel Carr ... Daniel Carr 58 The intensity of the pain associated with being shot was lower in the battlefield than in civilian life. Robert Krulwich 05 What could explain that? Jad Abumrad 06 Well you know maybe soldiers are just ... They are tough guys. They do not ... They suck it up. They do not ... Robert Krulwich 10 Well ... Daniel Carr 11 No. Robert Krulwich 12 No. Context. Context. That was Beecher's very simple explanation. Daniel Carr 16 Context. Context. Robert Krulwich 18 Meaning that the pain that you feel when you are hit by a bullet it is not just about the bullet. It is just as much about the story that comes with the bullet. So consider these two different stories. Robert Krulwich 29 Story number one you are a soldier and you have been shot. As the bullet passes through you the first thing you think is Well man. I am shot. Daniel Carr 41 And second thing you think is ... Robert Krulwich 42 Wait a second. I am alive. Daniel Carr 44 If I can be evacuated from here I will have a period of recuperation. Robert Krulwich 48 They will take me to a hospital. There'ill be nurses there. Daniel Carr 50 I may get a medal. Robert Krulwich 50 And a pension. Daniel Carr 51 Or a bonus. And I will certainly be acclaimed. Robert Krulwich 53 They will send me home. Throw me a parade. Daniel Carr 57 I will be a hero. Robert Krulwich 59 Now consider the civilian story. This time you are a regular guy civilian in Boston. Maybe you own a shop.  06 Can I help you sir?  06 This is a stick up. Give me your money.  08 Oh my god no. Robert Krulwich 09 And you have been shot. As the bullet passes through you this time the thoughts flashing through your head have nothing to do with glory. Daniel Carr 19 That is right. Robert Krulwich 20 Instead you think Yeah I am alive but what is going to happen to me now? Daniel Carr 23 You would not get a medal. You were in trouble. Robert Krulwich 25 How am I going to pay the doctor bills? Daniel Carr 26 Going to be out of commission. Robert Krulwich 27 I am going to lose my job. How do I pay the rent? Daniel Carr 29 And if your family was depending up on you they suffered. Robert Krulwich 32 Nothing good is going to come of this. One bullet two very different stories. And it is the difference in the stories said Doctor Beecher that explains the difference in the experience of pain. Jad Abumrad 43 Those stories you are saying are somehow filtering the pain even before it is felt? Robert Krulwich 48 Yeah. Daniel Carr 49 That even as the bullet enters the skin ... Robert Krulwich 51 Right away. Daniel Carr 52 Or within seconds thereafter. Robert Krulwich 53 You spin yourself a story about what is going to happen to you next. Not consciously but way down deep in your head. And the story you tell that makes all the difference. Daniel Carr 06 Scientists currently view our whole identity as something that we construct. One fraction of a second to another. You are the unfolding of an ongoing narrative but it is not just a narrative in words. It is a narrative that involves touch color odors. We use all those inputs to generate the next frame from the last frame. Jad Abumrad 28 Well if that is true let me talk for a second about color. He just mentioned color right? Daniel Moerman ... Daniel Moerman 43 Yeah okay. Jad Abumrad 44 ... Told me something really interesting about color and pills. Daniel Moerman 47 Cool colored pills. Blue pills or purple pills as placebos make better sleeping tablets than yellow or red pills which tend to wake people up. Jad Abumrad 58 That is been shown? Daniel Moerman 59 Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. There is a whole ... Jad Abumrad 00 Okay. Take two pills that are the same he says. Color one blue color the other red. And the people that take the blue pill will sleep longer they will sleep better than the people who took the red. This has been shown he says all over the world except ... and here's the cool part except in Italy. Robert Krulwich 15 Italy? Daniel Moerman 16 Yep. In Italy blue sleeping tablets have the paradoxical effect of being sleep inducing for women but not for men. Jad Abumrad 22 What? How does that work? Daniel Moerman 24 Well I am not really sure but my speculation is that the Italian national football team is called Azzurri which is blue. And so what blue evokes in an Italian man is the World Cup and soccer and screaming and hollering.  43 . Goal. Daniel Moerman 46 And it is hardly something that is likely to put them to sleep. Jad Abumrad 51 Whereas by contrast ... Daniel Moerman 52 Blue ... Jad Abumrad 52 For Italian women ... Daniel Moerman 53 Is the color of the virgin. Jad Abumrad 54 Oh.  57 Ave Maria. Daniel Moerman 58 The virgin is of course always presented in blue. And the virgin is a very comforting and protective figure for women in Italian culture.  11 . Daniel Moerman 13 Language and meaning are the most crucial dimensions of our lives.  21 . Jad Abumrad 24 This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich and I will continue in a moment. Jennifer 30 This is Jennifer from Tampa. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Robert Krulwich 50 Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Zip Recruiter. I do not know if you know anything about Zip Recruiter. Let us suppose you need to recruit somebody for your business for your office. You could I guess ask friends. You could put an ad out for everybody in the world to read. Zip Recruiter's idea is they have what they call a matching technology that presumably finds the right people for you and then goes and gets them to apply. And right now Radiolab listeners can try Zip Recruiter for free at ziprecruiter.comradiolab. Once again that is ziprecruiter.comradiolab. Alec Baldwin 34 I am Alec Baldwin and join me for a live taping of Here's the Thing with my special guest Itzhak Perlman. I will be talking with the legendary violinist about his life and his music. And we will hear live performances from some of the talented students in the Perlman Music Program. Monday February 18th at NYU's Skirball Center. Tickets at WNYC.orgevents. Jad Abumrad 05 This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 06 And I am Robert Krulwich. And this hour we have been talking about the placebo effect. Jad Abumrad 10 Yes about the power of belief and suggestion. And thus far we have looked at it from the perspective of the patient. But certainly the doctor has a role to play in all of this. Robert Krulwich 19 And so I have a story to tell you. Albert Mason 20 Five four three two one zero. Robert Krulwich 25 It happens to be about a doctor. Albert Mason 26 Yeah I am Doctor Albert Mason and I was trained in medicine in Guy's Hospital. Robert Krulwich 32 Back in the 1950s Albert Mason was delivering babies at a hospital in London. He was a young guy an anesthesiologist. And he was looking for a new way to anesthetize his patients the moms. Some of them may be safer than drugs. And one day he ran across a book about medical hypnosis. Albert Mason 48 Medical hypnosis. And I just read the technique and tried it out on some friends. Robert Krulwich 54 And under what circumstances? You would put a watch and have it swing back and forth left and right? Albert Mason 00 No. No. Just lay them down on a couch and say Now I want you to let your whole body go loose let your arms go loose let your legs go loose. And it worked on some people and not on others. Robert Krulwich 37 But the more he practiced the better he got. Putting his friends under ... Albert Mason 37 To a trance state. Robert Krulwich 37 Getting them to remember stuff from their fifth birthday. Albert Mason 37 And all sorts of games that we played as medical students. Robert Krulwich 37 And so he took this little party trick into the delivery room and it worked. Albert Mason 37 That is right. I delivered about 20 babies under hypnosis. And the moment you start to do hypnosis you start to get a reputation as being somebody who has power. Robert Krulwich 37 Well I would think you would get two reputations. The patients might think you have power and the doctors might think you are a quack. Albert Mason 37 Well both of those are true but at that time it was kind of fun. Robert Krulwich 37 Because the hospital administrators were kind of curious about this young doctor slash hypnotist. Maybe he was on to something who knows? So they started to send him all kinds of patients. Albert Mason 37 Skin disorders asthma. Robert Krulwich 37 And he would hypnotize them which led to a weird little discovery. Of all things that hypnosis might help the one that seemed to work the best was warts. Jad Abumrad 37 Warts? Robert Krulwich 37 Warts yeah. Albert Mason 37 To my delight I found that if you hypnotized them and told them that the warts would go they went in a certain number of cases. Robert Krulwich 37 Let us fast forward a little bit. Doctor Mason is treating lots of these warts patients and things are going pretty well. Albert Mason 37 And one day a young boy came to this hospital. He was wheeled in on a gurney and the first thing I saw was his arm. I could have dropped through the floor because this was not a dozen warts. This was millions. This was the entire surface of the skin. It is cracked and got infected and his life was impossible. He could not go to school because he smelled. Now I do not know if you have ever seen the photographs of this boy. Robert Krulwich 37 Just check this out. Look at these pictures here. Jad Abumrad 37 Oh my god. It looks like he has a black hide over his whole body. Albert Mason 37 It looked like an elephant skin. That is what it looked like. Jad Abumrad 37 Geez. Robert Krulwich 37 Yeah well so they take this poor boy to surgery. Albert Mason 37 The surgeon a man called Jerry Moore was trying to graft healthy skin onto the hands and when I saw the skin I said to him Mr. Moore why do not you treat him by hypnosis? And he looked at me and he said Well why do not you? And he walked out. Robert Krulwich 37 Was he ... Why do not you in despair or in contempt? Albert Mason 37 I think a mixture of both. Robert Krulwich 37 And by the way when you asked that question you are the kid asking the senior practitioner so ... Albert Mason 37 I was cheeky. Robert Krulwich 37 Yeah you were a little cheeky. So there is Albert Mason cheeky alone with this boy with a million warts and Albert asks him Do you mind if I hypnotize you? Albert Mason 37 And this kid who was 15 said Okay. Robert Krulwich 37 Did not you have to tell the parents? Albert Mason 37 No. Could not have got away with it today could I? So I hypnotized this kid. I told him The warts on your right arm will shrivel up and die and new skin will grow which ... Robert Krulwich 37 And why did you choose the right arm? Albert Mason 37 Oh I had to start somewhere. And I sent him away. He came back in a week and one arm was clear. Robert Krulwich 37 Totally clear. I mean imagine this. The left arm is black and scaly like elephant skin. And the right arm is totally normal. Jad Abumrad 37 Totally normal looking? Robert Krulwich 37 Yes. Well here's the photo. Jad Abumrad 37 Come on. Robert Krulwich 37 No look. No it is a real photo. This is verifiable. Albert Mason 37 It looked like a normal skin but rather pinker than usual. Slightly pink. And soft and supple. Jad Abumrad 37 Whoa. This is for real? Robert Krulwich 37 Yes. It is like all those thousands and thousands of warts that covered the right arm I guess they just fell off. Robert Krulwich 37 And what were you thinking when you first saw it? Albert Mason 37 I was thinking how wonderful. I was thinking Oh wait 'til Mr. Moore sees this. Robert Krulwich 37 So he takes the boy. He runs down the hall to the operating room when Mr. Moore is in the middle of an operation. He takes the boy up to the big the glass window. Albert Mason 37 And I held up both his arms. Robert Krulwich 37 One black and scaly the other pink and raw. Albert Mason 37 And Moore put down his scalpel. He came out of the theater. And he looked and he said My god. Look at that. And I said Well I told you warts could go ...  And he looked at me pityingly. He said This is not warts. This is congenital icthyosiform erithrodermia of Brocq. Robert Krulwich 38 Well now for those of us who are uninitiated what is ? Albert Mason 38 It is a hopeless condition. Never been known to change. Robert Krulwich 38 The surgeon informed Albert Mason that he had just hypnotized away a condition that never once in medical history had been known to go away for any reason whatever. Albert Mason 38 So he says We are going to take him to the Royal Society of Medicine to show him to all the dermatologists in London.  38 Gentlemen please take your seats. Albert Mason 38 So Moore took me up there with the boy.  38 Thank you Dr. Moore and to the Royal Society for this opportunity. Albert Mason 38 And I demonstrated. First of all I demonstrated how to hypnotize.  38 Hypnosis is quite easily achieved. You simply lie the patient down and say Now I want you to let your whole body go loose. Let your arms go loose. Let your legs go loose. Albert Mason 37 And then I showed his arm.  39 Please sir if you do not mind raise both arms. Albert Mason 45 They were staggered. In fact the President ...  49 Gentlemen this is absurd. Albert Mason 50 ... Said that it is inconceivable ...  52 This is inconceivable. Albert Mason 52 ... That this gets well because ...  54 We all know that congenital icthyosis is incurable. Albert Mason 58 Incurable. Robert Krulwich 00 That was the exact word he used. Incurable. Albert Mason 03 Incurable.  03 Incurable. Robert Krulwich 07 Incurable. And the thing was since all this took place at a hospital every stage of it was documented. There are photographs every step along the way. Before shots after shots closeups all available to reporters. You could imagine what happened. Albert Mason 21 It was picked up in every newspaper Time Magazine. Robert Krulwich 24 Big media story. Albert Mason 25 In fact the first I heard about it I was in bed one morning a year after I would sent the paper in for publication. And the phone rang and a voice said This is Whipsnade Zoo. We have an elephant with a skin like a little boy. Can you cure him? And I said What the ... What the hell are you talking about? And then the phone started to ring and ring and ring and hundreds of calls hundreds of letters came in from all over the world. And I had people coming in with the most terrifying illnesses wanting to be cured. Robert Krulwich 59 Especially people with that very rare skin condition. Jad Abumrad 03 Congenital icthy ... Whatever it is called? Robert Krulwich 05 Yes. They flocked to him from all over the world and that is ... Now here's where the story takes a turn. He would see these patients. He would hypnotize each one one at a time and then send them away hoping of course that they would get better. And they would come back a week later and ... Albert Mason 21 None of the others ever got well. Robert Krulwich 24 At all? Albert Mason 26 No. Robert Krulwich 26 Not in any way? Albert Mason 27 No improvement. I have spent the rest of my life trying to understand this phenomenon because I gave up anesthesia ... Robert Krulwich 34 Just a few years later Albert Mason quit medicine and he decided to become a psychiatrist. He wanted to understand why he had the touch the first time and why after that it just did not work. So the central question in your mind was not what happened to the kid but what happened to me? Albert Mason 52 That is right. That is right. Robert Krulwich 54 And what do you think the answer to that is? Albert Mason 56 Well there is a condition called infantile omnipotence that we all suffer from when we are kids. We think we can do anything. Unconsciously I knew this was incurable. Robert Krulwich 11 Wait wait wait wait a second because incurable would mean that it had never been cured. But you had just ... Albert Mason 17 That is right. That is right. Robert Krulwich 17 You had just created an exception. So ... Albert Mason 20 Look. When you are 25 and the President of the Royal Society of Medicine tells you it is incurable it has an effect. Robert Krulwich 30 That is his best guess. He thinks that that word incurable changed him. Just a little bit. Albert Mason 36 I lost my crazy confidence even though I had the evidence. But it did not work. Robert Krulwich 45 Confidence is a hard thing to measure. You cannot put it on a scale. You cannot weigh it but you can sense it because it is conveyed in a million little ways. How you stand whether you look your patient in the eye when you pause where you pause what you say what you do not say. All these things are like signals. They say to the patient they murmur to the patient I can help you. I can do this. Albert Mason 10 You know you go to a doctor and you have got this horrible rash all over you. And he says Oh that is erythema multiforme. And you feel better immediately because he is named it. Well all he said is many red spots in Latin. But the thing is that he knows what it is and you feel that Oh he knows. Now I will be okay. Robert Krulwich 35 Because when you are feeling terrible what you just want to do is hand over the authority for you situation to someone else who is got information power ... Jad Abumrad 44 Yeah and who is going to tell you you are going to be fine. Anne Harrington 46 And maybe that comes out from early childhood when it seems to us that our parents have that capacity. Jad Abumrad 52 Harvard historian Anne Harrington. Anne Harrington 54 I have a two year old and we are already now at the stage where he gets a little bump and he comes to me and holds the bit of his body out that is been hurt and I kiss it. And it is okay. And there is a way that mommies is kind of a placebo effect. Jad Abumrad 13 Testing testing. Anne Harrington 14 And now imagine that you are sick. You know when you are sick there is a strong impulse to kind of revert back to that way of interacting with people. Jad Abumrad 23 Yeah say something just to ... Jad Abumrad 26 That is Arabic for what do you want? Naji Abumrad 28 Hi Jad. How are you? Jad Abumrad 31 I am good Dad. How are you? Naji Abumrad 32 I am doing very well. Jad Abumrad 33 This is my dad. Do you see how your voice goes on the thing? He is the guy that I would bring my boo-boos to as a kid. Tell me what you do. Actually I still do ... Your title and that kind of thing ... Because he happens to be a doctor. Naji Abumrad 43 I am the Chairman of the Department of Surgery at Vanderbilt. Jad Abumrad 47 Vanderbilt is in ... Naji Abumrad 48 Nashville Tennessee. Jad Abumrad 50 Where we grew up for much of our life. Naji Abumrad 52 Where you grew up for much of your life. Jad Abumrad 54 Okay so my dad had no idea why I wanted to follow him around the hospital. I did not exactly lead with the whole placebo thing. The truth is I feel okay about that because this show is not really about lying. It is about healing. The healing process which does not happen in a vacuum. Patient of course has to believe in the cure. But the doctor has to create that belief. Jad Abumrad 16 Okay wait. You have to walk slower. Naji Abumrad 17 I cannot walk slowly. Jad Abumrad 19 And how does he do that? Wait. Tell me where we are going now. Naji Abumrad 21 We are going to the clinic. Jad Abumrad 23 Be more specific. What happens at the clinic? Naji Abumrad 25 I have patients scheduled to come and see me today. Jad Abumrad 28 These days my dad's hair is as white as his white doctor coat but he still sees patients every Wednesday. Naji Abumrad 33 Today I have four patients. Jad Abumrad 36 And that is why I am here. One PM clinic begins. Naji Abumrad 42 We are in the clinic. Jad Abumrad 42 And as if to illustrate Anne Harrington's basic point ... Anne Harrington 47 When you are sick there is a strong impulse to kind of revert back to that way of interacting with people. Jad Abumrad 53 As soon as my dad's first patient shows up a hair stylist from Murfreesboro Tennessee who when she walks down the busy hallway and sees him as soon as she sees him she bursts into tears. Naji Abumrad 03 Why are you crying? Megan 04 Because I ... I do not know. Just scared. Jad Abumrad 08 He gives her a hug. Megan 11 Every time I see him it is kind of like I hold ... I have to be strong and I feel like when I see him I can let it down because I know that he is going to hug me and make me feel better. Megan 24 I am a single parent and I own my own business and I have always been in survival mode. And I have always had to be strong. And so that is why this has been so hard for me. Jad Abumrad 34 They go into a tiny exam room which is quiet and super intimate compared to the hallway. Dad has Megan sit on a table. Naji Abumrad 42 Lift up. Jad Abumrad 44 And he gently presses two fingers to her neck. Naji Abumrad 46 Swallow a little bit. . Jad Abumrad 50 There is a tiny gland in her neck that should be the size of a pea. Naji Abumrad 53 Just nod your ... Jad Abumrad 55 But over the past four years it is gotten bigger. Naji Abumrad 58 ... Is now three inches ... Jad Abumrad 59 And bigger. Naji Abumrad 00 ... Wide and two and a half inches in the other direction. Jad Abumrad 04 Now it is the size of a golf ball. And it presses against her airways. Megan 09 At night sometimes I wake up and I am ... And I think Oh god. Should I call 911? And I keep asking him every week Are you sure I am not going to choke? Naji Abumrad 18 It is not going to choke you. Megan 18 It is not going to choke me. Naji Abumrad 18 It is not going to choke you. Megan 22  Just him reassuring me. Naji Abumrad 24 It is not going to affect the airway. It will not ... Megan 26 I try to remember the little things that he says to me when I ... Especially in the middle of the night when I start feeling anxious or panicking. And in the meantime how do I deal with the anxiety surrounding this thing because I have got ... Naji Abumrad 37 Patients are anxious. Megan 41 I am having lots of anxiety but I do not know ... Naji Abumrad 43 Scared of the unknown. Megan 45 Part of it is worrying about the future. I think just because I ... Naji Abumrad 47 It is nothing to worry Megan. Megan 49 Well I know but I guess it is just because of my personal responsibilities. Naji Abumrad 54 We will work with you. You got to put them at ease. There is nothing life threatening today. You have to put them at ease. I am going to give you a short term plan and longer term plan. Megan 02 Okay. Jad Abumrad 03 If medicine were just science then all of this talk would be just noise because the real business would then happen in the next room where there is this big machine ready to scan Megan's thyroid. But medicine is not purely science. Naji Abumrad 17 Yeah. I mean ... Jad Abumrad 17 Which my dad admits. Naji Abumrad 18 It is an art. It is communication. Jad Abumrad 20 Which is why he and Megan talk and talk and talk and talk for over an hour. In a way it is a kind of negotiation. She wants to know one thing. What if my thyroid has gotten bigger? What if I had to have radiation? Will I have to quit my job? He needs her to focus on anything but the what ifs. To stay focused on what they do know which unfortunately is that they will not know anything for another day. Naji Abumrad 44 We will draw the blood today and  or not I would know it within 24 hours. Megan 49 Okay. Naji Abumrad 50 I need to know the size of that thyroid Megan. Jad Abumrad 54 Somehow in the end despite all the open questions he gets her to relax. Naji Abumrad 59 We are going to work together. We are going to work together. Megan 02 Well you got to stop going out of town so much. This is really inconvenient for me. Jad Abumrad 06 How much performance is in it? Naji Abumrad 08 What do you mean performance? Jad Abumrad 10 How much of doctoring is having to play a certain role that the patient needs at that moment? Naji Abumrad 16 It is just about every bit of it. Jad Abumrad 19 So if I were to call it theater would that offend you or no? Naji Abumrad 24 It is not a theater. It is ... I am living that role. It is part of me. It is not part of a fake image that I am projecting. Jad Abumrad 36 I think you know what I am trying to get at. Naji Abumrad 38 Not really. Jad Abumrad 38 No? Well it is just ... Naji Abumrad 39 Well I mean ... You call it theater. You can call it theater but ... Jad Abumrad 42 I just mean that ... When you do not have the white coat on and you are not in doctor mode you do not have all the answers. You do not. Naji Abumrad 50 And I do not have all the answers then. Jad Abumrad 52 But you seem to and particularly with her ... Naji Abumrad 55 No ... Jad Abumrad 55 That is what I really wanted to know. That magic pixie dust called certainty. How do you project that instantly to a patient the moment you walk into a room even when the patient hits you with questions like Doc am I going to make it? It can seem kind of mystical that aura. But then again there are the props. Jad Abumrad 15 Okay. You have to tell me what you are doing now. What is this? Jad Abumrad 17 For instance to rewind a moment. Here we are before clinic in my dad's office. And he is just opened up his little coat closet. Naji Abumrad 23 Putting my coat on that I usually on the day of the clinic I choose a clean white coat. Jad Abumrad 29 Really? Naji Abumrad 29 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 30 Do you have many to choose from? Naji Abumrad 33 I have one two three four five. Jad Abumrad 35 Five? Five blindingly white white coats. He flips through them picks the whitest of the bunch puts it on and I swear to you even now when I am older supposedly wise to these kinds of things it is like he changes somehow. Jad Abumrad 49 Do you ever go to see patients without your white coat on? Naji Abumrad 53 I do not like to. It is almost like you are naked without it. Jad Abumrad 57 You do seem taller with it on. Naji Abumrad 59 I do? Jad Abumrad 00 Yeah. Jad Abumrad 00 There is inherent power in the props especially the coat. And if you have any doubt the doctors do not know this go to a med school any med school on the day the new students arrive and you will probably find something like this.  13 Excuse me. If we could all have a seat. We will start the ceremony. Jad Abumrad 16 The White Coat Ceremony.  19 Thank you. Jad Abumrad 20 It is as close to religious ritual as you can get in medicine. And in fact the one that we attended at Columbia University in New York ...  26 I ask the students to please stand with me. Jad Abumrad 29 ... Included a chaplain.  32 As you are able let us pray together. Compassionate God bless these new medical students of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and bless the white coats that they receive today. May these white coats be for each student a cloak of compassion a clear statement of purpose a sign of assurance and a symbol of respect. Arnold Gold 03 The ceremony ...  04 We pray for the strength and for the ... Arnold Gold 06 ... At time has some almost spiritual component.  10 ... and the art of healing. Sandra Gold 10 It is quite moving I think I hope you will find. Jad Abumrad 13 That is Arnold and Sandra Gold. They began the White Coat Ceremony at Columbia almost 20 years ago.  18 God be with each student. Jad Abumrad 20 And they were in the audience the day we were there.  21 ... God be with each of us. Jad Abumrad 22 Along with about 250 students and their families. Arnold Gold 25 First each student is cloaked individually and called by name.  29 Eric J. . James J. . Arnold Gold 34 They then return to their seats and we see this visual transformation that occurs. Sandra Gold 40 This is a change that you can actually see. These people come into this room with their coats on their arm and they are wearing blue and black and green and yellow. And that is who they are. And you see the room filling up in white and they see the room filling up in white.  56 Alexandra J. . Sandra Gold 57 And you know in the old days doctors wore black. Jad Abumrad 00 It is true. 100 years ago doctors wore gothic black coats. But then someone discovered germs and that the insight that germs live in dirt. Sandra Gold 09 And because you could not see dirt on black ... Jad Abumrad 12 Coats had to be white. Sandra Gold 13 They changed for antiseptic reasons. Jad Abumrad 15 And that is when a certain symbolism took hold. Sandra Gold 19 When you think about angels they are never in red. They are never in black.  23 Please turn around to face the audience. And I present to you the Class of 2010. Jad Abumrad 32 Radiolab will continue in a moment. Marley Duncan 41 Hi. I am Marley Duncan from Brooklyn New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Bye. Jad Abumrad 06 This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 08 And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 08 And today we are talking about the placebo effect. The power of suggestion. We are looking at a lot of new research. Robert Krulwich 16 I do not know about new research. We have done ... Well it is new research but the problem has been with us for centuries. Even at the very beginning of the age of reason. Let me take you back. 18th Century the Enlightenment was in full swing. There was change in the air. Voltaire was denouncing the church.  32 . Robert Krulwich 34 Ben Franklin was flying kites.  35 Electricity. Robert Krulwich 39 Lavoisier was inventing Chemistry. It was the beginning of modern times modern science you might say. Reason inquiry. People were re-examining the big questions. How does the world work? What possibly could hold everything together? And this was new. Ed Cohen 57 Well you have to understand that in earlier historical moments the unification of the universe was not a problem because it was God that unified everything and everything was a manifestation of God. Robert Krulwich 09 That is Ed Cohen talking about God. He is a historian. Ed Cohen 11 But if God is not the glue that hold the universe together ... Robert Krulwich 15 Then what does hold the world together? Enter Anton Mesmer. Jad Abumrad 20 Who? Robert Krulwich 20 Anton Mesmer. Have you ever said You mesmerize me my darling have you ever said that? Jad Abumrad 24 I have said things like that. Robert Krulwich 27 The word mesmer mesmerization comes from Anton Mesmer. He was a real historical figure. So he is part of our narrative. Jad Abumrad 34 Oh. Robert Krulwich 34 Now get out of my way. . In 1778 he moves to Paris and he has a theory. He believes that the world was filled with a kind of fluid that moved through all living things. And he gave it his own kind of sexy name. Ed Cohen 48 Animal magnetism. Robert Krulwich 49 Or as they say in the French magntisme animal. Ed Cohen 52 Right. Robert Krulwich 53 And as this force flowed through all of life occasionally it would get stuck like in a traffic jam. It would bunch up. Ed Cohen 59 Right. And that is also the bunching up can also be a cause of a problem. Robert Krulwich 04 That is what he thought being sick was blocking the flow. Ed Cohen 07 Restrictions in the flow of animal magnetism in the organism. I mean not that dissimilar to the way that we understand traditional Chinese medicine. Robert Krulwich 15 You know like qi with the needles and the acupuncture. Mesmer thought that this life force when it got stuck could be released with a little help. Jad Abumrad 23 From needles? Robert Krulwich 24 No no. His approach was lot more theatrical. Ed Cohen 26 He created a kind of salon. I actually think of it as a prototype for the idea of a happening in the 60s. That is the way I like to think of it. It is sort of like everybody kind of came in and there was this music playing. There was dim lighting and he would walk around in his lovely purple suit and he had ... Robert Krulwich 48 Purple? Ed Cohen 49 Yeah I think he was ... Lilac was I believe actually the shade that was reported. Robert Krulwich 54 And then he would go over to a particular client usually it was a woman. Most of his clients were women. And he would ...  59 Madame. Robert Krulwich 59 ... Sit across from them and their knees would touch.  02 Your magntisme animal it is how do you say .  07 No. Robert Krulwich 10 And then to unblock this flow he would stare into her eyes stare ... Ed Cohen 16 Right. Robert Krulwich 17 And if he unjammed you how would you know? Ed Cohen 21 Oh because you would have a healing crisis. Robert Krulwich 23 What was that? Ed Cohen 25 Simple they would scream. They would vibrate. He had actually a padded room where the ladies could go and loosen their corsets and fling themselves about and bang their heads against the wall and do whatever they needed to do in order to kind of release the dammed up energy. It was apparently quite dramatic. Robert Krulwich 52 By the looks of it they were real seizures. And people said they felt better afterwards. So word spread and soon he had disciples and then more disciples. Ed Cohen 01 It had a lot of popularity yes it did. Robert Krulwich 03 So he did what any businessman would do. Ed Cohen 05 He franchised it. Robert Krulwich 06 He branched out and I mean this literally. He magnetized trees. Jad Abumrad 11 Trees. What? Robert Krulwich 12 Trees. Mesmer or sometimes his assistants would take two magnetized iron rods touch them to a tree in the forest and that would transfer the magnetism to the tree. Anne Harrington 23 The tree would then have the kind of therapeutic powers that a mesmerist would have. Robert Krulwich 29 How convenient. That is Anne Harrington a Harvard historian. Anne Harrington 32 And this was quite efficient because then you could sort of have the trees do part of the work for you. Robert Krulwich 37 So imagine if you will lots and lots of people gathered around a tree touching each other and the tree and allowing the flow to move through them. And they would all have fits together. And the problem was the doctors of the time who used to have all of these people as their patients were now losing patients and money. So they protested to the king. Anne Harrington 55 The king established a commission. And actually one of the members of that commission was Benjamin Franklin who at the time was the ambassador to France. And there were other important scientists on the team. Ed Cohen 10 Majault Sallin d'Arcet and Lavoisier Guillotin was one of them. Robert Krulwich 14 Is that the guillotine we know from the ... Ed Cohen 16 Right. Robert Krulwich 16 So we are talking here about a major major league panel. Ed Cohen 19 These were big guys. Big names. Anne Harrington 21 And they devised a series of experiments to test for magnetic force. Ed Cohen 27 They were not concerned whether or not animal magnetism worked. They were concerned whether or not animal magnetism existed. Robert Krulwich 35 Because they figured it can work even though it may not exist. Anne Harrington 41 And one of the most dramatic tests that they devised is sometimes identified as the first placebo control trial in history. They were actually down on Benjamin Franklin's estate. Robert Krulwich 57 This was just south of Paris and Franklin himself conducted the experiment. Anne Harrington 01 And it involved blindfolding a young boy.  05 Is it on too tightly?  06 No. Anne Harrington 06 12 13 years old.  08 Can you see anything?  08 No.  08 Any light at all?  08 No. Anne Harrington 12 And he was told that ...  14 Now here's the deal young boy. One of these five oak trees ... Anne Harrington 17 That one of the trees on the estate had been magnetized.  20 ... has been magnetized by an actual mesmerist. We will take you to one tree at a time. Your job is to tell us which one has been magnetized. Anne Harrington 30 They said one of the trees was magnetized and we will blindfold you and you tell us when you are up by the magnetic trees because patients insisted that they could feel the energy. And by the way I believe them. I am totally persuaded that the real experiences were happening. They brought the boy to one tree.  52 This is tree number one. Anne Harrington 53 And he began to kind of shake and they brought him to another.  59 Now we stand before tree number two. Anne Harrington 03 He began to sweat. And by the time they brought him to the third ... Robert Krulwich 06 And then the fourth.  07 Here we are before tree number ... Anne Harrington 10 He sort of collapsed in convulsions. Robert Krulwich 13 Which is all very dramatic except tree number one tree number two and number three and number four had never been magnetized. Anne Harrington 22 So this was seen as pretty definitive evidence that there was no magnetic force here but they also did not think that the boy was sort of faking it. So what they concluded was that there is no magnetic force but that all the effects which they do not deny the reality of were caused by the imagination. Robert Krulwich 42 That was Harvard historian Anne Harrington and Rutgers historian Ed Cohen. Jad Abumrad 47 Our final stop in this hour comes from reporter Gregory Warner who recently visited a tent revival in upstate New York a little Adirondack's lakeside community very rural to see a faith healing. Gregory Warner 01 Okay so I get there and I am a little bit late and I am a little bit nervous. There is a lot of mosquitoes. People are restless. They are sitting in their chairs. The tent flaps are still up. The sun is kind of setting and Steve Steve  is going on about some verses of scripture and people are really bored. And he says Do not worry we are going to get to the healing pretty soon. The reading's important too. That kind of thing teacher-like. Gregory Warner 27 So then he says Okay. Now it is time for some healing. The flaps go down and suddenly the space changes because what was before this kind of people milling in and out becomes this very focused chamber. And it begins. Steve Buza 44  ministry of any kind come on up here. Jad Abumrad 47 This preacher who is this guy? Gregory Warner 49 That is Steve Buza. He owns a construction company in Syracuse. Steve Buza 53 Anything at all that you need. Physical healings finances ... Gregory Warner 57 So he is looking out into the crowd and then a volunteer comes up. Steve Buza 02 Hi.  02 Hi. Gregory Warner 03 Strawberry blonde hair pink cardigan. Steve Buza 05 What do you need?  07 I need my backbone straightened. Steve Buza 11 You need your backbone straightened? Tell me what is wrong with it. Jad Abumrad 12 How old is she? Gregory Warner 13 She is in high school.  13 It is in an S shape. Gregory Warner 16 He diagnoses her. Steve Buza 17 Scoliosis. That is ... Do not let this scare you now. I am not trying to scare you. Scoliosis of the spine is 100 of the time demonic okay. It is not even physical it is a demon. Gregory Warner 31 I am standing next to Steve. And ... Steve Buza 32 Do you believe it is going to be straightened right now? Give me your hands. Gregory Warner 35 So he spins her around. Steve Buza 36 I break any generational curse off of my sister right now in Jesus' name. You spirit of Scoliosis I break your power. Gregory Warner 44 And then all of a sudden ... Steve Buza 45 Go right now you spirit. Leave now in Jesus' name. Backbone be straightened in Jesus' name. Gregory Warner 50 Just kind of shoves her forward. Steve Buza 51 Straighten right now in Jesus' name. In Jesus' name. Try it now. Move around. Do what you could not do before. Stand back and give yourself plenty of room. Move it. Move it. Move it. Move it. Faith is doing what you could not do before. Gregory Warner 06 I really do not want to say that she was healed or that she was not healed. Steve Buza 10 How does that feel to you?  11 Better. Steve Buza 12 There is still pain there?  14 No. Gregory Warner 14 Because she was just crying. Steve Buza 20 Because we are not going for 50 of this ... Is it 100 better? Gregory Warner 20 But I did ...  21 Yeah. Gregory Warner 21 ... Meet a woman who something ... I think something did happen with this other woman that I met.  27 I need healing. I have ... I had an X-Ray and they said there was nothing wrong with it but my bone sticks out. Gregory Warner 34 She comes up.  34 And it is very painful. Gregory Warner 35 An older woman in her 50s or 60s and she just holds her hands out.  38 And I am ... I clean offices and it just hurts when I ... Sometimes when it is ... try to grab something it hurts and I ... Steve Buza 47 Do you have carpal tunnel problems?  49 Probably. Jad Abumrad 49 Carpal tunnel. Explain what that is? Gregory Warner 51 I mean as far as I know it is an inflammation of the ligaments and it is really really painful and it is a repetitive stress injury. Steve Buza 58  I want to show you something though. Stand right here sideways. Can everybody see? Gregory Warner 02 So what he does is he basically tells her to grip together ... Steve Buza 05 I want you to take your little pinky. Gregory Warner 05 ... Her pinky and her thumb. Steve Buza 08 And your thumb and put it right like that. Gregory Warner 08 And make a ring like an okay symbol. Steve Buza 11 Now I am going to take my smallest finger my pinky. Gregory Warner 13 Then he sticks his finger in the ring. Steve Buza 15 I want to try to see if I can pull my pinky through your hands. Gregory Warner 18 And he says I am going to try to break it and you try to stop me. Steve Buza 21 And I want you to fight me now. I want to see how much strength you got there. Are you ready? Gregory Warner 26 He just pops it right open. Steve Buza 27 You got no strength there at all dear. Gregory Warner 29 She cannot hold her grip. Steve Buza 30 That means she got trouble in her carpal tunnel which is right here. Give me those hands. Give me those hands. Gregory Warner 36 She gives him her hand and he takes it both of his. Steve Buza 38 Carpal tunnel I command you in Jesus' name for all swelling and inflammation to ... Gregory Warner 42 And he starts rubbing with his thumbs. Steve Buza 44 I command all the ligaments and tendons to go back to their normal elasticity that is supposed to be in there. I command all pain to be gone out of this carpal tunnel region. I command that healing go into this entire arm and this carpal tunnel and all strength to come back to her in Jesus' name. Gregory Warner 58 And then ... Steve Buza 59 Do it again. Gregory Warner 00 He says Okay. Let us do the same demonstration right again. And he has her bring her pinky against her thumb make that grip. Steve Buza 06 Okay. Now I am going to take my big finger and I am going to fight you. Gregory Warner 09 And when he puts his finger in this time ... Steve Buza 10 And watch what is going to happen. Gregory Warner 11 And pulls. Steve Buza 12 You ready? Gregory Warner 14 He does not break her grip. And you can hear he just drags her right across the stage. Jad Abumrad 24 So it worked? Gregory Warner 26 It maybe did at least temporarily. She went back to her seat they gave her a blanket she was really trembling. I went over to talk to her.  34 I feel really good. Gregory Warner 36 Can you describe what the experience was like for you?  45 Actually I do not ... Did not feel anything at first because I was going by faith. But then when he did that thing I do not feel the pain. Jad Abumrad 52 Christian belief is that Christ died for our sins. Gregory Warner 56 The actual phrase is which they always repeat is ...  59 By the stripes of Jesus Christ I am healed.  01 By his stripes we were healed. Jad Abumrad 03 By the stripes of Jesus you were healed.  04 He healed me when he died on the cross. Jad Abumrad 07 What does that mean? Gregory Warner 08 It means that you were healed meaning he died on the cross for our sins and also for our ailments. Jad Abumrad 14 So we have already been healed. Gregory Warner 16 We have already been healed. We just have to access it and realize it by our connection and relationship to God. Jad Abumrad 23 Okay so what happened to Linda afterwards? Gregory Warner 26 The carpal tunnel came back almost immediately. And I met with her in a coffee shop.  31 But this is my belief from reading the word of God. The devil Satan comes in tries to talk you out of that healing. He will say You did not really get healed. Those things come into your mind. And I believe that is just Satan. So you have to have strong faith to stand against that. Jad Abumrad 51 Pain is Satan's way of testing her belief? Gregory Warner 54 I think that is what she thinks.  55 I talk to Satan. I tell him you are lying. Gregory Warner 57 That the pain is part of the test.  57 The word of God says you are a liar. Gregory Warner 57 And if the pain is there ...  02 He wants me to prosper. Gregory Warner 03 She is not healed. She is seeing this bigger struggle this bigger battle where pain is just one more kind of obstacle.  13 Not that there are not times that I doubt. I do. But I have to repent. I have to say I am sorry God. I doubted because I know you have healed my so many times at so many different things. So I know it is for real. It is not ... fake on my part because I know. Gregory Warner 33 I think that is the crucial point. I mean if we think of it as a medical encounter it is about pain and the body. But if we think of it as a spiritual encounter the way she sees it it is really a battle against doubt. Jad Abumrad 55 Reporter Gregory Warner. Thanks to him and you for listening. We have got to go now. Robert Krulwich 00 Yep. Jad Abumrad 01 Do not forget to visit our website radiolab.org for more information on anything you heard. Also you can sign up for our podcast as WNYC.org or on iTunes. And always we would love to hear what you think. Robert Krulwich 12 Completely. Jad Abumrad 14 RadiolabWNYC.org is the address. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 17 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 17 And we are signing off. Naji Abumrad 17 Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad Ellen Horne senior producer Lulu Miller assistant producer production executive Dean Cappello. Production support by Sara Pellegrini Scott Goldberg  Ryan  and Jacob . And special thanks to me Jad's dad Naji Abumrad. FabrizioBenedet 44 Hello I am Doctor Fabrizio Benedetti and I just wanted to say thank you to Nick  Mark Phillips Sam  Georgia King . Radiolab is supported by a grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Anne Harrington 03 Hello I am professor Anne Harrington. I just wanted to call and say thanks. Radiolab is produced by WNYC New York Public Radio and distributed by NPR National Public Radio. 