Male Wait wait   Female Okay?    Male All right.  Female Okay?  Male All right.  Announcers You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC and NPR.  Jad Abumrad Hey Im Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich Im Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab  Robert Krulwich The podcast.  Jad Abumrad And today on the podcast we are going to venture into new territory for us. We have the story of a little girl who became a very very big deal.  Robert Krulwich How big a deal did this little girl become?  Jad Abumrad A very big deal to about 500-something nations.  Robert Krulwich There arent 500 and something  Jad Abumrad No there are.  Robert Krulwich Look Ive seen the front of the UN.  Jad Abumrad Look okay its going to make sense in about 30 seconds. Thats a teaser. It isnt ultimately even that important to the story. You and I are going to sit right here and behave ourselves and Tim Howard our intrepid producer is going to tell us the story.  Tim Howard So I first heard about this story I saw it listed on the Supreme Court docket for cases that they were going to be hearing this spring.  Marcia Zug The name of the case is Baby Girl vs. Adoptive Couple.  Tim Howard Actually in strict legal parlance its called Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl.  Marcia Zug So its not a particularly catchy name.  Tim Howard Its a weird name though its hard to picture.  Marcia Zug Yeah.  Tim Howard So this is Marcia Zug.  Marcia Zug Associate Professor of Law at the University of South Carolina.  Tim Howard And she wrote about this case in Slate.  And it stood out to me because it just seemed odd at first that this would even be a Supreme Court case.  It seemed more like a straightforward custody case.  Marcia Zug Right.  Tim Howard But when you dig in   Marcia Zug Theres a lot going on here.  Announcers Crusades.  Text messages.  State law.  Errors.  Children.  Supreme Court.  Christopher Columbus.  Robert Krulwich Christopher Columbus?  Tim Howard And it is not straightforward at all.  Jad Abumrad Apparently not.  Tim Howard So let me walk you through it the way I learned about it.  The story begins with a couple.  Marcia Zug Matt and Melanie Capobianco they are a couple who live down here in South Carolina.  Tim Howard He is a technician at Boeing.  She is a developmental psychologist.  Marcia Zug A nice middle class white couple.  Tim Howard Theyre in their late 30s.  Marcia Zug And   Tim Howard They really wanted to have a kid.  Marcia Zug They had gone through infertility problems.  Tim Howard It wasnt working out.  Marcia Zug So   Tim Howard Eventually   Marcia Zug They decide to adopt.  Tim Howard Enter a woman named Christy Maldonado.  She lives about 1000 miles away.  Marcia Zug I believe shes in Oklahoma.  Tim Howard Shes in her 20s already has a couple kids.  Marcia Zug Shes pregnant and decides that she wants to give the baby up for adoption and she picks the Capobiancos.  And everyone seems happy.  Tim Howard The Capobiancos get the baby and they name her Veronica.  Matt Capobianco We used to call her boss lady not a lot but most of the time.  Melanie Capobianco Our family called her that.  Matt Capobianco Boss lady.  Melanie Capobianco Because she bosses everybody around.  Tim Howard This is Matt and Melanie Capobianco.  Matt Capobianco But you were happy to do whatever she told you to do because shes just the poster child for a proud father you know?  But its just gone as wrong as it could have possibly gone.    Tim Howard This is basically how it unfolded on TV News.  Media We are back in session.  On the docket today a young child ripped from the arms of the only parents shes ever known.  Media And turned over to the Native American biological father she has never met.  Media A man Veronica had never even met.  Tim Howard What happened is when Veronica was two   Media Her biological dad turned up   Tim Howard Seemingly out of nowhere and according to these clips hadnt been around for two years had abandoned the child.  And now he is asking for custody.  And he gets it.  Media And the court is making them stand by and just let it happen.  Tim Howard Why?  Matt Capobianco Well its mainly because of this law.  Melanie Capobianco The Indian Child Welfare Act.  Announcers The 1978 Indian Child Welfare Act.  Tim Howard Dusten the dad he is Cherokee.  Male He is part of the Cherokee nation.  Tim Howard So that makes his daughter Veronica eligible to be Cherokee.  And the law is designed -  Male -to keep Indian families together.  Tim Howard It gives preference to Indian kids staying with Indian parents.  So even though hed actually signed papers agreeing to adoption he was able to invoke this law and get custody of Veronica.  Jad Abumrad He signed his custody away and he was able to then use his Cherokee-ness to reverse the rights he signed away?  Tim Howard Just hang on.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Tim Howard This is all going to make sense.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  But he takes the kid is what youre saying.  Tim Howard Yeah.  New Years Eve 2011.  With cameras rolling Dusten Brown drives his pickup truck into Charleston.  Media Matt and Melanie Capobianco clutched two-year-old Veronica.  This could possibly be the last time they hold their baby as her mom and dad.  Tim Howard And that evening Veronica is transferred to Dusten.  Melanie Capobianco I didnt feel like we had enough time for her to be not afraid when shes   Matt Capobianco We left her with strangers.  Melanie Capobianco Yeah to her theyre complete strangers and I cant imagine that shes not going to be terrified.  Tim Howard And as Dusten gets into the truck holding his two-year-old daughter for the first time a reporter asks him   Reporter Do you think this is in her best interest?  Tim Howard And this is all you hear from him.  Dusten Brown I think so.  Looking to give her a .  Reporter Lets get back please.  Thank you.  Reporter Have you ever seen the child before?  Media They declined any further comment on camera.  Tim Howard He gets into the truck with Veronica and they drive away back to Oklahoma.  Can I ask you when was the last time that you spoke with Veronica?  Matt Capobianco The day after the the day after the uh   Melanie Capobianco Transfer.  Matt Capobianco Transfer.  Tim Howard A phone call?  Matt Capobianco Yeah.  We spoke to her for about two minutes and we told her we loved her and she said I love you mommy and I love you daddy.  I dont know just a few minutes.  But that was it that was the last time we were able to be in touch.  Tim Howard And that was sixteen months ago.  Jad Abumrad And how long was Veronica with them again before this happened?  Tim Howard About two years.  Jad Abumrad Oh man.  Thats hard.  Tim Howard Yeah.  And you know when I first heard about this case thats basically the only way I thought of it is just thats a crazy injustice.  Thats basically all I saw in it.  Marcia Zug And if youre someone who has no background in this then you see a case like the Baby Veronica case and youre like whoa where is this coming from?  How can this possibly be okay?  Tim Howard Thats Marcia Zug again.  And her article for Slate kind of caught me off guard because the title was Doing Whats Best for the Tribe.   Two-year-old Veronica was ripped from the only home shes ever known.  The court made the right decision.  Marcia Zug Yeah.  Tim Howard So I called up to ask her what do you mean by that?  Marcia Zug One of the things that I think is important to realize is that the problems that ICWA was intended to address didnt stop happening that long ago.    Tim Howard And this is where the story turned into the biggest rabbit hole I have ever fallen into.  Jad Abumrad What what did she tell you?  Tim Howard Marcia basically said the only way you can begin to wrap your mind around what is right and whats wrong in this story is to go back to the 1960s.  Tim Howard How are you doing?  Male Good how are you Tim?  Tim Howard Great to meet you.  Male Same here.  Tim Howard And to this guy -  Burt Hirsch Burt Hirsch Im a lawyer.  Tim Howard He lives in Long Island now which is where I visited him.  But in 1967   Burt Hirsch The fall of 67 I was on the staff of the Association on American Indian Affairs.  Tim Howard Sort of a legal advocacy group for American Indians.  And he traveled all over working with different tribes.  Burt Hirsch And   Tim Howard One day he gets a phone call from this guy Louis Goodhouse.  Burt Hirsch The tribal chair of the Devils Lake Sioux Tribe in North Dakota.  Tim Howard And this guy says I really need your help.  Burt Hirsch He said theres a child.  Tim Howard A Devils Lake kid one of ours that was just abruptly taken away by social workers.  Burt Hirsch The Benson County North Dakota social services agency came in and they took little Ivan Brown away from his grandmother.  Tim Howard He was six.  Jad Abumrad What was their stated reason for taking Ivan away?  Burt Hirsch Neglect.  Jad Abumrad Because what?  Because grandmother wasnt around?  Tim Howard No actually Burt says that the social workers were looking for that classic nuclear family.  Burt Hirsch Biological mother biological father children.  Tim Howard So when they saw him with an older relative but no mom or dad they thought Uh-oh and they took him away.  Burt Hirsch The Tribal Council was extremely upset by this.  They wanted to fight a battle about this.  Tim Howard Burt took the case fought it in court.  Burt Hirsch We won that case by the way.  Mrs. Alex Fournier she got Ivan back after a somewhat protracted battle.  Tim Howard But he began to wonder how widespread is this?  Burt Hirsch So from 67 to the end of 68 into 69  Tim Howard He visited  Burt Hirsch Tribe after tribe after tribe  Tim Howard Doing interviews.  And he says that everywhere he went he would hear these stories.  Deb Wells I remember it vividly.  Tim Howard This is Deb Wells.  She is a member of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe and when she was ten years old a car pulled into her driveway.  Deb Wells And they come driving in social workers and they got out of the car and I told my brothers and sisters I said Go hide.  And they had to drag us out from underneath the beds because they got around and got in the house.  And then they took us to Scotch Bluff and put us in a foster home. It was horrible.  Marla Jean Bigboy This was just part of every native familys history.  Tim Howard This is Marla Jean Bigboy. She grew up on the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota.  Marla Jean Bigboy I remember when I was young wed go to one of the border towns and my grandma would say Stay in the car lock yourself in dont get out of the car Im going into the trading post because theyre going to steal you.  Tim Howard Really?  Marla Jean Bigboy Yeah.  Burt Hirsch What we found is that on every reservation   Michael Doeheart My name is Michael Evan No Heart Im a full blooded Hunkpapa Lakota from Standing Rocks Reservation.  Burt Hirsch You couldnt not find a family that did not know of a child in placement.  Michael Doeheart Social Services came and took me and my sister and told my mother and dad that they were taking us into Mobridge for a physical checkup and they never brought us back.  Tim Howard Michael says that his dad spent the next 30 years looking for him. In any case Burt would ask these people that he was interviewing What reason did the social workers give you for taking the child? And the answers that he got ran the gamut.  Burt Hirsch Conditions of poverty alcoholism  Tim Howard Overcrowding  Burt Hirsch Maybe they dont have adequate ventilation in the house.  Tim Howard No indoor plumbing. But in most cases he says the reasons wouldnt have stood up in court.  Burt Hirsch They would put papers in front of them and they would sign. They did not know what they were signing.  Tim Howard Some families  Burt Hirsch If they could they tried to fight it  Tim Howard But they usually could not afford to.  Burt Hirsch Look the tribal people are poor. So we began to do a statistical collection of data state by state  Tim Howard Asking how many Indian kids are in foster care?  Burt Hirsch Foster care and adoptive placement and institutional placement juvenile facilities.  Tim Howard And what he arrived at at the end of that analysis is a pretty shocking number.    Burt Hirsch About one-third of Indian children were in out-of-home placements in non-Indian settings.  Jad Abumrad One-third?  Burt 25 to 35 of Indian children nationwide were in out-of-home placement.  Jad Abumrad Thats a real number?  Tim Howard That is the real number. Thats the number you see cited again and again.  Burt Hirsch Nobody connected the dots. Everybody thought that it was their own personal tragedy. Nobody realized that this was a pattern and a practice that was decimating these tribes.  Jad Abumrad Wait a second how would this happen on this scale? I mean is this just a bunch of social workers making the same decision independently or is it like a policy?  Tim Howard This is basically social workers very much acting in the spirit of the day because you have to keep in mind that in the 50s and 60s you have all these government policies that are put in place whose entire purpose is basically to try to once and for all solve this Indian problem thats gone on and on.  Youve got this guy in 1953 whos a senator from Utah who starts basically trying to terminate the tribes.  Jad Abumrad You mean like take away their sovereignty?  Tim Howard Yeah he goes tribe to tribe trying to convince them or force them tell them theres now way out of it. He argues that this will be best for all of them.  Robert Krulwich I remember this this was like out of e pluribus unum to integrate into the whole.  Tim Howard They will melt into the wider culture thats what will save them. Part of the social workers that were working in this period they were working under the auspices of this thing called the Indian Adoption Project which was very much about that idea of you take these kids from their poor conditions and you connect them directly to white families that are looking to adopt.  Jad Abumrad So part of this was definitely top-down.  Tim Howard Very much. In any case the end result of this is that a third of these kids are being taken away.  Terry Cross There were literally communities where there were no children.  Tim Howard Thats Terry Cross. Hes the executive director of the National Indian Child Welfare Association.  Terry Cross In Minnesota there were communities where there were no children. In Alaska there were communities where there were no children.  Marcia  I mean what is a culture except the ideas and traditions that you pass on to your kids?  Tim Howard Thats Marcia Zug again.  Marcia Zug If you are hemorrhaging your children then youre going to disappear.  Robert Krulwich So what do you do?  Burt Hirsch Well its too massive a problem if youre trying to fight all these removals of kids on a case by case basis forget about it a national law is needed.  Tim Howard So Burt spent years  Burt Hirsch Walking the halls of Congress literally.  Tim Howard Endless law being congressional hearings until finally  Marcia Zug The Indian Child Welfare Act is passed by Congress in 1978.  Tim Howard So it does a lot but basically when it comes to adoptions.  Marcia Zug ICWA has placement preferences. So the first preference would be with the immediate family. So youre removed from Mom youre placed with Dad or maybe with Grandmother.  Tim Howard If they say no?  Marcia Zug Second preference would be someone else in the tribe. And the third is any other American Indian.  Tim Howard Wow.  Jad Abumrad Any other?  Tim Howard Yeah.  Marcia Zug And then after that then the child could be placed with another family.  Jad Abumrad So if youre white and youre trying to adopt an Indian kid you have a lot of roadblocks.  Tim Howard Yes.  Marcia Zug But by and large most of us think that ICWA was probably the best federal Indian law ever passed. It did the most to help Indian tribes respect tribal sovereignty and really fulfill the United States trust relationship with American Indian people.  Tim Howard But now because of this casethat law may be in jeopardy.  Jad Abumrad Well continue in a moment.    Matthew Lott Hi Im Matthew Lott and Im calling from Nagoya Japan. Radiolab is supported by audible.com a provider of digital audiobooks and more with more than 100000 downloadable titles across all types of literature including fiction not fiction and periodicals. Audible selection includes two newly released audiobooks and The Mountains Echoed by Khaled Hosseini and Inferno by Dan Brown. To learn more about Audible and to get a free audiobook of your choice go to audiblepodcast.comradiolab.  Terry Stickley This is Radiolab listener Terry Stickley calling from Lenexa Kansas. With Hulu Plus you can watch all the TV shows you want whenever and wherever you want. Whether youre on your smartphone your tablet or your gaming console Hulu Plus offers unlimited instant streaming of current season hit TV shows and critically acclaimed movies. And for Radiolab listeners you can get a special two-week free trial at Huluplusradio.com. Instantly watch the latest hits like Community Colbert Report Saturday Night Live and more. Thats HuluPlusRadio.com for your special two-week trial.  Jad Abumrad This is Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich Im Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab Today. Were looking at a Supreme Court case that may determine the future of a law called the Indian Child Welfare Act or ICWA.  The story comes from producer Tim Howard back to him.  Tim Howard So in April I went to this conference in Tulsa.  Female The board of directors council of elders  Tim Howard Big room there were about 700 people there. Most of them work in child welfare organizations in Indian communities around the country.  Male we have in native communities.  Tim Howard There was some traditional Cherokee drumming there were films workshops and all anybody could talk about was this case.  Male But theres no issue bigger now than how the Baby Veronica case may affect the Indian Child Welfare Act.  Male So please please do keep Baby Veronica and her family in your prayers.  Tim Howard Everybody was on edge.  Terry Cross Well Im really worried in this situation.  Tim Howard This is Terry Cross again and hes one of the organizers and he told me Look the Capobiancos  Terry Cross I feel for them but in what world is it okay for one family who feels they were damaged by a law to put thousands of other children at jeopardy for their own hurt. I cant imagine a world where thats okay.  Melanie Capobianco Its hard for us to say that because thats not what motivated us.  Matt Capobianco Our daughter is whats motivating us.  Melanie Capobianco How we feel we just feel that in this case it was a beautiful law that was put into place to prevent the breakup of families Indian families and I just think it really wasnt supposed to be applied to a situation like ours.  Tim Howard They say we get that theres a huge historical wrong here but what does that have to do with us?  Jad Abumrad It reminds me of arguments that happen over Affirmative Action weirdly.  Tim Howard But here the details are so different. They say This is a law that was created to protect Indian families right? But here youve got an Hispanic birth mom youve got a white couple and then youve got a dad whos out of the picture. So youre not actually protecting an Indian family youre forcibly creating a new one.  Melanie Capobianco Absolutely I mean  Jad Abumrad And in the process youre breaking up a loving home.  Melanie Capobianco I dont think that was the intent of the law ever.  Mark Fiddler My personal opinion is that ACWA has outlived its usefulness and causes more problems than it solves.  Tim Howard This is Mark Fiddler.  Mark Fiddler Im one of the attorneys for Matt and Melanie Capobianco.  Tim Howard He also happens to be Native American himself.  Mark Fiddler Im an enrolled member of the Turtle Mountain band of Chippewa Indians thats a reservation up in North Dakota right on the border of Canada. So Ive kind of had a foot in two cultures so to speak. I go back to the rez in the summer.  Tim Howard Mark actually used to argue the other side that the most important thing was to keep Indian families together and that Indian kids  Mark Fiddler Who are placed in non-Indian homes would experience emotional psychological harm by being raised outside of the culture.  Tim Howard But then  Mark Fiddler I had a case in I think it was 94  Tim Howard which gave him pause.  Mark Fiddler Ah boy thats a good word.  Tim Howard It was a case in which this young American Indian girl  Mark Fiddler Sierra.  Tim Howard Wanted to be adopted by this white couple and Mark opposed it.  Mark Fiddler Even though in my heart of hearts I knew that it was probably not the right thing for the child.  Tim Howard He won the case she was removed from the couples home  Mark Fiddler And Sierra would tell you herself she had a really rough life.  Tim Howard She bounced in and out of more than 20 foster homes ran away many many times and got into serious trouble with the law.  Mark Fiddler It always nagged me.  Tim Howard Mark says even though the tribes have suffered that doesnt change the fact that if you take a kid out of a loving home youre going to cause her real harm. And he says thats why he took this case.  Mark Fiddler Because the Capobiancos they are among the most loving people I know.  Tim Howard He said they did everything you could ask.  Mark Fiddler Theyre just amazing people.  Tim Howard They met the birth mother Christy Maldonado when she was pregnant they got to know her.  Lori Alvino McGill She felt a connection to them.  Tim Howard Thats Lori Alvino McGill shes represented Christy since last year.  Lori Alvino McGill They were also willing to have an open adoption.  Matt Capobianco Yeah we still have a relationship with Christy we love her to death.  Tim Howard When Christy gave birth to Veronica  Lori Alvino McGill They were there with her in the delivery room.  Matt Capobianco   The day she was born I cut the cord.  Lori Alvino McGill Matt Capobianco cut the umbilical cord.  Tim Howard Thats such a degree of intimacy that I find  Lori Alvino McGill I know I mean having given birth twice myself the idea that anyone under than my husband would be in the room is kind of scary but it gives you some idea of how she felt about the Capobiancos.  Tim Howard Now as for Dusten Brown Veronicas biological dad a couple months before she was born Christy the birth mom sent him a text message asking him if  Lori Alvino McGill If he wants to pay child support or he wants to waive his rights.  Tim Howard And he replied Ill waive my rights.  Lori Alvino McGill Rather than pay a dime in child support.  Jad Abumrad Well theres a contrast. So in the beginning it sounds like he did not want to be a dad.  Tim Howard Yeah then actually a few months later he seems to make it even more official by signing a form agreeing to the adoption.  Jad Abumrad And then he changes his mind?  Tim Howard And obviously I was wondering what was he thinking? Because you cant avoid the fact that how you feel about this guy is going to influence how you feel about this law. So I was trying to get in touch with him I was pestering his lawyers will he do an interview? This went on for weeks and they were basically like He doesnt want to do interviews he doesnt want to talk.  Jad Abumrad So you did not get him.  Tim Howard Yeah I got him.  Jad Abumrad  Good.  Tim Howard So shortly before we were going to wrap this story I get an email saying Come to Oklahoma. So I went.   He lives in this one-story house on this tree-lined block in a small town north of Tulsa.  Hey hows it going?  Dusten Brown Howre we doing? Doing good.  Tim Howard Hes just a very normal looking guy a little bit of an army haircut. He had a stache that night when he got Veronica but hes clean-shaven now big smile. Anyway we go inside and the first thing he tells me  Dusten Brown Right now my daughter shes not here.  Tim Howard Is that Veronica is not there.  Oh no I was excited to meet her.  She was out with his wife Robin.  Dusten Brown She goes out with my wife  Tim Howard Turns out hes remarried.  In any case -- test test test all right -- we sat down at the kitchen table and started talking.  Do you mind introducing yourself and telling me where we are?  Dusten Brown Im Dusten Brown. Were in Nowata Oklahoma this is my house. Im part of the Wolf Clan.  Tim Howard Wolf Clan is one of the seven Cherokee clans.  Dusten Brown And my name Dusten means brave warrior in Cherokee. I actually joined the army up and go over to Iraq Im like wow Im here for the Cherokees. Im the brave warrior out in the desert.  Tim Howard Hes been a registered member since he was a little kid. His parents were members and their parents. And he said hes proud to be Cherokee basically because it means that hes from where he lives.  Dusten Brown Its a big deal to me.  Tim Howard So anyway we started talking about the case and it gets complicated. Theres a lot of detail. Im not going to go into all of it. But basically he and Christy Muldonado the birth mom  Dusten Brown Weve known each other since we were 16. We dated off and on  Tim Howard 2008 he joins the army.  Dusten Brown Basic training.  Tim Howard He lives on a base its four hours away.  Dusten Brown Four hours south of  Tim Howard And Christmastime that year he basically says Lets get serious.  Dusten Brown I got down on one knee and proposed to her. I said Hey I want to bring you into my life.  She said Okay thats just great. And almost a month later she sent me a message saying that she was pregnant. I was excited. I mean to have children with her was one of the things I wanted at that time. I told her I can move you and your kids up to the base. Housing was going to be free on base. There was schools for her kids and she could get a job right there on base you know. Everything was taken care of. I mean everything was going great you know.  Tim Howard And then pretty quickly the whole thing just soured. Its impossible to know exactly what happened but Christy says that Dusten just simply did not offer any support. He says that he did or he tried to at least but shortly after she got pregnant she basically just shut him out and stopped taking his calls.  Dusten Brown I did not get no phone calls no text messages nothing from her out of the blue and Im just like well whats going on?  Tim Howard And he says that he tried to get in touch with her.  Dusten Brown Texting her up and trying to call her still no answer. There was a couple of times that Ive went back to Bartlesville and went to her house.  Tim Howard Drove those four hours from the base.  Dusten Brown Knocked on her door.  I could hear voices in the house. It sounded like her and the kids. They would not answer the door for me.  Tim Howard And then one day he says  Dusten Brown She sent me a message saying I dont want to be with you no more.  Tim Howard And three weeks after that  Dusten Brown Shes like I want you to sign your rights over.  Tim Howard His parental rights.  Dusten Brown Would you sign your rights over?  Tim Howard You guys are texting this or youre talking?  Dusten Brown The whole time were text messaging this because she would not talk to me.  Tim Howard And what did you think it meant?  Dusten Brown To me I just thought she wanted me to sign my rights over to her and Im like this is something I really dont want to do.  Tim Howard He says she kept texting him that question and looming in his mind that he first learned.  Dusten Brown That we were going to be going to Iraq to do a radar mission.  Tim Howard And he starts to wonder whats the right thing to do here?  Dusten Brown You know if there was one of them chances I wasnt going to come back I wanted to make the right choice and let the mother be that sole parent.  Tim Howard And he says that hes holding out hope that if he does make it back  Dusten Brown Well get back together and shell just change her mind. Finally I just told her I was like All right Ill sign my rights over.  Tim Howard Months go by Christy has the baby he says he doesnt know exactly when because they werent speaking. But then  Dusten Brown Six days before I had to deploy to Iraq I get a phone call from some guy in Washington County  Tim Howard The process server.  Dusten Brown He said Hey we need you to sign some papers so you can sign your custody rights over.  Tim Howard And the guy directed him to an office right near the base.  Dusten Brown I went there and signed the paper.  Tim Howard What did you think it meant?  Dusten Brown The whole time I thought it was just the paperwork for me to sign custody rights to her but when I got done signing the guy said You just signed your rights away and so did the biological mother the babys been up for adoption shes been living in South Carolina for four months.   Tim Howard Dusten says this is the first moment that he realized what was actually happening that the baby was up for adoption and he says that he had no idea he had just legally consented to it.  Dusten Brown I should have had a lawyer there with me. At that point in time I grabbed the paper and the guy looked at me and said If youre going to rip that up its not good to do that.  Tim Howard That he could be arrested.  Dusten Brown And I said What do I gotta do? He said You need to get a lawyer.  Tim Howard Which he immediately did. And thats why the courts have ruled in his favor because they say that from that moment hes clearly demonstrated that he wants to be her dad.  Dusten Brown Never once did I want to give up on my daughter. Never once did I want to give her up. Everybody says that I gave her up. I never wanted to.  Tim Howard Now Mark and Lori say if this were any other guy  Lori Alvino McGill Any other man of any other race  Tim Howard The story would be over right about here.  Lori Alvino McGill Its too late.  Mark Fiddler He would not have any rights at all.  Lori Alvino McGill Under every states laws too late. Under the federal constitution too late. He rejected that opportunity to become a father.  Tim Howard But he has one thing in his favor says Lori he happens to be Cherokee and because of that fact  Lori Alvino McGill Not only can this sort of man object but he gets an automatic transfer of custody to him.  Tim Howard And Mark and Lori see that as basically the worst kind of preferential treatment.  John Nichols And that is unbelievable.  Tim Howard This is John  John Nichols John Nichols.  Tim Howard This is Shannon.  Shannon Jones Shannon Jones.  Tim Howard Theyre two of Dustens lawyers. And John says Okay theres preferential treatment.  John Nichols Fine but  Tim Howard But think about why all the protections of ICWA are there.  John Nichols These roadblocks are there for a reason.  Tim Howard We went over this earlier but you know basically people are being manipulated out of their kids. And while you might like to think that thats ancient history  John Nichols Now fast forward to 2010.  Tim Howard He says the same thing is happening in this case.  John Nichols We have a registered member of the Cherokee Nation. We have his child being given up for adoption without his knowledge and without his consent.  Tim Howard And they kept this adoption from him for months and then spring it on him six days before he leaves the country?  John Nichols It looks to us like it was engineered to make sure he got served but not in enough time to where he could put up a fight.  Shannon Jens I believe it was absolutely intentional.  Tim Howard And Shannon suggests that they knew about ICWA they knew it would apply and they were trying to sidestep it.  Shannon Jens There were so many errors.  Tim Howard You just did little air quotes on errors didnt you?  Shannon Jens Yeah I did.  Tim Howard Like for example theres this one important form where Shannon says that they went out of their way to make it look like Veronica is not Native American.  Shannon Jens Because it would be detrimental to the adoption.  Mark Fiddler Thats a preposterous argument.  Tim Howard Mark and Lori say the reason that nobody put Cherokee in big bright flaming letters is simple.  Lori Alvino McGill Christy herself is predominantly Hispanic. Dusten is predominantly Caucasian and is approximately two percent Cherokee.  Jad Abumrad What? Did she say two percent?  Tim Howard Yeah Veronica herself would be a little bit over one percent.  Jad Abumrad Wait this whole thing is happening because hes only two percent? I feel like that changes things somehow.  Tim Howard Well yeah but you have to keep in mind that Cherokee Nation doesnt care about the percentage of Cherokee in your blood thats not how they determine their members.  Male Being a member of the Cherokee Nation is like being a member of the United States. You are a citizen of the nation.  Chrissi Nimmo If youre parents a US citizen youre automatically a citizen.  Tim Howard Thats Chrissi Nimmo Assistant Attorney General for Cherokee Nation.  Chrissi Nimmo If your parents a Cherokee citizen youre not automatically a citizen  Tim Howard But you can automatically apply. So its based on direct lineage. But still youre right because this is the argument that is most troubling to the tribes.  Both Chrissi Nimmo and Marcia Zug told me that if the Supreme Court ends up deciding that  Marcia Zug ICWA is unconstitutional because it really is race-based  Chrissi Nimmo Unconstitutional because its a race-based preference.  Marcia Zug  It calls into question every single federal Indian law. There goes Indian law. This is a case that they could use to do that.  Tim Howard If ICWA falls because its unconstitutional it could have a crazy domino affect.  Marcia Zug Every single federal Indian law is premised on giving some sort of special treatment to Indians.  Jad Abumrad What would that mean concretely if Indian Law were to go away?  Tim Howard It means that theyre policing their court system their education anything they do as a sovereign nation all of that just evaporates. A tribe would just become another group of people on some land. That said this is not the likely outcome. Now the Supreme Court will probably rule as narrowly as they possibly can and as far as the tribes are concerned they can do a lot of damage to the law to calling it unconstitutional. They could allow for this certain kind of exception to ICWA which would make it a lot easier for people like the Capobiancos to adopt.  Jad Abumrad So they could rule any number of ways.  Tim Howard Yeah and the thing is that its all strangely connected to this three-year-old girl.  Dusten Brown The whole time through this Im thinking Im just going to sign custody rights over.  Tim Howard So when she finally showed up halfway through my interview with Dusten  Hello. Hi. It was kind of surreal.  Dusten Brown This is my daughter Veronica.  Veronica Daddy.  Tim Howard Hey Veronica Im Tim.  Shes got dark curly hair shes a ball of energy.  Dusten Brown Shes definitely bull-headed.  Tim Howard And within a minute?  Veronica What is this?  Tim Howard Shes giving me a tour of every single object in her room.  Veronica And this is a phone  Tim Howard I mean everything.  Whos that?  Veronica Army Bear.  Tim Howard Army Bear.  Dusten Brown Has he got one of daddys dog tags on it?  Veronica Yes.  Tim Howard She was a very proud host. A few minutes later she wanted to show me her geese.  I dont think Ive seen geese in a long time.  Veronica Youre about to.  Tim Howard Im about to.    Jad Abumrad Those are real geese?  Tim Howard Yeah.  Veronica Hi babies.  Tim Howard She feeds them out of her hand.  Veronica There he is.  Dusten Brown No no no dont mess with the water. Come here babies.    Veronica Thomas Thomas the train.  Dusten Brown Thomas the train?  Veronica Yes.  Jad Abumrad So what could happen to her?  Tim Howard Well if the Supreme Court said Dusten Brown should not have qualified as father under ICWA what theyd do is they would send it back down to a South Carolina court and then they would have this new best interest evaluation basically like whats the best thing for her at this point. Shes been with him now for about a year and a half and so that actually might really change the calculation.  Veronica Ten ofm.  Tim Howard Honestly hanging out with her and Dusten in the backyard its really easy to forget all these people whose lives are just completely tangled up in this scene but who arent there. Christy Maldonado the birth mom.  Lori Alvino McGill She did not intend to give Veronica up. She intended to give Veronica a life.  Tim Howard Matt and Melanie Capobianco.  Melanie Capobianco This has been going on for so long weve kind of been in a holding pattern for like well forever.  Matt Capobianco Were just waiting and waiting and waiting.  Tim Howard And of course the hundreds of tribes who are just worried about their own kids.  Pretty cool. Are you a good swimmer?  Veronica Yes. Im a good swimmer.  Tim Howard Im a bad swimmer.  Veronica Youre not you a good swimmer.  Tim Howard No Im a pretty bad swimmer.  Veronica No youre not. Youre a good swimmer.  Tim Howard How do you know Im a good swimmer?  Veronica I know youre a good swimmer. Youre a good swimmer.  Tim Howard Well I appreciate that.  Dusten Brown Positive reinforcement.  Tim Howard Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Producer Tim Howard  thanks Tim.  The Supreme Court will likely be deciding this case sometime in June. Well tag this podcast when we know whats happened and thanks for listening. Im Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich Im Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Well see you next time.  Laura Maxwell My name is Laura Maxwell from Dallas Texas. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  