 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Wait wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From...  ...WNYC.  See?  Yeah.   OK. Let me make sure this is recording.  You are going to tell me something?  I think I am going to tell you about diapers.  OK.  So we order from diapers.com all the time you know 'ecause we have these kids.  Is that...  Of course they would be called...  ...What it is actually called?  ...Diapers.com.  You guys do not know diapers.com?  That is the actual name of the website?  My God. It is like such a part of our lives that I just figure it...  .  ...Would be like...  Yeah.  I mean it is like all the crap that you do not want to have to leave the house to get you know like paper towels. OK. Ugh God I have to go down the street to get paper towels. Well you can get it from diapers.com. So we order...  But how would you get...  Hey. This is Jad. RADIOLAB. Today I want to play you an older story that we think is still totally relevant actually maybe more so now than when we played it originally. There is been as I am sure you heard a ton of stuff in the news over the last few years about the entire universe of companies and warehouses and people who work at these places behind the scenes to fulfill all of this stuff that we so effortlessly buy online - right? - all of these harrowing stories about working conditions and unionization efforts. But back in 2016 we had a very unique opportunity to crawl inside the day-to-day experience of these workers. And given how ubiquitous online ordering is now we just found ourselves thinking back on that story. So we are going to play it for you. And if you stick around to the end you will hear kind of an amazing update from the reporter on this story. And we will just leave it at that for now. So back to the original conversation.   But how would you get - like how would you get paper towels delivered promptly?  I tell you this is exactly what - this is exactly the crux of the story. It is a simple story in that we would order these giant boxes of shit from diapers.com and they would appear second day three days later. And then one day Karla orders it and it appears the same day.  The same day.  Yeah. And now every time that we click submit on this thing it shows up like three hours later a huge box of stuff.  You must be only blocks from the worldwide headquarters of diapers.com...  Even if I were blocks...  ...And ties and thumbtacks.  ...I just like if someone asked me to pick up that stuff at the corner deli it would take me all day.  .  But somehow it shows up like just in a few hours. And I just - I began being like what the hell happens after you hit submit?   It is like magic. It is so wonderful. And that is the future dammit.  So what end up happening is I was thinking about this in a sort of passive way. And as often happens things sort of converged. And I ended up reading this article by a writer our producer Pat ended up interviewing.  Yes. His name is Gabriel Mac a totally badass investigative reporter reported from war zones and natural disasters all over the world. And several years ago he wrote a story for Mother Jones magazine where he actually got himself hired at one of these internet retailer warehouses.  And they are called third-party logistics contractors or 3PLs. That is what they call them in the biz. And they basically handle all the goods that you order off the internet.  So when you order something off the internet you are actually probably dealing with a company that is not the company you think you are dealing with.  And maybe you think there is robots that just make these items show up at your house within a few hours of you ordering them.  But as Gabriel would come to find out a lot of the time...  That is not how it works.  Not even close - and we will start at the beginning. When you are sitting on your couch and you hit submit...   ...Your order bounces off some servers and ultimately gets funneled...   ...To a warehouse.  Just a giant warehouse - if we were rounding we would say it was a million square feet. So...  What is a million square feet? Like how many football fields could I fit in there? Or...  That would be a lot.  About 17 - so just imagine like a huge airplane hangar 17-football-fields long filled with people.  There is thousands of us. And all I can put us regionally is west of the Mississippi 'ecause we cannot say for legal reasons where we were.  Left half of the United States.  Yes. I was hired as a picker. And pickers' jobs are basically to run around this cavernous warehouse and find the crap that you ordered off the internet. So basically your day is you arrive at the warehouse you put all your stuff in the lunchroom 'ecause you cannot take anything except for the clothes on your backs into the warehouse.  As soon as they walk in all the pickers are handed little computers.  We get our little scanners. You have a handheld scanner.  And it is on the little screens of those scanners that the orders you make sitting on your couch actually appear.  It pops up. Like go to this section this region this shelf this unit find a Malibu Barbie.   Go.   And it tells you how many seconds that you have to get there like 15 seconds.  Fourteen 13 12 11.  And it counts down.  It counts down?  So the minute the item...  Like did the little...  It counts down .  Oh my...  Yeah .  ...Gosh.  And so it like pops up 15 seconds 14...  It is like boop boop...  ...13 12.  ...Boop.  Right.  Did that scanner that you used make sounds?  Fuck. I am almost positive it did.  Can you imitate it?  .  Like what would...  Beep beep beep. It is like that.  In any case you are standing in the middle of 17 football fields. You got 15 seconds to find the region that has the shelf that has the bin that has the Barbie.  And then scan it - beep - put it in a little plastic tote. And then the plastic totes get set on conveyor belts. And they get carried away into some other magical area where people put it in boxes and send it to your house.  And as soon as he is done that...  The next item will immediately pop up and it will say go to this section this region this unit find a dildo let us say because there are lots and lots and lots and lots of people ordering dildos on the internet apparently. And so you have 40 seconds - 39 38 - to make it to the bin with the dildos in it.  Which could be a football field away.  You go as fast as you can...  Find the dildo.  ...Scan your dildo. Beep. Put it in the tote. Next item pops up. Find an olive oil mister.  Do you remember specific names of things?  There were a lot of vitamins. Beep. Male enhancement pills. Beep. Lots of iPad things.  Really?  Oh my God. There is so many things that you can put on and around an iPad like an iPad cover... Beep. ...To carrying cases... Beep. ...Protective cases... Beep. ...The stand that you could put your iPad on so it worked like a computer screen... Beep. ...A handheld like iPad glove thing. Beep. Dildos and iPad accessories are like the most popular items that I picked for sure.  Did you ever find a dildo that goes around an iPhone?  .  That would be like...  No.  ...The perfect internet thing.  I am sure it is in there though. You know you do not really have time to even look at what you are doing. There is just like a second where your brain is like why does this product exist? Why does this product exist? Why does this product exist? Why does this product exist? That is sort of like a whisper all the time in the background. But for the most part it is kind of a blur - video games. Beep. Baby food. Beep. Diapers. Beep. Paper towels. Beep. Who is ordering paper towels...  Yeah.  ...On the internet? Like who is the person who is doing this?  Um.   And I was hired as a picker because of my youth and my fitness which is to say that I am not in my 70s because there were a lot of  people in the place who were in their 60s and their 70s and their...  Really? That old?  Oh yeah. This is like old white ladies.  Gabriel says when he talks to people about this most of them assume the warehouse is full of like young Mexican people. But in fact he says where he worked it was mostly white people and most of them were older than him.  I was 32 at the - 31 at the time.  Whoa.  That is why they gave me a job where you run around a lot.  Actually on one of the consent forms he had to sign before he was hired...  It said that we were going to walk 12 miles a day. But going into it I was like yes picker.  .  I was actually really excited. You know you get some exercise. Right now my job if I am not out like actively reporting is to sit on my ass right?  Right.  And type and stuff. So I was like score like  you know?  Yeah.  I am going to do a good job. And I did not think I was going to be my favorite thing in the world but I thought it would be interesting and challenging and I would do a good job. And I was so wrong about all of those things.   First of all in this warehouse - and again we cannot say which one it is - nothing was organized the way you would expect it to be. Like if you were looking for a dildo it might just be in some random box...  This is like a bin full of crap...  ...Thrown in with a bunch of other things.  ... you know? So there is a bunch of batteries in there and an iPad anti-glare cover. And then there is 10 CD you know whatever.  Products seem haphazardly stored next to each other.  And that is by design according to this guy Brad Stone.  I am the author of The Everything Store.  Which is a book that look specifically at...  Amazon.   There is actually some very sophisticated software that is governing Amazon fulfillment centers.  What happens is say the warehouse gets a shipment of 17 dildos in. Instead of taking those dildos to like the dildo section the computer will figure out how much shelf space or bin space those dildos need and where in the warehouse those bins are. So it might say let me put four dildos over here and three over there.  The invisible hand that orchestrates the symphony that is Amazon's fulfillment center is called the mechanical sensei.  The mechanical sensei.  And it not only tracks you know where to put items it tracks what the most efficient routes are for the pickers to go through these shelves in the shortest amount of time.  Like imagine you sit down and order 14 products at one time. What the computer does is it will farm that order out to 14 different pickers in different parts of the warehouse and then will coordinate the timing so that each picker is grabbing the item putting it on a conveyor belt in a certain order so that all the products arrive to the same box at the same moment. It will make sure that box is just big enough but not too big. It figures out when to get those boxes on trucks and when those trucks should leave. And eventually if you believe Jeff Bezos the sensei will send out fleets of tiny helicopter drones that will deliver your packages to your doorstep at lightning speed no humans involved. So yeah for the moment most of the time-saving they are going to get is from making the human pickers pick faster 'ecause if you think about it once the packages get on trucks...  The truckers are still going to have to follow the speed limit. But there is no OSHA laws about how fast you can make people work inside the warehouse.  And the way you make those people fast at least in the warehouse Gabriel worked in is by treating them like drones.  For example you are digging through the bin and you see lots of other stuff but not the thing that you are looking for. So these scanners assume you are an idiot and you just are not seeing it. Like you cannot swear to the scanner that it is really not there. So you have to scan every item in the bin to prove that it is not there.  Really?  So this - yeah - the one time this happened to me - I mean I happen to be a bunch of times but one of the times it was like 30 individually wrapped batteries in this bin. And so I have to scan every single one... Beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep beep. ...Before my scanner will let me go on. But I am not given extra time to do that. And my you know my scanner the whole time is like... Three two one zero. Now it is counting the seconds that you are late. Three four five.  Does it go into the red or something?  Yeah so you know exactly how late you are. And you are trying to scan your stupid olive oil mister.  Gabriel says within the first few hours of his first shift a supervisor walked up to him said...  You are only making 48 of your goal 'ecause you are supposed to be picking something like a hundred and seventy items per hour.  A hundred and seventy things an hour.  Yes.  Wow.  It was the first time in my life -  'ecause I am an overachieving nerd from the Midwest - I went to Catholic school you know...  Yeah.  ...First time in my life somebody came up to me and was like you are doing a really bad job.  Yeah.   I was like me?  By the third day he says he was doing a little better.  It was like 50 50 of my goal. I asked my supervisor at one point you know can I pee just like in the middle of the day? And he was like of course this is not China but it is going to hurt your numbers.  So he thought screw it.  You know what? I am not going to pee. I am going to hold it.  Till lunch.  The minimum shift is 10 and a half hours. And in that 10 and a half hours you have 29 minutes and 59 seconds for lunch.  They tell you that...  If it is 30 minutes...  ...Not 30 minutes?  They told us that. If it is 30 minute and one second you get docked points. And if you get docked enough points you get fired.  Especially if you are new.  They told me when I got hired at the temporary staffing agency. They had videos about it. They had people walking around telling you you cannot miss any time or be one minute late at any point during your first week of orientation. And so to sort of illustrate this point...  He says that during his orientation...  The lady leading our training says you know take Brian.  She points to a guy in the back of the room.  Brian used to work here. And then his girlfriend had a baby. So he missed a day. And he was fired because it does not matter if you have doctor's notes or baby pictures or whatever it is there are no exceptions to this rule. And so Brian had to go back to the temporary staffing agency go back through their application process get hired by them clear a new drug test and go back through the training that he had mostly you know already done. And now he is sitting in this group with us. And the lady's like welcome back Brian. You know everybody do not end up like Brian.  So Gabriel says when you finally make it to lunch you finally pee...  You just shovel food into your face while you watch your watch. And occasionally in between chewing...  People talk.  And everybody is asking each other why are you here? - which is like you know in prison. And  we actually fact-check this because I was like do people in prison really always ask each other what they are in for?  Right or is that just...  Or is that just in movies?  ...A thing where you - yeah.  And we fact-checked it. And I asked this guy who would been in federal prison. And he was like it is the only conversation people are having.  Gabriel remembers the people at his table were like...  I got laid off. I used to be an accountant. I used to be a store manager. I used to work in a restaurant.  All over the place.  Everybody was something else in another life.   Gabriel says on one of his last days he came back from work...  Yeah I came home from work. I took a bath trying to sort of soak out some of the soreness so that I would be prepared and ready to wake up again and do it all over and make my  numbers which I you know was still failing to make. And I was Skyping with one of my friends. And he was like how is it going? And I was like  and they fired this guy 'ecause he had a baby the people are terrible. And yeah I cried about it a little bit. I had not realized really how mean the system was not just that it was tiring and not just that it hurt your body but that it was mean at - in every way at every turn that it possibly could be. It kind of punched me in the face a little bit.   Coming up I visit an Amazon warehouse. We will be right back. Hey welcome back. I am Pat Walters. This is RADIOLAB. So it used to be that when you ordered something off the internet it would take like a week to show up. And obviously in the last few years that is changed. Now you order something and it shows up the next day or sometimes the very same day even though the shipping is totally free. And before the break we heard from a reporter named Gabriel Mac about the cost of that speed. Gabriel embedded in one of the warehouses that ships out the crap that we order on the internet. And what he found there was pretty grim. Hello hello hello. Not too long after I talked to Gabriel I went home for the holidays which just happens to be near one of the biggest Amazon warehouses on the East Coast. ...Just outside Allentown Pa. And we should say again that Gabriel did not necessarily work at an Amazon warehouse. But talking to him had gotten me curious. This is a warehouse that in July of 2011 made some really big headlines 'ecause the temperatures inside the warehouse had gotten so hot that people had started to collapse from heat stroke. And rather than put in air conditioning or send people home the warehouse instead just had local paramedics wait outside and cart people away. And once the news broke Amazon did install air conditioners but I was curious to see if things had changed. And based on the people that I met... Do you work here? ...Like before I got kicked out... I am a reporter. I am just... ...It was kind of hard to tell. What do you do if you do not mind me asking?  I am a picker.  You are a picker?  Mmm hmm.  This woman who I met in the parking lot told me that she would been working as a picker for about a month. Can you describe what it - what the work is like?  Well it is easy for me. Everybody has they own opinion. But I have lost a lot of weight. Like I like it.  You like it?  Yeah I like what I do.  And when I went into the lobby of the building...  Yeah. It is fantastic and then...  ...I met this guy who told me he was the warehouse DJ. That during the holiday rush the company would move him around to different departments depending on like who needed motivation. Oh.  Yeah.  Like you DJ?  These people take care of their people here.  Yeah?  I did karaoke shows. We did dance contests.  Wait like while people were at work?  Yeah. They are dancing in place. You know I would do the Cupid Shuffle or I would do something crazy like the Chicken Dance if you - you know doing stuff like that you know.  Yeah.  And I play everything from you know Christmas songs to funk from the '70s to Bachata and Metallica Bollywood music.  Yeah.  You know there is some old Indian women that were packing up boxes and stuff. And then there - you know everything - Jamaican reggaeton...  That sounds awesome.  .  I mean we did not have a DJ or a karaoke contest which I would have won for the record.  .  I mean I like karaoke more than almost anyone but that is not going to fix the main issue which is that they are working these people like draft horses.  Although that woman I talked to seemed to dig it.  Well not - I mean not every person that I worked with hated it. I mean there were a lot of people who made their numbers and they made their numbers every single day. And there were people who made over their numbers. And I do not even understand what was going on with that. But they were very matter of fact about it.  Or maybe I was thinking this is a talent. Like maybe if you try to become a lacrosse player and you are just not very speedy and you do not like physical contact that that is not a great sport for you. I mean you should play golf.  I mean I am from the Midwest you know? I am hardy work stock.   I was a mover for years and years and years. Like when you call people and they have to come to your house and put all your crap in boxes and then load all the boxes onto trucks and then move into another place that was my job for years. So I do...  So I mean do you order off the internet now? I mean after having done this do you - have you sworn off of it?  I try not to order anything off the - I do not actually buy that much stuff. But certainly I mean no I am not like ordering my paper towels off the internet if that is what you mean.   No I do not know who would do that. That is ridiculous.  .    Can you imagine that I thought that it was novel that I was fulfilling an order for online paper towels at that time? Like I would not - you - that is not the reaction you would have now. And I was like what a jerk.  .  Well and even when I was working in that warehouse it was like who is doing this?  .  But of course - and I imagine this is partly why you guys are re-airing this now right? - like the only thing anybody does who does not have to go out into the world and work is sit at home and order things...  Oh my God.  ...On the internet. Like...  I know. Now it is just like everybody orders everything and it just comes.  Yeah.  I feel like we have tipped headlong into the world that we were looking at in this story. And now that is just the world unfortunately.  Where else to paper towels even come from? People do not even know.   No I know. They just come from the internet.  .  So this is Gabriel Mac. And we brought him back into the studio for a bit of an update.  So I mean I talked to you seven years ago.  Yeah.  And obviously I did - you know I did a bunch of stuff in the interim. But the last like thing - like voice-related thing that I did was I was on The Daily you know The New York Times podcast in late...  Yeah.  ...2017 which is about 15 seconds before I started transitioning.  Oh wow.  So - and that was it. So it is been 3 12 years and I have been - sort of been like - it feels like I have been in like voice hiding a little bit if I am being totally honest. So...  It is like - it is interesting because I was thinking about the - I mean just to what you were saying about not just the story that we did but like all these stories you have made and books and awards. And now you are this new person with a new name. And...  Well actually can I stop you there?  Yeah.  The new - that is a thing that I find people saying with some frequency...  OK.  ...Like a whole new person.  Yeah yeah.  It is that I am an old person but I am the old person.  You are the old person.  Yeah. It is like becoming - to me - I mean I will only speak for myself here although this is not in my experience a rare feeling about this. Transitioning is not about becoming somebody new. It is about becoming somebody old like your old  iteration that you just could not embody before. So...  No no no. OK. So that does make sense. But I guess I am wondering - like because you have done - you have all this work that you created before you transitioned - I mean you won all these awards and you had these like amazing magazine features but that all had a different name associated with them. So do you think about having to reclaim that work in some way because it was done under a different name?  I mean as this conversation totally proves like that work lives. Like it still lives and it still breathes. And it gets reissued or rediscovered...  Yeah.  ...All the time. So it is not like it is just sitting somewhere in a vault in which case I would be like whatever you know? But it does not. It is still alive. And this actually - this piece that we are talking about this RADIOLAB piece - is probably the one I think of the most often because of how I intro'd and ID'd myself where in the first - whatever - 15 seconds of my talking I identify myself as a lady reporter which I frequently did.  Yeah.  It is just - yeah. It is a lot. But I think about it all the time actually this interview specifically.  Oh yeah. We obviously cut that from the original so it is not in there anymore. But what - it was telling to me that when I was thinking back on this piece I could kind of remember the beats of the piece but what I really remember for some reason was you IDing yourself as lady reporter. For some reason that just like sticks in my head. I was like oh. Well that is - it is interesting to me that that sticks in my head and that means something. So let us talk about it.  Maybe you have a trans Spidey sense that you - like somewhere deep in your subconscious that you are not even aware of.  Maybe . I do not know.  I am serious. Like maybe that stuck with you as like something in the universe and your body was just like flag that for later.  Yeah. It is like just - noted.   File that away.  Something's happening here. I do not know what it is. But in seven years I will figure out why something in my bones was like hmm.   I mean it could be. I do not know.  Yeah. I have remembered that always - always. I actually talk about the fact that I did it in the intro to my new book. Like that is how...  No way.  Yeah no that is how much of a - because to me that is like how clear it was that I was really grasping this identity. It is a completely ridiculous answer to a perfectly straightforward question that somebody asked me - who are you? Like saying - calling yourself a lady doctor...  Yeah right.  ...Is a commentary on the stupid patriarchy - it just is - in the shortest most efficient way that you could possibly issue one right? So there were layers of that happening. But I mean you are right. Like the gender of the person who reported this story is not particularly relevant to the late capitalist internet third-party logistics industrial complex dystopia that we live in. That is the true story.  Well let us go ahead and have you re-ID yourself. Tell us who you are and what you do.  It is going to take me a minute. It is a big - I am having a moment. You cannot see me because my camera does not work.  Yeah. Take your time.  I am sitting here having a moment.  Oh my gosh Jad. I think I am going to be the first person who cries through their ID ...  Oh yeah.  ...On your show. Would I be the first person?  I think so yeah.  I like that you think have to think about it though. My name is Gabriel Mac and I am a writer and investigative reporter. And a human person.   Thank you to writer and reporter Gabriel Mac and producer Pat Walters. I am Jad Abumrad.   This is Casey  calling from Fort Myers Beach Fla. RADIOLAB is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Hi this is Jonathan Chan calling in from Singapore. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Whack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Carin Leong. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.   