 Announcer Listener-supported WNYC Studios. Jad Abumrad Hey folks just a quick note. This story that you are about to hear has in it an interview that contains some threats of violence and might not be appropriate for sensitive listeners or young children. Announcers You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC. Laura For some reason this speakerphone does not ever want to go off. Can you guys call me right back and I will not put it on? Tracy Okay. Laura All right. Sorry about that.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad This is Radiolab. Today we have a story about something that you might not know that you have but you definitely do have it. Robert It is a crazy-- Jad Maybe even scary. Robert It may be scary. Jad Even secret. A crazy scary secret. Laura Hello. Tracy Hello. Robert Howard. Tracy Hey sorry? Robert It comes to us from our producers Tracy Hunte- Tracy Are you there? Jad -and Soren Wheeler. Robert Yes I am here. Laura Okay no speakerphone now. Tracy Okay. Robert This story for us got started with this woman Laura Kriho. Laura I am a freelance internet marketer. Robert She is from Colorado and in the mid-'90s something happened to Laura that had not happened to anyone in centuries. Tracy Why do not you just take us back to 1996 the day you got your jury summons that very first one? Laura That was the day of jury duty. I had totally forgotten about the jury summons until the day of and I picked it up and I read the back of the summons and it said something about six months in jail if you do not show up. I did not have a ride to the courthouse and so I called the court and ask them if I really had to show up since I did not have a ride. They are like Yes you have to show up. I said I will have to hitchhike then and if something happens to me I said to them my blood is on your hands. I wanted to make them feel guilty about making me show up but that did not work. She said I had to show up anyway. Tracy Whatever. The point is Laura did get to court. Laura In Gilpin County in Colorado. Tracy When she got there she walked in took a seat. Laura I think there was about 40 jurors in the pool of jurors. First they fill up the box with 12 jurors and then they ask them questions about themselves. Robert Real quick were you hoping to get booted off? Laura Oh yes. I was hoping to get booted off of course. Any good red-blooded American was hoping to-- Tracy Back towards the end of jury selection. Laura I was one of the last ones to be selected. Tracy The next day Laura and the 11 other jurors showed up to hear the case. The case was for this 19-year-old girl. Laura She was charged with possession of methamphetamine. What happened is that she was up in Central City which is a gambling town. Tracy That day she was driving in her van with her boyfriend and eventually the two of them drove to this casino. Laura Her boyfriend jumped out of the van he went to the casino. Tracy Then she kept driving and then the police pulled her over. Jad They just for whatever reason pull her over? Laura I do not know what she got pulled over for. Tracy They just pull her over. Laura The police said that she got out and put her purse on the hood of the car and then made a lunging movement towards it. Tracy Which they said gave them probable cause. Laura To search her purse. Tracy Because now they are thinking Oh does she have a weapon in her purse? What is she trying to hide? The police open up her purse and they start rifling through it. Laura At which they found this 1 ounce of methamphetamine. Tracy One of the questions before the jury was Is this young woman guilty of possession of methamphetamine beyond a reasonable doubt? Robert At the end of the trial Laura and the other 11 jurors got up and went to the jury room to deliberate. Laura We talked about a lot of things. One of the things I remember we talked about was whether or not the police were lying about her lunging towards her purse and things like that. Tracy There is also the fact that she did have this meth. Laura It was unclear whether it was actually hers or not. Jad Because according to the girl when her boyfriend got out of the van-- Laura He put something in her purse she said without her knowledge. Tracy This girl is saying the meth might be his but it is definitely not hers. Laura To me that is the whole thing. It is element number one of the possession charges that they have to knowingly possess. Robert For Laura-- Laura If she said she did not know she had it- Robert -and it could be her boyfriend's- Laura -then she is not guilty. Tracy It seemed to her that it was just a pretty big hole in the prosecution's case. Laura To me I just could not get beyond that. Tracy Laura turned to the other jurors. Laura I said to them I was like Is not that enough reasonable doubt for you to acquit her? They were all like No she had it in her purse she knew it was there. It is almost five oclock we need to convict her and go home. Jad Laura would not budge. She just could not get herself to go along and so she held out. That night when she went home she just kept turning this case over and over in her mind. She started wondering- Laura -what the girl was looking at as far as the sentence. Jad That is not technically what a juror is supposed to do. Tracy No. Robert No in fact the judge in this case and generally the judge had told them- Laura -I am the one that gets to decide the sentence- Robert -you do not have to worry about the sentence here- Laura -you just have to find out whether she is guilty or not guilty but I was worried about the sentence. When you are a juror you have somebody's liberty in your hand. Tracy Laura sat down on her computer she got online and she found this criminal statute. To her understanding this girl- Laura -was looking at two to six years. Robert She is like What? That just feels so out of whack. That does not feel right. Tracy Also it is a felony charge. Laura You cannot erase that. The second day of deliberations we just went back and forth Were the police lying? Yes we think the police are lying. Is that reasonable doubt? No it is not reasonable doubt. After all my arguments about reasonable doubt we are exhausted-- Jad That is when Laura turned to the other jurors and tried this completely different tactic. She looked at them and she was like Look even if you think she is guilty-- Laura We did not have to convict her for any reason that we could let her go. Jad That even if she broke the law we could say We do not agree with the law. Laura We are here to be the conscience of the community. That is what I told them. You do not have to convict her. Robert Wait I would imagine some people might be like What are you talking about? Of course we do. We are supposed to just say whether she broke the law or not. That is what a jury does. Laura That is where everything broke down.  Tracy Because as it turns out when Laura started making this argument a whole series of events set into motion. One of the jurors apparently they wrote a note saying Laura is in here. She is talking about sentences she is saying that she is only going to acquit this girl. Laura That note got sent to the judge and apparently the judge exploded and called us all back in and declared a mistrial. Robert Then about a month later-- Laura The sheriff showed up at my house with his summons for contempt of court. Reporter  Paul Grant represented Colorado juror Laura Kriho- Robert Suddenly Laura's story caught fire. Reporter  -after she refused to convict a young woman in a drug case last year. Laura I was the first juror in 400 years that was actually punished for their verdict. Prosecuted. Jad Really? Robert Actually 326 years. The point is when Laura told those other jurors they could essentially ignore the law that they could disregard the facts if they disagreed with the law she had tiptoed- Reporter  What you are about to see is going to infuriate a lot of you. Robert -into this very bizarre- Reporter  A lone juror tosses out the law. Robert -almost like a legal loophole of some kind. Reporter  I think it is absolutely appalling. Robert That on some sides people see as a trap door to anarchy and on other sides people see it as one of the foundational bedrocks of what it means to be in a democracy. Reporter  It is something called 'jury nullification'. Reporter  Jury nullification. Robert I have to say the first time I heard about jury nullification I googled it and the first thing that came up was this YouTube video that was like a little explainer thing with animation. I think the first thing that was said on the frozen screen of the YouTube video was You can get arrested for talking about this. Jad Really? Robert I was like Whoa. Okay I am hitting 'play' on that. Let us go.  Jad You can get arrested for talking about this. Robert That ends up being sort of true but also sort of not which is what makes it a loophole. Participant  Thank you. Participant  Just this way. Robert Anyway as we dug into it we figured we are going to need some help understanding this thing. I was thinking that we would start with a little bit of just what jury nullification is. Tracy We called up our favorite legal expert Ellie Mystal. Ellie Mystal I am an editor of Above the Law and the legal editor of More Perfect on WNYC. Jad More Perfect? What is that? That sounds amazing. What is that?  Ellie You know what it is not worth mentioning.  Jad Seriously season 2 is coming. Robert Anyway when we were talking to Ellie the first thing that we asked him was Just give us a pure uncut version of jury nullification. Ellie A pure aspect of jury nullification would be let us say I am the defendant I am accused of stealing a car. I absolutely stole that car. Everybody saw they had me dead to rights. They have me on video. My mama said he stole the car. Robert No reasonable doubt. Tracy Your DNA is in the car. Ellie My DNA is in the car but I stole the car because my kid was sick and I needed to get to the hospital to take him to the hospital. I had no other option and so I smashed the windows to somebody else's car. I hotwired it. I put my kid in the back. I drove to the hospital saved my kid's life. Now I am up for trial from the guy who has the Audi. Robert That I live in Westchester. Ellie The guy who has the Audi is like he stole my car. Robert Which is true. Ellie I demand justice and the juror says No. The jury would nullify that clear illegality that clear crime that I committed. Robert It is like yes he took the car but the law the way it is written does not account for the fact that in this particular case that is okay with us. Ellie That is the pure version of it and that is the most happy-clappy does. Robert That is a very happy version of it. Ellie I could have stolen Justin Bieber's car. I probably could not get convicted in a court for that. Robert Nobody likes him. Ellie Nobody likes him. Robert They could be saying the law's not nuanced enough. They could be saying the punishment is off. They could be saying in this case the victim deserved it or they could be saying we disagree with this law. Jad Wait something I do not understand is like-- Here we have a situation where Laura says she does not agree with the sentence. Does she or any of the other jurors have a right to do this? Is there something written in the constitution that says they can do that? Ellie No there is nothing in the constitution that directly explicitly says Yes you have the right to completely ignore the law and let off whoever you want to if you feel like it. That is not a constitutional right. It is not exactly a crime. Robert Ellie says a jury is told to do what they think is best. Ellie If they think their best is nullifying a law. That is also not exactly illegal. Tracy Which just to get back to Laura for a second is why the court never actually charged her for jury nullification. Instead they found her guilty for not answering questions directly during the jury questioning process. Robert Eventually that conviction was overturned on appeal because in general the things that are said in a jury room are protected. They are private. Ellie It is not a right. It is not a crime. What it is is a power. I think of it like- Participant What kind of monster are you? Ellie The X-men. Wolverine's power is he can detach steel adamantium claws from his hands. That is just a fact of Wolverines life. He has the ability to do this. It is his power. Now is it a right for him to have claws shooting out of his hands? No. Absolutely not. Is it illegal for him to have claws shooting out of his hands? Not really. It is illegal for him to use them in certain ways. If Wolverine comes into your house and scratches you on the face that is assault we have a law against-- A law prescribing assault but Wolverine has the power to just walk around as he is with these claws in his hands. It is built into the nature of his being. Robert Real quick to the people who care about superhero powers. We know that Wolverine's power is actually the ability to heal but Ellie's point still holds. Jad Wait a second. This is throwing me off a bit. The jury-- like the claws-- the jury has this claw-like power or whatever but they are not allowed to use it. Robert I mean the simple point is that jury nullification is as fundamental to juries as having claws is to Wolverine. Ellie That is just a fact of their existence. Jad They still get in trouble if they use it. Robert Laura did. Jad Then how did we end up in this weird place where you can do it-- You do not have the right to do it but you can do it. If you do it or even talk about it you might get in trouble. That is-- Robert I am super glad you asked that question because it gives me a chance-- Hey Matt are you back there? Could you cue some like English Giante 1700s type music. Matt Coming right up. All right. Now we are in the mood. Robert All right explain. Tracy I ended up finding this guy Jeffrey Emblemson. Jeffrey Emblemson Professor of law and government at the University of Texas . Tracy Jeffrey told me it all has to do with this battle over who has the power to decide what the law is. He says the opening shots of that battle go all the way back to-- Jeffrey William Penn trial in 1670 which is really the birth of religious Liberty. Tracy I guess we can also cue some sounds of horses on Cobblestone streets. Matt I refuse to do that. Tracy Just do it just do the horses. So much better. Thank you. In 1670 London England we have got a guy William Penn. Jeffrey William Penn at the time was a young man. He was a Quaker Tracy One day he is walking through the streets of London. Jeffrey To hold a prayer meeting in Grace church meeting chapel. Tracy He walks up to the chapel door. Jeffrey He finds it locked by the authorities. Tracy The reason the doors were locked was because there was actually this century-old law on the books. Jeffrey It made it a crime to essentially to be Quaker. Tracy But what Penn does. Robert Hey  Jad One  both you two. Penn Hey gather around. Gather around. Yes. Robert Penn starts calling everybody together in the streets. Tracy As more and more people start to gather. Jeffrey There is a large crowd. Robert Like 300 or 400 people show up. Penn Come on come on. Robert The authority sees the occasion to arrest him for breach of the peace. Eventually Penn gets thrown into jail. Jad He gets a jury trial. Judge The indictment is as follows that William Penn of London. Tracy Now the government the King was pretty much discharging Penn for being a Quaker. Robert The authorities felt they could go underneath the table and just prosecute them for what was the common law crime of breach of the peace. Judge Are you guilty as you stand in the matter and form as for said or not guilty? Penn I plead not guilty in manner and form. Robert The case is pretty open and shut. I mean he gathered hundreds of people in the middle of the street. Jeffrey According to law and the evidence he is guilty but his defense is show me-- Penn Show me what law in England makes it a crime to worship God in my own way. Tracy The jury went off to the jury room. Robert The jurors come back several times and say we cannot agree. Jad What was their hangup? Robert Do not know how inside the heads of those people you can get. It seems like they just did not feel like locking him up for that was the right thing to do even though it was technically against the law. Tracy Right. The judge says to the jurors. Jeffrey I am telling you that if the evidence shows that Penn preached to a throng on a public thoroughfare. Tracy He clearly did. Jeffrey You have to find him guilty of the crime of breach of the peace. Robert Then the judge locks him up in the jury room. Jeffrey Without food tobacco or rest facilities. Robert For a considerable amount of time. Tracy Then finally. Jeffrey They come back and acquit him. The judge accepts the acquittal and then orders the jurors to jail for perjury. Jad Put the whole jury in jail? Robert Yes. They get locked up. Tracy There is one guy in the jury he is like this is not cool. Robert That guy ends up filing an appeal. Jeffrey It went to the highest courts in the realm. Robert All the way to the King's court . Jeffrey The chief justice ruled that it henceforth would be illegal to prosecute jurors for a not guilty verdict. This becomes the start of . Robert What it really was the birth of this bubble this protected space called the jury room that you cannot punish anybody for what they do in the jury room. That notion crosses the Atlantic ocean and becomes a part of the American tradition of law so that when the colonies are coming up they have trial by jury and they have juries and smart people are writing things about how the jury is the place where the people get to decide what happens. We have to protect that you cannot punish them for what they do and so you get people like Adams and Jefferson making grand arguments about the role of the jury. Actually Jeffrey says one of the things that we get from a jury- Jeffrey -is freedom of the press. Robert When the 1700s this newspaper guy in New York- Jeffrey had supposedly libeled the King or the crown. Robert To the jury in that case it was pretty clear that he did. Jeffrey But they decided the law itself is unjust. Robert Boom there you go freedom of the press. This idea is baked into our nation's beginning- Jeffrey -of trusting ordinary people to do the work of justice themselves. Robert I mean ordinary people being white men at the time. Tracy Then in the mid-1800s that starts to change because of two things. One more and more laws are being written and they are just more complex and complicated and they are just harder for people to understand. Number two the legal world is becoming way more professional more and more people are getting legal training even judges who before did not have to necessarily have legal training to become a judge they are getting legal training. Now judges are seen as the experts in the law. Then what happens is that you see more and more judges take back the power to decide what the law is from the jury. Jeffrey The United States Supreme Court made clear. Tracy In a decision in 1895. Jeffrey That Juries had no responsibility for deciding whether to enforce the law question number one. Or what the law properly interpreted was question number two. Robert From this you get the judges instructions that are given to the jury. Jeffrey We still have this instruction today that ladies and gentlemen of the jury the case is now upon you. It is your job to find the facts but it is my job to instruct you on the law. Robert It was not exactly that jury nullification became illegal and more like just the court pushed it down made it unspoken thing. Over the next 100 years or so certainly there is times when jurors refused to convict. The famous cases are like during Prohibition and some arguments during the Civil Rights Movement and the Vietnam War but really the explicit idea of jury nullification the idea that this is really a role for the jury stays mostly underground until the claws come out. That is after the break. Jad Yes.   Jad Hey this Jad. Radiolab is supported by Rocket Mortgage. When I am looking for a new house I imagine myself in every space. Do I want to relax in that yard? Can I use that shower every day? I want to know that the house fits me but there is more to it than that. Rocket Mortgage built a home loan experience designed for you with certainty at every step and no unwanted surprises. You can relax knowing you are getting a home loan that fits your life. Visit rocketmortgage.comradiolab because when you need a mortgage that fits your life Rocket can. Call for cost information and conditions. Equal Housing lender licensed in all 50 states NMLSConsumerAccess.org number 3030. Hi this Jad. Radiolab is supported by TransferWise. The smart new way to send and receive money internationally. TransferWise gives you the real exchange rate every time you send money abroad. You can even get an account that holds up to 47 currencies at once and convert between them anytime. Join over eight million customers in more than 80 countries who are already saving. Try them out for free at TransferWise.compodcast or download the app. Jad Robert Radiolab. We are talking about jury nullification. Robert Which is the power of juries to perhaps ignore the law. Jad Tracy Hunte and Soren Wheeler are our reporters. You guys are saying it was underground for a while? Tracy Yes. Robert Then what happened? Ellie The '90s happened.  Jeffrey It was a perfect storm of two events both of them in California.  First you have the Rodney King trial where you have this videotape. Reporter We have all seen the pictures of Los Angeles police officers beating a man that had just pulled over. Tracy In this video you see Rodney King he is on the ground and police are surrounding him and they are kicking him and beating him multiple times repeatedly. Jeffrey Showing to most reasonable observers that there was severe police brutality against an unarmed Black man. Reporter Four Los Angeles police officers charged in the-- Tracy Initially the trial was supposed to be held in Los Angeles but because of concerns about media exposure it got moved. Jeffrey To neighboring Ventura County where the jury is almost all-white. Tracy After a month-long trial and weeks of jury deliberations. Reporter Majority in the Rodney King case has delivered its verdict and-- Jeffrey You get an acquittal. Tracy They acquit the officers. Reporter Not one of the four police officers seen on videotape beating Mr. King a year ago he is guilty of using excessive force. They have all been found not guilty. Tracy Of course we all know what happened in LA after that.  Five days of rights. Reporter We have seen rocks and bottles and various things going to car school-- Tracy More than 60 people were killed. Reporter He is bleeding unconscious in the street. You can see a white plume of smoke. Tracy There was about 1 worth of damages. Reporter There are several other plumes just like that in this area. I must say I am scared. Tracy We all saw what happened. It looked very much to African-Americans in Los Angeles that these white people in Simi Valley California-- Tracy Had voted race rather than evidence to acquit. Female Speaker I am 43 years old. I have witnessed this for 43 years of my life the injustice. I cannot even convey to you the hurt. Robert According to Jeffrey that was round one. Then just three years later. Male Speaker Okay. It is a white car. Jad You get round two. Tracy We believe that this is the police tracking OJ Simpson's White Ford Bronco. There you see the police cars. Jeffrey The OJ Simpson trial. Reporter Regard with charges made by LA police against OJ Simpson in connection with the brutal slaying of his ex-wife Nicole and 25-year-old Ron Goldman-- Jeffrey There is massive blood evidence. Reporter Bloody footprints one of the bloody gloves. Jeffrey Massive DNA evidence. Reporter Red drops leading up to and inside the house in his bedroom. Jeffrey Yet a predominantly Black jury. Reporter With a jury and embarking title action find the defendant Orenthal James Simpson not guilty of a crime of murder. Jeffrey Acquit. Reporter You heard the verdict. Can we ask your reaction? Robert While many Black people thought that a white jury to ignore the law in the Rodney King case. Reporter It is a disgrace I am shocked. Robert Many white people felt that the largely Black Jury. Reporter I think it is absolutely appalling. Excuse me no faith in the jury system whatsoever. Robert Then the same thing in acquitting OJ. Reporter I think he is guilty. I think he got off because the jury was mainly Black. Jad According to Jeffrey these two cases together they sparked a national conversation about jury nullification. Jeffrey The day after the OJ Simpson verdict The Wall Street Journal a first-page story essentially arguing that in inner cities throughout the country Black jurors were remarkably acquittal prone. Robert In other words according to the article there was a spike in acquittals among Black jurors in cases where the defendant was also Black. Jeffrey The most likely explanation is a jury revolt. Robert Jeffrey actually argues that this idea of a jury revolt was overstated in part because he says you can never really know if a jury is actually ignoring the law but- Jeffrey Sometimes we as prosecutors would persuade a jury beyond a reasonable doubt but the jurors would still find him not guilty. Robert Georgetown Law Professor Paul Butler who was a prosecutor in DC at the time says that is exactly what was happening. Did that feel wrong to you? Paul It deals it felt wrong personally because like every prosecutor I wanted another notch in my belt. Yes it ticked me off. The reason they were doing this is because they did not want to send another young Black man to jail. Robert Which Paul says was mostly what his job was. Paul If you go to criminal court in DC you will think that white people do not commit crimes. They are just utterly absent from the criminal court. Obviously that is not a reflection of the real world. Robert Over the years-- Paul Day to day locking up Black people it takes a psychic toll. Robert Paul says he started to ask himself. Paul Did I go to law school to put Black people in prison? For me the answer became no. Reporter Now a Black law professor is urging Black juries to use nullification in their fight for racial justice. Paul That led me to not only understand what these African-American jurors were doing in DC. Robert In cases of nonviolent crimes. Paul To endorse it. Reporter If you let a guilty defendant off is not that the same as really taking the law into your own hands? Participant It absolutely is the same as taking the law in your own hands. Paul As a political protest. Robert That one seems to grow directly out of the racial mix of things that were going on in both Rodney King and in the OJ case but as this was all bubbling up there is a group called the Fully Informed Jury Association that started actually in this tiny butthole of a town in Montana with these super libertarian-- Jad You can say that because you are from Montana? Robert Yes I am from Montana. I am allowed to say that. They started this group that was basically advocating for jury nullification writing up pamphlets sending out things. Eventually the internet comes along and tension to jury nullification just goes puff. There is claims that Jurors in Atlanta in the mid-1990s started acquitting sports like bookmaker people defendants on a regular basis even though in the past those cases had not certain seen as slam dunks. In the post-trial interviews jurors were saying that the reason was they saw no moral difference between betting on sports and playing like the Georgia Lottery. By the time you get medical marijuana initiatives around 1996 all sudden it is become much much more difficult for prosecutors to convince juries to convict in marijuana cases and so prosecutors are deciding not even to file charges in those cases. It comes up in gun cases during that time. Jad You have this spasm of interest largely because of these two race-related trials and then suddenly you have it spreading in all these different places. Mark Brochure about your Jury rights. Tracy In fact today what you are seeing is this rising activism. Mark Good morning. Would you like a brochure about your Jury rights? Tracy Around getting the word out about jury nullification. Mark Brochure about your Jury rights. Good morning madam would you like a brochure about your Jury rights? Tracy A lot of this is happening at courthouses all across the United States in Philadelphia in Florida.  Just say your name and who you are what you do. Tracy We actually sent a reporter to Denver to talk to this guy. Mark Yes sure. My name is Mark Iannicelli. You spell that last name. I-A-N-N-I-C-E-L-L-I. I am with an activist for jury nullification. Very cold very hot rain or shine. Tracy Three days a week Mark would show up at the courthouse and he had some other people and they would just stand near the steps of the court and hand out these pamphlets that basically say-- Mark Your right as a juror to vote not guilty if it is a bad law designed by bad politics. Tracy You have the right to vote your conscience. Participant Jury's there to represent the conscious of the community. Tracy He has a right to judge the law. Participant You can vote not guilty and not tell anybody and it is you are right and it is perfectly legal. That is how you get rid of bad law. Jad These people of various sorts? Robert Various sorts. You will get the guns right to people you will get the libertarians out west. Mark I am with occupier Denver. Tracy You get like occupiers like Mark and you might get some racial justice people who think there is too many brown people in jail. Jury nullification is a very big tent. Mark There is a prosecutor. You see these got the LLB tote bag.  a brochure about your jury rights? Robert The thing is here's where we get to the getting in trouble for guys like Mark. Mark We have got arrested here. Robert Who hand out these pamphlets in front of courthouses they sometimes get arrested. Mark We were distributing information and they came down and they got seven of these right here from the fully informed jury association and we were handing them out to everybody and I get arrested for seven class five felony. Looking at 21 years in prison. Jad Under what grounds? Jury tampering? Tracy Almost always jury tampering. Jad No one ever says no. Once again they cannot equal because obviously it is not. Robert They get arrested for jury tampering but then these cases will go and they will get appealed and eventually I do not think we have found a case where this is not true. Every single case the charges will get thrown out because it is free speech. Mark We are now in a first amendment free speech war. Tracy Juian can you hear me? Julian Yes I hear you. Robert This is Julian Hikeland. He became a jury nullification activist hero of sorts when he was arrested in 2010 at the federal district court here in Manhattan. Julian I made nine appearances at this courthouse and was arrested five times. Tracy He was about 78 years old at this point. Jad He was just handing out flyers? Julian Yes. Tracy Did you have a desk or like a table set up or are you just standing there--? Julian No. I stand up. I have a sign that says jury information and as they go by I just pass out this one-page flyer. Tracy Do people come up to you when they see jury information? Julian Some do more of them runaway. Tracy He used to show up at courthouses like all over the place like in New Jersey and in Pennsylvania and like in Philadelphia and Florida. Robert Actually when we talked to him he was in Orlando staying with his friend Mark and they were heading down to the local courthouse the following Monday to urge people to notify laws they do not agree with. Basically because they see nullification as a check on times when the government or a law goes in their view too far. Julian We have many cases like this that have shown it. When the slaves were escaping from the South and going up North people were running them up into Canada. They were told that they had to return them. After all the slaves were property. What they were guilty of was theft when they did not return these slaves. Robert This is probably the most famous example of jury nullification cases where Northern jurors even though they knew someone had harbored a slave and was therefore guilty they would just refuse to convict. Julian They did not do it. That is factually the most important during nullification case that this country probably ever had is they just left the slaves-- they just sent them off to Canada. They were just violating the law out and out. That is the point of having a jury? In fact Thomas Jefferson made the statement. The only thing that will save this country is the jury. The only thing. Robert By the way if you need to stop and take a drink of water do not hesitate. Julian I need to stop and cry a little but anyway let us go ahead. You do not mind if I cry while we talk about this. This touches me pretty much. Robert Of course I do not mind if you cry. I got some curious what is it that is hitting you in that emotion? Julian I am sorry. I think about these cases that I just cannot believe what is happened to this country. I cannot believe how corrupt this country has become. Robert You are seeing that corruption in people being locked away put away for things they should not be put away for? Julian Like drugs for example. Do you know that we now are the number one prison state in the world? We have the highest percentage prisoners than any country in the world. That is the United States of America. Of course look at the people. 40 of the people are in there for drug violations. Why does the government have any right to tell you what you can do with your body? It is the same thing for prostitution. Why should the government be able to tell you whether you can have sex or whether you cannot have sex or why you can smoke a cigarette or why you cannot smoke a cigarette? Now I understand why the government tells you you cannot shoot somebody else to me that makes sense. If you want to shoot yourself that is your business. Anyway and I am telling you something we are going to the courts even though-- to pass out this literature on Monday in Orlando that is why I am down here. I met in contact with the judge and he is been in contact with me and he is informed me that if I show up I will be arrested. Of course I probably have 50 or 100 along. I hope along with me. Tracy Julian is that what you are doing at the courthouse? Are you going to be passing out the jury pamphlets? Julian That is exactly right. The judge has promised us that we will be arrested. I am asking all my people to come with guns and shoot the cops that come after us. Robert You are not serious about that. Are you? Julian I am serious. Robert That would be the thing that you just said. Do you understand why the government would stop someone for-- That crosses the line. Julian The point is there comes a time when you have got to stop it. I think that time is December 5th. It is got to be ended. You got to start killing the police and the guards and hopefully the judges until they learn how to behave. Robert That is not justice either. Julian The point is we have tried now for years it does not seem to sink into them that it is their job to uphold the law not to keep throwing people in prisons. For 70 years I have been doing this and this is the first time it ever occurred to me that I would ever have to do such a thing but I cannot help it. Robert I have a hard time--  Julian There is no reason why I should be arrested and taken away. Now if they are going to try and do it I want them killed. Robert You realize-- I have a hard time bEllieving that you believe that that deserves killing a court clerk who has a family. Julian Come down and try to arrest me. They have been warned that I have sent them the letter. I have told him anybody that comes within 15 feet of me that is an officer of the court or an employee of the court that they are to be removed one way or the other. I have come to the conclusion that it has to be ended. I hope to see that it is ended on December 5th. We just cannot put with it anymore. Robert I think that if you are in a position of considering doing what you have just said you are considering doing that-- Julian I am not going to do anything. It is only if they do something. No matter what we have to do it is not going to happen again. Robert Julian I am going to interrupt you there and just say I think we are probably best off just ending the conversation and letting our microphone person go home and letting me--  Julian Anyway you have heard my opinion. It is not only my opinion. It is my intention. Robert We hear you. We got it. Julian Thank you very much for having me. Tracy Thank you Julian. Bye. Julian You are welcome. Bye-bye. Tracy Oh my God. Robert Do you have the tape seekers number? Tracy Yes I do. Robert You want to just give them. Tracy I am going to give them a call right now. When I talked to him he never said anything like that I am so sorry. Jad What happened after that interview or at the tail end of that interview? Tracy After we hung up we felt we had an obligation to call law enforcement down there because he-- It sounded very much like he was making a direct threat with a time and a place and so that Monday he and his friend Mark did show up. Neither of them were armed. Neither of him r Mark. Jad Did any other people he would been wanting to show up? Tracy No it was just them. Nobody else showed up. The police say that somebody who works at the court told him that he had to leave that he was trespassing. He refused to leave. A police officer did not also came. He was shouting things about shooting police officers. At one point apparently he attempted to hit the court worker but he actually did not. He was charged with threatening public workers. Assault and trespassing. Jad What happened then? Tracy The charge for threatening public workers that was dropped the prosecutors dropped that charge but he is still facing two misdemeanor charges of assault and trespassing. Jad When you were sitting there in that interview did that change in any way your feelings one way or the other about jury nullification because I feel it did for me a little bit? Tracy My answer will be really short. No. Jad Okay. Why no? Tracy I think he just sounds like an angry frustrated person. He is angry about people not letting him talk about what he wants to talk about in front of a courthouse. Jad Sorry. Robert I guess not. I did hear when I was talking to him partly because I had been thinking about jury nullification almost heroic terms it is like this chance to stand up against an unjust law. This conversation just made me realize it also gets twisted up with this really deeply anti-government idea. You talk to these people and you hear arguments that sound like burn it down. Jad That is my problem. Robert That burn it down instinct was always at a distance for me and it felt just much closer. Jad Yes that is kind of mine when I hear that tape I think that is the strain that is the thinking that you bump into a lot. That I find one of the most frightening things. I find it more frightening than almost anything. That idea that like We the people should be triumphing over everything. I find that to be a really scary idea that pops up. Ellie It is funny because I think like Tracy I have always thought of this as checks and balance thing. You have a system. We have a legislative branch it passes laws sometimes the laws are or you will concede or circumstances change or you find out a consequence of the law people of one race are constantly going to jail or getting electrocuted or not and then you get these ordinary people walking into these decision points and saying You know what? This does not. This does not feel right. It is just wrong. If you do not have that then the legislators do not get that little prick in their little bubble. Jad I totally hear you. I have never advocated for going along with a bad law and I think we get a rife with bad laws right now but there is something potentially corrosive about saying to a person You can just negate the law. Think about all the times when white juries in the south refused to convict people of horrible things. It is like that. Robert That is jury nullification. Jad That is absolutely jury nullification. That is the history of the post-reconstruction of south. Robert Yes but you can make those same arguments on the other side. Sonia Sotomayor Think about what juries did during the Civil Rights Movement. Robert This is Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor speaking at NYU in 2016. Sonia If it were not for jury nullification we would have many civil rights individuals who would be convicted felons or otherwise for things that today we think are protected by the First Amendment. There is a place I think for jury nullification finding the balance of that and the role that a judge should or should not play. Our forefathers did not believe that juries necessarily always got it right but it was I think what they believe is that the jury getting wrong was better than the crown getting it wrong. Ellie It goes at some fundamental level to how we want as a people to be governed. Do we want to be governed by experts? Do we want to be governed by each other? What power do we want each of us to have over the other one? This is what this question really comes down to. Robert This is once again Ellie Mystal legal editor at the WNYC show more perfect. Ellie The older I get the more comfortable I become with the idea of an elected white man sitting in judicial robes deciding everything as opposed to 12 random jerk offs from the street. I say that knowing full well that that is a horribly elitist and terrible for that reason solution to the problem. Jad Well also puts hand it concentrates power into mostly white hands. Ellie It concentrates power into mostly white and concentrates power into the system when we are saying that one of the only benefits of jury nullification is to be a check on the system. If you look at it only from the perspective of the defendant then jury nullification seems like a great way to protest the system. I have started to look at things more from the perspective of the victim which victims are getting justice and which victims are not? When I start to look at it from that angle what I see is juries nullifying cases when the victim is of color or when the victim is a woman try bringing a rape case try bringing a date rape case in this country. Try it. It is really hard. One of the reasons why it is really hard is the jury. Is the jury sitting there he is talking about She was asking for it. Talking about What was she were? talking about Why was she out that late any damn way? That is a jury doing that to the woman as much as any other part of the system. When I think about it from the perspective of the victim and what are the avenues of justice for the victims if you are a person of color if you are a minority if you are an other I feel the jury makes it very hard for you as the victim to get justice. I feel better about the judge not caring if the people that you shot happen to be white or black. A jury cares a lot about that. If you cannot convict a cop when you know he did it when you saw him do it when you cannot convict the cop who shot when we cannot even indict the cop who choked Eric Gardner to death in broad daylight. That to me requires a much more drastic rethink of how we do things in this country. To me the first people to go have to be these Gee The Jerks. Jad I find that really persuasive. Jeffrey I do not and maybe that is because I have served on a bunch of juries. I have been on about six now and I have time and again been amazed about one time I was in a murder case. Some man had been accused of stabbing a woman 22 times and she died on the staircase. They are fourth woman and in New York they just picked the person who is picked first becomes the fourth person. She came in she sat down to look how many of you noticed that the defendants' lawyer was asleep a lot of the time? Every hand went up. He do not see this. Here's what I want you to do. Let us go back over everything that we know. Essentially retry the case and we actually went together through every bit of evidence looking for some doubt somewhere. We staged the stabbing we went back over the distances where the guy have gotten from here to there in that amount of time. I live in that neighborhood. I do not think you can maybe you can. We basically did the job of the court all over again ourselves and when we were done. It is okay let us vote now. When it came clear to the fourth woman that we were going to convict because she was counting the votes and finally the 12th vote went to convict. Just shorter than her chair. When she got off her chair she actually was smaller than when she was sitting on chair but she asked us all to hold hands. We just spent five days we have been sequestered in a hotel. Each of us had policemen guarding us because there was some violence about it. We are all standing on the way she asked us to hold hands and then she looks up at the ceiling and it is one of those ordinary rooms. She addresses the woman who is killed and she says We have spent the last few days trying to do something that is just you are there. You died at his hands or did not. We decided that you did and we hope and we pray that this is a system that works and that you are getting justice. She said God bless America. Robert Wow. Jad That is amazing. Even though I think you are expressing a faith in democracy that I think is in short supply right now. Robert I know.  Jad Big thanks to producers Soren Wheeler and Tracy Hunte. Unidentified Speaker Now we should say a couple of things to first of all Jeffrey Abramson his book is called We the Jury and also Judge Fred B. Rogers in Colorado. Unidentified Speaker Nancy Martyr a law professor at Chicago Kent College of Law. Unidentified Speaker Valerie Han's professor of law at Cornell law school. Unidentified Speaker Ella Hannaford with the National Center for State Courts. Robert Lewis in the WNYC newsroom for helping me out with some public record stuff. Unidentified Speaker One more quick note Laura Kriho the woman from the beginning of the story the juror who got punished. She actually passed away earlier this year and we just want to say what a pleasure it was to talk to her and how lucky we feel to have been able to tell her story. Robert This story is produced by Matt Kielty and Tracy Hunte. Jad I am Jad Abumrad. He is Robert Krulwich. Thanks for listening. Emily Crockett This is Emily Crockett calling from Washington DC. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad Dylan Keefe is our Director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is senior editor Jamie York is our senior producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler David Gebel Tracy Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack and Molly Webster. With help from Valentina Bohanini  Phoebe Wang and Katie Ferguson. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 