Introduction                You are listening to Radiolab. Introduction                Radiolab. Introduction                From. Introduction                From WNY. Introduction                C.C.C. Introduction                C. Introduction                And NPR. Robert Krulwich           So where are we? Jad Abumrad               Um we are at church. Robert Krulwich           In a church. Oh that is that is different for us. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. It is not usually where we start we are in a church. Robert Krulwich           Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad               Cathedral really. A huge cathedral in upper Manhattan St. John the Divine. We have got an organ. Church Envior.              Jad Abumrad               The preacher there is the preacher. Robert Krulwich           Congregation of course. Jad Abumrad               Mm-hmm . A couple of thousand people in the pews at least. Church Envior.             Jesus said Therefore I trust you. Jad Abumrad               Your basic Sunday service. Church Envior.             If any of you find worrying and the single- Jad Abumrad               Except today. You have also got... Here it comes. Church Envior.              Jad Abumrad               Dogs. Church Envior.             Look at the dogs over here.  Jad Abumrad               The reason we begin here is because today the church is filled with dogs. Interviewer                  Can I talk to you about your dog?                     Yeah. Interviewer                  What is his or her name?                     His name is . Interviewer                  And what is he?                     He is a Labrador and poodle mix.                     Well I have Legend who I just adopted in January. Interviewer                  Okay.                     I have Denzel. Jad Abumrad               Note by the way you know more than dogs you have got birds.                     His name is Jessie. It is a barn owl. Interviewer                  And now has this guy ever been blessed before?                     I do not think so. No. He was just born this year. Jad Abumrad               And hamsters.                     His name is Tubby. Tubby toes and if he would come out you would see why it is because he is really fat. Jad Abumrad               And all kinds of creatures. Interviewer                  We have got a little girl with a falcon and behind her... Oh it is a giant tortoise. Jad Abumrad               This is the St. Francis day of the animals it is a yearly event. Interviewer                  Wait and coming towards us. Jad Abumrad               Where people bring their animals to be blessed. Interviewer                  Is a donkey. Jad Abumrad               The folks that are gathered here... Interviewer                  And there is a little girl with a hermit crab. Jad Abumrad               They do not think there is anything weird or inappropriate about this. In fact if you ask them... Interviewer                  And here comes a bull. Jad Abumrad               Here's what they say.                     I do not know if it means anything to her but it means it to me.                   Yeah.                     Because you know you want it to um baptize your babies.                   Yeah.                     And this is more or less the same kind of thing. Interviewer                  And what is it what does it mean to you?                     It just means when when she finally does go away she is gonna uh go to heaven. Interviewer                  And what kind of parrot is she?                   A Macaw blue and gold. Chuckles                      Mama.                   Oh yeah do not put your hand near his face. Interviewer                  And what is his name?                   Chuckles. Interviewer                  Chuckles. Chuckles                      Bye bye. Interviewer                  Do you feel like he has a a soul or an inner life of some sort?                   It is a thinking being. They are they are as smart as we are really.  Robert Krulwich           Jad? Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Robert Krulwich           Uh since you invited me here I do not want to be impolite or anything. Jad Abumrad               Say what you are going to say. Robert Krulwich           Well okay. Th- th- these people of course they love their animals. Jad Abumrad               Sure yeah you can hear that.                   Because when I am feeling sad he comes in the bed and he lays down spine to spine with me and he just does not leave my side. Robert Krulwich           But are not they presuming a little bit that the animals they love are going to feel the grace of the prayer or feel the blessing which is a... Jad Abumrad               Which raises a question. Robert Krulwich           What do we really know about what goes on inside the animals mind? Jad Abumrad               Yeah all those things you might feel in a church grace gratitude uh guilt. Can the animals feel those things too? Robert Krulwich           How much can we share? Jad Abumrad               And can you measure it? Robert Krulwich           Yeah. Jad Abumrad               I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich           I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. Church Envior.              Robert Krulwich           And we will begin the hour with a story about an animal who would I am sure loved to have been at the worship service but was it was a very inconvenient thing for him. Jad Abumrad               He did not get the info. Robert Krulwich           He could not quite get there. Jad Abumrad               Okay just to get things rolling. This is a story uh that we heard about- Mick Menago               It is okay I give them enough to talk about as it is. Jad Abumrad               First from the following dude. Jad Abumrad               Hey is it Mick or is it Mike? Mick Menago               Uh I got by Mick. There is way too many Mikes around. Jad Abumrad                Oh okay. Mick  is his name. Mick Menago               Well the boats down here- Jad Abumrad               And uh we met Mick recently at the Emeryville Marina which is not far from San Francisco where he is got a boat called the Super Fish. That Mick says he rents out for all kinds of things. Mick Menago               Nature trips to ash scattering bachelor parties fireworks watching. I do not care. I got a little cardboard sign I stand by the freeway it says have boat need work. Jad Abumrad                So yeah that is Nick. And our story begins one morning in December. Mick Menago               Probably eight oclock in the morning or something as I recall. Jad Abumrad               It is a few years back Mick just kind of sitting at home. Mick Menago               I was at home yeah. It was the middle of December we did not have any work. Jad Abumrad               But then he gets this call. Mick Menago               Hello. I got this call... Hello there. Jad Abumrad               It was a call relaying a message from a fisherman way out at sea. Mick Menago               18 miles maybe outside the Golden Gate Bridge. They told me that there was a whale in trouble tangled up in crab gear and it did not appear to be able to move.  Jad Abumrad               So after he hangs up Mick immediately calls a few dive buddies. Mick Menago               Tim Young. Tim Young                   Tim Young Air Force Pararescue. Mick Menago               And then uh let us see. James Moskito             James Moskito. Mick Menago               James Moskito. James Moskito             Professional diver. Mick Menago               I called him and said Hey you know here's the deal. Are you interested? Tim Young                   It was a no brainer. James Moskito             I said Yeah I am in absolutely. Mick Menago               I figured alright we are going. James Moskito             So I packed up my stuff. Tim Young                   Grabbed my gear and I went directly to the boat. Holly Drewyard            And we left underneath the Golden Gate Bridge.  Nothing but the horizon in front of us. Holly Drewyard            My name is Holly  I am James' significant other.  We motored out for about two hours. I did due west towards the Farallon Islands.                   What were you feeling when you were on the boat heading out? Holly Drewyard            I did not think we would find her. I really did not. Jad Abumrad               But at 18 miles off the coast completely open water one of the divers spots some crab buoys in the distance and some seagulls flying overhead. And as they got closer... Holly Drewyard            Well I saw the whale. Tim Young                   It was just a- Holly Drewyard            Just the very top of the whale. Tim Young                   Sticking up about maybe six inches out of the water. Holly Drewyard            At the surface. Jad Abumrad               A tiny sliver of black. Tim Young                   And that was it. And then I said Okay we need to see what is going on so uh... Jad Abumrad               So Tim and James jump into an inflatable boat and they paddle about a couple of hundred feet from the whale. James Moskito             And it just was not happening. Every time that this whale came on up it would just displace the boat back again so it would push us back again. Jad Abumrad               Not to mention. Tim Young                   The visibility in the water was just terrible. Jad Abumrad               They could not even see down there to see you know what they were dealing with. James Moskito             And you know what sometimes plans have to change in in mid-flight. Jad Abumrad               So Tim and James look at each other and without saying a word. James Moskito             Boom we got out of the boat and- Tim Young                   Splashed into the water. James Moskito             And I see a shadow. This massive animal. Tim Young                   A hazy silhouette. James Moskito             And we just started swimming. Tim Young                   To the whale. About a 100 feet away... James Moskito             Uh you know parts of blubber and skin floating around. Tim Young                   35 feet. 20 feet. Jad Abumrad               And then they see it. James Moskito             My goodness this thing is the size of a school bus. Jad Abumrad               A female humpback whale is one of the largest creatures on the planet 50 feet long 50 tons and this particular whale was not in a kind of C shape. Where it is head was at the top of the water but it is tail was almost pointed directly down. James Moskito             It was almost like somebody was pulling her down by the tail to the bottom of the ocean. Tim Young                   Yeah there was probably 20 crab traps. 2000 pounds at least just tied up to the tail. James Moskito             She had just become an anchor. Tim Young                   An anchor. James Moskito             And to see her not be able to move that tail and to struggle. Tim Young                   Just like  The whale was actually really  laboring to breathe.  Just a little puff and there was just rope everywhere. Tim Young                   It went around the whale's mouth around the whale's head. Jad Abumrad               Across her eye over her back. Tim Young                   Wrapped around the pectoral fins all the way down to his tail. I thought there was no hope. James Moskito             There was no chance. Tim Young                   We are looking at a dead whale. The whale just does not know it yet. Tim Young                   But I knew that I had to try when to swim to the whale. And as soon as I decide okay I am going to swim to the whale well the whale decides she was not going to have that. Jad Abumrad               What she would do. Tim Young                   She put up her pectoral fin which is like her arm and this pectoral fin I about 15 feet long it is about four feet wide and she just  splashed down the water in front of me. You know it is the size of an airplane wing coming down on top of you just inches from my head. Tim Young                   So you you know at that point I backed off and uh waited. Jad Abumrad               Waited for the whale to settle down. James Moskito             She was physically exhausted. Jad Abumrad               Which she did and then they both swim back. James goes to the tail and Tim up to the whale's head. Tim Young                   You know I was there with a a six inch dive knife. Jad Abumrad               Cutting out line right near her eye. Tim Young                   Which was the size of grapefruit. Tim Young                   And her eye was moving keeping an eye on me. Jad Abumrad               Really. Tim Young                   Absolutely. Jad Abumrad               He would go left her eye would go left. He would go right her eye would go right. Tim Young                   She was tracking me. Jad Abumrad               And all the while they are just cutting as much rope as they can. James Moskito             You really had to saw at it. It was very strong very tight. Sometimes I would cut a rope and it would be a loose rope and all of a sudden something else would tighten up. Which was the one rope that would let it all free. Jad Abumrad               This whole process took hours. But finally James gets to the end of the this at the tail sawing his way through that big clump of line. And he realizes at a certain point that to cut through line. James Moskito             I am going to have to stab the whale to get my knife underneath the rope. Jad Abumrad               Ah. James Moskito             It was that tight though. I uh jabbed my knife into the whale's tale and pulled the rope and then cut it. Jad Abumrad               And once the rope went . James Moskito             It was a very surreal moment looking down and seeing the 20 crab traps and buoys just disappear into the abyss.  Jad Abumrad               And just like that the whale was gone. James Moskito             I am spinning around going where she go where she go. Jad Abumrad               But as the water settled they realized they would done it. They would freed her. James Moskito             As soon as I came up I I was like Whew who. Tim Young                   Wow. James Moskito             Whooping it up and yelling. Tim Young                    Unbelievable. James Moskito             I was screaming. Tim Young                   Can you imagine it. Jad Abumrad               Now here's where the story takes uh a pretty startling turn. James Moskito             Hi fiving. Jad Abumrad               In fact the whole reason we wanted to tell this story to begin with is for what happens next. So Tim and James and the other divers are in the water they are celebrating hi fiving and then all of a sudden James looks down. James Moskito             Next thing I know I have this 50 ton whale coming right at me and I am thinking Oh my God. Stop I just saved you. Jad Abumrad               Wait so this whale is coming at you from below like Jaws. James Moskito             Yeah she is rising up towards me. Tim Young                   Oh God. James Moskito             And I am just thinking this is going to hurt and... Jad Abumrad               And... James Moskito             And uh when she was only inches away from my chest... She stopped. And pushed me on the chest backwards and then released me and then kind of pushed again and then release and pushed again  and again. Jad Abumrad               Wow. James Moskito             And then she swam up right next to me puts her head up above the water so that her eye was above the water and then came up and looked directly at me. Jad Abumrad               And for what felt like 30 seconds he says she just stared at him. James Moskito             The pupil did not move around. She was not looking for anything else. She was just looking at me. James Moskito             You are in the presence of something that great. It makes you feel small. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. James Moskito             It it really was a a very emotional feeling. You know I was not quite sure what to make out of it make of it. Jad Abumrad               But then he says she went off to the next diver. James Moskito             And did the same thing. Tim Young                   I I remembered distinctly I was 18 inches away from her eye and she just looked at me and let me touch her and then swam off. James Moskito             And then she went off to the next diver and did the same thing and the next person and did the same thing. Jad Abumrad               One by one. James Moskito             Coming up right next to him. Looking at him really good you know inches away eyeballing him. Holly Drewyard            She swam around every diver. Mick Menago               All the guys got it. Holly Drewyard            So it was about dusk um the water was glass flat. I was sitting at the helm of the boat just in awe. And they had to leave the whale she did not want to leave them. Jad Abumrad               Now there is a real question here. What exactly was that whale doing or saying? Was she saying anything? If you ask James or Tim or Mick or any of the other divers that were in the water that day they will tell you. Tim Young                   I felt this whale was really thanking us. James Moskito             I know it sounds crazy but I could see the look in her eye. This mammal this this 50 ton mammal was literally saying thanks. Thanks for helping me out. And you know I will I will bring that to my grave knowing the gratification that I felt.  Robert Krulwich           Hmm. Wow. Jad Abumrad               So what do you think? I mean here's the question really. Robert Krulwich           Uh huh. Jad Abumrad               Was that whale saying thank you? Robert Krulwich           Was the whale saying... Well I think the whale was saying something. I mean a whale if she was just freed of her ropes I would think she would just go off and say Whew I am free. So the fact that she would- Jad Abumrad               That she hung around. Robert Krulwich           And make these specific Jad Abumrad               Circle eyeballs. Robert Krulwich           Visits. Like I do not know I feel that she there is something intentional about that. She did not leave anyone out right? Jad Abumrad               No she- Robert Krulwich           She went to everybody. Jad Abumrad               In fact according to one of the guys one the boat she actually went to the boats and did the same thing to the boats. Robert Krulwich           She said thank you to the boats. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Robert Krulwich           Hmm well then. So she was looking at the people but she also thought that the craft was somebody she should say thank you or say deal with. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Robert Krulwich           So maybe she was just psyched maybe she was just uh... I really do not know what she. I mean I do not I do not feel completely comfortable just saying... Of course I know what I want to feel. Jad Abumrad               Yeah me too. Robert Krulwich           But let us just try to straighten up for second. We have a guy named Clive Wynn. He teaches at the university... Clive Wynn                  Hello. Robert Krulwich           Hey. Jad Abumrad               Oh hi is this Mr. Clive Wynn. Clive Wynn                  Yeah this is Clive Wynn. Jad Abumrad               Hi. Robert Krulwich           Uh. Clive is with the psychology department at the University of Florida. Clive Wynn                  Who am I talking... Who is this? Jad Abumrad               This is Jad from Radiolab in- Clive Wynn                  Right hi Jad. Jad Abumrad               Clive also happens to be an expert on animal psychology. Robert Krulwich           Hi and this is Robert also. Um... Clive Wynn                  Hi Robert. Robert Krulwich           Can you hear us pretty well? Clive Wynn                  I can hear you pretty well. I am I am wondering how well I am going to distinguish your voices. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                Oh no need to do that. Robert Krulwich           Treat us as a unitary figure. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Clive Wynn                   Okay. Robert Krulwich           But so let me let me begin now this is Robert talking. Clive Wynn                  Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich           We will tell you a story and we want to know what you think of the story? Robert Krulwich           So once upon a time and not too long ago. Jad Abumrad               Alright we are going to fast forward a bit. Because we ran Clive through the entire whale story front to back. Robert Krulwich           So my question to you is. If a diver said to you this whale said thank you to me. What would you say? Clive Wynn                  Well I would be in a difficult situation because I do not doubt that what these people experienced was a very moving moment with that whale but the problem is I just do not speak whale so- Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                Clive Wynn                  I do not know what thank you looks like in whale. If I am going to be a cynic about it I would say Well the whale has been trapped for I believe over a day and may just be disoriented. Robert Krulwich           Well this was this was parking herself with one individual and the moving to the next. That is not a distracted that looks like its got some intention. Clive Wynn                  It shows some interest in the individuals. I will give you that. But how do we how do we get from that to deducing that the whale is trying to express things. Jad Abumrad               But what do you mean? Its just- Clive Wynn                  Let us play a different example. Let us oppose that you found a bear in the woods that was caught up in some netting that ended up in the woods. And you work for hours to free the bear and then the bear eats you. Does that mean that the the the bears are an ungrateful species of animal. Jad Abumrad               Yes.  Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad               No I do not truly believe that. Clive Wynn                  Right well so so I mean it would make as much sense to escribe ingratitude to the bear and it does to escribe gratitude to the whale. I just do not think that is a useful way of trying to understand animals. Clive Wynn                  And I think it ultimately it demeans them because it means that instead of living in a world that is full of a diversity of wonderful creatures each with its own ways of relating to other members of its own species and other members of other species. We say well we do not live in a world like that. We live in a world that is basically a world of human beings. It does not matter some of these human beings have fur suits on. Robert Krulwich            Clive Wynn                  Some of these human beings weigh hundreds of tons and live under the ocean and can hold their breath for a very long time. None of that really matters ultimately they are all basically like us and I just do not find that satisfying. Robert Krulwich           Mm. Are you saying that you do not know if there is a possibility of sharing or that you do not think that there is a possibility of sharing at a emotional level between two species? Clive Wynn                  Um I do not doubt that there is the possibility of sharing between two species. I mean you I see it with dogs all the time. But I think it would be a mistake if we thought that the love we feel for our dogs is the same feeling that the dog has back to us. It it has different qualities and it is very- Robert Krulwich           But when you pet your dog and it wags its tail and it seems happy to see you. Clive Wynn                  Yeah. Robert Krulwich           Do you just like not trust that? Clive Wynn                  Well okay so let me make clear that I wear two hats. When I am talking about a dog particularly a pet of my own. I am wearing... I have two possible hats I can wear and one is that when the dog pants back at me I just hug the dog and you know let him kiss me and that is that is life with a dog. Clive Wynn                  But if I am if I am now wearing my scientific hat I am getting my blanket as wet as I possibly can. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                Clive Wynn                  Then I ask myself What do these behaviors mean among dogs.  Clive Wynn                  There is a a beautiful study that came out recently from Alexander Horowitz. Jad Abumrad               Where do we find her? Clive Wynn                  She is... Well she is around the corner from you. She is at Barnard College. Jad Abumrad               So we sent our producers Soren Wheeler. Soren Wheeler             Yo. That is me. Jad Abumrad               To meet her and he ended up hanging out with her and her dog . Soren Wheeler             Yeah. Yeah. Jad Abumrad               In a park.  Clive Wynn                  She did this beautiful experiment that shows that um when people think their dog is looking guilty. Clive Wynn                  Actually the dog is just being submissive. Soren Wheeler             So here's what she did. She tracked down a bunch of dog owners. Soren Wheeler             And she found a bunch of owners who believe that like most dog owners do that their dog feel guilt. Soren Wheeler             And then she set up a situation where all of the dog owners had to scold their dogs. Because you know they had been told that their dogs did something bad but the trick of the experiment is that only half the dogs had done something wrong. Clive Wynn                  Half the dogs had actually been naughty and half the dogs had not been naughty. But then she... Clive Wynn                  Lied to half of the owners. Soren Wheeler             So even the owners whose dogs had not been bad thought their dogs had been bad. So everybody scolded their dog. Soren Wheeler             No and Finnegan. Soren Wheeler             I cannot believe you ate. Soren Wheeler             No this is true. See Finnegan just made the look even though he had not done anything wrong. And that is essentially what she found. Even the non-guilty dogs made the guilty look. Clive Wynn                  It did not matter whether the dog had transgressed or not. All that mattered was whether it was being chastised by its owner. Robert Krulwich           So bad dog bad dog. Clive Wynn                  Right. Robert Krulwich           That creates the look not the deed. Clive Wynn                  That is exactly right. Jad Abumrad               But but for me the pivotal question here is not whether or not they all had the look but what is attached to that look. What feeling in the dog is attached to that guilty look. Maybe the dogs who were falsely accused still felt bad. Robert Krulwich            Clive Wynn                  . Well maybe they did. Maybe they did and maybe there are angels on top of this control console here. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                  Jad Abumrad               I thought it was a perfectly valid question. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad               Yeah we should thank uh Alexander Horowitz her latest book is called Inside of a Dock.  Robert Krulwich           And I before we end this section have we resolved the question of what was that whale doing with those people. Was she saying thank you or no? Jad Abumrad               No and do we ever resolve any questions at all. Robert Krulwich           Well we try. We get a little closer and we kind of just go-  Jad Abumrad               No we have not resolved it. Robert Krulwich           So we will try harder. Jad Abumrad               But but but but in our next section a mere 70 seconds away we will try very hard to actually get scientific about it. Robert Krulwich           Good. Tim Young                   Hi this Tim Young out in California uh on my first take of reading the Radiolab credits. So here it goes. Tim Young                   Radiolab is funded in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the National Science Foundation. Clive Wynn                  Hi this is Clive Wynn. Radiolab is produced by WNYC and distributed by NPR. Jad Abumrad               Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich           And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. Today is our... Robert Krulwich           Animal minds. Animal minds. Jad Abumrad               Right. Robert Krulwich           Do do can can one animal really know what is going on in another animal's head? Jad Abumrad               Yeah like really know. Robert Krulwich           Really know. Jad Abumrad               Thanks for meeting us. Jad Abumrad               So we were thinking about that whale story that we heard before the break. Robert Krulwich           Yep. Jad Abumrad               You know where the divers meet the whale and they were sure the whale was sayings thanks- James Moskito             Literally saying thanks. Thanks for helping me out. Jad Abumrad               Okay that is their opinion but we wanted to know like what can you actually scientifically say about that kind of exchange. And that question led us.                   Introduce yourself. Jad Abumrad               To this guy. Patrick H.                     Uh my name is Patrick . I am a neuroscientist at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine in New York. Robert Krulwich           Although actually the truth is he is really from some place like Geneva. He is a Swiss from the French part of Switzerland. Jad Abumrad               Right. Bang out we came to him because he may have found a way of separating the animals. Of knowing which animals can genuinely have human emotions and which cannot. Patrick H.                     It it it starts it starts in 1995. We were studying the anatomy of the human cingulate cortex. Jad Abumrad               That is part of the brain that is right here. Kind of between your eyes but down. Patrick H.                     And uh a student in my . Jad Abumrad               She was looking at some brains and she saw... Robert Krulwich           Something odd. Patrick H.                     This very slender  neuron. I have never seen a neuron like that. Maybe it is abnormal it is pathological. Jad Abumrad               Just to be sure she got some slides of other human brains looked in the same place. Patrick H.                     We- Jad Abumrad               And there it was again. Patrick H.                     Started to see them in- Robert Krulwich           And again. Patrick H.                     And we were very pleased. So okay we have discovered a new cell type.  Whew something that is unique to human. Jad Abumrad               But then they went to the library and discovered that some guy... Patrick H.                     Who is name is . Robert Krulwich           Costanto. Patrick H.                     Constantin von Economo. Jad Abumrad               This Romanian guy. Robert Krulwich           Von Economo. Jad Abumrad               He would seen these cells 70 years ago. Robert Krulwich           And he named them spindle cells. Jad Abumrad               Because of their shape. Oh that must have been a very sad day for Esther. Patrick H.                     No no no. Jad Abumrad               Because now they believe that these little brains cells may be a key to how humans relate to one another. And whether or not other creatures can relate to us in the same way. Robert Krulwich           Right. Jad Abumrad               Is it possible to for us to see a spindle cell. Patrick H.                     Yeah we can we can show spindle cells. Robert Krulwich           Patrick Hoff took us down the hall. Jad Abumrad               Yep. Robert Krulwich           Jad went first and parked him in front of a big microscope. Patrick H.                     Here find it again. Look at it. Jad Abumrad               Will it be obvious to me- Patrick H.                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               From looking at is. Patrick H.                     Crossing the middle of the field you can see a series tall slender... Jad Abumrad               It is making me dizzy a little bit. Patrick H.                     We have one two three four five. Jad Abumrad               Is that the spindles? Patrick H.                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Oh they are everywhere. Patrick H.                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Oh. You want to see them? Robert Krulwich           What do you mean I want to see them? I mean yeah. Here you hold the mic. Robert Krulwich           Oh yeah there is a whole troop of them and they are long and skinny and purple. Jad Abumrad               It is funny because the normal brain cells which you can also see in there are like dot dot dot but these ones are . Like little purple bananas. Robert Krulwich           Like a team of purple bananas. Jad Abumrad               And the thing that makes these cells so interesting... Robert Krulwich           All seeming to head off in this direction. Patrick H.                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               According to Patrick Hoff is that you know in the normal brain cells they just talk to their neighbors but these because they are so long... Robert Krulwich           They seem to be yelling across a big uh distance. Patrick H.                     Exactly. We know that these cells send an action at some distance.  Robert Krulwich           It is across the valley. Patrick H.                     Yeah it is across the valley exactly. It is projecting. Jad Abumrad               But projecting what and from where to where? Well Patrick Hoff does not entirely know but he says he can make a pretty good guess based on... Well if you look at a microscope you do notice some things. Patrick H.                     Yeah yeah so here here on the top of the spindle points to all surface of the brain. Jad Abumrad               The top he says seems to shoot up or it is those more modern parts of the brain that are involved. Patrick H.                     High order cognition. Jad Abumrad               Yeah language abstract thinking. Whereas the bottom of the spindle seems to shoot found deep down. Patrick H.                     Lower centers in in the brain. Jad Abumrad               Towards those older parts of our brain that involve feelings emotions instinct. So perhaps this is what Patrick Hoff thinks. That these cells are a kind of network a really important one that allows the different parts of our inner selves to connect. Jad Abumrad               Like you have got the parts of us down here that feel things can now communicate with the parts of us up here that think things. And this is an oversimplification of course but the point the larger point is that this is exactly what happens when you look into the eyes of another human being. Jad Abumrad               Because it begins with a kind of thought. Your eyes seem sad but then that thought within you travels a great distance and connects with the feeling of sadness so that you feel sad too. Patrick H.                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad               I mean it is the basis of kind of empathy. Patrick H.                     Exactly exactly. You know I I see you happy you know so so that I feel good about it. Jad Abumrad               You know and consider those times I mean not just empathy where like your thoughts and feelings are in conflict and they have got to really talk to one another. Robert Krulwich           Like for example when you get in front of me at the microphone yet again. Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich           And I hate you but I know that I have to work with you so I I I sit on that feeling. I just sit on my... It is going down to the bottom of my brain but I say take a nap. Jad Abumrad               See that is the best part of your spindle situation is that it is not just that thoughts connect to feelings but those thoughts can sometimes suppress feelings. Jonah Lehrer                Yeah I you know I think that is the idea is that humans in social interactions cannot rely on these hard wired emotions in the same way other animals might be able to. Jad Abumrad               That is Jonah Lehrer science writer. Jonah Lehrer                Um you know we cannot like a dog just hump every other dog and see what happens. Robert Krulwich            Jonah Lehrer                We have we have we have got to flirt and be funny and you know buy a couple of drinks. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                Jonah Lehrer                But but that that was... You guys have to cut that because I do not want hate mail from- Robert Krulwich           I am so astonished. Jad Abumrad                Jonah Lehrer                Well I was like wow- Robert Krulwich           We have got to use that Jad. Jonah Lehrer                Um I just I just turned into a frat boy. So  but the point being that our social interactions are very complicated and that and that we cannot rely... It is much tougher for humans to rely on simply these hard wired primitive instincts. Jonah Lehrer                You know so the job of spindle cells is to simple broadcast  content to the rest of the brain. Jad Abumrad               Because without our whole brain involved we would never able to navigate the social world and make any kind of connection. Robert Krulwich           Right. So if spindle cells then allow us to talk gently and emotionally to one another the questions is this is the question for the hour. What about intra-species. Is it intra or inter. Jad Abumrad               Intra. Robert Krulwich           To look within. Jad Abumrad               Intranet. Robert Krulwich           Yeah that is inside. Jad Abumrad               I think a cross species is what you mean. Robert Krulwich           Does any other animal have spindle cells. Jad Abumrad               And as it happens... Patrick H.                     So where I am taking you to my cold room. Jad Abumrad               Just down the hall from his office Professor Hoff has a freezer. Patrick H.                     Uh where I store the specimens. Jad Abumrad               This is a very very big door too. Patrick H.                     So- Jad Abumrad               Full of brains. Patrick H.                     Yes so it is going to get really cooler here.  Jad Abumrad               All different kinds. Patrick H.                     We have brains of all your species the sedation are over there. We have the great apes around here. Robert Krulwich           This is the whale wall. Patrick H.                     That is the whale wall. Yeah- Jad Abumrad               He is got dozens and dozens of brains in buckets and in jars and he keeps them all organized. Uh where each category of species has its own shelf.  Patrick H.                     You have more apes down there with gorillas and orangutans. Robert Krulwich           Uh. Patrick H.                     Whew. Robert Krulwich           It was really cold in there. Jad Abumrad               So what they did was they took a bunch of those brains off the shelf and walked them down the hall to the lab and put little pieces of them under a microscope. They did not expect to find any of those  neurons in any of these other creatures because he was pretty sure. Patrick H.                     This is something that is unique to human. Jad Abumrad               But... Patrick H.                     One day we were looking at the brain of the humpback whale and we stiff found spindle cells plenty of spindle cells. Robert Krulwich           Oh so what was that did you were you surprised? Patrick H.                     And I was there and said okay this is fascinating. Robert Krulwich           You were not expecting that? Patrick H.                     I was not at all expecting that. Jad Abumrad               But on the other hand... Patrick H.                     Here we have the the humpback whale which is a very social animal. They they they form clans they they communicate. The males have a song.  They hunt together they develop hunting strategies which requires perfect coordination of many whales so they have to act together to do that. Jad Abumrad               Now if acting together is the key you know in having complex social structures well then these things should not just be limited to whales. And in fact over the years Hoff and other scientist have found spindle cells in chimpanzees elephants dolphins gorillas which begs the question. Jad Abumrad               Like if we want to have an experience with another creature and not just at the zoo but a real shared experience. Do those creatures need to have these things? Do you think the existence of spindle cells creates more of a possibility of having that cross species sharing moment? Patrick H.                     I think so. If we assume that these cells and have such an influence on uh the sociability of species. It is very likely that you would uh experience something of that kind with a species that has them. I doubt you would get a very good experience if you were trying to do this with a hyena. Jonah Lehrer                So maybe what we see when we look into you know these sad eyes of a blue whale or or when we look into you know the eyes of an elephant um cradling a baby elephant which are just the cutest things on earth. Maybe what we recognize is is is that same flavor of emotion that same inner life for feeling. Maybe and this is a big maybe maybe that inner life requires spindle cells.  Robert Krulwich           But how big is that maybe? I mean it sounds like a really maybe maybe. Jonah Lehrer                I mean you know as some point this is all just a... I think this is still very theoretical. Robert Krulwich           And in fact if you ask people like Clive Wynn the fellow who who who poo-pooed our our whale thank you from before. Jad Abumrad               Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich           Ask Clive like could you look at animal and find something in the animal that says yep if he has that he is got feeling. Clive Wynn                  Well wrong. I do not for a moment imagine that there is going to be a type of nerve cell or a type of structure in the brain which is going to be such an asset test of whether an animal has a particular psychological capacity. That we can then find that kind of neuron and say well now we know. Without having to look at the behavior of the animal now we know that this species has this or that psychological ability. Jad Abumrad               Well let me ask a question a different way. I mean do you think spindle cells or no spindle cells let us just toss them out for a second. Do you think there are a category of creatures that are more likely to have empathic experiences with us? Would you draw lines between beings? Clive Wynn                  Well the thing I would the thing I would emphasize if we are looking for empathy between uh different species is there um developmental experiences. Robert Krulwich           To make his point Clive told us about this experiment. He says let us take a chip with all the spindle cells inside the chimp brain in there. Put the chimp in a room and in front of the chimp let us put two cups face down. Robert Krulwich           Now one of the cups has a grape something delicious under it and the chimp does not know where the grape is. It could be under cup A or cup B. So what you the experimenter do is you simply point to the cup that has the grape. Like that is the one that one right there. Clive Wynn                  And all the animal has to do is to go to the cup that is pointed to. It seems simple enough. Robert Krulwich           But chimps Clive says chimps... Clive Wynn                  Find this stunningly difficult to understand. Robert Krulwich           Get this wrong. Jad Abumrad               What do you mean? Robert Krulwich           I mean they just look at you pointing and they look at you pointing and they look and you are pointing and they just go what. Clive Wynn                  Whereas dogs... Robert Krulwich           Who do not have spindle cells. Clive Wynn                  Most pet dogs get this from the get go. Jad Abumrad               The dogs can do this and chimps cannot? Clive Wynn                  Yeah yeah yeah. They quite spontaneously recognized that you should go where where they point. Robert Krulwich           And Clive says the explanation here is not that dogs have some special cell in their brain. It is simply because... Clive Wynn                  Because they grow up in our households. Robert Krulwich           They grow up with us. Clive Wynn                  Right. Jad Abumrad               Huh. Robert Krulwich           To test this idea he did this same study. Jad Abumrad               The pointing one. Robert Krulwich           Yep. Except this time with some wolves. Clive Wynn                  Because wolves are the animals from which dogs are descended but they have not lived in human households obviously. Robert Krulwich           And normally like the chimps wolves totally screw up the pointing test. Clive Wynn                  But we have done some tests on some wolves that were hand reared by human beings and are very friendly to human beings and we find that those wolves behave just like the dogs. That they are just as good at following the human pointing to find the food. Jad Abumrad               Really? Did you have to train them or? Clive Wynn                  No we did not train them. Jad Abumrad               They just picked it up? Clive Wynn                  Well they just picked it up. But these are exceptional wolves in so far as they were reared by human beings. They were bottled fed when they were wee babies. Jad Abumrad               Ah. Robert Krulwich           Ah. Clive Wynn                  Because there are things that go on earlier in our development that are crucial and that included learning who are your who are your kind. What the who am I? What am I? And you learn that in a critical period in your early life by looking around you and seeing who you are interacting with. Pretty much every dog you might meet has learned to accept humans as social companions and that is because it was reared in a human home and because evolution has prepared it with a relatively slow development so that it is pretty easy to tame a dog. Clive Wynn                  The wolf on the other hand it goes through its childhood and adolescence in the blink of an eye in the course of just a handful of weeks. And so it is actually extremely difficult to successfully hand rear a wolf because you have so little time available to you. And you have to invest 24 hours a day seven days a week during that brief period that a wolf is open to the possibility of learning who its companions might be. Jad Abumrad               That is really interesting. You know one one of the pieces of the interpretation that I find intriguing and I want to I want to run by you is that when- Robert Krulwich           Ooh that is so interesting. I am now sitting here thinking- Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich           Boy if I could raise a whale with a baby bottle then I would know whether the whale was saying thank you to me because I would have learned... It is not like I have to learn whale but whale would have learned human. Clive Wynn                  Well that is right. I mean of course this is completely hypothetical. The whale is a really bad example to choose. Robert Krulwich            Clive Wynn                  But my guess would be if you bottle fed a whale you would get a whale that might plausibly do something like a behavior that expresses thanks. Jad Abumrad                That is such a hard mental image to conjure. Clive Wynn                  Well that is right that is right. Jad Abumrad               Robert bottle feeding a whale. Robert Krulwich           Yeah well because we have to keep rising to the surface for 21 years to breathe. Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich           Before I actually get to the experiment. Clive Wynn                  Yes there a number of draw backs to that experiment. Robert Krulwich           Yeah.  Jad Abumrad               Radiolab will continue in a moment. Micha                          My name is  a Radiolab listener in Singapore. Micha                          Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. For more information about Sloan go to www.Sloan.org. Jad Abumrad               Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich           I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. Today uh kind of a hard topic to describe. We are calling it um animal minds animal minds. Robert Krulwich           Or maybe the better way to say this is minds other than our own. Jad Abumrad               Which would be the animals no? Robert Krulwich           That is the animals. Jad Abumrad               We are animals though. Yeah you are right. Robert Krulwich           No yeah. Jad Abumrad               Yeah you are right. Robert Krulwich           Yeah so we live with other... Yeah so we live with... We are having enough trouble just talking to each other.  Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich           But imagine if I were trying if you were a Labrador. Jad Abumrad               That would be tough. Robert Krulwich           See then we would have a problem. Or a whale. Jad Abumrad               No maybe we would not. That is kind of what we are looking at. How much can you really share with you know a Labrador or a whale. Robert Krulwich           Right and we are not solving this problem in this show at all. Jad Abumrad               No. Robert Krulwich           But maybe we can do this. Maybe instead of talking to scientist about other minds maybe we should talk to um... Jad Abumrad               A writer. Robert Krulwich           Yeah.                   Paul can you hear me? Paul can you hear? Paul oh Paul. Paul? Paul? Robert Krulwich           The writer we chose to look for you may now know was named Paul.                   Okay stand by. Robert Krulwich           Put Paul through.                   I am not hearing anything. Robert Krulwich           He is the author of any number of travel books novels. Jad Abumrad               Did not he win a big prize. Robert Krulwich           I am sure. Paul Theroux               Yes. Is that Jad? Jad Abumrad               Yes hi. Paul Theroux               J- A- D-. Jad Abumrad               That is me. Like a Pulitzer or one of the one of the big ones. Paul Theroux               Okay. Robert Krulwich           No he did not win a Pulitzer but he he won the prize of my heart when he wrote the Patagonian Express. Jad Abumrad                Paul Theroux               Oh so you are tapping. Okay great. Jad Abumrad               Yes. Robert Krulwich           Yes. Jad Abumrad               Anyhow uh Paul Theroux travels all around the world writing about all kinds of things. But the reason we called him is for something that actually happened in his backyard. Robert Krulwich           Which luckily for him happens to be in the state of Hawaii. Paul Theroux               I own uh seven acres on a slope a west facing slope on the north shore of Oahu. Robert Krulwich           Oh. Paul Theroux               And I had very very long grass. And someone said oh I know what you need are some geese. They will take care of that grass. so I got a couple. Robert Krulwich           And you decided not to go to the hardware store and buy a lawn mower. You decided to buy two animate birds. Paul Theroux               That is right. I would have need a really really serious industrial mower. Instead I got two non industrial geese.  Well I actually got three two ganders and a goose and a strange thing happened. One of the ganders imprinted on me. Jad Abumrad               So what does that mean? Robert Krulwich           So it means the baby chic boy looked at you- Paul Theroux               Yes. Robert Krulwich           And and- Paul Theroux               The first moving thing they see is the mother figure. This goose became very attached very protective. It would sit in my lap when another goose came up it would peck at them. It was both protective and attentive.  Robert Krulwich           But as the gander grew up strange things began to happen. Paul Theroux               First it became detached from me then aggressive toward me and then needed me. It was very strange and it made me think I want to get some more geese and I ant to read more about them and then and then watch them. Robert Krulwich           So he well he asked friends and friends said to him Look if you want to know everything that is important to know about geese you have to read E.B. White. Paul Theroux               Most people mention E.B. White when they talk about geese and of course I know and love E.B. White. Robert Krulwich           And if you are not a martian you probably love E.B. White too. Jad Abumrad               Well you I mean. What do you mean? People it is possible- Robert Krulwich           How many people have read Stuart Little or how many people have read Charlotte's Web. Jad Abumrad               It is true. Robert Krulwich           And if you do not love the children's fiction he certainly one of the great greatest of all America essayist. Jad Abumrad               Yeah see that is the point. He is one of the great American writers. He actually uh wrote the Bible for writing. Robert Krulwich           The Elements of Style. Jad Abumrad               The Elements of Style. Robert Krulwich           By uh Strunk. Jad Abumrad               Which is still the bible for writing weirdly and it was written like 50 years ago. Robert Krulwich           So when people point to anything by E.B. White you point seriously. Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich           And in this case very late in life after you moved uh up to a cabin in in Maine. He was in his 70s and this particular essay we are going to talk about is called very simply... Paul Theroux               The Geese. Robert Krulwich           The Geese Allen Cove July 9th 1971. Robert Krulwich           I have had a pair of elderly gray geese a goose and a gander living on this place for a number of years and they have been my friends.  So Paul Theroux opened the essay fully expecting to learn all about geese. But then he kept running across these little phrases and adjectives that made him cringe. Paul Theroux               You know he talks about a gosling that grows into I am quoting now. Robert Krulwich           A real dandy. Paul Theroux               A real dandy. Robert Krulwich           Full of pompous thoughts and surly gestures. Paul Theroux               Pompous thoughts and surly gestures. You know-  Jad Abumrad               I mean come on. I mean does not that make the goose a little bit more um easy to relate to. Paul Theroux               Alright take one word. Malice. Robert Krulwich           I could not tell whether the look in his eye was one of malice or affection. Paul Theroux               Malice malice is a word you use for you know Mussolini or uh you know somebody else not for not for a goose. Robert Krulwich           But what is the sin in that? If a man who is a professional story teller and one of the greatest ones says let me tell you about my geese and then talks about them as though they were uncles and aunts and neighbors with moods that are distinctly human. So what. Paul Theroux               Well I suppose you could say so or you could say but but so what if he put them in you know little Halloween costumes too for that matter so what. Robert Krulwich            Paul Theroux               But I am in the writing business the writing business should be unsparing. He could be quite unsparing himself in his writing. You are giving  E.B. White too much license if you are saying it really does not matter. It does matter to me. Robert Krulwich           And the reason it matters says Paul Theroux. Is that E.B. White got so attached to the idea of those geese as aging critters like himself. That he missed something deep and important about the geese. Paul Theroux               The elements of that behavior that is that is pure goose. Robert Krulwich           Paul pointed to the end of the essay. Robert Krulwich           Suddenly I heard sounds of a rumble outside in the barnyard where the ganders were. Robert Krulwich           Where a formerly great gander gets unseated by a younger male goose as a big fight lots of squawking and the old gander loses.  Robert Krulwich           I watched as he threaded his way slowly down the narrow path between clumps of thistles and daisies. His head was barely visible above the grasses but his broken spirit was plain to any eye. I felt very deeply his sorrow and his defeat. Paul Theroux               Wow the defeated gander goes off. Well this is not true at all. When a gander loses a battle he goes off gets his strength back and waits for a chance to attack again. That gander is going to come back and fight again. Robert Krulwich           So you are saying he got it wrong about the geese? Paul Theroux               Yes of course. Of course. Here is a man who is solitary he is a New Yorker who goes to Maine and becomes a gentleman farmer of a kind and begins to relate to his geese and then writes about them as though he is one of them. I know I am not one of them. Robert Krulwich           But if you cannot use words that are you know very human and psychological words and if you cannot because you are not a goose have whatever it is that geese have on their insides then what if you wanted to share something with a goose and I would bet you you do. Is there anyway in which you could honestly describe yourself as a friend of any of these geese? Paul Theroux               Yeah I I would you say you know that that this is a very good question. I I had a very surly  to use an E.B. White word a very a very um rambunctious gander and he got very sick. You know the thing is sitting on the ground just following its nest. I I thought he was really going to die and I nursed him back to health. Paul Theroux               I gave him a an antibiotic with a turkey baster and it took about three or four weeks. And the first thing he did when he was nursed back to health was he got up on two legs and I came up with the turkey baster to give him one last drink and he bit me. Jad Abumrad                Paul Theroux               And I thought um- Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad               Where did he bite you? Paul Theroux               He bit my leg. Hard. And I thought okay he is back to health. Jad Abumrad               You did not think ow how could you? Paul Theroux               Well I thought he he is he is healthy he is healthy again and he is behaving just as goose would. Robert Krulwich           Do not you see though that if the moment of true of your true most goosy moment is a moment when you are with a goose that you help bites you then you are out of this story in a fact. Paul Theroux               I absolutely agree with that. I I... In in all of this there is an implied uh loneliness.  I am not his friend I am not a feathered creature. I am a human being among birds. Robert Krulwich           Although curiously Paul Theroux does have an approach to communing with his geese. He takes a chair puts it on the lawn plops down in the chair and disappears. Paul Theroux               You know my writing day ends in the early afternoon. I have lunch and after lunch there is a long sunny period in the afternoon when I am alone I am with the geese and I sit around with them and try to make out what they are doing among each other and paying no particular attention to me. It is simply watching the world as it was. You are seeing creatures who are behaving as though cities do not exist presidents do not exist governments do not exist roads do not exist. Robert Krulwich           Ah. Paul Theroux               As if it is before the fall. Jad Abumrad               Mm. Paul Theroux               As though it is the peaceable kingdom. Simply watching animals who are content doing their thing. Then you feel a bit like Adam.  Clive Wynn                  And Lulu Miller. With help from  and Tim Howard. Jad Abumrad               Wait a second. Stop stop the machine. It just feels weird to end the show this way with this lonely geese thing. So we are going to play for you one final story. It is kind of a continuation uh of Paul Theroux and his geese except it involves a very different guy in a very different climate. Jad Abumrad               First of all who what who are you? What is your name? Paul Nicklen                 My name is  and I am a contributing photographer to National Geographic Magazine. Jad Abumrad               Paul Nicklen is basically National Geographic's arctic guy. Paul Nicklen                 Its I have been pegged as their polar specialist. Jad Abumrad               In this particular tale involves his attempt to photograph one of the great arctic predators. Paul Nicklen                 The Leopard seal. Jad Abumrad               Leopard seal which by reputation is a very nasty creature. Paul Nicklen                 Preface to this story is... Paul Nicklen                 In 2003 tragically a scientist was actually killed uh Kirsty Brown was doing underwater research and she was taken down my a leopard seal and drowned. Jad Abumrad               Was she just yanked off the ice or... Paul Nicklen                 She was swimming and it just came up and grabbed her. Jad Abumrad               Oh. Paul Nicklen                 And took her down to 300 feet. Jad Abumrad               None the less our story starts with Paul and his guide . They are in a boat in the Arctic Ocean looking for seals. Paul Nicklen                 The first seal we encountered I would never seen a leopard seal before and we we came around in into this bay where there was a penguin colony. And right away Godan who is seen many many leopard seals he said to me You know bloody hell that is the biggest seal I have ever seen. And she came up to boat with a penguin in her mouth and she went underneath the boat and she started ramming the penguin underneath the whole of the boat. Lifting the bow out of the water and that is when Godan looks to me and he says Paul it is time for you to get in the water yeah. Robert Krulwich            Paul Nicklen                 In his thick Swedish accent. Jad Abumrad               Wow were you freaking out? Paul Nicklen                 I had dry mouth um just from the nervousness. I was trembling and you know I put my mask on and slipped over in the 29 degree Fahrenheit water. And uh there she was instantly right there. Massive huge. Jad Abumrad               Well how huge? Paul Nicklen                 Probably over a 1000 pounds. Robert Krulwich           Oh my God. Paul Nicklen                 12 feet long. Paul Nicklen                 She dropped her penguin she came right over to me and she opened up her mouth. And she engulfed the front of the camera her canines were on top of my top to where below chin. You know I am basically staring down her throat. Jad Abumrad               I cannot believe you managed to take a picture of this. Because I am looking at this picture and these teeth are huge. Paul Nicklen                 The canines. Jad Abumrad               You know like massive. Robert Krulwich           So you were doing business at this moment? Paul Nicklen                 Yeah I am working at that point. Jad Abumrad               You can even see the textures of the seals tongue. Like she has these little fibers on them. Paul Nicklen                 Oh it is 180 degree view so you had to get that that perspective I am basically in the mouth to get that shot. Robert Krulwich           Wow so then what happened? Paul Nicklen                 She backs off looks at me sniff my flipper touched them with nose poked me in bum came up did this open mouth threat display again and then she swims away. Robert Krulwich           Ooh. Paul Nicklen                 Wow just I was just getting ready to swim back to the zodiac you know I have been in the water for quite a while and I am cold. And all of a sudden she shows up with a freshly caught live penguin chick in her mouth. Robert Krulwich           Huh. Paul Nicklen                 And I am sitting there staring at her and she stops about 10 feet away from and she is got the penguin by the feet and the penguin is flapping its flippers trying to get away. She lines the penguin up to face perfectly in my direction and then she lets it go. The penguin swam right by me and she chases off after it and grabs it comes back and does this again and again and again. Robert Krulwich           Why? Jad Abumrad               Yeah man what was she doing? Paul Nicklen                 At first I could not figure out what was going on. I thought maybe she was having a hard time eating it and then it dawned on me she was trying to feed me. Robert Krulwich           Where uh did you make any attempt during this period to say no thank you? Paul Nicklen                 No. Nope I am so in such disbelief at this point I am just trying to capture it. Robert Krulwich           Well did not you feel compelled as a social human to just offer some kind of gestural explanation. I mean with me I would have made some look like come I do not eat that stuff or- Jad Abumrad               Or maybe it is like you you take you take the penguin at that point. Paul Nicklen                 Well I mean I could not catch him. Jad Abumrad               I mean when in Rome you know. Paul Nicklen                 The penguin is swimming 15 miles and hour you know. Jad Abumrad               Oh so you mean when she let us go it just goes . Paul Nicklen                 Like a bullet. Robert Krulwich           No he is pathetic is what he is saying is I am a pathetic creature I cannot actually catch the thing. Paul Nicklen                 I am thinking exposures get the shot keep shooting. Robert Krulwich           You are such a photo dude you know. Paul Nicklen                  Jad Abumrad                Paul Nicklen                 Well I am I work for National Geographic. Jad Abumrad                Robert Krulwich            Paul Nicklen                 I do not want to anthropomorphize too much but as the penguin was swimming by this huge seal she looked over at me and I swear she had a look of disgust in her face. Robert Krulwich            Jad Abumrad                Paul Nicklen                 So she goes off and gets another penguin and this penguin now is quite weak and tired looking so I think she is worn it down. She lets the penguin go the penguin takes off. She grabs it does that a couple of more times. Jad Abumrad               And you are still not eating the penguin. Paul Nicklen                 Right next encounter was bringing me dead penguins. And sometimes she would just drop off a dead penguin right on top of the camera and she would just sit there with this dejected look on her face staring at me. Robert Krulwich            Paul Nicklen                 And then she went to the stage of flipping dead penguins on top of my head and trying to force feed me these penguins. Telling me at this point you know eat these damn penguins I am trying to feed you. And why will not you eat my penguins eat the penguins. Paul Nicklen                 And then she would start to eat the penguins right in front of me and show me how to eat them. She would rip them apart on the surface get the skin off them and she is shredding them in the water in front of me. Jad Abumrad               And and how much time is passing here? I mean we are talking minutes hours? Paul Nicklen                 This went on for four days. Jad Abumrad               Four days. Robert Krulwich           Four days.  Oh God. Jad Abumrad               And and when you are in the water you know day after day. What is happening for you at this point? Are you still just a guy with a camera or... Paul Nicklen                 I mean I was starting to fall in love with this seal. It is just uh this animal that is just so intelligent and so uh powerful and it can kill you in an instant yet your... I mean- Robert Krulwich           But when you say you were in love what you were... Were you in love with the idea of this or did you really like her? Paul Nicklen                 I really liked her. She was beautiful she was big. She had this this beautiful face beautiful silver color to her. She kind of glowed underwater. I am just so in love with this seal at this point. I am not sleeping at night I have a hard time eating. I just cannot wait to see her. I cannot. The first thing in the morning you know the first sign of light I am in that zodiac. Paul Nicklen                 And then on the fourth day is when you know I was thinking okay maybe she is weary of me and she is getting tired of me so I am just going to totally leave her alone. That is when I started going off and presenting myself to other seals who were swimming around the . Paul Nicklen                 And I was in the water and the same big female came up to me and she started to do all these really beautiful ballet like moves. I am photographing her and looking at her and all of a sudden she drops her penguin she turns upside down and she does this big guttural go go go go this big jarring noise that is vibrating my whole body. I can really feel it in my chest it is so loud and I am thinking am I being attacked. She finally told me that she is sick of me and wants me off her feeding grounds. Paul Nicklen                 But as soon as she did that another leopard seal shot out from right behind me. And so this leopard seal had snuck in behind me and she did that noise to chase that seal away a smaller seal. She chased the seal way it too had a penguin. She grabbed its penguin and brought me that seal's penguin and dropped it off in front of me. Jad Abumrad               Wow. Robert Krulwich           Wow. Jad Abumrad               Wow. Robert Krulwich           You are a lucky guy. Wow. Paul Nicklen                 I mean I am almost getting emotional reliving that. I mean it is very powerful. Robert Krulwich           Have you ever been in love with an animal quite this way before? Paul Nicklen                 Never. Never. Jad Abumrad               Have you every had an experience with uh with another human that rivals this? Paul Nicklen                 Perhaps when I was kid with my mom. Someone taking care of you and feeling safe and nurtured and protected but I have never had that in in my life as an adult. Jad Abumrad               It sounds this is such an interesting species moment here. Robert Krulwich           Yeah it sounds like you are doing something- Jad Abumrad               You are transgressing or something. Robert Krulwich           It sounds like you are stealing something from the Gods right here right at this moment. Paul Nicklen                 I I mean I do not know what words I can find to to explain it. Robert Krulwich           Hmm. Jad Abumrad               Thank you so much. Paul Nicklen                 Thank you guys.  