 Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Soren Wheeler  Annie McEwen  Jim Munroe  Jennell Jenney - jennelljenneygmail.com  Latif Nasser   Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab  So we got an email from you.  Yes  You did.  Yeah.  Not long ago our editor Soren Wheeler and I we got into a conversation with this woman   I live in Milwaukee Wisconsin.  Her name is Jennell Jenney  I like the Packers.  Course you do.  Yeah.  I guess photographer would technically be my job but I do a whole lot of different things um none of which really pertain to the story at hand but that is...  And our story really starts when Jennell sends an email to the Radiolab inbox basically saying I need your help.   Yeah.   Something had happened to her- MUSIC IN   that was -  kind of a wondrous and unexplainable and very weird.  And as a result Jennell had found herself stuck in a story.  MUSIC OUT  A story told to hundreds of thousands of people all across the country. Male voice Whats happening???  A story that sits right smack dab in the middle of one of the biggest cultural divides in our country right now.  Male voice - good to see all of your faces.   But it was a story that wasnt hers. And she wanted us to help her find a way to finally tell her story.   So to speak.  I mean do you want me to kind of just start telling you?  Yeah walk me up.  Sure well when I was 18 I went to a concert.  ROCK CONCERT TAPE IN   A rock concert.  Yeah it was - actually it was a Warped tour. So its like a festival of - you have rock concerts.   tons of bands on different stages all over the place. And Jennell is walking around between all the different stages and merchandise tables when she sees this tent.  ROCK CONCERT TAPE OUT   A 10 by 10 white tent with just a little table in front.  40  A table with a sign on it that said -  Be a bone marrow donor sign up to be on the registry save a life or something like that.   So this was rock music and good deeds brought together.  Essentially right which is a pretty good mix in hindsight.  And so Jennell read the sign and she thought herself Ill sign up.  Sure.  Why not?  Yeah.  Did you knew - did you know what bone marrow was?  Yeah yeah. I mean  You knew that that would mean that they take a really long needle  Yeah  And stick it in you and suck out bone stuff?  Yeah I suppose at that point that was probably not the forethought. I think that altruistic like -  Oh  -  Im gonna do something Yeah. That was probably the main motivation.  And all Jennell had to do standing in front of that tent was sign some papers and swab her cheek because with a bone marrow donation they actually have to figure out whether youre a genetic match with someone who would receive the donation.   Yeah.   Which was part of what Jennell thought was cool about it.   I always thought that you know it would just be an amazing opportunity to be the one person who could do something for somebody that like literally no one else in the world could.  Thats a deep kind of connection with someone.  Yeah. Yeah there is you know - I do not know if either of you are only children.  I am.  But it is yeah. It - You know how they are just like you have cousins you have got friends but at some point there is not that - it sounds so stupid but that biological connection like besides my parents or whatnot.   That that you - you missed the idea of someone who was muchly like you and muchly in your world and muchly.   Yeah. And - and also even the kind of need - like somebody out there dependent on me on kind of that almost otherworldly level.   So Jennell swabbed her cheek signed the paper and then went about her normal life. And then about six months later later she got a call.   Yeah yeah. It was a phone call to my landline. Thats how long  Oh my god. So what year are we talking here?  It was - no its 2009.  Okay.  It was a phone call and I remember very specifically it was a voicemail because I hadnt had a the chance to answer it and they said something to the extent of you know Hi were from the National Bone Marrow Donor Registry. Weve done some tests and weve narrowed you down to be a preliminary match for a patient. So we need you to come in and do some further tests that involve you know blood and stuff.  Did you think oh no I forgot that I did that or were you thinking oh boy? Or what were you  Oh I was so - I - overcome with emotion. I remember just just to think theres somebody - theres somebody out there that might be my person. Uh so absolutely no hesitation on my end. I went -   So Jennell heads into the clinic because - well so - bone marrow - the stuff in the kind of core of your bones actually produces all your blood cells. And importantly including um your white blood cells which are  a key part of your immune system. So what youre doing -  MUSIC IN   with a bone marrow transplant is taking a healthy immune system out of one person and putting it into another person whose immune system is you know - cancer or or messed up in some kind of way. The key is though because the immune system is that part of you that like recognizes you from not you and attacks anything thats not you. You have to like fool the new body into thinking that this immune system is them. And so the parts of your DNA that have to do with your immune system. A couple key parts of that have to match with the donor. So thats what theyre doing with Jennell theyre taking her in to like test her DNA to see if the stuff that marks out her immune system matches closely enough with this you know recipient so that the bone marrow transplant will work.   And then maybe a month later I get another call and this one I was able to answer and they say Well weve done tests and you are  MUSIC OUT   the ideal person in this 8 million person registry to donate for this patient.  MUSIC IN   You are a perfect match.  Wow.  And will you do it? And I was like Absolutely. So  Did that feel to you -  I dont -  like a call of destiny? Like maybe maybe this was meant to be?  Yeah. Theres something I feel thats like bigger than myself thats happening and I dont really - I mean I cant really explain it yet at that point but I know theres like - okay heres a - theres a big thing.  Mm.  So I go in and unfortunately to disappoint you Robert. The way that I donated bone marrow wasnt actually the real -  MUSIC OUT  bad way -   Oh really -  with the big needle.  I mean Im not disappointed.  for whoever. Have they come up with a small needle version or?  Yeah well what they  Like a straw or something?  Sort of. What they essentially do - and this is actually the far more common way of doing it now is they inject you with all these drugs -  Mmhm.  and it- and it is like 8 injections that boost your white blood cell to come up to astronomical heights. And do you know like when you get sick when your immune system kicks in overdrive and you feel sick? Imagine that like 8 times over. just cause I ..   Like nauseous achy -  Oh all -   shaky...   So achy. Every bone hurt.   And while Jennell is feeling achy and sick inside of her her bone marrow is pumping out a bunch of new baby blood cells.  MUSIC IN   Unmatured stem cells that can really become almost anything.   Then they just go in and grab those cells.   They harvest you I guess. So you have a needle in both arms and you pretty much sit still for 6 hours until they suck all the blood out of your body put it into a machine and give you back what they dont need. So I think theyve got about you know one of those IV bags   Just a  quart-size plastic bag.   Full of my stem cells. And once youre done they put some bandaids on you and theyre like alright. Let us know if you need anything.  MUSIC OUT   And do you know anything about like what happens to your blood cells. Like who gets it or what happens?   Yeah theyre... The whole registry is very very strict about patient confidentiality.   But they did tell me that it was a 29-year-old man with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and thats liter- literally thats all I knew for a whole year.  Did you look that up in the in the in the...   Oh of course. I did endless Google searches of 29-year-old man acute lymphoblastic leukemia.  You were trying to get a real peek you mean?   Right. I was like oh maybe hes worded it that way and I didnt find anything of course.   But once the year is up if both parties agree then we can talk. And thats Thats kind of really interesting because I definitely was looking forward to that yearmark. But once that hit I kind of got cold feet. I really just wasnt ready to know exactly who he was And then I was also worried that maybe this guy is like a real piece of crap? Like Maybe hes a clan member or a criminal or something? So there is a part of that too.   So you were worried that you opened up the Sentinal and it would say uh. Formerly ill person robs three banks and hits old ladies.   Yes.   Horrible man saved by Jennell Jenney.   Right. Its so stupid to say but I thought that. So I did end up eventually sending this email or whatnot I think around October.   It took them a couple of weeks to give my info to my patient and vice versa.   So I was eating lunch with a friend of mine and I remember having chips and guacamole.    By the way my - my patients name is Jim So they gave Jim my info .  And my phone went off in my pocket and there was an e-mail in my inbox and there was a - a scanned PDF attached to this e-mail and I open it up and she had filled this out with her own hand. And I just broke it totally - I just I wept like a little baby in a in a booth at a Mexican restaurant in the middle of Grapevine Texas. And I got on Facebook. I saw a picture I saw a picture of her and I was like oh my gosh it is gotta - its gotta be her.   I would gotten an e-mail or not an e-mail - Facebook friend request from - said this guy named Jim Monroe in Texas and I was like oh ok I do not know anybody in in Texas. And then it clicked all of a sudden. This - this is him. I could see his picture I can look and -   Oh what does he look like?   Not very much like me.  MUSIC OUT   It wasnt - it wasnt Jennell with shorter hair.   No right yeah. Uh tall -   Six foot four I have got blonder hair   Blond hair I think fake blonde   I should say it is dyed right now but I have like strawberry blonde hair.   But tall blond hair blue eyed white guy.   blue eyes.   um.   I am very handsome.   Yeah.   What are you by the way?   Short blond haired blue eyed person.   Short blonde hair blue eye -   So I guess yeah.   Ok well so you are in the same   Yeah.   okay.   Yeah.   Yeah we could be cousins I think.   And yeah so I looked at all of his pictures and his wife who was a model and these kids who were so adorable and I tried  to find as much as I can. and as far as his profession I was like oh he appears to be some sort of magician so I guess we will talk about that later.  CHAPTER 2   So I dont even know like I guess why dont we just find out like where youre from and where you were raised. And -   Okay   Let do it that way.   So I was born in Orange County California. Fullerton California. I went to school in Anaheim high school in Anaheim. I was a baseball player so I ended up going I was very very good baseball player. I got drafted by the - at the time they were called the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Now they are just the Tampa Bay Rays.  Oh you were that good?  Yeah I turned down a professional baseball contract to go play at the University of Texas in Austin.  And what did you play?  I was a pitcher. I was a hard throwing right hander.   Huh.   And ended up like I said drafted and went to the University of Texas to play baseball. And that is what I thought was going to be - I thought were going to be professional baseball player. And then my sophomore year of college I blew out my shoulder. I had a surgery my freshman year and then came back and was throwing harder than ever and then did it again   Ohh.   So baseball was kind of over um...  Over at like 19? Like that is oh.  Yes sir yeah. It was a pretty It was a big kick in the head.  04   But Jim finished up school.  They maintained my scholarship as a medical redshirt.  He majored in business and psychology.  Yeah.  Then moved up to Boulder Colorado got married had a couple of kids.   And one of my really good friends during this time his name was Tennyson. He became one of my best friends. He wasnt just my best friend he was like my brother. He was an athlete too so he is a former college football player and he had also lost his football career based upon an injury.   Mm.   And then also knew magic and illusion.   And magic was something that Jim had been fascinated by since he was a little kid.   Yeah. I saw a trade show magician when I was 10 or 11. It was at the Anaheim Convention Center of all places an optometric convention both my parents are optometrists. And he was just doing trade show stuff at a booth.  Do you remember what he was doing?  He did a version of this trick called Cards Across. He made a cigarette appear. You gotta -  Which he pulled out of your head or out of somebody's...  No no just - he just casually holding his hand and was holding a zigzag in the tips of his fingers. And he goes to light it and - there was a puff of smoke and -   There was a - theres a real cigarette there.   Oh.  And the thought you had at that moment was I want to do that?  It was how did he do that? and that is cool. And you know I am I am going to go learn how that is done. So I just began to look at card tricks and read books on all how all this stuff was done to figure out how it was done.  So when he met Tennyson you know they start practicing together and and doing shows in front of friends and family and pretty soon....  Sure enough we start doing gigs.  they started doing these shows at like school and festivals and stuff and they would do these tricks you know like a lot of kind of card tricks and number tricks where like youd pick a random number and it would end up it was written on a piece of paper in the shoe of an audience or something like that. But the the show would turn into something else. Because the thing is Tennyson was a believer   Overwhelmingly so   Believer like in God you mean?   Yeah. A Christian.   Tennyson was very convinced.   And after an hour or so of magic tricks   Just pure entertainment.   Tennyson would say to the crowd   This has been great were going to take a quick break. Were going to give you guys a chance to take off. Because during the second part of this show were going to talk about what the Christian perspective is and why we believe this Christian thing. If you want to stick around great if you do not take off.   Now during this part of the show Jim says - And Tennyson in particularly was way more of the evangelistic piece of this.   And I considered myself more of a producer.   Now Jim had actually grown up going to church  Yeah so I was  my parents went to the Lutheran Church. I was at one point doing that. But still theres you know at the end of the day it was just - there was nothing in it that seemed to be satisfying.   And so at this point in the show Jim would sort of stand back a bit as Tennyson talked about how magic is actually all about the unseen and behind the veil of reality theres a god watching over us. And Jim says he would be standing there on stage watching these people in the audience who are feeling this real connection with God.  However I was not having that experience.  Hes just like I dont know feel what what theyre feeling and he started to think to himself -   I didnt want to be the guy that said well Im a Christian because my friends were. Or Im a Christian because I was raised that way. I want it to be true.   And he just wasnt sure that it was.   Right.   And then after he and Tennyson had been doing this show for a year and a half or so Jim got a call. Tennyson had been out hiking in the mountains just outside of Boulder  He was found in the mountains in a river.   His body was partially submerged just at the edge of the water. At the base of a 40 ft. cliff   In Peaceful Valley is what it was called. And he passed away. No one really knows how he passed away   It looked like he may have fallen from the cliff. The police thought maybe suicide.   But it could be exposure to the elements that kind of thing.   Jim says he was just devastated   Yeah he was probably the closest male friend Ive ever had  Jim says that he just felt like he was at the bottom of a hole.   Bottom of a hole kind of figuring it out. Best friend passes away.  My wife and I as a result kind of got into this really strange season where you know I am depressed she is depressed. We are pretty much on the verge of calling it quits. And then my leg starts hurting really badly.  Where in the leg?  Underneath my right knee.   Jim says he started popping Advil uh every day. At first just a couple then more and more.   And Im trying to gut it out.   Then one day he came home one day and couldnt even get out of his car and walk to his house so his wife was like look were going to the hospital now -   I am sitting there in an emergency room and this man walks into my room he looks at me and says You have cancer.   Jim had Leukemia which is cancer of the blood cells.   White blood cells inside of your bone marrow have literally exploded out of control and the reason why your leg hurts so bad is because your bone is breaking on its own.   From the inside.   Wow.   And he said if you do not do anything you are going to die in two months.   Just before Christmas of 2008 Jim checked into the hospital. And right away they do 2 things. Um one they put Jim on the bone marrow registry in the hopes that he can find a donor. And 2 just to keep him alive while he waits they start putting him on round after round of chemo.   You get this wicked concoction of stuff and then being let out.   He loses his hair his body starts to fall apart.  And all you can do at that point is just... hope. You know.  Like tick tock tick tick.  Tick tock tick tock yeah.   Hm.   Yeah. Thats when you - I think you know what you believe to be true uh is - in co - in adversity thats - thats when you found out. And so for me it was not - it was not a Christian worldview. If there is an all-loving omnipotent powerful being that makes the universe go round then why would things like you know suicide or murder or rape exist in a in a - in this constructed world of his?   Jim just couldnt get himself to believe in the existence of a God like that or really any God.   You know. There wasnt any  rhyme or reason or purpose. It was just this is This is my lot. This really sucks.   And then when he was at his lowest point   I remember driving back to Houston Texas for more chemo and my phone rang. And I didnt recognize the number. I said hello and this woman on the other line.   She said theres one person that weve been able to identify on the planet. Out of all the databases everything there is one.   You are the ideal person in this 8 million person registry to donate for this patient.   Think about that.   You are a perfect match. Will you do it? And I was like - absolutely.   My wife and I were in the car together and it was just tears you know it was like Wow that is amazing.  So April 20th. And this is important to remember. April 20th was when I donated.   And as they were pulling -  MUSIC IN   the cells out of Jennells body up in Wisconsin.   You know one of those little IV bags full of my stem cells.   Down in Texas Jims doctors were telling him -  Your bone marrow transplant is scheduled for April 23rd. On April 23rd the nurses they come inside of your room to celebrate your second birth. And then I remember Dr. Giralt telling me are you ready to put your boxing gloves on? But what he was preparing me for was a death.  MUSIC OUT   Come to find out later on they pulled my wife out of my room. I have never shared this before publicly but they pull my wife out of my room and they said we are going to give this to him with all this medication. He could potentially receive this and reject this violently and pass away.   Cause remember they are essentially replacing Jims immune system with someone elses and in this case Jennells. And in a very real way they are replacing that part of Jim that determines who he is with someone who he clearly isnt and so theres a real chance that the body will just short-circuit.  Right. So they give this drug the nurses nickname shake and bake.   Its designed to basically wipe out whatever is left of Jims immune system his his white blood cells.   Put inside of your I.V. and your body just starts convulsing   And then they put Jennells cells in.  And they monitored me.   And over the next couple weeks Jennells cells enter Jims body they get into his bone marrow and they start producing new white blood cells. Basically producing a whole new immune system. And eventually Jim is cancer-free.  I mean it it is literally like new life you know? Now I will say this- some bells kind of began to go off in my head a little bit.   Jim says before he even got the transplant the doctor had come into his room and told him  he said you are going to be like a baby inside your mother's womb literally being born again. Because on April 23rd- and once again this is their terminology - theres someone else thats gonna be living on the inside of you and this new system of blood is gonna be your life. Why is that interesting? You know - April 23rd - my new birthdays April 23rd. My old birthday is April 20th. My new birthday is on April 23rd - thats on the third day.   And on the third day is significant cause of the Biblical echo?   The Biblical echo yeah. I came back from whatever I was in because of the only blood on planet earth that could save me of my disease. So -  So does this land on you the way it sounds to me like it lands on you now or did you go through like like what happ- like -  Those words yeah those words in particularly bells went off in my head.   Meaning what like that now you believe in God? Again? Or for the first time? Or -   I mean I - Its process right you follow and then I think the puzzle pieces are kind of all swirling and coming together. But everything changed on that demarcating day April 23rd  And all thanks obviously to Jennell. And not long after seeing each other on Facebook they hopped on a phone call.   So she gets on and I get on. And but its all kind of like hey oh my gosh this is crazy. I cannot believe this is - isnt this nuts? Yeah this is so crazy and - and then she drops this on me. She said I went and got a tattoo of a jigsaw puzzle piece.On the very spot where they stuck that I.V. in my arm to pull up the new blood knowing that I was the missing piece in someone else's life and without me that person would not be alive. And I said do you - I was like - I was thinking - do you have a ton of tattoos? And she just said no I have one. You you know what Christians believe to be true right?  What?  Is that their savior rolled up and showed them the very spot on his body where blood came out so that they would believe.   So you are just right down this road.  You cannot write this stuff.  You are - youre just - youre driving like at 100 miles an hour towards - towards a -   No... For me it was like I was being introduced to a person. There is an experiential understanding of that which was going on behind the scenes of this existence that was answering my prayer.   The prayers is for - the prayers is called  Are you there? Thats the prayer.   Mmhm. Yup.  Are you there God?   Yup.   Basically Jim saw Jennell and her donation to him as almost more than just allegory as like something close a literal proof of the existence of God. LIke a very realvery present sign.    I told her to uh - I told her that we need to meet. I said I - can I please bring you out to Dallas Texas.   He said I have to bring you to Texas. Which is my nightmare. Im just kidding. But absol- I wanted to go right into it.   I remember her tone. Shes like yeahhh. Suree. Super excited. So yes I flew her to Dallas Texas.  Male voice Lights camera action coming now - someone - someone youve met -  This girl saved me life.   I actually recorded it.  Male voice Oh really? Thats awesome.   In the video you see Jim sort of standing at the bottom of this escalator at the Dallas Fort Worth Airport. Hes - you know looking pretty thin and pale and nervous. And then the camera turns and theres Jennell.  MUSIC OUT   Hi!   Coming down the escalator.   Sorry Im like the last one. Hi!   And they hug.   Hi little guy.   And then his kids come up.   This is my daughter .  Hi can I  too? Aww. Youre so cute. Yeah.   And eventually his wife.   So nice to meet you guys too.   Okay so so now you go home.  Mmhm we go to his house.  To his home.  Right and he lives uh in a very big house outside of Dallas.   They had dinner with the family and then you know once everybody else was heading off to bed um - Jim and Jennell started to talk.   And um - I think if I remember correctly we were just outside by the pool and just talking and figuring out who each other was and you know I was like so you know magician? What - what what is that? And uh - he started telling me about what kind of magician he really is and he is a Christian magician.   Im sure that in her mind shes thinking oh my gosh I just saved a Christian magician from Texass life. Like - jokes on me isnt that wonderful you know?   When we come back  Jennell becomes Jims greatest magic trick.  dont go away   CHAPTER 4  Ok were back. Im Jad Abumrad.  Im Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab  And ok lets return to a story from Soren Wheeler. So Soren they were sitting in the backyard. They were about to talk right?  Yup sitting in Jims backyard by the pool and hes basically telling her his whole story about his whole loss of faith and the cancer and how she saved his life and then he tells her that right after she saved him he started doing the magic show again the show that he used to do with Tennyson.   My name is Jim Monroe.  This. is The Maze.   So we actually got to see Jims show and I have to say hes a pro. Its an impressive production he gets big venues...    usually thousand people or so theres crazy lazer light show stuff. And he does these really complicated illusions that are half Penn and Teller half David Blaine   Like for example picking a random phone number out of the phone book and it ends up being someone in the audience   And then their phone will end up hidden somewhere   Something like that and theyre very good.  so Jim is telling Jennell about all of these tricks but then he says  the second half of the show is about us.  He explains that the magic show at this point ends he tells people that they can leave if they want to and he starts to talk openly confessionally to the audience   in very personal terms about what happened to him   and at a certain point he shows a video   Hes in the hospital throwing up into a bucket. And hes pale thin huge circles under his eyes. And then he explains that right when he was on the edge of death  that at his lowest point this thing happened  A miracle happened    When his blood was literally poisoning his own body somebody substituted their blood on his behalf so he could be reborn I guess.   So there is a whole three days thing there which is the story of Easter and the rebirth. It is just he is telling me that our story saved him spiritually as well and he sees this as like definitive proof that there is a God.    So yes this is all being thrown at me  So is he saying all of this to you by the pool? Is it all it all comes tumbling out  Yeah yeah.  and how are you feeling inside?  Stranger and stranger. Going down the wormhole because I am an atheist. In the sense that I do not believe in the tenets of Christianity. I do not believe really in the tenants of any established religion I have ever seen. Honestly I just think that once things are labeled and you are pigeonholed and the exclusivity of really any religion is is the cause for a lot of problems throughout history. But faith can be beautiful and there is definitely parts of me and there is moments in my life that boy praying and really feeling like that was going to somebody would feel great but I just cannot. I just cannot do it. So at that moment yeah hes telling me this and Yeah and he is like well you know you are here in Texas for this weekend I believe and would you be willing to come on stage for one of my shows? So I can introduce you and of course I said yes.  Really of course? Of course you said yes?  Yeah of course. Because I think Ive always kind of looked at our story as something bigger than what he believes than what I dont believe. Its bigger Its capital B  underlined BOLD its Big.  Partly because Jim at every show he has the Bone Marrow registry people right there ready to sign folks up.   because of the show they just saw he can get hundreds I know that  dozens of people have gone on to be matches and I know a dozen or so have gone on to donate. So this was truly the culmination of from the moment I signed up this felt like the zenith of this entire thing   So the very next night   At Texas Christian Universitd.  Packed house  Jennells in the audience...  I was in like the front row.  And during the second part of the show when Jim goes through the rebirth part he stops and he says guess what everyone that person who saved my life? Shes here.   He has me walk up on stage. The crowd went wild. First time in my life I got a standing ovation.  Because you are Jesus! Thats why the crowd goes crazy cause-   Yeah  all of these kids in the audience who are definitely my age as well at that point are seeing my being on stage as the... Quite possibly the biggest proof theyve ever had that there is A god.  Will you Will you know Was there any part of you that said I shouldnt be here or you all there?  There was a part of me that felt a little bit of an impostor.  But for Jennell she said that feeling was outweighed just by the number of people That were lining up at the bone marrow donation table and so the next time she had a chance she did it again.  And again  And again  Shes now appeared at the end of the show dozens of times all around the country playing the role of Jims personal savior. And she said the more times she did it the more that fraud feeling kept popping up each time a little bit louder.  Yeah there is parts of me there is little fibers of my being that are like wow if this is a sign if there is a god Im a real jerk. This is such a beautiful and really literal story being told to me that about like hey maybe there is a god.   She said that if shes both perpetuating that story and   refusing it there is a special place in hell for me.  And this is why Jennell got in touch with us because she wanted us to help her figure out a way to help her tell the story that let her way of seeing the world into the room   CHAPTER 5   Okay are you guys Is everyone there?   Im here.   Jim can you hear us?   Yeah I can hear you guys. Jennell can you hear me?   I can.   How are you?   So our producer Latif Nasser actually started talking to Jennell about what exactly she wanted to do and then they decided that we should just all get in the studio -- Jim and her and all of us -- and see if we could hash it out.  Okay.   But I I guess like Jennell do you want to just kind of talk through what What youve weve been thinking?   Um sure I can try and if you want to help me Latif.   Sure   So essentially Latif and I have been talking about what would be the best way for me to kind of tell my side of the story.   Yeah   My side of our story so to speak without so much of the religious stuff.   Yeah so when are you guys gonna do that? Maybe I missed a point Im sorry. So do you say we as in like we are going to do a version of that?   Well I thought you could help me.   Oh cool well I have no problem   Yeah kind of just   Yeah   Cause you are so not only a magician with magic things but also with words. So maybe if we could If you could help me?   So yeah totally. Thats so interesting. My mind begins to spin. You know as you guys know in this world theres   So at first we suggested that maybe Jennell could come out at the end of one of Jims shows and just read a statement or something and Jim said   I you know   Thats probably not gonna work.   As you guys know in this world...I mean audiences come based upon how things are marketed and booked and   And Jim said he has to worry about sort of as a business the expectations of his sponsors and even the audience who are looking for a certain thing   Im just thinking like a producer cause Im totally open   So we were like Yeah ok fair enough. Maybe there could a QA after the show or something like that?   I dont know I have to really process it. But Im totally open to it. I would always love to help Jennell figure I mean help her put it all together and like.. I think though that...   So eventually we landed on a plan. Jim was going to be doing his show up in St. Cloud Minnesota. And we decided we could just do a show with him and Jennell the next night. So along with producers Latif Nasser and Annie McEwen we headed up to St. Cloud met up with Jennell and that night we went to all go see Jims show. Its a pretty big venue. There was probably like a thousand people all college students. And of course because Jennell was there right after he did the personal journey back to God.   Check this out. I looked at  and shes here tonight.  A little bit hard to hear but there was literally a shudder of energy that went through the crowd at that moment.   Ladies and gentlemen I want to welcome to the stage...This is Jennel Jenny. Come on up here.   So yeah    Um well youre the much better speaker than me but what I can say is that I encourage all of you to consider signing up   And so Jennell just pointed out that the National Bone Marrow Registry would be there that night and encouraged everybody to you know sign up and have a chance to save a life and do something good.   So please do that or at least consider it.   Show them the tattoo.   I have a tattoo -- only one still!   There it is right there.   Once Jennell had stepped back off the stage...   Before we close I wanted to know if I could pray for you? Do you guys still pray in Minnesota?    I need to pray. Alright so would you mind? I told you you could leave. I want you to pray this prayer with me just say this in your hearts. Say Lord Jesus tonight I choose to turn and start living for myself my own version and my own story and I want to trust you. I dont have all the answers but I know you do. And tonight by faith I choose to follow you. Thank you for loving me. Thank you in the midst of all of this randomness that I experience coming after me for being jealous for me  . . I love you too. And Jesus by your name amen and amen.  CROWD CHEERING   And then just before everybody stepped out...   Also this is very important. Im going to be here another night   Were gonna be here tomorrow. Have you guys heard of a podcast Radiolab?  Hear about Radiolab the podcast anybody?   That was about three people that shouted out.   Theyre in the audience. Im just going to say that. Im not gonna point them out but theyre in the audience .   Nobody cared.   Radiolab is going to be holding this forum.  Jennell Jenneys gonna tell her side of the story of what happened to her through this process. Alright? Alright.   So after the show we actually got a chance to talk to a few people from the audience   And then hearing the whole 3 days thing I was like oh my god thats wow. Oh my god.  Yeah i couldnt believe that she was actually here.  Shes here in the room  Think about it. I would have been so shocked to sit right next to her.   Pretty much everybody was totally floored by getting to see Jennell in person and they all seemed to take her story the way Jim does   It was a visual example of everything thats happening.  Put a face to To this whole thing.  Yeah so many things fell in line that  where you just have to believe in my opinion.  Yeah yeah yeah ...   So  CROWD APPLAUDS   The next night   Good evening everyone. Welcome. My name is Mark Springer   With a much less fanfare in a much smaller room. Like maybe a 100 people there or so with the help of the Religious Studies program at St. Cloud University...  Hear me ok? Yes there I am. Oh my gosh...   We did Jennells thing.   Alright so Im Robert Krulwich. I am one of the co-hosts of the public radio program called Radiolab. I want to introduce also Soren Wheeler who is our managing editor -- thats him -- whos going to hes going to be adding his two cents from time to time. Were a very democratic show and like nobody controls everything and everybody pitches in so So he will too. And I want to begin by just telling you a story.   So we brought Jennell up on stage   So Jennell could you just come up here and sit I guess Might as well sit here.   We told her whole story of you know donating and then waiting a year to find out you know who Jim really was.    he was in a wheelchair and couldnt talk. I had no idea that-  -and these are your blood cells   Then we brought Jim on stage.   Alright so Jim the year is up   He talked about you know his whole process of recovery   First year youre just trying to get your bearings   He talked about how grateful and thankful he was. And then we turned back to Jennell.   Well lets make this a little more complicated. Soren could you just run the I asked you like how you felt in that first round and this is what you told me in the interview.   There was a part of me that felt a little bit of an impostor.   Then why would you use the word impostor? Why did you choose that word?   Is this how we should start getting into the meat and potatoes of my thoughts?   I think so.   Ok.   Yeah.   Part of me And at that time especially thought that Im up here again as this pretty hard and fast proof for a very compelling narrative for a lot of people and their faith that I dont particularly share at all.   Can I ask a question?   Yeah.   But I I Knowing that   You knew it at that point because   Yeah yeah yeah   I think we talked about that   But I was I was very concerned knowing that you you know didnt agree with what I believed to be true that that you would feel like you were in that spot cause thats why I asked you.   Of course and I could have declined   Yeah   I mean   But at the same time it doesnt make anything different in the fact that its still what it is you know.   Exactly. I would have done it regardless of what it was if the whole theme of your show was how great the Dallas Cowboys were and it got everyone to join the bone marrow registry I would have gone up there with a Cowboys hat. Honestly Jim every time i see your show even though I dont you know adhere to the religious tenets of it I still get that feeling and everybody all my family all my friend whatever theyre religious. Even my Muslim friends that Ive told the story get you know that feeling -- and you know what that feeling is is a little intangible but I think its something even a little bigger than That sounds so crappy to say. Bigger than Jesus. Thats really blasphemous but I cant think of a better way to say it.   What did you What did you mean Can you explain what that means?   Well you know that there is good in this universe and there is good in everybody and it is regardless of... The goodness is at the top of the list of you and everything else as follows - your religion and your race and where youre born and your favorite pizza toppings and all of that. But at the very top is good. With the capital G and underlined too.   Alright Jim in your show you have a rather gorgeous take on moral relativism. You have a string of thoughts that this idea of being good and doing no harm and living as ethically as you know how is satisfying to some people but in your view it isnt really enough.   Yeah this is where we I mean obviously there is some disagreement here. I think that there is good and I think that there is evil in this world. And I think that people in and out of their own Left their own vices left their own devices I think that they struggle with being good. I think that even on our best day I think that we fall short.   And so in hearing her account youre just thinking what that shes not Where does she fall Where does this idea lose you?   It doesnt lose me. I think its at both end. Its phenomenally good. And Im not not acknowledging is good I just think that for the Christian its not about being good or bad.   What is it about?   I think its about I think its about having a relationship with God. Does that make sense?   I guess it makes Some of this   At that point Jim he made it clear that he definitely wasnt condemning Jennelle because she didnt have a relationship with God but then we took a different approach we started talking about the unlikeliness of this whole story which is one of the things Jim talks about in his show and so at that I decided I should jump in...   So at this point actually I decided to jump in...  And I say this and I really say this only because it is our job as a show that when we hear a story like this we dig in wwe investigate and we do that from a frame that is really focused on math facts science - that whole world a much more mechanistic worldview. And a couple things happened to you. If you happened to be in my position you were on a cross stuff like this and Ill just read from the Be A Match website A patients likelihood of finding a matching donor on Be The Match registry is estimated to be in the range between 66 and 97 percent. The chances that youll find a 10 to 10 match in the way that Jim and Jennell were 10 matches is around 50 percent.   Wait a second. Wait a second. Which That doesnt make sense to me. There were 8 million people. She was the one.   Yeah let me say that this does not actually contradict with Jim and Jennells experience of it. For that to happen to Jim is truly staggering. It is truly It could be one in a trillion the way that winning a lottery is one in a trillion.   Yeah but how could It cant be both. One in   It can because what happens is if you back up away from the individual and ask not What are the chances this could happen to Jim but what are the chances this would happen to someone somewhere Its like there is a story that youre golfing and you hit a golf ball and it goes however hundreds of yards - i dont play golf so i dont know how far they go but it lands on the blade of grass. And that blade of grass says why me? Why would this golf ball crush me like this? Which is a valid point. I would feel that too but that ball was going to land on some blade of grass. It doesnt Like the why me is still a true thing. It is a true experience in a way.   Although there is still this difference I think. The ball cant point to anything greater in the   No the argument lurks behind this is that these things happen and it is just chance.   So this is the random view how do you guys feel about that that you were randomly there and you were randomly chosen isnt the word the ball of mercy landed on you.   Im not coming at it from just that angle I wonder if it was just the bone marrow transplant that people would get that all the time the other bits and piece of the puzzle help shadow it in for me. To me its multilayered cake.  I thought you really dont like this idea of like in this science version there is no design and there is no first cause except the first random event that sets this thing in motion. Do you both Could either of you live with that version of what just happened to you?   Yeah well thats perfect because thats exactly what you talk about in your show with the All the different cards   Jennells referring to a thing in Jims show where hes talking about how unlikely any particular order of cards in a deck is    the idea of a particular set of cards being dealt in a particular way is 52 factorial   Which is pretty much impossible.   It is impossible. I mean its an impossible   Statistically.   Statistically right right. But yet you deal the cards and they happen right there. So this really gets into the different viewpoint on the proverbial deck of cards and whos dealing them. Is it in a particular fashion? And I think thats you know what Jim believes that there is a proverbial dealer. And I dont I guess.   Mmm-hmm. And you agree? Thats pretty much the difference?   Yeah I mean having given thought to that  I believe that there is some sort of you know mind personality.   The I believe part is where you is where you stand. Its faith.   Yeah absolutely absolutely. It is its faith.   And Jennellyoure his savior I guess. You saved his life. But in some way you dont You havent Do you worry about this at all?   Yeah absolutely. And even right now on this stage there is a part of me thatIn front of all of you that im sure a lot of you were at this show last night. There is a part of me that is afraid of disappointing that I dont share what you believe to be true. I mean your entire experience pretty much points the arrow that like Im like an alliteration of Jesus in your story and thats really difficult to reconcile as someone who doesnt have faith. And it makes me sad sometimes because I think it would be a lot easier if I just believed exactly what you believe. And i think that I always Am very afraid of letting that be known. Like Im super like clammy right now just sitting in front of this many people. I just feel like people would see your story and its so tremendously compelling its unbelievable. And then see that that last piece of this little puzzle literally doesnt fit at all.   I mean its not like i havent thought about that either and how you might feel. And I empathize and I dont know how to answer that. You know i just want to give you a hug.   Yeah   There is unconditionality to how I feel about you that I just... You can do no wrong in my eyes.   Here is for you the hardest thing. I was just trying to think about how difficult this must be. You have been Your life has been saved by her. She is in effect your savior. And yet your belief is that unless she accepts Jesus that in some sense she is outside of grace and you know I dont know what you believe about hell and heaven but that she might be punished. So what do you do about this weird combination. Shes insisting nope not for me and youre insisting oh no this is the way it is and oh my gosh Is it hard for you?   No not at all.   Okay   And Ill tell you why because its not my place to do that. I am very sorry to everyone who listens to this who ever feels like they got judged by a Christian because its never their place to do that. And this is where I think most of the times and everybody listening to this podcast is placed as kind of positioned or pigeonholed Christians and what they dont understand is that Im not commanded to do anything but to love and to start conversations right? Im not the one. Im not the one who was sent into the world to judge alright? But what I so putting it like that - i know where you want to go with this   No this is Im asking 40 an honest question. You have to love the judge that may not love the woman who saved your life. Thats hard I think.   Yeah but at the same time its Thats not what Im.. thats not my place.   I have to say I think that we were sort of expecting that maybe sharper edge to the differences between JIm and Jennell. But the truth is in the room that night Jim and Jennells conversation and thus their story start to feel like some kind of allegory not for any particular religion or moral code but for a way of how to move through the world and hold your differences but still be one.   Let me just finish this way. Do you have a sense between the two of you? Because obviously you stay very very good friends. I mean thats obvious. Is there some...  Something that either of you can say that explains why you can dignifyingly but emphatically disagree and still stay in such extraordinarily close touch?   I think the idea of humility and as Jim might even say grace is absolutely essential no matter your tenets of belief. And thats really whats going to get you through conflict so yeah   And is it because youre in this big ocean of the world and the two of you are just little little dots in there and so whatever you think its still youre in a big ocean and there you are together? Is that the   I think maybe yeah.   Yeah. And   Do you have her bigness thing? Do you feel small?   Do I feel small?   Yeah   I feel tiny. Humility at its root word it comes The root is humos. Which means dirt. So when you become humble you become dirt.   Thats better than the sea analogy I think   I could keep going. You know what god does with dirt is he creates things but I wont go there. But we become dirt and I think where we get hung up is that we want to be right. And that hasnt been brought into this yet. And right and wrong are The words right and wrong I think in relationship are deadly words. I think saying Im right youre wrong is not good for relationships. I think its   And have you ever said youre right or youre wrong to her?   No.   I havent said it to him either I dont think.   Never   Well thats a nice place to land.   I think so.   I think were done. I dont think were done done. Im gonna let these people introduce the...   At the end of the show we had the bone marrow registry people there and quite a few people stopped around and signed up. Maybe like 20 or something like that. 40 But you know were being honest that was nothing compared to what Jim got at the end of his show.   Wait say that again?  Just like 150 people signing up right now.  Did you count them?   Thats our producer Annie McEwen   Ive been trying to. Its at least that.  Is this bigger than normal or is it always like this?  This is a little bigger than normal. I think everytime that Im actually in the show its a little bit better. So Ive been told.  And what is it How are you feeling when you watch this?  Its really overwhelming. Like yeah its really overwhelming. Kind of makes me want to cry.  Yeah. I mean without you this wouldnt happen.  Its almost too big to think of. 