  Well first am I imagining that Jad already knows about - 'ecause we just talked about it when I was promoting my show right?  About Benfords Law?  Just go. Just tell him that. Remind him.  OK so...  He knows but he forgets.  Yeah just...  OK. Well I think... Hey. I am Latif Nasser. This is RADIOLAB. And today in the week after the election was called for Joe Biden but in this sort of weird middle space when Donald Trump has refused to concede our editor Soren Wheeler and I sat Jab down...   ...Because we wanted to tell him about something from our past that has come back to haunt us.  OK.  So a few months ago you may remember I was telling you about the Netflix show I made.  Connected right?  Right. And I was telling you about one of the episodes which is about something that before my time RADIOLAB had also separately done an episode about which was this thing called Benfords Law.  Yes yes.  This kind of funny nerdy little bit mystical mathematical law that is kind of stupendously broadly applicable?  Stupendously broadly applicable.  Yeah.  It is one of those.  But so you know in my head I feel like I parked it in the like fun silly nerdy category of stuff that is more sort of interesting than it is important. But then all of a sudden over the last week it became very important.  Oh boy.   Benfords Law - what is Benfords Law? And how is it relevant to the 2020 election?  It was all over Twitter Facebook.   Its mathematics - add clarity and...  I think some of the first things I saw about it were YouTube videos.   In layman's terms it is the mathematically and statistically provable point that...  Then it shows up on all these fringe news sites - Newsmax Boston Herald Gateway Pundit.  And then a conservative podcast - people like Dan Bongino start to talk about it.   What if I told you when you look at some of the voter data at Wisconsin - that Benfords Law is saying it is not possible?  And...   Benfords Law is what we are talking about.  ...Scott Adams the cartoonist - Scott Adams who is a big Trump supporter - he was talking about it.   Votes do not conform to the natural arc.  There was so much stuff going around online that Twitter actually started flagging mentions of Benfords Law.  Wait. Why?  Because suddenly there were just you know a lot of people online trying to use Benfords Law to parse the 2020 election returns to say that the votes for Joe Biden were fraudulent votes and Benfords Law proves that.  Huh. That is funny because like we are all waiting - like you know there is all this talk about fraud. And everybody's like OK show us the fraud. Where is the fraud? You are saying Benfords Law of all things is what people are using to try and say that there is fraud?  Yeah.  And then the big hit is that like on Twitter people would be like by the way check out RADIOLAB. It is totally true.  Right. So...  Or like go see Connected. Like this is the real deal.  Yeah.  Wow.  It almost felt like we got pulled into this fight.  You never know where your stuff is going to end up. But I assume from what you said about Twitter that there is no there there in terms of Benford proving fraud.  No definitely not. I mean if you talk to the people who know the math do the math they say you know like all these guys are wrong.  But interestingly the way that they are wrong the way that all these people are sort of fighting about it on Twitter is actually kind of interesting.  But can you just remind me what Benfords Law is? I mean I have vague memory of this from one of our shows. But like what is it again?  So tell you what - let us play a part of the old piece and we will come back to the election battle in just a second. But this was like 11 years ago. We did a whole show about numbers. It was actually during your paternity leave with Amil.  That is right. This was my paternity leave yeah.  So what we did was sort of brought you back into the studio to work you into the piece.   I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Robert Krulwich.  This is RADIOLAB.  We are still talking about numbers.  .  Now we are going to switch ...  It was definitely a while ago and it felt a little bit like a simpler time but we are going to play it real quick. So the story that we told basically came from an interview that Robert did with a guy named Mark Nigrini who is a business professor at The College of Jersey.   And his favorite story that numbers tell actually starts back in 1938. So imagine an office.  In Schenectady N.Y. at the GE research laboratories.  And in that office is a man. And he is sitting at his desk.  Mr. Frank Benford.  And Mr. Frank Benford is a physicist who is doing some difficult calculations. And he is hunched over a book probably actually the - one of the most boring books you could imagine.  Yes.  This is a book of logarithmic tables.  What are logarithmic tables?  So log tables were a very convenient way of doing multiplication in the early part of the last century.  So remember this is before there were calculators. So if you wanted to multiply something like 145 times 3564 you could just go to this book and look it up. So each starts with numbers you might want to multiply by - 1 to 100 on the first pages then 101 2 up to 200 and 300. And the back of the book is like 900s. The further you go the higher and higher the numbers you use to multiply.  That is right.  So our Benford fellow - he is sitting there doing his calculations. And he is looking at the numbers flipping through the book.  He is staring at the pages and...  He notices something kind of weird.  He noticed that the first few pages were more worn than the last few pages.  Meaning more smudgy and darker and oily as if he was using the front of the book...  More than the last few pages.  And he wondered why is this happening?  Strange.  I am not aware of favoring one part of the book over the other. Am I doing something a little odd? Or maybe it is something bigger. And that is when it hit him.  He thought maybe in this world there are more numbers with low first digits than with high first digits.  What? More numbers that start with one or two than numbers that start with seven eight or nine.  Just because his book is worn?  That is what started him thinking so here's what he did.  He compiled some tens of thousands of statistics.  That is Steve Strogatz mathematician at Cornell University.  Just anything he could think of that was numerical - molecular weights of different chemicals baseball statistics census data.  The revenues of all the companies listed on the main stock exchanges in America.  And everywhere he looked in all these different categories it seemed yes there were more numbers beginning with one and twos than eights and nines.  Wait really?  Oh yeah.   This has been checked out again and again and again. And it is true.  Size of rivers.  Wow.  Earthquakes and things like that.  Populations or number of deaths in a war areas of counties.  Streamflow data in the United States.  What if you were to say get all the people in New York together and look at their bank accounts?  Ah bank account balances follow Benford's Law nearly perfectly.  Meaning that if you just look in at the amount of money that people have matter of factly in all the bank accounts you will find they begin with one more often than they begin with two.  Perfectly yes.  Yes?  So actually they begin with one 30.1 of the time. They will begin with a two 17.6 of the time. They will begin with a three 12.5 of the time.  That is a big difference.  And the...  Why would three be - I am sorry. Keep going. Yeah.  And the poor nine would only occur as a first digit 4.6 of the time which actually would make the one approximately six times as likely as the nine. And it is quite amazing.  What?  That is more than quite amazing. That is deeply suspicious.  I mean this is crazy what I am telling you and I cannot give you good intuition why it is true but...  Steve and Mark and many many many mathematicians will tell you despite what you may think there is a preference - a deep preference in the world it seems - for number sequences that start with ones and then twos and then threes.  So that was how we did it. There is more but...  I feel like I am reexperiencing the weirdness of this law again. Is that - at the risk of tracking us off why is that that you would get more ones than twos and all that?  Like this is - yeah - the question I had too. Is it like...  Do you want the RADIOLAB explanation? 'ecause I remember it...   Yeah what was - what did we say back then?  ...When we did this originally. This was a classic move. It is like we get to the end of the piece. You ask this very question.   You still have not addressed the central mystery here. Why in the world would there be more ones than nines? Should not they be equi...  Equicoincident?  Yes.  Well the answer is actually very complicated and deeply mathematical. The simple answer is...  Is there an answer though?  Yes there is an answer and it has to do...  Do you understand the answer?  No just too numeric for me to explain it to you.   OK. All right.  But I will now...   Right.  And then we laugh our way out of the room.  The best...  That is funny.  ...Explanation I heard was about - if you imagine a lot of things grow right? They like grow and get bigger right? And so let us say you are a one - right? - and you want to get to grow to be a two. You have to grow 100 to get to a two. So it takes you a long time to get from being a one to being a two. If you are an eight and you want to grow to become a nine - right? - that is just an eighth of you that needs to grow again right?  Right.  So it is like you are going to be in that eight zone way shorter than you were in the...  Right. That is interesting.  ...Between in the one to two zone. Yeah.  I see. So it is like - it is kind of like a - like some kind of a logarithmic situation.  Exactly exactly.  Jumping from one to two is huge two to four is huge four to eight is huge. And that is why the hugeness of those jumps means you - I lost the end of that sentence.  It is sort of why we could not in the first - but you know the point of the piece - like even though we did not explain that what the piece did do was sort of - and this is the whole reason we did the piece - was go on to talk about how you can actually use Benford's Law in these really pretty consequential ways.  Right.   When Mark Nigrini first ran across Benford's Law he thought...   ...Maybe I can use this law...   ...To bust people.  For payroll fraud tax return fraud.  You thought hey we can use this to catch a thief?  That is right.  How? How?  Well Nigrini figured...  And so you know basically we explain that if books are cooked - like financial books are cooked - they will not be following Benford's Law. So real books would follow the law. Cooked books do not so you can spot a thief. And we gave a bunch of examples of that you know little stories.   Ran Benford's and - boom.  Oh busted.  She eventually pled.  Or the guy with a 40 million Ponzi scheme.  Ran Benford's and - boom.  And then at the end of the piece...   Well almost boom. I mean Benford's was an element in all these cases. It was not the clincher. But still...  It was a very compelling argument. And then 10 years from now it will be the equivalent of a fingerprint.   Which is you know a strong statement. But I mean at the same time we did not say anything about elections. And we were not even thinking about elections.  Right.  But when we come back from break we are going to go right into Benford's Law and election data specifically which is where the trouble begins.  I am Latif Nasser. This is RADIOLAB. We are talking about Benfords Law and the 2020 presidential election.  Well let me ask you. Have any smart statistics knowledgeable people actually tried to use Benfords Law to see whether there is election fraud in any election anywhere?  Yeah. Yes. Yeah. And for me in particular - like I mean you guys were mostly talking about like taxes and forensic accounting and it was about money and numbers. But in the connected episode I did I totally talked about elections.   Well there is one moment when our millions of personal decisions all get channeled in the same direction when free will is in full flower - or at least it is supposed to be. There is a whole segment about - here's how Benfords Law can potentially relate to elections. And in fact...   Walter?  Oh hey. How are you Latif?  Hi. How you doing? . The guy I talked to in that show is the guy that a lot of these people online - it is his work that many of these folks are citing. So I was like...   It is now recording it says.  ...I better call him back up.   OK sure.  Introduce yourself for me. Just tell me who you are in a line.  Walter Mebane at University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.  So - OK so what has happened between now and the last time we talked?  Well the last time we talked...  And he had seen all of the stuff online. He knew all about it because he would been getting all these emails in the last week.   So the trickle turned into a flood. And my students start to write me and say hey you know this is going on so...  Saying hey look - Benfords Law and your work people are using it basically to claim fraud.   I was originally pointed to a Twitter post and then there was another Twitter post and then I found a YouTube video. And I do not know which one came first.  So basically what a lot of people are doing is they are taking these like precinct tallies and saying OK look - we are entering all the precinct tallies. We are taking the first digits from all the vote tallies for each of the candidates in each of these precincts and then we are checking how often it starts with one how often it starts with two and so on.  Take Chicago right? They did Chicago did not they with this?  They did yeah.  It is not a swingy one. It is a one that Biden won by a lot. But let us just do this real quick. Chicago - how many voting precincts are in Chicago?  There is - I think there is something like hundreds if not thousands of them.  Yeah let us just say a thousand.  OK sure.  You just take the votes for Donald Trump in each of those precincts. Here he got 238. Here he got 462. Here he got 521. And then in another column you take all the totals for - that Joe Biden got in those same precincts - 266 here 892 here 326 here. And what it is that is popping up is oftentimes basically just a little graphic. Two little curves with the vote counts. It is like here's Trump's curve. Look at all the ones and a little less twos a little less three - nice sweeping little curve.  Yeah.  Oh here's Biden's. So it is that weird - there is a bunch of sixes in that bumpy curve.  Right right.  And they are just like look at these two. See?  I see.  And the way they see it - so this one is for some data from Michigan. It is like OK there is less ones than there should be. There is way less twos than there should be. There is more threes than there should be. There is more fours way more fives more sixes more sevens more eights and less nines. So it is like it is all over the curve - right? - is the claim.  So they are saying that the Biden numbers are...  They look cooked.  They do not call according to this pretty Benford curve.  Right.  Therefore...  Something's amiss.  ...Probably somebody was just like keying them in on some...  Right. Some fake adding - some kind of false fraudulent adding of numbers.  Yeah.  I see.  'ecause the idea is that random numbers follow this pattern but human-created numbers do not.  This is a way of seeing human meddling.  Right.  I see.  That is the idea.  That is the claim.  But...   All this is completely ridiculous.  Walter was just like you just cannot do this with precincts.   'ecause it is very well known the first digit of precinct vote counts are not useful for diagnosing frauds or anything else.  So I started jumping into those threads correcting people and explaining - which did not win me a lot of friends on Twitter  at least among that audience.  So once the thing blew up online another person I talked to on my show...   Jennifer Golbeck professor at the University of Maryland's College of Information Studies.  As a researcher who studies social...  She is like on Twitter like fighting battling with people.   Yeah so...  Are you getting nasty DMs and stuff?  Yeah. I mean not the worst that I have gotten right? More...  Right.  You know people cross a threshold where they do not understand where I am - what I am saying anymore so then they just start calling me names which is OK .  Right right.  I mean it is for sure not a dumb idea to wonder if we can do this. And part of the attraction for Benford and why people really like it here is that it is super surprising when you first learn about Benford right? My mind was blown the first time I learned about it. And so on paper...  On   Yeah on RADIOLAB. That is right.  Yeah.  I mean it is what got me started doing research in this space - was like listening to that RADIOLAB and not being able to stop thinking about it you know for weeks.  Yeah.  There are papers out there that say look Benford could be really powerful for doing this but it is not the way anybody on Twitter was doing it.  The problem is when you are looking at precinct data these precincts are basically purposefully made just for counting the election data. And the reason that those are helpful is because they are all the same size.   Normally when Benford works you have got lots of orders of magnitude. So say we are looking at like the length of all the rivers in the world. We know that that follows Benford. So there is some really short rivers and there is some super you know continent-long rivers. So there is a lot of changes in the orders of magnitude. You have some...  But the precincts do not have multiple orders of magnitude.   Precincts tend to be kind of the same size.  And the first digit is primarily determined by the size of the precinct. It has nothing to do with anything about the behavior of the voters or the officials or the vote counters. It is just a matter of the design of the precincts.  Wait how so? How would the first number have to do with the size of the precinct?  Well Walter put it this way.   Imagine that all the precincts are about a thousand in size which is roughly a convenient number but put whatever you like. And imagine the two candidates get about 50 of the vote.  Which was true in a lot of the you know swingy precincts that this data was based on. And if you look at the Trump-Biden totals in those places...   Then the first digit everywhere is going to be a four or a five.  You are going to get 500 to this guy to 500 to this guy...  Right.  ...To 400 for this guy 600 to this guy.  Yeah.  You are probably never going to get a one in front of anything unless it is a blowout.  So - that is interesting. So they are skewing - because of the way that the precincts are drawn up you are skewing towards the middle I would imagine. You are going to get a whole bunch more fours and fives and sixes.  And that is exactly what that chart I was telling you about before that is sort of gone a little bit viral - which is like - that is exactly what it shows. So it says that Michigan data where it is like oh look the highest numbers are for fours fives and sixes...  Oh that is funny.  So you are like oh so like that makes sense that Biden would have gotten fours fives and sixes right? And then Jen pointed out OK now take another thousand-person precinct and say this is one where Biden has a really big lead.   So if Trump gets 150 votes then Biden's going to get 850 votes. He is going to get the rest right? So if Trump follows a Benfords Law distribution Biden necessarily will not follow that distribution because he is getting the other part right?  Oh . But then should not Biden's votes be the exact - like the mirror of the curve or something close to it?  So if it were the situation where we had like a thousand people in every precinct that would totally be true. In reality there is like variation. And so if you look at the plotting of this what you actually see is that Biden's curve pretty much matches the curve of how many people are in the precinct.  So that is not Benfords Law. That is just because the precinct sizes are the way they are.  Yeah. I mean I do not think there is any reason to expect anybody's going to look like Benford or not 'ecause this first significant digit analysis of Benford in elections does not work period.  Now there are definitely statisticians out there who say that you cannot Benford-ize  elections at all. But Walter - the thing that is interesting about him is that he thinks - and this is you know a lot of the work that he does - that you can look at elections if you look at not the first digit but at the second digit. This has become his thing. So he is like looked at elections in Kenya and Russia and Germany and Turkey and Mexico and Iran and often he is using Benfords Law on the second digit.  The first digit is going to be a function of how big the precinct is...  Exactly.  ...Which is a human construct. But the second digit - that is going to be more subject to the laws of randomness and whatever - yada yada yada. That is not a human construct - not in quite the same way.  Probably hopefully.  Hopefully right.  So yeah.  Super stupid caveat - most mathematician total-freakout geeks will say the thing happening with the second digit is not strictly Benfords Law. It is just a very Benford-like thing that is a pattern that you can spot.  Got it.  Yeah. And he uses phrases like Benford-inflected or Benford-like - or Benford-like - it is like...   Flavored.  That kind of thing.  I see. I see.  And Walter also makes clear that even if you do look at the second digit...   Even then it is not a perfect signal for fraud.  He will do the Benford thing right but he also has this whole like sort of tool belt.  A toolkit right.  ...A toolkit - right - that he is made of all these other different statistical things that you bring to bear on it 'ecause it is super complicated and backgrounds and expectations and then you do this with a regression to the - blah blah blah. So he is going to bring the whole suite of many complicated I-am-a-super-smart-person tools to bear on this.  Right. And the tools that he is sort of picked up in literally 20 years of studying elections statistically for fraud. But anyway - OK so those are kind of in general the reasons why he looks at all the stuff that sort of these kind of amateur Benfords Law analysts online are throwing up. He looks at that and he is like that is ridiculous. And then so then he was like OK I am - over the weekend he was like I am just going to run this myself.   And I produced a working paper which I think you have the link for.  Yup.  And it has the diagnostics not only for the second-digit Benfords Law stuff - lawlike stuff but the other diagnostics that I have developed over the past decade and a half.  And what did you find in running that stuff the second-digit stuff?  There is nothing. I mean there is no sign of frauds of any kind.  It was like this is a totally ordinary - in fact it seems pretty exemplary.  As far as I have seen there is nothing bad that happened anywhere. This has been miraculous. This election has been so smooth.   You cannot just plug some numbers into your Excel spreadsheet after you have read a Wikipedia page and do it. But people who feel like look I can see the difference and a bunch of these look the right way and one looks the wrong way so forget what you are saying about it being complicated it must be true - those are hard people to convince.   It is just common sense enough but it is just obscure and complicated enough that it feels like it is like a piece of evidence that could - you know it could take on yeah sort of a life of its own. It could be this thing that then - you know there is a certain - admittedly small but segment of the population that is like now whenever they talk about the 2020 election they are going to be like oh and Benfords Law shows that it is all - it was all bogus you know?  Yeah yeah.  Yeah. It strikes me as like is it going to go to court and win the day? No. Is it the kind of thing that maybe next Tuesday Donald Trump would say in a press conference? Yes.  Probably yes.  Yes.   Yeah. It is also - like it is the kind of thing that steps into the breach of a very uncomfortable phenomenon. And we all experienced this - right? - which was election night you had one result and then you had this weird creeping slow tilt over the next three or four days. And even though we ourselves did a story about how that tilt was coming the tilt still felt surprising and nonintuitive in some emotional way. And so then that is fertile ground for these Benford-esque ways of explaining the irregularity.  Yeah but then you know even though the people who actually know what they are talking about say it does not explain the irregularity.  No but see - this is the problem with the world we live in is that there is never been more distrust of leadership and expertise. But you are asking us in a moment when we are very unlikely to to trust experts to explain this thing and...  Which is all to say like it does feel like it is hard to explain. It is going to be hard for a lot of people to explain like why - especially if they are not resorting to experts to help explain it - like how did it go this way when everybody I talked to you know seems to have wanted the opposite to happen?  Yeah totally.   I find myself wanting to do sort of like a cost-benefit on Benford's applications in the world.  Well the upside would be financials. The upside would be...  Well not just financials. So there is - yeah financials is a big one - I mean tax fraud like...  OK OK.  But also another thing is - and this is something that Jen uses in her other research which is her main research - is how you use Benford's on - in social media. So you can use it to detect bots online. You can see...  Really?  And she has done that very thing.  How do you...  You can also use it...  No keep going. Keep going. Then I am going to double back.  No so you - literally you count - and this is cool 'ecause people can do it at home too. You count up not - so all the follower numbers of your followers on Twitter Facebook whatever. And you can see based on the followers of your followers if you just take those first digits it should follow Benfords Law.  Oh my God. That is incredible.  And if it does not - yeah.  That is wild.  And then there is...  Is that - so wait does Twitter use that to prune bots as they do from time to time?  I do not know if Twitter officially uses it. She - Jen definitely uses it. And then not only that but also you can use - and this is another thing in the TV show that we did. I did an interview with former RADIOLAB guest also my - one of my former college professors Hany Farid. You can use it to basically sniff out deepfakes and you can use it to sniff out manipulated media. In an era when it is getting way harder to tell the truth...  Really?  You basically look at these embedded number values in a single picture and you can see whether that picture has been edited or how many times it is been saved...  Oh wow.  ...Or kind of things like that. So it is actually - like I mean it definitely is a force for chaos and doubt. And it is also sometimes a kind of superhero for truth.   If only we could understand it .  Right.   All right. Thank you Latif and Soren for taking me back into the past and forward into now.  Of course.  No problem.  Definitely go check out Connected Latif's show on Netflix. You can find it there. It is amazing. The episode with the Benford stuff is called Digits.  And also in addition to that you can go back into the deep past and listen to the RADIOLAB show called Numbers which has not only all that Benford goodness but also a love story some babies and even a little Johnny Cash. It is a great episode.  I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Latif Nasser.  Thanks for listening.   This is Mark Schondorf  from Highland Park Ill. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  