  Some people like roses and others tulips. I have always liked snakes.   This is RADIOLAB. I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Robert Krulwich.  And our show today is about deception. And we thought where better to start than with snakes?  Snakes.   Oh.  This is where you keep all your snakes?  Well we keep some of them here. We have a variety of some of the lizards we are working with.  This is Gordon Burghardt. He works at the University of Tennessee. I paid him a visit recently.  And I have several rooms here where we keep a variety of different reptiles - turtles...  And he is got this one little snake that he likes to show off - small guy about the size of a pencil...  Mmm hmm.  ...Called a hognose snake.  These are the hognose snakes. You can see this guy's already starting to go into the display.   And Gordon pops the top off the cage and then does something interesting.  But what I will do is take a...  He puts a chicken puppet...  ...Sort of a puppet of a chicken...  ...On his left hand.  Right.  And then with this puppet he begins to kind of attack the snake or mock attack...  Simulate...  ...Like peck near it.  ...A bird that might be attacking it.  What happens next is kind of shocking.  And you can see now how it is hiding its head a little bit. It is coiling its tail.  First the snake flips over on its back. Oh there he goes.  There he goes upside down.  Then it vomits blood.  Blood will even come out of the mouth.  Then it poos itself.  And now if you noticed he had started to defecate a little bit. It is writhing.   And then it gets really really...  And it will finally stop.  ...Still.   In fact it will stop breathing. And it is all a bluff all a show.   Wow. I was like wait. That is - that is no bluff. Can I touch him?  Sure.  But as soon as we took a few steps back from the cage the snake pops its head up goes fwoop  unflattens itself... Wait a sec. It is back to life now.  And if you come close...  ...And there it was alive again.  Yeah. And then it will start to breathe and gaze around.  It was lying basically.  That is pretty good.  Thank you very much.  Although you know as the world turns it was kind of an ordinary lie really.  What?  It was. Sure.  When was the last time you pooed yourself for a lie?  Well I could lie to you so beautifully you would be on your back tongue out.  No way - 'ecause I would catch you.  And that - no you would not catch me.  Yeah I would.  No you would not.  I would totally catch you.  I am so sorry to tell you this that is not happening.   I would catch you.  No. If it were me no you would not. So that is our hour - people who lie...  And the people who catch them.  Not.   To get things started in earnest let us go to every New Yorker's favorite spot.   I love that we are at the airport.   John F. Kennedy Airport of course. Just a little place I like to go to get away from it all. I ended up there with our producer Ellen Horne. We had not actually meant to come but the guy that we had been interviewing...  In order for a lie to be betrayed by demeanor...  This is him.  ...There has to be a high emotional...  Right in the middle of the interview he had gotten a call.   Hello. Hello.  Said he had to run.  Oh that is my ride.  And we were like crap we have more questions. What are we going to do? So we decide...   ...To jump in the car with him and...   ...There we were...   ...In the relaxing presence of men with big guns.  Well yes. There is these guys who look like they are in combat uniform for Iraq and they have automatic weapons.  In any case this is Paul Ekman.  Ekman - E-K-M-A-N.  He is a security expert. That is what he would be called nowadays. And speaking of security the reason he is here today at JFK Airport is to talk with JetBlue security...   ...Teach them a few things about how they might do their jobs better. OK.  We have not.  But...  No reporter in a building - that is it.  How about over in a restaurant ?  Not a JetBlue property.  ...Security kicks us out.  We are leaving their terminal.  And the only place it seems we are allowed to stand... How about right here? ...Is on the concrete median between two lanes of traffic where Ekman finally pulls out the thing he would been hoping to show the folks at JetBlue.  So...  So here we have your...  My little...  ...Your very stylish little laptop...  Yeah.  ...Just starting up. It is a simple computer program that he promises in about 40 minutes will teach you to peer into a person's soul.  So we are going to start...  Click start. All right.  ...And click on the start button.  OK. So I am stepping forward to the computer here. It is loading images - please wait.  Stepping up to the bat waiting for the pitch .  OK.   Whoa. I need to see that one again. That was so fast.  Aha.   Whoa.  What is that?  I promise I will tell you but let me just keep going with this. All right?  OK.  To explain Paul Ekman studies faces - the human face. He is probably studied the face more than anyone.  Up until my work that was published in '78 we did not really know how many expressions a face could make and there was nothing like a musical notation for the face.  So about 30 years ago he began by examining his own face very closely to see how many muscles are in there - and there are roughly 50. Then he spent the next couple decades trying to figure out how many ways those muscles can combine to form a facial expression.  And I developed something called the facial action coding system - basically a muscular scoring system that you can apply to photographs film or real-life behavior. You just did a one two for me.  I - you are numbering my facial expression?  The one two is the most common thing in the world. Just raising your eyebrows up is one two. Five is just raising the upper eyelid. Seven is tensing the lower eyelid.  All in all the human face is capable of 3000 different expressions. That is what he thinks. And as we sat in his publisher's office in midtown Manhattan - this is about an hour before the airport incident...  Do you want an example?  Yeah. He demonstrated a few.  OK. If you fabricate anger it is very unlikely you will put in what we call the anger reliable muscle which most people cannot voluntarily move.  The anger reliable muscle.  Do you want to see where it is?  Yeah I want to see where it is. You are tensing your...  I am tensing the red margin of my lips.  You just look - you look fierce when you do that instantly. So if you want to know someone's mad look at their lips. Conversely if you want to know they are happy - like genuinely happy and they are not just faking it - he says look at their eyelids.  The skin in between your eyebrows and your upper eyelid - in a genuine spontaneous enjoyment smile that skin moves slightly down. Hard to detect but visible if you know what to look for.  You just did it when you said that. Anyways the reason that we are talking about him here in an hour on lying is because with all the attention that is being paid these days to finding lies by using fancy brain scanners Ekman is kind of on a crusade to remind us that you do not have to do that. You do not have to look in the brain because the brain is actually directly connected to the face in ways that we cannot control.  All of these muscles are activated involuntarily when an emotion occurs without your choice.  Are there things happening on my face on her face on any face...  That you do not even know about.  ...That we do not even know - we do not know about?  And I am seeing them. My God the naked face .  Which brings me to my new favorite word - leakage.  Leakage?  Leakage. Yes it is a word you will hear again and again when you talk to anyone in the field of lie-catching. Take for example Barry McManus.  Barry L. McManus M-C-M-A-N-U-S.  He is a longtime CIA interrogator.  Physiological leakage could be anywhere from sweat gland activity - when someone knows that they are misleading you and they break out in a sweat that is because of the autonomic nervous system that you have no control over.  Basically telling the truth is easy.  That is the crux of it according to Steve Silberman a reporter for WIRED Magazine.  The truth is kind of sitting there in your brain. Your brain knows it you say it - no problem. But your brain has to work harder to generate the lie...  There is an effort. And with that there is always leakage.  ...Even in an instantaneous moment.  Sometimes you even hear it where a person's breathing pattern will have changed or the sighs that people do. At what particular time did they do it? If you are not trained to look at it most people ignore it. But...  If you have been trained and you know what to look for according to Barry McManus...  It will strike you right in the face.  Speaking of faces...  You are usually talking about...  ...The particular brand of facial leakage that Paul Ekman specializes in has to do with something that he calls...  A micro facial expression a very fast facial expression - about 25th of a second.  OK just to - just as an example let us just imagine Robert that you are smiling. OK?  Yeah.  But on the inside as those of us who know you can attest maybe you have got some rage.  A little a little bit.  Yeah just a little bit. But on the outside you are smiling. Now a micro expression is when for the tiniest tiniest moment a little bit of that inner rage slips out onto your face.   And these are just little - like just fleeting expressions on your face.  They are usually pretty extreme but they are very fast.  It happens constantly he says. But it is so fast that most of us do not see it at all.  Most of us do not. And when I say most I mean about 95 of us miss them. But once you learn it you do not miss them.  And once you do not miss them - oop there is one - according to Ekman you wake up to the startling possibility that...  Lies are everywhere.   It is enough to make a man obsessed.  When my daughter was born 27 years ago I decided that I would take on as a life task to see whether I could lead my life without lying.  To see whether you could lead your life without lying?  Yeah.  That sounds impossible.  It is very tough. But I am always looking to see whether there is a way I can solve the problem. It makes it more interesting. I mean just telling a lie is really dull.  But you could argue that telling a lie is - it is just what we do.  No we do not just do that. Most of the time we lie out of laziness or timidity. I got put in a terrible situation by a friend who had invited me to a dinner party and the company was dull and the food was worse. I sure did not want to go again. So he invites me again about two months later. And I said I am sorry I cannot make it. I am being polite. It is not true. I could have made it. And he said oh but we enjoyed having you so much. Tell me a date when you could make it.  Ooh.  Now how am I going to get out of that in a polite way?  Yeah how do you do - how do you stay true to your principles there?  I am prepared. I am prepared. So I said to him look the truth of the matter is that at this point in my life I am very busy. And there are friends I have had for decades that I do not get enough time to see and I really cannot pursue new friendships.   But that sort of shows it takes a lot of work not to lie. And for why - for what purpose?  One you feel like a Zen hero.  .  Oh my God - did it again. I can stay truthful. I did not take the easy path.  When Paul Ekman began to walk the path of the honest man he was faced with a question that has plagued other honest men for centuries which is what exactly is a lie? Like how do you define it exactly? Like I mean there are different kinds clearly. And some are definitely more OK than others. Where do you draw the line? Eventually he settled on two criteria.  A lie is a deliberate choice...  A deliberate choice.  ...To mislead a target without any notification. So according to that definition an actor is not a liar although a good actor - I saw a good actor last night in a play and I was for a time misled.  .  I even had tears because he had misled me. But I was notified.  Right. So criteria No. 2 is canceled out.  So that is just not a lie. It is deception.  In a similar way bluffing at poker - it is not lying because bluffing is in the rules. It is understood. That is part of the game. So therefore you are quote notified.  But it depends. Maybe there rules - with my wife we are entering our 28th year. My wife taught me that what I am supposed to say when she comes in with the new dress - I am not supposed to say gee that is not a flattering cut or the color is wrong or that is for someone 20 years younger all of which might be true. I am supposed to say smashing. So OK I have agreed to those rules. And the rules I have agreed to is that I will not tell her the truth. And since we have agreed about that I am not lying.  So is this like the poker game where you are allowed to bluff?  I am required to.  You are giving yourself a loophole though.  No no no because she is notified. She knows she cannot count on me.   That sounds like very lawyerly to me. Just then his phone rings.   Hello. Hello hello. Oh that is my ride.  So...  You want to ride out to JFK with me?  Yeah absolutely.  All right. You know how this goes. We pile in the car go to the airport...   ...Get kicked out.  No reporter in our building.  So there we were on the median the center strip at JFK coldish winter day. And Paul Ekman finally pulled the thing out of his bag this new technology that he thinks is going to help our chances of catching liars at the airport. Basically it is a computer game. It is loading images. Please wait. You are shown a face on a screen. The face is fixed in an expression like a smile let us say. And then...  Waiting for the pitch.  OK. Pow. Another different expression flashes for a moment. Whoa. That was so fast. So fast. And then on the screen you are asked what was that microexpression?  What was it?  Surprise.  You got it right. Look at that.  I was right?  Hey. Let us try another. Are you ready?  OK.   I need to see that one again. No wait. Actually no no no. Angry angry - I think it is angry.  All right. Let us go and try anger. Woo .  I was right?  Two in a row.  I started out pretty strong.  OK here we go. Are you going to get three in a row?  But then it was all downhill.   Oh I did not even begin to catch that. Contempt? Wrong. In the end after several minutes of this I ended up getting more wrong than right which put my microexpression-identifying powers at less than chance. I could have flipped a coin and I would have done better.  But what if you were good at it? What if you were able to identify the particular expressions? What would you know?  Well I would know - I guess all I would really know is that they were concealing something some emotion.  That is it.  That is it yeah. And in fact on the way over in the car Ekman said it point blank. If you are looking for some surefire dead giveaway sign of lying it is just not there.  Because we do not have a Pinocchio's nose.    Oh look my nose.  We do not have something that only occurs when people are lying.  Really? So there is not say a muscle No. A19 that if it twitches in a certain way is a bulletproof hallmark of lying?  Nope. It does not exist. That is Pinocchio's nose.  Is there something close to it on our faces?  No. There are signs of unusual cognitive load or emotional load and that can occur for a lot of reasons. And you have got to find out the reason.  So you are never going to be able to have an idiot behind the machine in other words.  Nope.   RADIOLAB will return in a moment. This is RADIOLAB. I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Robert Krulwich.  Today our topic is liars and the people who try and catch them. And we have got a tale for you now from our own Ellen Horne a story that she heard from a friend of hers.  Robert Krulwich.  No. So Jude  your friend Jude...  Yep.  Describe him real quick for us.  Jude is a sweet guy. We used to work together. He is kind of a slight fellow with auburn hair and he is just a really thoughtful trustworthy guy.  How do you know?  What do you mean?  How do you know that he is trustworthy?  Well you just know. I do not know.  OK. Tell me about the story that Jude told you.  Well this is a story about someone that he dated and someone who changed him.  Is this a girl?  It is a girl and...  And how did he meet her?  He met her at a barbecue.  A friend's party. And incidentally it was my birthday.  Right. He was at this party. It was his birthday. He meets this girl.  Sandy blonde hair blue eyes.  And after the party...  A couple days later...  ...He gets a phone call from his friend saying...  Do you remember Hope who was at the party on Sunday? She was asking after you. Is it OK if I give her your phone number and tell her how to get in touch with you?  Were you flattered?  Of course. So she calls.  He asked her out and they went out on a date.  I remember thinking to myself wow this girl is - she is kind of electric vibrant. We are saying yes a lot to each other. We are laughing a lot. Yeah she just had a wonderful smile. She would look you right in the eye. I mean she just had a way of connecting right through to back behind your own eyes. And you just felt like you were...  So they went out again and then they went out again. And pretty soon they are spending all of their time together.  And then what happened?  Well...  I do not remember when it turned.  At some point she started to have a lot of problems.  Small crises started to come up.  A whole series of things.  They were...  Knee problems insurance problems.  You know I have got a situation where I need to move out of the place where I am currently living. And it is because my roommate's you know crazy.  He felt himself sort of pulling back.  Yes. Yes.  Until one evening he gets a call from Hope. And she is totally panicked.  She said you have to come over. We have something we really need to talk about. And at this point - I have no idea what it is now at this time. But she said hey I am pregnant. I think I am pregnant.  Wow. What does Jude do?  Well he basically stood up and did the right thing.  There really was a part of me that was thinking well here's the test of a person.  He was going to stand by her and support her through the pregnancy. And he said OK let us go to the doctor together.  I would say where when? I want to be there. And she would say 3 oclock at the doctor's office. Then I would say OK. And I would go be there early - you know 45. And she would not be there. And 15 would roll around and 30 would roll around. There I am sitting sort of alone and the receptionist would sort of - you know can I help you? She would say oh well that appointment was at 1 oclock. Or I would notice on the sign-in sheet that she had actually signed in and I could see the handwriting. It was - indeed it was Hope's. And she had signed in two hours earlier.  So then did you confront Hope about giving you the wrong appointment times?  Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. And as this continued I would say repeat that for me. Three - OK so 3 oclock. I mean these are moments in crystal clarity of life. You are not losing track of stuff.  Then he gets a call from a woman named Leslie .  I met Hope off Craigslist actually. I put out an ad for a roommate and she moved in with no furniture. She showed up with just all of her stuff in trash bags and then she disappeared.  Leaving the bags behind.  So it was right around that point where her check bounced. And I was like oh no.  And so through a mutual friend she tracked down Jude.  I was kind of like OK well she has this boyfriend.  She called him.  Called him and sort of wondered like is he in on this?  Jude had no idea what she was talking about.  No.  He did not even know she had a roommate named Leslie.  I mean who the hell was who? You know who are you? You owe me money. No I do not. And she - you know it was all very confusing.  Not knowing what else to do Leslie decides to go into Hope's room and start looking through her stuff.  And I just thought you know I am just going to go through this see what is in here. And that is when I found those notebooks.  Spiral-bound notebooks and inside...  Literally pages upon pages of different names with different socials next to them.  Credit card numbers mother's maiden name birthdate - page after page of that kind of information.  What exactly was this?  These are like crib notes for a con woman.  That is when I called Jude and I said get over here.  What did Jude do at this point?  Well Jude knew he had to do something.  And I finally got up the courage to confront Hope and say this is over my own responsibility here notwithstanding to the - you know the pregnancy.  Well and what about Leslie at this point? Was she...  Well Leslie wondered how many of those people in that notebook Hope had met through Craigslist which is where Leslie met her. So she went back to Craigslist and started posting warnings many times a day.  Think Single White Female meets Pacific Heights meets The Grifters meets... If you meet a late-20-something Gap-clothed 5-foot-3 blue-eyed blonde run away. Run away. In fact warn your hairdresser.  She is posting warning after warning.  If you have any information about this person or simply want some empathy please email at conbyhopeyahoo.com.  And Craig took them all down.  As in Craig from Craigslist Craig?  Yeah.  Craig Newmark founder of Craigslist.  He thought that they were inappropriate...  Yeah.  ...That they were unfair.  I want to do the right thing. But every woman has rights.  She would post.  Note - the drama is not over.  He would take it down. She would post.  Fact of the matter is that Hope is out there somewhere.  He would take it down. But within a few days in those moments where Craig was in the bathroom away from his desk people responded.  I was starting to get multiple reports that she ripped people off.  Every different kind of person from all over the place - yoga instructors landlords car mechanics banks flower shop owners spas a veterinarian car rental agency check cashing place.  50.  About 500.  1000.  Approximately 10000.  And everybody with the same story.  She is one good actor.   Her MO seems to be to move in with tons of stuff sans furniture. Pass a check out of a closed account then bolt when it comes back.  Over the course of several years there were postings on Craigslist. And there were people who were trying to find and stop Hope. She got kind of a celebrity following.  By the way we used to get emails like every day from people who were just like is there any news? Dude I love seeing those posts. Can you tell us anything? I am like no she is in hiding. Sorry.  Who was this woman? Terry can I get you to introduce yourself? Just say who you are and what you do.  My name is Terry Alario. I am a special agent with the Louisiana Department of Justice.  Louisiana? How did we get to Louisiana?  Well after a few years Hope resurfaced in New Orleans.  We had a call-in complaint from a lady down in the New Orleans area. Her credit card had been used. Someone had tried to purchase Dell computers. And it just started from there. Every time we talked to one victim it led to one or two other victims. Hope has almost like a cult following. You know her MO was that she knew them. She got to know them really well. I talked to a lot of victims and they just do not trust people anymore. A lot of these people did some good human open-heart things with her and said this poor girl. I have got to help her out. And they were really let down and they just do not trust people anymore. And it is sad. You know not only do you have to worry about clearing up your credit and getting your money back from your banks - you know you have got to deal with people on this Earth now that - you do not know you know who you are standing next to.   Jude had had that feeling. And for good reason. In one of the houses that Hope had blown through in San Francisco he had found something that was really upsetting.  I had come across a letter that she had written to my parents but never mailed just saying some very very terrible things...  ...Which Jude says were totally untrue. In this letter to his parents Hope wrote...  ...That at one point during the pregnancy she was having complications and the main symptom was like severe vaginal bleeding. And that this - that she was on somebody's living room floor either mine or hers in this terrible condition. And that I had just left totally abandoning the situation and my responsibilities - just a graphic and ugly depiction of an awful scene.   Jude was traumatized. The whole experience he compared to an earthquake. Have you ever been in an earthquake?  No never.  Well one of the things that happens is that there is these aftershocks after the earthquake. And so for a little while after the earthquake you are not sure that when you put your foot down the ground is still going to be in the same place as it was a minute ago.  There were days - I can tell you there were days when it was significant to hear anybody say anything of any consequence that was just true. You know to say I have a carton of milk in my refrigerator that expires on September 17 and that was true.  It did not say September 19 or September 15. It said September 17.  I have had people crying on the phone talking to me about this situation. And they were victims six seven years ago. People are embarrassed. They are embarrassed and then they become mad. You know and that is when they become detectives .  I make a lousy private detective.  Where are you now?  In front of Hope's mother's house in a bad neighborhood in New Orleans around midnight.  What is her name by the way her mom?  Oh Marcia Ballantyne.  And why are you there exactly?  I had kind of gotten a little obsessed with Hope.  You would gotten obsessed?  Yeah. I cannot see any house numbers. 623...  Why?  I have no idea . There is like this heavying tightness in my chest. I am so nervous. There was something about imagining how she was doing all this. I am so nervous. It was like really fun to imagine. But maybe that is what happened to Leslie too that like once I started looking I was able to find a lot of victims a lot of information. And I wanted to meet her.  Who are you looking for?  Do you know Marcia Ballantyne?  Who?  Marcia Ballantyne.  I as not never seen you around here.  Yeah I am not from around here.  You are standing on the corner looking like that boy you will be having people spooked around here.  I will come back later. OK next day.  All right wait. Hold up. What did you know about Hope at this point?  Well I knew that she had had a daughter.  Really?  Hello? Is anybody home?   Jude's?  No not Jude's. The timing was all wrong and I had located the father. Well I am standing outside of Hope's mother's house. There is three plastic tricycles piled up against a gate. I do not see anyone inside the house. The next morning I went out to find a woman named Ruby.  Ruby Moon. I live in New Orleans La.  Ruby owns a coffee shop.  I live down the street from Hope's mother. And when Hope came to New Orleans her mother you know introduced us.  Ruby has a kid who is about the same age as Hope's daughter and they go to Montessori together. And when Ruby opened her shop a year ago Hope did carpool duty.  She would pick them up. And when we got home about 30 6 oclock we would all eat dinner together. And she would spend the night sometimes. And quite frankly I enjoyed having Hope around.  A few weeks later the cops show up to arrest Hope. She had printed a check on her home computer with a made-up account number to buy a 12000 used car.  Here you are. You really like this woman. Your kids love her. And you cannot believe it. You do not believe it. And I wanted to stand by her. I wanted to help her. You know and she had not screwed me over. She had not done anything to me. So maybe she is turning around. Well then my husband finds that she is taken a credit card off of the shelf that he put away because the credit card was maxed out and she would been buying gasoline and paying her phone bills. Was not much. It was like 250. It really was not much. And my husband was like Hope why? Why did not you just come to us? Here you are. You are living in our house. You are our nanny. You are our friend. We would have given you the money.  And here's where Ruby's situation is so different from the other victims I talked to. She loves Hope's daughter. She cannot just walk away. When Hope went to jail for four months Ruby helped care for her.  It is a very very difficult situation especially when you are trying to do the right thing.  Trying to do the right thing Ruby hired Hope's mom to work at her coffee shop even though she is kind of been an awful waitress.  I mean she is worked here for three months. And she still forgets how to do things. I mean I do not know.  But here's the thing - the effect of a lie like real impact - it is not just that it makes you question that piece of information that you were lied to about. It is that it makes you question everything. What happened next was that I watched Ruby completely unravel because of something that I said... Do you understand that Hope's father was a doctor? ...Which the detective had told me.  Her father was a doctor.  My understanding was that he was not really a doctor.  According to the attorney general's office he was.  Then Marcia's a liar too because she says he was a con man.  She says that Hope's father was a con man? It is funny how a piece of information can take on a life of its own. The ground was shifting under Ruby's feet.  So then Marcia's lying. Marcia says he was not a doctor. If they say it turned out that he was really a doctor then Marcia's lying.  And I mean that may not be information that means anything at all you know?  And now you are telling me that he really was a doctor.  She began making call after call.  Hey baby it is Ruby the hymn  lady. Can you give me some information?  She phoned anyone she knew with a connection to Hope.  Can I ask you a question and you just say yes or no? Hi Scott. This is Ruby. I live in New Orleans. You do not know me. I heard some disturbing news that I would like to verify. It is very very important that you call me back. My number is... Please call me back. Hey I am freaking out.  That is her talking to her husband.  Well I am sitting here talking to the reporter and there is things that Marcia's told me are not true that Hope's dad was not really a doctor and he was.  I still really do not understand why that one detail shook Ruby so much. I guess betrayal makes you doubt yourself. But it explains something that Jude had told me - that he has no new friends literally that everyone he feels close to is someone that he met before he met Hope as if he never trusted his judgment about people again but that he had no choice but to rely on it from before. I mean how could you live in the world without trusting? What sort of world would that be? So I am in front of the Jefferson Parish Courthouse. Hope has a trial this morning. It is 40. I have been here since 8 this morning. And I have not as yet seen Hope. I have been trying to reach her for a week and a half left her phone messages mailed her a letter left her a note at the door - nothing. I am starting to feel like she is not coming. OK inside the courtroom I am watching the door at every person who walks in wondering is it her? Is it her? And then she walks in.  She walked in.  And she is...  Had you ever seen her before this moment?  I had seen pictures of her.  What did she look like?  What did she look like? Well strawberry-blonde hair blue pinstriped suit pointy-toed high heels. She sort of looks like an attorney. Very well put together. And I watched her look around this courtroom at all of the intimidating and scary-looking people in the court. And I see her see me and she just makes a beeline right for me and walks up to me and says you are Ellen are not you? You have been trying to reach me and I am so sorry I have not been in touch. And she just sits down next to me and we end up spending the next four hours together.  What did you talk about?  The weather mostly. She was very charming. She told me all sorts of things about New Orleans New Orleans history. And when it comes time for her to stand before the judge and plead guilty I find myself rooting for her. She gets sentenced to two years in hard labor but she also gets a couple of days to make arrangements for her daughter. She has to report to prison at 9 a.m. on Friday morning.  Do you ever get her on the record?  Well I could not have my equipment in the courtroom. But while we were in court she agreed to an interview. But then a few hours before the scheduled interview she called me and told me she could not make it moved it to the next morning then the next day and the next. And while I know I cannot trust her I do not know what else to do. I decide to run to the drugstore and buy a tape recorder and bring it to her. So I go to her mom's house spend a few minutes at the gate talking. Hey there. Huh?  At least just a little bit better weather for your entire thing.  For my dress. Yeah totally. I was freezing yesterday. Hey there.  This is my mother.  Hi. I am Ellen.  Hi Ellen. How are you?  Hi Ellen.  Cleaning up - we get dog poop...  Hi Ellen.   Hello Ellen.  Hi there.  What is your name?  Well you just called her by her name.  You just said my name.  What is her name? Ellen?  So I am trying to make it really easy. There is a cassette recorder. It is got batteries. It is got a cassette in it. I tested it out. It works.  OK.  And...  For the battery? For the bubble?  Yeah you - we got to put batteries in your bubble thing too. I know.  In the bubbles?  And my other thought is if you want to just record your thoughts and what - I mean you know like I just want to...  Right.  ...Give you some space to say what you want to say. So...  OK. And it is all addressed and...  Got it posted. It is all addressed.  Thank you.  Just seal it up and...  OK.  Yeah.  I am sorry...  It is OK.  ...I could not give you better more quality time than...  That was it. That was my only on-the-record interview with her. However before she went to prison she did send me that cassette tape. It was a really crummy tape and so we had to use this voice - what do you - what do we call that?  Noise reduction yeah.  We had to use a noise reduction filter to clean it up so you could hear her voice. And it makes her sound kind of ghostly and strange.   I have a child who is happy and healthy and bright and beautiful. And I do not think she could be - handle that if I was this horrible monster that people think that I am.  On this tape Hope talks about her daughter a lot.   My life is now her.  I wish she said something more satisfying something that explained why it was that she chose to live this way for so long. But she does not.   I am sorry.   Hope mailed this tape to me reported to prison she was released due to prison overcrowding and during Hurricane Katrina the state of Louisiana lost her. About a month after the hurricane I wrote to the attorney general's office and asked if they had any idea where she was. I got a one-word response - no.   RADIOLAB's Ellen Horne. All right so let me ask a question to get us to our next bit. Why exactly would Hope lie the way she does? I mean there was a point in the story where Ruby one of the characters said you know I would have given her everything she wanted would have given her the money the credit cards whatever and yet she still did it. So why...  Have not you met people who lie all the time? Like they just keep doing it and doing it and doing it. It is like they cannot stop.  Right.  Yeah.  Exactly.  They just cannot help it. They feel this impulse that they cannot control.  Yeah the lie just tumbles out before they can stop it.  And that is who?  Oh that is Yaling Yang . She is a researcher at the University of Southern California.  In the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. And I am a new mom .  A really new mom.  .  Her baby's about 2 months old. And she was nice enough to let us barge in on her maternity leave to talk with her.  ...To talk a little bit.  Because when she is not playing with her new baby...  Say something.  ...She is studying the mind of pathological liars.   Which by the way means - when you use that phrase pathological lying what is - is there a definition of that?  Yeah I just it a moment ago. It is people who cannot stop lying. It is habitual. It is compulsive. Yaling's question was is there something about their brains their anatomy that might explain this compulsion? And she thinks she may have found a clue.   In any case - getting ahead of myself - first thing she had to do is find a group of people who lie a lot.  Why? Oh to study them you mean?  To study them yeah.   How - where do you find sitting pathological liars waiting to be studied?  We actually recruit our subject from the temporary employment agency.  Like a temp agency - where you know you would go if you typed 60 words a minute kind of place?  Yes exactly. Exactly.  This is her notion that she is finding a bunch of liars at a temp agency?  Well her...  That is so ridiculous.  It is not ridiculous. Her idea was that liars would be overrepresented at a temp agency.  As you can probably imagine you know people who need to go to the temp agency are usually people who cannot remain in one job for a very long period of time.  That is not true of all people who work at temp agencies. Most of them are just fine. But some of them she figured keep ending up at the temp agency because they just have this...  Problem with their - you know their lifestyle.  A truth problem.  All right let us keep going. I want to hear how this comes out. Go ahead.  OK so Yaling and her crew went to a couple of temp agencies in the LA area interviewed 108 people asked them all kinds of questions - not just about their employment history but about their past.  You know their childhood history.  About their families.  Very personal information.  She checked their answers to those questions against their family and friends against their court records just to see if she could find people whose stories had you know inconsistencies big ones.  And in the 108 folks that she queried she found a pathological liar?  Twelve actually.  Twelve?  Twelve.  Out of 108 samplers? Whoa.  Are they pathological liars? I do not know. It depends on how you define it.  I would hope so.  But she found 12 people that she wanted to look at further. She said to them would you be willing to come you know on a purely voluntary basis into the lab and let me scan your brain?   Just another day at the temp office.  So basically we put people in the MRI scanner and then we scanned their brain.  She scanned everyone's brains all 108 participants - the liars and the nonliars. No one knew which group they were in. And she was looking at a particular part of their brains just behind their forehead called...  The prefrontal cortex. This is the part of the brain that process the information.  This is where the real thinking happens.  Making decisions and moral judgment for example.  Now if you zoom into that place just behind your forehead what you will see are two kinds of brain tissue. You have got gray matter and then you have got white matter.  I have heard of gray matter.  Yes well we think of the brain as being gray but actually it is two things. It is gray and white. The gray stuff - you can kind of think of it as like the computer processor part.  Yeah.  It is these little clumps of neurons that process information...   ...Like computer chips. That is the gray whereas the white...  The white matter is like the connections between all these computers.  The white matter in other words is what moves the thoughts around.  Gray is where the thinking happens and then white is when you move the thought from here...   ...To there.  Exactly.  Yes. They transfer information from one end to the other.  OK so you have got your gray. You have got your white. What Yaling thought she would see when she looked into the brains of people who lie a lot...  I thought we would see a reduction.  Just some piece of it not there.  Yeah they are missing something.  Specifically she thought she would find less gray stuff less of the thinking stuff.  Why would - why?  Because that is what she is seen in other mental disorders that are kind of like this. And if you think about it in a really simplistic level the gray is where you think your thoughts. And it is also among other things where you crunch your moral calculations. And liars she figured have trouble in this department so maybe they have less gray. That was her notion.  OK.  But when she got the pictures back what she saw was...  Such a great increase. It is...  More. And not the gray.  More white matter.  More white stuff - a lot more.  Twenty-five percent - it is like a quarter.  So they have 25 more connections in their head than non-liars.  Yes.  Before we get to what that means what were you thinking when you saw this?  I was really bubbling . I thought this was something.  Something.  Something.  Something. Here's her idea so far. Ready?  Yes.  She thinks that these extra connections play a crucial role in a kind of in-the-moment storytelling. That is essentially what lying is - coming up with a story on the fly. Let me give you an example OK? You are leaving work. You are walking down the hall. You go into the elevator. And an annoying but nice co-worker corners you...   Oh hey Sally.  ...Corners you in the elevator...   Hey.  ...Asks you out.   You know I have been meaning to ask do you maybe want to go out with me on Friday?  So there you are questions dangling in the air.   Do you want to go out with me on Friday?  For most of us right at that moment inside our head in our brains we are thinking...   Crap. Oh shoot.  Say you are busy. Say you are busy. Say you are busy.   Say you are busy but with what? What? What are you doing?  What are you busy with? Say something. Think of something. Think. Think.   What should I say?  You are just like reaching out into the void trying to form a connection with some idea that can help you come up with some excuse.   I could say...  I could say well...   Shoot. What should I say?  What? What? What?   I cannot think of anything.  Really what you need to do at this moment is you have to take a bunch of disparate thoughts on different sides of your brain - like me tonight teeth dentist - and connect them all together.   I am having some late-night dental work.  Like that.   Oh OK.  We can all do it given enough time. But for the pathological liar she thinks that because they have so many more of these connections to begin with they get there faster.   My mom is visiting that night. I am meeting a friend for sushi. I am performing in the circus. Friday night book club. Ice hockey practice. Yoga. I have to polish the silver. I have got chemo.  Like the more connections...   Sorry - beekeeping.  ...The faster the speed of the processing can jump from one idea to another. And you can come up with more random stories.  She thinks that in the brains of most of us we have trouble making those connections. We have...  Would you have trouble? If I said to you like come on come on go out with me on Friday night would you not be able to come up with a wowzer ?  I would say well yeah I...  I have to count straws. See Thursday night is straw-counting. We always - we have about 316 straws so far. And I am only doing ones with little red circles on them. So that is Thursday night. Sorry.   I do not know where this comes from. It just happens. I just - yeah.  There you go. See you have got extra white matter perhaps.  So she is saying this is a cause of lying or an effect of lying? Like...  Well she is not sure and this is a big debate. What she can say is that children as they grow...  Yeah. From age two to age 10 there is a big jump in their white matter. And that is actually the same age that they develop the skill to lie.  Among other things but you know...  To close let me just ask you given everything we have just talked about how do you square this information with being a new mom? I mean is this your first kid?  Yes it is my first one.  Boy or girl?  A girl.  What is her name?  Zoe .  Does not it make you wonder a little bit about Zoe and what is going on inside her head?  Oh yes. I wonder about that all the time. It is still too early to scan her brain but  eventually I will do it.  Are you serious?  Yes .  This is a moral to this. Never if you are a little baby have a social psychiatrist as a mother. It is a very very dangerous thing. Anyway if she does this maybe we will know a little bit more about the nature and nurture of liars. But until then...  This is RADIOLAB.  And we will be back in a moment.  I would like to scan your brain.  .  Hello. I am Jad.  And I am Robert.  And this is RADIOLAB. Today on our program the topic is liars.  All kinds of liars. And now it is time for the liar we have not yet mentioned a liar which might actually be one very familiar to you Jad.  What is that?  This is the self-deceiver.  Hey . What do you mean?  Somebody who lies not to others but actually lies to oneself if you get my drift.  Thanks Krulwich. Thanks a lot. Anyhow what does that even mean to lie to oneself? How would you...  It is tricky. Let me give you a classic example. Let us say that you are madly in love with somebody.  Who?  Just conjure up whoever you really you know - I do not know who.  OK.  So now you are in love with her and strange things start to happen.   You are at home. The phone rings.   You pick it up.  Hello?  And the person on the other end of the line is breathing and then...   Hangs up.  Next she is suddenly staying late at the office many nights a week. Did not used to.   Jad honey I have got to work late tonight again. Do not wait up.  Then your friends tell you that they see this woman...   So who is this guy?  ...In the company of a man...   Does she have a brother maybe?  ...Repeatedly.   Dude come on.   In short all the signs are there. And yet despite the evidence you Jad continue to believe - I mean you truly truly believe that the woman is being faithful.  Well maybe in this little scenario that you have created for me I am just stupid or clueless.   Well I am not going to take that away from you. I am not. But in this case though for the sake of argument let us say you are not clueless.  OK.  Let us say you believe both these things in some different compartments in your head. You believe that she is faithful and at the very same time you know what is really going on here.  What self-deception really is is that you have two contradictory beliefs. And you hold them at the same time and you allow one of them into consciousness and that you have a motivation for allowing one of them into consciousness.  That is Joanna Starek. She is a psychologist and we are going to hear more from her later.  All right so how does that work then?  What?  What you just said like to have two contradictory thoughts in your brain at the same time and yet you are only letting in one?  Well there is an experiment on this subject kind of an interesting one. And so...  Another experiment?  Let me introduce you to the two guys who did it OK?  I am Harold Sackeim. I am a professor in the Departments of Psychiatry and Radiology at Columbia University.  OK. My name is Ruben Gur. I am a neuropsychologist by training.  Harold Sackeim and Rubin Gur are friends. They met back in 1974.  '73.  Make that '73. One was a grad student. That would be Harold. One was a professor.  Yeah.  That is Gur.  And we started talking and...  To make a long story short we did a couple of experiments.   In one of them we played clips of one's own voice and the voices of other people.  Here's the experiment - you the subject are sitting in a room OK? And we are going to give you a big red button and you can press it.  OK press the button.   Not yet.  Oh sorry.  And out of the speakers in this room you are going to hear ten different voices.  And everybody was saying the same thing. The words were the same.  Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here.  And one of the voices in this group one of the many is you Jad you saying...  Come here.  Right there that was you. Now when you hear yourself saying come press the button...  Press the button - me or not me.  ...When you hear your own voice.  Come here. Come here. Come here.  So one of these is mine?  Yeah.  Come here.  All right.  Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here.  Nope. No.  Come here.  Yes.   Come here. Come here.  Not me. Not me.  Come here.  Not me.  Come here.  Not me.  Come here. Come here. Come here.  Me...   ...I think.  Come here. Come here. Come here. Come here.  Not me.  Come here.  Not me.  Come here.  Now if you listen very closely...  I do not know.  ...It is going to come in three...  Come here.  Me.  ...Two...  Come here.  That is it.  Not me. Not me. Not me.  He missed it.  This is hard.  You are right. And the people in Harold's study - many of them did not do too well either.  So they had some trouble recognizing their own voice.  Mmm hmm.  All right. Bring it home Robert. What is the point of this?  Here's what I did not tell you - when they did this experiment in real life the real subjects in addition to having the little pusher button thing that we gave you...  Yeah.  ...They also had diodes all over their body measuring...  We recorded their physiology.  Perspiration...  ...Skin sweating heart rate...  ...Heartbeat stuff like that.  ...Blood pressure.  And what they found is that when a person failed to recognize his or her voice nevertheless their bodies - the sweat the heartbeat...  Most often the body is going .  Their bodies seemed to notice their voices even though their conscious minds missed the voice. The body knew. The conscious mind did not. Two thoughts in the same person.  Oh come on now. No. I mean I will give it to you. That is kind of interesting.  Thank you very much.  But that is not the same thing as lying.  Well we are just starting here. We are just - this is - now at least grant me this. You can have two different experiences simultaneously.  Yes. OK. I grant that you have just...  OK. So we are on our way. We are on our way. Now...   OK Step 2 - Harold and Ruben decide to leave the laboratory and go to a bar...  Yeah I believe it was Smokey Joe's .  ...Just to sort of talk things over...  Kick back a bit.  ...And to deal with your very question. Like so let us really get to the core of what lying to yourself is about.  Exactly.  So they are in the bar and they are getting kind of drunk.  We were probably pretty drunk.  And Ruben proposes we need to come up with some way to get test subjects to have one thought and instantly have a contradictory thought. Maybe we could do that with embarrassment. Maybe we could embarrass them into having two thoughts at the same time.  And - yes and at some point I said let us ask people questions.  Questions so...  ...So threatening...  ...So uncomfortable that you do not want to tell the truth about them.  Like what? What questions would those be?  Well...  I mean we had to get down and dirty.  They got drunker and drunker and drunker and they came up with a whole bunch of them.  Started writing them down...  It was fun.  ...Right there in the bar on a napkin.  We were curious. So we took their questions off the napkin so to speak and we brought them out onto the street.  Can I ask you some questions while you are waiting?  Yeah sure.  So here's one.  Have you ever doubted your sexual adequacy? No.  And...  Yeah.  ...Another.  Have you ever enjoyed your bowel movements?   Enjoyed my bowel movements?  I think most normal people do.  No.  Here's another.  Have you ever thought of committing suicide in order to get back at somebody?  Yikes.  No.  And another.   OK. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON 23  Have you ever wanted to rape or be raped by somebody?  Come again?  No no.  Absolutely not.  Oh no.  Well yeah.  Have I what?  Jad .  What kind of question is that?  If you answered no to any of those questions they would say that you are lying to yourself.  So they are assuming then that everybody enjoys their bowel movement secretly everyone secretly has rape fantasies.  That is what they are assuming.  Yes it was a supposition that these things are universal truths. But it was a supposition that seemed to work.   Because that night at the bar Harold and Ruben stumbled across something. It turns out that how you answer those questions predicts some very surprising things about the kind of person you are about the course of your whole life. First of all remember that previous study we talked about with the voices?  Yeah.  It just so happens that the people who were very bad at the voice test - failed the voice test they were the very same people who did very badly on the embarrassing questionnaire test. They did not want to admit to stuff.  Have you ever wanted to rape or be raped by somebody? No not at all.  However when other scientists got ahold of Harold and Ruben's questionnaire - and they used it a lot in lots of situations...  It is been given to thousands and thousands of people.  ...They dug deeper into the question of what do these people have trouble with truthiness? What happens to them...  Yeah. And?  ...In life you know? And it turns out that they do a whole lot better in all kinds...  Better?  Yes - better better better - in all kinds of things.  Like what?  A whole lot of stuff.  Like?  Can we now say by the way that these people are liars?  I am not quite ready to say that. But let us...  All right.  OK. Fine. Let us just call them liars. And can you please tell me what the hell you are talking about? What sorts of things did they do better at?  Well just to start let me introduce you to someone.  OK. My name is Joanna Starek and I am a psychologist.  Psychologist and athlete.  I was actually a swimmer. I was a competitive swimmer at Colgate University. And I think one of the questions that I was really interested in is how can you have two people who have the same physiological capacity and then one person over and over again would consistently win or outperform the other?  Joanna had heard about Harold and Ruben's questionnaire so she and her research partner Caroline Keating decided to give the embarrassing question questionnaire to the swim team...  Yes.  ...Just to see what they would find.  So we gave them that questionnaire at the beginning of the season and then they trained trying to qualify for the Eastern Athletic Conference championship.  That is the big race at the end of the year.  It is a very objective measure. You either swim fast enough during the season to qualify or you do not.  And when at the end of the season Joanna and her research partner Caroline looked at which swimmers did the best - which ones qualified...  We did find a bizarre relationship.  The swimmers who said - the one - the liars who said no to all these questions...  Do you enjoy your bowel movements?  No.  Have you ever thought about killing yourself?  No.  Have you ever thought about raping someone?  No.  ...Consistently...  They were the winners.  The fastest and most successful swimmers were the ones who on the questionnaire according to Harold and Ruben lied to themselves.  Yes. I do think a little bit of deception is not necessarily a bad thing.   It might even be a crucial thing. Just for example I want you to listen to these Olympic track athletes. We got these interview clips from the sound artist Ben Rubin. And listen to how these athletes describe the process of getting ready to race.   We believe we are invincible because if we go in there with any other thought there is no chance of us accomplishing our goal.  Well of course I always win in my thoughts .  It is like I have the ability to catch this person. It is going to happen.  Take your head off. Leave your head at home. Leave your brain at home today.  When I step on the runway I just relax myself -  you are the best. And I go.  And more than sports denying certain facts about the real world around you according to any number of new studies produces people who turns out are better at business and better at working with teams. And now here's the real kicker - they turn out to be happier people.  We - the questionnaire served a couple of purposes. One of the things that it taught us is that people who were happiest were the ones who were lying to themselves more.  The people who are the most realistic that actually see the world exactly as it is tend to be slightly more depressed than others.  Time and time again researchers have found that depressed people lie less.  They see all the pain in the world how horrible people are with each other and they tell you everything about themselves - what their weaknesses are what terrible things they have done to other people. And the problem is they are right. And so maybe it is the way we help people is to help them be wrong.  It might just be that hiding ideas that we know to be true hiding those ideas from ourselves is what we need to get by.  We are so vulnerable to being hurt that we are given the capacity to distort as a gift.   Well that is it for us. If you want any more information on anything you heard this hour check our website radiolab.org.  I am Robert Krulwich.  I am Jad Abumrad.  And this is RADIOLAB.  Thanks for listening.  You have two new messages.   RADIOLAB is produced by Jad Abumrad with Lulu Miller Rob Christiansen Ellen Horne Justin Paul and Soren Wheeler. Production support by Amber Seely  Lasca Kebbell  Jed Teres  Sara Pellegrini Arielle Lasky  Heather Radke Michael O'Ryan McManus  and Sally Herships. Special thanks to me Jude Hoffner Jane Dumestre ...   ...And Scott Robinson. RADIOLAB is produced by WNYC New York Public Radio and distributed by NPR National Public Radio. Bye.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 