 Before we start I just want to let you know there is a moment or two of strong language in this story.  Wait--  Intro You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC. Laura Hello. Molly Hi Laura. Laura Yes. Molly Hey it is Molly. How are you? Laura I figured. I am good how are you? Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. We have not done a coronavirus dispatch since this summer I think so we are going to do one this week. This is dispatch number 13 a lucky number that it is. This dispatch grew out of a simple conversation between our senior correspondent Molly Webster and reporter Laura Rosbrow-Telem. Molly How did you stumble into the world of the story? Laura Let us see. Actually it is sort of funny. I am just going to say all of this in case it is helpful. Molly Yes say everything. Laura I actually had this very kooky fiction idea. Molly Normally Laura's a reporter for Public News Service but given how crazy everything's been she was wondering if she could come up with a cool fictional scenario to do a story about. Laura In any case I was like would not it be like a black mirror episode if there was a rehab facility that only super super-rich people went to and they would get infected with COVID but then they would get just state-of-the-art treatment and have these parties and it would just be this super monitored thing and they would have fun with people and it would be like essentially going to a resort where you know you are going to get COVID? Molly It is like a spa like a COVID spa. Laura Right that was what I was thinking. I was like Oh that could actually be kind of cool. Molly Then she says the journalist side of her kicked in and she thought to herself I wonder if this situation actually exists. She hopped on Google. Laura Then I started seeing people are volunteering to get infected with COVID for the purposes of making a vaccine trial faster.  Molly Now I should say Laura and I had this conversation a few months ago and since then hundreds of thousands of people have died of coronavirus. The other thing that has happened in that time though.  Pfizer executives are calling it one of the biggest medical breakthroughs in the past 100 years. Molly Basically all of this vaccine news started to come out.  American pharmaceutical company Moderna says its vaccine candidate is nearly 95 effective.  Breaking news from AstraZeneca overnight the pharmaceutical company says its vaccine may be 90 effective in late-stage trials making it the third drug maker. Molly As most of you probably know in the last few weeks three different companies Pfizer Moderna and AstraZeneca all announced COVID vaccines. They tested those vaccines on hundreds of thousands of people. In record time it was blisteringly fast. Usually it takes years and in this case it took months. One of the reasons it happened so fast is there are just so many people out there with COVID right now. Usually these trials take such a long time because you enroll tens of thousands of people and you give half of them the vaccine and half of them the placebo and then you just wait for the subjects to become naturally infected and because we have done such a bad job of controlling the virus scientists just did not have to wait very long. These three vaccines are amazing but it does not mean we are out of the woods just yet. If you actually just simply look at the numbers Pfizer says I can do 1 billion 1.2 billion doses by the end of 2021. Moderna says something pretty similar AstraZeneca says three billion. You are like Five billion vaccines that is amazing but you need two doses per person so take that five billion and a half that so you are at 2.5 billion. It is a little hard to say how many people in the world will need to be vaccinated in order to provide some sort of what everyone talks about as the herd immunity but you think the world has 8 billion people a number that has been thrown around is 70. That is five billion people that would need to get vaccinated. What we just broke down was the three vaccines that exist get us to 2.5 billion by the end of 2021. Jad Wow. There is a long way to go  numerical terms. Molly It is long. I talked to one expert and he was saying five to seven vaccines sounds like the better number and because of that you need to have more vaccines in development and you need to keep that development moving fast. One of the techniques researchers are using to speed up that process is this thing that Laura came across when she was googling is a trial where people intentionally get infected with COVID? Laura Exactly right. Molly It is called a human challenge trial. Laura Basically the point of it is instead of doing these field trials which can be very expensive it can take a while to recruit people you have to be following thousands of people. Instead of doing that you can instead recruit let us say around 100 people. Molly What? Laura Yes. Molly That is so small. Laura Yes it was surprisingly low. Half the people get the vaccine candidate half the people get the placebo then you infect all of them and you wait to see if the vaccine candidate works or not. The challenge trial would typically take about a month because you are intentionally infecting people who you know you are not going to give a vaccine candidate to in this scenario. Molly How do they know that they can keep subjects in this study safe? I mean because what we do know about COVID is that some people get it no symptoms and then some people get it and they die within a few weeks. Laura This is actually pretty well outlined by the World Health Organization. They wrote a report about whether it was ethical to do this in the absence of a rescue treatment for COVID-19. Molly That is exactly what I am saying. It is not like you have a good treatment if you are sick we still do not know how to treat it. We do not even know why some people are fine and some people end up not being able to breathe. Laura Exactly right. Some thought it was still worth it because it had enough societal good to speed up a vaccine process that could potentially save thousands of lives if a vaccine became available sooner. Molly The other part of the ethical debate around these types of trials Laura says is their history which is not good. Laura In the '40s the University of Chicago in Illinois and the US Army collaborated on challenge experiments they were actually testing malaria drugs and this is a whole other messed up part of human challenge trial history in prisoners. This is really messed up. Nazi doctors they actually included these malaria tests as justification for their own medical experiments. Molly Whoa. Laura This was one of their defenses at Nuremberg in '47. Molly People would say that the medical experiments that the Nazis did were in a sense or are the original challenge trials? Laura Actually not they are not the original one. The original one then this is a whole other wormhole that is quite fascinating is that the first vaccine smallpox that was developed by this man named Edward Jenner this was in 1796. Guess how he first came to the smallpox vaccine. Molly I always feel there is testing on children that are involved or something. Laura You are very close. He purposely infected his gardener's eight-year-old son. Molly Did it work? Laura Yes it worked. That is the thing. That was the first step to getting the smallpox vaccine. Molly Wow. Laura Human challenge trial is a really kind of at the heart of vaccine history. Molly I thought the whole point of challenge trials was volunteering. Laura That is the thing is they have now developed into becoming much more informed and they have to volunteer to be in the studies because of the risk that you are asking people to go through they are much much much more monitored than a typical phase III trial. They are not going to go about their normal lives they are going to live in some quarantined facility they are going to get state of the art medical treatment. Molly It is like real-world coronavirus. Laura Yes.  They cannot talk to each other when they are isolated they are in their room not able to interact with like- Molly Even though they have all been sick they are not allowed to just hang out? Laura No. Molly What? Laura I have a feeling no because also if you think about a controlled setting that could really complicate things because what if people get sicker if they are interacting with each other more. Molly Do you think you would do it? Laura No. Let us put it this way at this exact moment in time definitely not because I have a one-year-old son. It is just like yes that is not going to happen. Molly I am trying to imagine anyone that would do this. Laura Look I ended up covering this non-profit called 1Day Sooner. This is pretty interesting. 1Day Sooner basically they created this website and create this call for people who wanted to volunteer for such a thing and people quickly signed up. This became live I believe this was in April May and now over 30000 people have signed up. Molly Holly wow. Jad Damn. 30000 people have said I will knowingly risk my life to help vaccine research. Molly Right. Jad Wow. Molly Not only that after we talked to Laura the United Kingdom came out and said that they wanted to start a challenge trial with COVID with humans in January of 2021 but weeks away. It just made me think about those volunteers. We are all working very hard to avoid coronavirus and not get it and they are like Okay how can I put myself in front of this moving train? At least that is what it sounds to me. Jad Who would do that? Why? Molly I can tell you who to do it and I can tell you why just after the break. Jad Okay. This is Radiolab. We will continue in a moment.  Jad All right ready? Three two one Jad. Molly Molly. Jad Radiolab. Before the break we heard about this peculiar vaccine trial which involves people volunteering to deliberately be infected with sounds insane to me although very noble. Molly you say there are thousands and thousands of people who have volunteered to do this? Molly Yes there is a list out there that has I think at this point over 37000 38000 people on it who have said Jab me with ake it. We thought okay we have to go out and see who these people are. Who is this angelic? Who is this good? They had a lot of different reasons for signing up not all of which felt exactly like the altruism I expected to find. Jad Who were they? Molly The first one was Estefania. Estefania Yes I am Estefania . I am a photography student. I live in Bristol and I am from Caracas Venezuela. Molly At what point did you bump into the notion of a challenge trial? Estefania I do night shifts at a petrol station. I have been there three nights a week for the past two years now. I am a student and I did this brilliant plan in my mind where I was going to go work at night and then study during the daytime and I did not factor in sleeping time. Molly What is that like? What are the ebbs and flow at the petrol station during COVID? Were there moments where it just was dead quiet with no one or does the petrol station always stay busy? Estefania It was like this dystopian reality going out while everyone was just saying in. Everything was deserted. I had to travel by bus and it is a 40-minute bus drive. It was just me and the driver.  Molly She told me those nights at the petrol station we are like living on a planet of one. She would be out there for hours just her nobody else and so she would listen to podcasts to pass the time. Estefania I actually learned about the campaign through a podcast. I heard about 1Day Sooner and I went on the website while I was listening to the podcast. You can see the messages from people that have already signed in their reasons to do it. Molly Do you remember any of the things that you read that night? Estefania I cannot remember specifically but I remember being from all parts of the world people from Rwanda people from Brazil people from Russia. They were scientists nurses doctors I think I read. It makes you read-- I was reading it and my hands were shaking. It was something about I am with them. I felt that I was with them. Molly It feels like oh my God there was a quiet movement growing in the background and I had no idea. I was just working at this petrol station and like all is lost in the middle of COVID. Estefania  Yes that is exactly it. This has been happening so I can actually do something and I do not have to feel like shit here all alone in this dark night and I put my name for it. Molly That was her first thought simply I am not alone. Then she had a second thought which is that as a brown person she had to enter. Estefania Medicine is biased when it comes to dealing with racial minorities but I also want to have a voice on the table. I want to be someone who advocates for people like us. It felt scary but in a good way it felt hopeful. Jad Wow. That is cool.  Molly Next up. Antonio Yes. Molly Hi. This is Molly Webster at Radiolab. How are you? Antonio I am surviving. Molly Antonio. Antonio My name's Antonio Cisneros. I live in Los Angeles and I am a filmmaker. Laura Can I jump into how you found out first about 1Day Sooner and about challenge trials? Antonio It is actually silly. I actually saw a piece on PBS NewsHour about it maybe back in April. I immediately looked it up and within five minutes I signed up honestly because it made sense. Molly Wow that is very fast. That is a very fast decision. Antonio It is funny because I really thought it would have happened sooner the challenge trials. It makes sense to me. There is- Molly I think I just wonder probably more than 37000 people watch that PBS NewsHour. What I am really trying to understand is what is in you Antonio that got you to sign up? Antonio Man this is a real therapy session here.  What is in me? I do not have a family I am single I do not have a lot to lose if something was bad to happen but at the same time maybe it is more just like Oh I do not want my parents to get it and then die. I think growing up in-- A few decades ago there was a lot more sense of a community sense of America and being American. I think it is one thing that I wish we could still hold onto in this point in time. There should be thinking that 200000 people have died unnecessarily since what? February or March. That does not make any sense to me and I do not want the numbers to get any bigger. There should be a sense of duty that if we can do something we should do it Molly Volunteer number three. David Hello. My name is David Wildman. Molly David. David I am a homo-sapiens male age 31 years. Molly For David his motivation did not have to do with community or family or a sense of duty. It was more so about getting unstuck. David We are basically in this helpless situation. We are all being told to stay at home and we are powerless. This is one thing that you can do that will be a part of the core solution which is the vaccine. Molly I just do not think a lot of people are thinking about how they can help others. I am just wondering where you think that got built into you. David I was very zealously religious when I was growing up brought up in a Christian home but attended an evangelical church when I was a teenager. I think from a very young age I had this idea that life was about being like Jesus and being good to people. When you have grown up with-- and a cosmology a complete and consistent cosmology that explains the universe and your part in it to basically not overnight but over a relatively short period of time realize that it is all garbage leaves you floundering and thinking Well fuck I need to replace it with something else. I need some sense of purpose. That I am restless unless I know I am doing something that is making the world a better place not a worse place. Jad He is saying that signing up for a challenge trial is like making up for the faith in God that He lost at some point. Molly Yes I think something like that. I would also say he said if he was being totally honest signing up also had a little to do with boredom. David I retrained as a software developer in this chair that I am sitting in. I searched for a new job in this chair. I started a new job in this chair and now I am talking about it in the same chair. It is like I can really use a change of scenery. Actually going to a biocontainment center for a bit would be quite exciting quite nice. Molly Volunteer number four. Lehua Hello. Molly Hi is this Lehua? Lehua It is. Hi. Molly Lehua who had a little bit more of an analytical utilitarian approach. Lehua I could get COVID at any second but it would not be doing anything. It would not be productive. I would be just as sick just as miserable have just as much of a chance of all these big long-term health effects that we are still discovering and it would not have done anything. This is an opportunity to catch it but for the purposes of helping thousands of other people not catch it. Molly If she got COVID in the wild it would not be for anything. At least if she is in a trial scientists can learn from it. Jad Interesting. She is like If I am going to get sick with this damn novel virus I might as well do it in a way that is productive. Molly Exactly.  Molly Our fifth and for now last volunteer. Bill Hi Molly. Molly Hello. Bill Finally. Molly Bill. Bill I am Bill Phillips. I am an experimental physicist and- Molly You happen to be a Nobel Prize-winning scientist? Bill Yes. Having a Nobel Prize in Physics does not qualify me to make pronouncements about any of these things any more than any other person who is a scientist and loves to have good data. If a trial has some probability of losing a few people but you save more lives than you lose as long as everybody is clear on informed consent it seems to me the perfectly reasonable moral position. I signed up for a challenge trial and after people started to question me Why are you doing this Bill? Are you crazy? Molly Is that what happened? Bill Well yes. I got a number of people asking me that because of my age. Molly How old are you? Bill I am almost 72. I did a little bit of research to try to determine what were the chances that I would die given my age if I got the coronavirus. It turned out it was not that different from the probability that I will die within the next year anyway. Molly Do you remember the numbers? Bill The numbers are in the order of a couple percent. In other words at my age the chances of me dying in the next year are a couple percent. That is very similar to the chances of dying if I actually catch COVID. Molly He is just saying if I am not scared to live another year why would I be scared of getting COVID? Mathematically the odds are the same. Jad After talking with all of these people I am curious what are you left with in terms of-- Because our simple question going in if I remember was just like-- I do not even know what the question was. Who are these people? What drives and why? Molly It was just like why would you be motivated to do this? Who is this altruistic? Jad Exactly. What do you see as answers to that or is there anything? Molly I would say that for me altruism feels like a catch-all phrase that hides what people are actually on about what they are really going for. This thing that we call altruism it could interestingly be paired with a selfishness or self-interest of you just want your life back or it could be because you are looking out for a family member your dad your grandmother. It could be want of representation or there is a feeling of duty or country or community. It could be just math. None of these things necessarily feel like altruism but maybe they are. Maybe they are the truer of the word.  Special thanks for this episode goes to Ab Rohrich Andrew Catchpole and our volunteers including Mary Gabrielle Paul Gregory Danica Jennifer and Debo. Jad Thank you Molly. Molly Sure. Jad Senior correspondent Molly Webster. Thanks also to reporter Laura Rosbrow-Telem. Speaker This is  calling from Fayetteville Arkansas. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and was edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.