                    Oh wait you are listening ...                     Okay.                     All right.                     Okay.                     All right.                     You are listening to RadioLab. RadioLab from WNYC. Yascha Monk               And not to this part but into that yeah.                     Okay. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Latif Nassar                  And I am Latif Nassar. And today on RadioLab Robert I am going to make you wrestle with your most cherished ideal American Democracy. Yascha Monk               Oh I see. Okay great. Hang on a second I am just struggling with the earphones. Now I have them on. Robert Krulwich          Okay. Latif Nassar                  Okay great and I am going to start things off by introducing you to Yascha. Yascha Monk               Yascha Monk I am a lecturer on government at Harvard. Latif Nassar                  He studies politics. Yascha Monk               What else was I going to say? Latif Nassar                  Maybe we could just start with where you grew up. Yascha Monk               Yeah so I was born in 1982. I grew up in Germany moved around a bunch of different places within Germany as a kid and then went to college in England. Latif Nassar                  Cambridge. Yascha Monk               In 2000. I was kind of studying politics I was a history major. Latif Nassar                  So Yascha was studying politics but he was studying it in the past. So he was looking at going all the way back to the cradle of democracy in ancient Greece and then how democracy came to thrive around the world. But as he was studying that he was noticing in the news he would see in certain countries like France or Austria there would be these parties these far right ultra-nationalist anti-immigrant parties that were starting to gain some traction. And for Yascha ... Yascha Monk               I saw some of this ... Latif Nassar                  This was a little bit scary. Yascha Monk               Because my families been in the wrong place at the wrong time for about four generations. Latif Nassar                  His great grandparents perished during the Holocaust. Yascha Monk               My grandparents barely survived the Soviet Union. My parents grew up in Poland and were thrown out of a country in a huge anti-sematic way for 1968. So the idea that throughout the system that seems relatively stable seems relatively peaceful might suddenly turn fracterous and even violent was something that I suppose I always sort of had a dim awareness of even as a kid. Yascha Monk               So I remember being quite worried by this and having friends who were quite worried about it. But we were worried about it as sort of this weird bad thing that is going on. But I do not think we actually thought that these people might win. Latif Nassar                  Jump to- Yascha Monk               The early 2010s. Latif Nassar                  They start winning.                     For the first time Marine Le Pen will have a seat in Parliament along with seven others from her far right party. Latif Nassar                  These far right parties in Austrian France they start to gain power and it is not just there. Yascha Monk               They are huge swaths of Europe.                     What is happening in Italy is also happening elsewhere in Europe. Latif Nassar                  Similar right wing parties start rising up in Italy Greece the Netherlands Poland Hungary ...                     An identity crisis for the entire European continent. Latif Nassar                  And it is not just Europe. You have India Turkey and ...                   What started off as ... Yascha Monk               Of course the United States.                   Unlikely impossible is now reality. Latif Nassar                  Basically there is this wave of politicians whose message was ... Yascha Monk               People are not really listening to you. Latif Nassar                  Your government has failed you. Yascha Monk               Trust me I really speak for the people. I am going to fix everything. Latif Nassar                  And to Yascha this was like a wake up call. Not just because of immigration policy or right and left leanings of certain politicians but even more deeply than that. Yascha Monk               I was quite worried about the way in which these political movements perhaps pretended to have some allegiance to democratic mechanisms but actually were enemies of it. Latif Nassar                  Like there was this one guy the leader of the Austrian Freedom Party. Yascha Monk               Who glorified the Third Reich in various ways and really hearkened back to the country's fascist past in a positive way. That was not a far fetched fear I do not think. I mean a huge number of the world's dictators have been elected democratically at some point and then they move against democratic institutions in such a way that you cannot displace them democratically anymore. Latif Nassar                  So for Yascha who by this point was a lecturer at Harvard he kept seeing this in country after country after country. He saw these citizens willingly elect these want to be dictators into power. So he started wondering what is making these citizens do this? Do they feel like their current leaders do not get them? Are they riled up about some issue of the day like refugees or income inequality? Or is this a sign that they are upset about something even more foundational. Yascha Monk               The political system itself. Latif Nassar                  Are they actually angry with democracy itself. Yascha Monk               So I sat down with a friend and colleague to figure it out. Latif Nassar                  And his friend it turns out worked on something called the World Values Survey. Yascha Monk               Which is a really ambitious attempt to try and get a public opinion around the world. Latif Nassar                  It is basically just a bunch of social scientists who ask a whole bunch of very standard questions to a whole bunch of people all over the world. And they are like okay let us actually scrutinize what is being said in here about democracy. Yascha Monk               And when we actually looked at the numbers we were honestly flabbergasted by what we saw. Latif Nassar                  Okay so there is actually three questions in particular that he got interested in. Robert Krulwich          Okay. Latif Nassar                  Here so let us start with this one. Yascha Monk               How do you feel about a strong ruler who does not have to bother with Parliament or elections? Robert Krulwich          Who does not have to bother with Parliament or elections. Yascha Monk               Correct. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Robert Krulwich          Okay. Latif Nassar                  They also asked this of Americans just instead of does not have to bother with Parliament it was does not have to bother with Congress. Anyway so in 1995 24 of all Americans endorsed that kind of strong man leader. Robert Krulwich          24 so one out of every four? Latif Nassar                  Yeah but in the last several years that number has jumped from 24 to 32. Robert Krulwich          So now it is a third almost. That is yeah. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Say a strong leader who does not have to deal with Congress or elections is either a very good or fairly good thing. Robert Krulwich          Whoa well that surprises me. Latif Nassar                  It is kind of even more striking in Europe. So ... Yascha Monk               In Germany one in six people used to like that idea. Latif Nassar                  But now ... Yascha Monk               It is one in three. Robert Krulwich          Oh in Germany. Where they should know better. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Yascha Monk               In France and the United Kingdom it was one in four 20 years ago and now it is one in two. Robert Krulwich          Half. Latif Nassar                  Half yeah. Yascha Monk               So every second Brit and Frenchman says Yeah the idea of a strong ruler who does not have to bother with Parliament and elections that is pretty appealing to me. Robert Krulwich          It is not appealing to me. That is not appealing to me. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Robert Krulwich          Who would say that they like to not be involved in a democracy which is about being involved. Latif Nassar                  Okay well if you think that is crazy here comes question number two. Flat out simple straight forward ... Yascha Monk               How important is it to you to live in a democracy on a scale of one to 10? Latif Nassar                  And ... Yascha Monk               When you look at Americans born in the 1930s 1940s 23 of them give the highest importance to living in a democracy. They say that is really essential. Robert Krulwich          It might be ... Well 23 seems a little soft to me. Latif Nassar                  Sure. Yascha Monk               But among Americans born since 1980 it is less than 13. Latif Nassar                  Less than 13 consider it essential to live in a democracy. Robert Krulwich          What? Less than a third? Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Robert Krulwich          So of 100 people 100 young people 32 30 25 would say I love democracy. That is very important. And the rest ... What would the rest say? Latif Nassar                  It is not the most important thing for them deciding where to live. Robert Krulwich          Okay well then if this is good where would you like to ... What would you prefer? Would you like to be living- Latif Nassar                  Okay well that is a good Segway to the next question. Robert Krulwich          All right. Latif Nassar                  Final question. Yascha Monk               Which was about Army rule. So do you think that Army rule is a good system of government? Robert Krulwich          Army rule so we are not ... This is no civilians anymore. Soldiers running the government soldiers following orders soldiers giving orders? Latif Nassar                  Mm-hmm . Yascha Monk               So 20 years ago about one in 16 Americans thought that was a good system of government and the most recent poll a couple of years ago it was one in six. Robert Krulwich          Uh-oh. Yascha Monk               And among young and affluent Americans it is actually gone up from 6 to 35. Latif Nassar                  Whoa. Yascha Monk               So it is a nearly sixfold increase. Robert Krulwich          In America? You got one in three young affluent Americans Military rule is a wonderful thing. That is what you are saying? Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Yascha Monk               Exactly. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Robert Krulwich          That is misguided or tragic. I do not know which. Latif Nassar                  So Yascha said something he was like look like- Yascha Monk               I do not think if a Colonel took over tomorrow 13 of Americans would say This is wonderful. I do not think it was actually true but it does show a deep lack of attachment to the current local system and the sort of sense of you know what I mean let us try something new. How bad could things get? I do not think it could be much worse than what we have today. Robert Krulwich          Here's the thing that gets to me let us imagine a well intentioned but totally authoritarian dictator who takes over gets used to power and then as dictators do chooses to remain in place forever. The adventure of democracy is that it admits that nothing is ever right we always have to fix it and the system has built in it impermanence. Every six years you elect a senator over again. Every two years you elect the congressman over again. Every four years you can have the option to switch presidents. Presidents cannot serve beyond a particular point there will be checks there will be balances. There will be protection but the whole thing admits that there is always change and always the ability to change. And this survey you just read me says Nah we do not believe in it anymore. Robert Krulwich          Well that is dangerous to me scary to me. I think my response is if that is the case and I do not argue that people have these opinions if that is the case then let us fix it. Let us not throw it out let us repair it in some way. But that is when it seems like a moment like this calls for. That is the speech. Latif Nassar                  Basically you are saying let us fix it. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Latif Nassar                  Yeah well there is a lot to fix right? Robert Krulwich          Obviously. Latif Nassar                  There is corporate money and special interest lobbyists and Gerrymandering and minority groups who do not get a voice and active voter suppression in a lot of places. The weirdness of the electoral college the two party system in general where it seems like they have nothing to do except for hate on each other. But the thing is just focusing ... Take this very specific week this week that we are talking about this. There is a midterm election coming up and so I figured let us just focus on one thing voting. Is there a way to just tweak this fundamental part of democracy. Can we change the way we vote so that people do not feel as many people now do that they are throwing their vote away that their vote does not count that their vote is wasted? Robert Krulwich          Okay so what would you suggest? Latif Nassar                  So what I got is a ... It is kind of an alternate universe. It is a different way of doing elections that could have a profound effect on the way our democracy works. Simon Adler                AB can you hear me? AB Filbenbowmen       Yes. Simon Adler                There we are. AB Filbenbowmen       Oh good. Okay cool. Latif Nassar                  And we are going to start off with producer Simon Adler Simon Adler                Yeah so in search of democratic inspiration I called across the ocean to the Emerald Isle to talk to this guy. AB Filbenbowmen       So my name is AB Filbenbowmen. I currently work for ERT Radio1 on the Drive Time program. Simon Adler                AB is a radio producer reporter for Ireland's equivalent to the BBC known as RTE. And he is a self described election nerd. AB Filbenbowmen       Okay so to sort of start from the start. Simon Adler                Please. AB Filbenbowmen       The way I would look at this is American democracy is one of the oldest democracies in the world it is kind of like a laptop from 1985 and at the time everybody was like Oh my God this is incredible. It is so fast. It is so responsive. You are going to get so much stuff done with this. And to be fair you did. But you have got to keep updating your operating system otherwise pretty soon your democracy is struggling to deal with things like Facebook news feeds and Twitter and leave itself open to being hacked by Russia. AB Filbenbowmen       Now in Ireland we got our democracy a little bit later the 1920s. Simon Adler                Okay. AB Filbenbowmen       At that point democracy had moved on from the 1770s 1780s when you guys sort of brought in your democracy. And we adopted what was then quite modern voting system called PRSTV. Simon Adler                PRSTV. AB Filbenbowmen       Exactly. Simon Adler                It sounds a bit like an STD. AB Filbenbowmen       It does sound quite like a sexually transmitted infection it does yes. Robert Krulwich          Oh this seems like dead in the water from hello. AB Filbenbowmen       The extended version is Multi seat eally sounds like an STI. It is not. Robert Krulwich          One more time. Simon Adler                Multi seat PRSTV. AB Filbenbowmen       Which stands for multi seats proportional representation by single transferable vote. Latif Nassar                  I have no idea what that means. Simon Adler                Well weird as it might sound this is a system of voting that unlike ours can make every voter feel heard. Gets you candidates who best reflect the collective interest of the people and makes sure no one ever feels like they are throwing their vote away. Robert Krulwich          I do not believe you. Simon Adler                You do not have to believe me. Latif Nassar                  No okay I am following. Tell us tell us how this impossible feat how does this even work? Simon Adler                I am walking through the lower part of Dublin Central. Simon Adler                Well let us just put this in concrete terms. Latif Nassar                  great. Simon Adler                So 2016 there is an election for the National Parliament in the Dublin Central District. Simon Adler                It is blocks of brick row houses punctuated by these brightly colored pink or purple or yellow doors. Simon Adler                You can think of it like an election district. In Ireland it is what is known as a constituency. Simon Adler                Couple of adult stores low rise white public housing units. Maureen O.                 It is a predominantly working class constituency with a lot of difficulties. Simon Adler                This is Maureen O'Sullivan a long time resident of the constituency with a shock of white hair. Maureen O.                 And I have always been involved with youth clubs et cetera doing volunteer work and then teaching in communities in the area. Simon Adler                And so back in February of 2016 this area of Dublin along with the rest of the country was holding their Parliamentary elections. Elections for what they call TD's. Latif Nassar                  Wait what are TD's? Maureen O.                 Right okay well TD is the Irish the Gaelic for . Which translates into member of Parliament. Simon Adler                At that time Dublin Central had three of these TD seats three people representing them in Parliament. One of whom ... Maureen O.                 I was elected in 2009. Simon Adler                ... was Maureen. Maureen O.                 I am independent not allied with any party. Simon Adler                And going into that 2016 election things were looking pretty uncertain for Maureen. First of all there was a field of 15 candidates running for those three seats. And worse seats one and two were expected to be snagged quite easily by these two high profile major party candidates. AB Filbenbowmen       yeah. Simon Adler                This again is AB Bowmen who actually covered this 2016 election. AB Filbenbowmen       They are not locked down but these are people who look like they are going to get elected. Simon Adler                And what that means is you have got this wide open field of folks all fighting against Maureen for that third and final seat. Robert Krulwich          Who is our contenders? Simon Adler                Well right. So we are going to focus in on two of them. Simon Adler                Can I just get you to introduce yourself and- Mary F.                        Of course. Simon Adler                ... then we will start. Mary F.                        Yeah. So I am Mary Fitzpatrick. Simon Adler                So first we have got Mary Fitzpatrick. Mary F.                        Mm-hmm  yeah yeah. Simon Adler                On the spectrum of American politics do you know where you fall? Mary F.                        You just have two parties. Simon Adler                She is pretty liberal been around Irish politics for a while. Gary Gannon               Are you interviewing me already? Okay. Simon Adler                And second. AB Filbenbowmen       Gary Gannon who is a young community worker. Simon Adler                This brash guy with red stubble on his face. AB Filbenbowmen       Quite interesting quite authentic. And he is sort of an interesting one to watch. Simon Adler                Because he is representing this brand new political party. Gary Gannon               A plucky upstart I think that is what you call it in the west I think. Yeah. Simon Adler                Did you have a slogan or anything? Like ... Gary Gannon               Oh yes. No we had an amazing slogan. It was very simple. And it was just the one word if. I stole it completely from an old fable about when the Macedonian Army was marching on Sparta and they sent Sparta a message saying that if we win we will burn Sparta to the ground. We will enslave your women and kill your children. And Sparta sent back a one word message just saying ...                   If. Gary Gannon               If. Simon Adler                Like I said brash. AB Filbenbowmen       And then you have got other voices who are left wing or environmentalist or others. Simon Adler                So that is our field. Latif Nassar                  All right. Simon Adler                And now here's how things actually work over in Ireland.                   Voting is underway in the Republic of Ireland as the country elects 157 new members of it is Parliament. Simon Adler                So day of the election comes. As an Irish citizen you walk into the voting booth and it is a very very long ballot because it has all of the candidates all 15 of them their photo their name and then a line next to them. Latif Nassar                  Okay. Simon Adler                And this ballot is a key component of that updated Irish laptop of democracy. Because instead of just filling in the circle next to one of those 15 you say ... AB Filbenbowmen       My number one choice is this guy my number two choice is this lady my number three choice is this person and you can go all the way down the ballot giving preferences to as many different people as you like. Simon Adler                You write in a number next to each candidate. Robert Krulwich          How about one man one vote. Got it. Simon Adler                Well it is still one man one vote. Robert Krulwich          No it cannot be. Simon Adler                No it is. It is. It is. It is. At the end of the day your vote will only have counted for one person. However in the voting process ... AB Filbenbowmen       You are not just measuring what everyone's first choice is. You might have a favorite choice but you are not totally equal about the other three choices. And what this system allows us to do is to reflect that. Simon Adler                It allows you to say how you feel about the rest of the candidates and if your first choice does not make it if he or she is way down the list and out of the running then your vote lives on in the form of your second choice. AB Filbenbowmen       So for as long as there is a viable candidate with your number on it your vote will stay alive in the system. Robert Krulwich          Is this too early for me to raise a warning flag? Or should I wait for it? Simon Adler                You can wave. I may ignore it but let us see it or hear it. Robert Krulwich          The commitment that people make to voting is slight most of us are into lunch sports work and then maybe on the day of a vote they have their best friend say You have got to vote for Sally. Latif Nassar                  Like they know one they are not even going to know seven. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. So the first smell of this is it would take us more time than we want and we might walk away from this exercise because we do not feel prepared. Simon Adler                You can engage with this on whatever level you would like Robert. If you only know one candidates name you can just put your one next to that person and hand in your ballot and you are done. Robert Krulwich          Hmm. Simon Adler                Or let us say there is a candidate on there you really really do not like ... AB Filbenbowmen       You can leave them off the ballot entirely. Simon Adler                You are ranking your preferences. It is very simple. Robert Krulwich          Fairly good answer. Simon Adler                Okay so let me walk you through how this plays out. Robert Krulwich          Mm-hmm . Simon Adler                So polls close at 10PM on Friday February 26th and then ... Latif Nassar                  Then all hell broke loose.                   General election 2016 on RTE radio1 with Rachel English and Shawn O'Reily. Simon Adler                The real action begins.                   It is going to be a day of drama shocks and surprises. AB Filbenbowmen       So what happens is we vote on the Friday and on Saturday morning ... Simon Adler                The votes actually get counted. So for Dublin Central ... AB Filbenbowmen       Dublin Central gets counted in one central location which is the RDS.                   Let us go first to Ireland's largest count center the RDS. AB Filbenbowmen       The Royal Dublin Society.                   Shawn thank you very much and welcome indeed to the RDS where we are counting- Simon Adler                It is this barn like building with big vaulted ceilings. AB Filbenbowmen       Big big hall huge amount of noise. Gary Gannon               okay well I did not realize we were going to go through the whole post traumatic trauma of the whole thing. I have kind of blacked it out. No I am joking. Actually it was lovely. Mel Macheavel            The doors open at 00 and I arrived and Desba Throng arriving. AB Filbenbowmen       This is Mel. Mel Macheavel            Mel Macheavel. Simon Adler                He is a campaign worker for our endangered incumbent Maureen. Mel Macheavel            Maureen O'Sullivan. Simon Adler                And on the morning of the count as he pushed his way through these heavy wooden doors what he would have seen was this cavernous hall filled with people milling about. Gary Gannon               Everybody's got clipboards ... Mel Macheavel            There is people with tons of sandwiches made and ... Gary Gannon               Tea and coffee in abundance and everybody is really excited. Simon Adler                So shortly after 00 ... Gary Gannon               All the boxes come in. Simon Adler                These giant metal boxes of ballots come in. AB Filbenbowmen       So the boxes are opened ... Gary Gannon               Literally they are lifted up and there is a cascade and a spilling of all this paper. AB Filbenbowmen       Because it is all done by paper voting. Latif Nassar                  Wait what? AB Filbenbowmen       Yeah. We tried electronic voting in this country and we did not like it because it was very fast and I think we realized that the drama of an election and also the ritual of democracy gets everybody engaged and gets people watching. It is like watching a big sports game. You do not want it to be over in five minutes.                   They are off. Simon Adler                And so ...                   Time now for our live update. I have to warn as we always do at this time on this day we are talking tallies first of all which obviously can skew the results. Simon Adler                Not just at the RDS and not just for Dublin Central but all across the country. AB Filbenbowmen       Vote counters are dumping boxes of votes and going through them and putting them into stacks.                   First in Kilkenny is Justin McCarthy. Mel Macheavel            Rough bundles. Gary Gannon               in no particular order.                   75 of the boxes have been tallied here and they include all of- Simon Adler                And so early on here the counters are just trying to get a handle on how many first choice votes each candidate is getting.                   From Calvin Audrey Carver. Audrie Carver              100 of the boxes are open and a final tally- Simon Adler                And while the ballot counters are doing this official count there is another group of people standing next to them ...                   Up the Atlantic way in Donne ... Simon Adler                Doing their own unofficial calculations. AB Filbenbowmen       Yes definitely. Gary Gannon               The tallymen. Rachel                         88 of boxes opened and tallied from Cork.                   Cork North Central ...                   All boxes opened all sheets tallied. Simon Adler                These tallymen there are several of them put forward by each candidate and ... Gary Gannon               They are just looking over the railings waiting for you to turn that ballot. Simon Adler                Brash upstart Gary Gannon again. Gary Gannon               So they can share who the name of the person that got the number one preference. They are like Gannon number one. Gannon and they are just counting them up. Latif Nassar                  And what they are counting is number one? Simon Adler                Yes they are shouting out and tallying the first choice labeled on each ballot. Gary Gannon               So you have an understanding whether you are at the races or not. Simon Adler                Which it seemed like Gary was.                   We have a 98 tally and there is a growing belief here that the third seat will be between Gary Gannon and- Simon Adler                He was getting a lot of first preferences. Gary Gannon               So I walked in I got pulled over by one of our national newspapers to do an interview.                   Let us bring Gary Gannon in. How are you Gary? It is too early to be saying you are over the line but you are going well in Dublin Central. Gary Gannon               Oh God it is far too early. I think about ... Gary Gannon               All the radio researchers are coming over grabbing me bringing me over to speak on the radio.                   There is a bunch of you have done 9 as well so we could be in for another dog fight there. Gary Gannon               Absolutely yeah. I have canceled me weekend plans. I think I will be here for a while. Gary Gannon               It was genuine like a real sense of excitement. Simon Adler                But not for everyone. Maureen O.                 So that morning I was at home doing different things. Simon Adler                Again this is incumbent Maureen O'Sullivan. Simon Adler                Well what did you do? Did you make breakfast did you go for a walk? Maureen O.                 I did. I had my breakfast probably I walked the dog. Simon Adler                What type of dog? Maureen O.                 A white fluffy dog. Simon Adler                Okay and what is his name? Maureen O.                 His name is Bailey. So I brought him for a walk. Simon Adler                Are you listening to the radio? Maureen O.                 No no no. Simon Adler                You are totally disconnected. Maureen O.                 Yeah pretty much. I let my campaigners go over to be part of the tally. Simon Adler                Campaigners ... Mel Macheavel            And it is starting to kind of make- Simon Adler                Including mel. Mel Macheavel            So within the first hour from some of the tallies that we were seeing like Maureen is not picking up enough votes. I was thinking oh I hope this is not going to be an early day where there is no need for you to hang around because nobody is in the race any longer. Maureen O.                 And then I think I was driving when I got the first call from my campaigners over in the count saying It is not looking good. Rachel                         Lina Paul was elected let us go back now to the busiest count center of them all to Mary Wilson in the RDS. Mary Wilson                Rachel thank you very much. A first count immanent we believe here in Dublin Central- Simon Adler                Meanwhile the counters take all those ballots now officially sorted by first preference and they pick up the stack for each candidate on the table and walk that stack back to ... Mary F.                        this wooden shelving unit- Simon Adler                Again Mary Fitzpatrick. Mary F.                        ... behind the tables. About a little bit of a distance in the center. Simon Adler                This giant sort of cubby. Mary F.                        Pigeon holes just like light flimsy wooden boxes. Simon Adler                And this is the sacred shrine of Irish democracy on this day. The cubby? Mary F.                        Absolutely. Latif Nassar                  Because? AB Filbenbowmen       Because when they have counted all of the first preference votes ... Simon Adler                They place them all in their respective cubbies ... Mel Macheavel            There is a hush in that part of the arena ... Gary Gannon               And the returning officer stands up on a stage with a microphone and goes ...                   The following is the result of count one. Gary Gannon               Here is the first count for the constituency of Dublin Central.                   68 6- Gary Gannon               And they read out every candidate how many number one votes did they get.                   2021 2-0-2-1. Gary Gannon               And first off the bat- Simon Adler                At the end of the first count first and second are pretty much locked down with the two people everybody expected to win. Latif Nassar                  But- Simon Adler                But then in third place unexpectedly is Mary Fitzpatrick. Mary F.                        Yeah. I mean I was very pleased to be in third position on the first count. Simon Adler                Now with our system of voting at this point you are done. The election is over the two front runner candidates would have each won a seat and then Mary Fitzpatrick would have won a seat. Gary and Maureen they would be out done. AB Filbenbowmen       But in Ireland not so. Simon Adler                In Ireland they are just getting started. So back to the race. And remember at this moment Mary Fitzpatrick is in third Gary is in fifth and in seventh ... Maureen O.                 At that stage I was listening to the radio and I knew what they were saying about Dublin Central. Simon Adler                ... is incumbent Maureen O'Sullivan. Simon Adler                And what were they saying? Maureen O.                 Just-                   3 it appears almost certain that Joe Costello and Maureen O'Sullivan are set to lose out. Maureen O.                 Myself and Joe Costello you are out. I had some- Simon Adler                And why? Did you like- Maureen O.                 Because of the numbers. I think the feeling was I was too far down that first preference to come back up. AB Filbenbowmen       But then looking at the early results coming in from around the country- Simon Adler                But like I said it is not over yet. Mary F.                        So the way the vote progresses is the sheriff or the presiding officer starts to eliminate candidates. AB Filbenbowmen       The first elimination is the bottom three candidates. Those candidacies are gone and in the bin. Simon Adler                Since Gary is in fifth and Maureen's in seventh they are safe for now. But the bottom three candidates they are gone. Latif Nassar                  Why three? Simon Adler                Because they are so far out that mathematically they could never come back. Between the three of them they have only got like 150 votes. AB Filbenbowmen       So we get rid of all three of them. Simon Adler                And redistribute those ballots. Latif Nassar                  So if you voted for those people- Simon Adler                They just go okay who did you vote for as your second choice. AB Filbenbowmen       And the point is your vote is still live and is still part of this election. Simon Adler                And so those 150 votes those 150 ballots they begin to go this sort of ballet. Mary F.                        The ballots are all in these pigeon holes. Everything is visible. Simon Adler                The vote counters walk back to that shrine to that cubby and pull the ballots from the cubby holes for those- Mary F.                        Three candidates. Simon Adler                Then march these ballots back to the front table. Mary F.                        And sort them then into bundles of second preference on the ballot. Simon Adler                So now you have got stacks for every candidate that was listed as a second choice. AB Filbenbowmen       And we distribute them. Simon Adler                They take them back to the cubby where they are then added to the remaining candidates first preferences. Mary F.                        And that becomes the second count. Latif Nassar                  Okay. Robert Krulwich          Okay so what they want is everybody who voted to the degree that it is possible should maybe be participating in electing somebody to the legislature. Simon Adler                Exactly. Robert Krulwich          All right. Simon Adler                So- Robert Krulwich          Excuse me what time is it now? Simon Adler                We are probably middle of the afternoon at this point. Robert Krulwich          And when did we start? Simon Adler                We started at 00 in the morning. Robert Krulwich          Okay point taken. Simon Adler                People are having- Robert Krulwich          Point taken by you. Simon Adler                ... a good time. Robert Krulwich          No. Simon Adler                No no no Robert- Robert Krulwich          Not even I am now watching this program for five hours. That is a long time. Simon Adler                I will challenge your statement that just because a competition unfolds slowly that it is without drama or suspense. Robert Krulwich          All right. I am sorry that we are making this so hard for you. Simon Adler                That is fine. Robert Krulwich          But you are not making it easy for us. Anyway back to the scene. Gary Gannon               Dublin Central is reduced to three seats ... AB Filbenbowmen       So I am looking at this going okay Mary Fitzpatrick- Simon Adler                Our candidate in third after the first count has AB Filbenbowmen       2500 votes. Gary Cannon- Simon Adler                Currently in fifth. AB Filbenbowmen       He is only 200 votes behind her and my instinct is he is going to be more transfer friendly- Simon Adler                He is going to get more second choice votes than her. AB Filbenbowmen       I think he could overtake her. And I start watching where the transfers are going and I start to be proven right. Mary Wilson                Gary Gannon of the Social Democrats did very well on transfers so- AB Filbenbowmen       So count two Gary Gannon is getting 20 votes. And Mary Fitzpatrick is only getting two. Count three- Simon Adler                The whole process repeats and knocks somebody out do the ballot ballet redistribute those transfers. AB Filbenbowmen       Gary Gannon picks up 60 votes and Mary Fitzpatrick only picks up seven. So he is gaining on her already. Gary Gannon               They are talking about me they are asking who is this guy where is he come from? All of these things and then I was getting a phone call- Simon Adler                Mary's stock is falling while Gary's are rising. AB Filbenbowmen       Mary's stock is staying static. Mary F.                        We were struggling for transfers that was the issue. AB Filbenbowmen       She is not going up much and the others are gaining on her. Mary F.                        So yeah it is painful. It is not pleasant. AB Filbenbowmen       And bear in mind you have still got other people picking up votes there. Mel Macheavel            We are seeing little pickups for Maureen. AB Filbenbowmen       Maureen picked up 49. Mel Macheavel            But not a lot. We are moving ahead slowly. Mary Wilson                Okay we have a Dublin Central count coming in. AB Filbenbowmen       Count four- Simon Adler                Again eliminate the bottom candidate redistribute those votes. This time around really not much changes. Then count five. AB Filbenbowmen       The next person going out has got 800 votes. 31 of them go to Mary Fitzpatrick but also 190 of them go to Gary Gannon.                   And Gary Gannon has surprised a lot of people in his ability to pick up transfers from- AB Filbenbowmen       And Gary Gannon has just jumped into fourth place.                   We have got quite a fight now in our hands. The standings as they are- AB Filbenbowmen       So at the places are Mary Fitzpatrick in third place- Simon Adler                She is just barely holding on. In fourth hot on her heels is Gary Gannon and then way at the back of the pack still in seventh is incumbent Maureen O'Sullivan. AB Filbenbowmen       That is the state of play at count five. Count number six. Mary Wilson                Oh here we go continuing coverage Micheal Gallighar is here. We are guys hello? We are back. AB Filbenbowmen       This is where two big things happen. Mary Wilson                Everybody's having their own conversations obviously. AB Filbenbowmen       One-                   Marylou McDonald of Sinn Fein and Dublin- AB Filbenbowmen       Marylou McDonald of Sinn Fein- Simon Adler                One of the front runners expected to take a seat- AB Filbenbowmen       Gets over the line. And also- Gary Gannon               I am walking around just hugging people. AB Filbenbowmen       ... Gary Gannon now jumps into third place. Gary Gannon               It was invigorating. Simon Adler                Pushing Mary Fitzpatrick out of a winning spot. Mary F.                        Like that it was on the transfers I got cashed and that is it. Simon Adler                She never recaptured it. So the woman who under our system would have won off the bat she lost out. Mary F.                        That is it. Simon Adler                Still hanging on in second to last but also disheartened is our incumbent Maureen O'Sullivan. Who is expecting to lose. Maureen O.                 And I suppose maybe 00 people started to arrive. Simon Adler                She actually invited her campaign staff and volunteers back to her place for a concession party. Maureen O.                 And I said when people came in I do not want to know anything about the elections. I will catch up tomorrow. Unknown to me because I was busy with the tea and the drinks and the food some of them in the house were still in contact with those over in the RDS. Mary Wilson                To the Dublin Central constituency and to our reporter Damian O'Mara. Damian you have a development to report. Simon Adler                One of those guys still over in the RDS was Mel. Mel Macheavel            I did have a sense looking at the numbers and saying Well okay but if and then maybe there is a chance. There is a chance at this. Simon Adler                Well and was that a crazy thought to have or a very smart thought to have? Mel Macheavel            It was just a thought to have. Simon Adler                Because despite the fact that all day the media had been saying that Maureen was out ...                   Maureen O'Sullivan set to lose out. Mary Wilson                Outgoing TD Maureen O'Sullivan.                   Maureen O'Sullivan might be eliminated. Simon Adler                At count seven something starts to happen.                   Three furlongs to go. AB Filbenbowmen       coming around the bend Gary Gannon looks like he is in poll position but- Gary Gannon               All of the sudden we were not reallocating people's second preferences or their third preferences. We would got to the stage where we were reallocating people's fourth fifth and sixth preferences. Simon Adler                Because keep in mind most people's votes are still sloshing around the system. And at this point not only has their top choice been knocked out but their second and third as well. So their vote is now being cast for their fourth fifth or sixth place choice. And a lot of those they start going to Maureen. Gary Gannon               She would known people for years been elected twice previous to that. So even people who were not involved for number one number two number three their votes were still carry on past the fours and the fives and just mauled me on those transfers. AB Filbenbowmen       So we go to count eight.                   Beginning to make a bit of ground into this straight- Simon Adler                Maureen makes this massive jump vaulting her ahead of two opponents into fourth place. Now just a couple hundred votes behind Gary. Simon Adler                And did you have any sense this would- Maureen O.                 No no. Because I did not have the television on and they decided not to tell me. Not to raise my hopes.                   From the ninth count at the moment- Simon Adler                So the ninth count-                   The situation is that- Simon Adler                Another candidate is axed they redistribute her votes. Mel Macheavel            It is coming down to it. Simon Adler                When they count up those transfers- Maureen O.                 That would mean then that Gary Gannon is likely to be elected or what is the situation there? Micheal Gallagher- Simon Adler                Maureen gets some 300 more transfers than Gary meaning suddenly-                   Gary Gannon is precisely eight votes ahead of Maureen O'Sullivan. Gary Gannon               oh my God I did not see that coming. Simon Adler                She is within eight votes of him. Maureen O.                 I went closer to 10. Simon Adler                But Maureen meanwhile is still convinced she is going to lose. She is actually heading down to the count center to concede the race. Maureen O.                 I said to myself I should go over and concede. So came out into the car and as I am driving over to concede I was just at the traffic lights. I could picture it and at that stage the phone call comes. Simon Adler                She looks at her phone and it is one of her campaign staff calling. Maureen O.                 I thought why are they ringing me just to hurry me up to get over or whatever. Simon Adler                But in fact they were calling because ... Mary Wilson                In Dublin Central but Maureen darling you have been just as I mentioned your name Brian we are going to Dublin Central.                   ... one last time up. This is the result of the 11th count for Dublin Central. And I deem the following candidate to be elected and they are Maureen O'Sullivan. Simon Adler                In her car Maureen did eventually pick up. Maureen O.                 And then it was where are you? You are about to be elected. You are going to be elected. Simon Adler                She put down the phone drove to the count center and when she arrived. Maureen O.                 Great applause great hugs great kisses. So it was just a lovely explosion of feeling warm feelings towards me from everybody. Mary Wilson                Maureen O'Sullivan congratulations. Maureen O.                 Thank you very much. Mary Wilson                You are a very relieved woman. Maureen O.                 I am a stunned woman. I was at home reconciled to a new life outside of politics and then suddenly I am back in the frame. We had thought that we were too far behind to ... Maureen O.                 So I just said Look I know what Lazarus felt like. It was that kind of moment. Simon Adler                Well so is this the story of a multi seat proportional representation by single transferable vote working how exactly as it is meant to or is this sort of a perversion of the system? Gary Gannon               No it absolutely is. That day worked out exactly as single transferable votes was meant to do. Simon Adler                One last time the gracious Gary Gannon. Gary Gannon               Everybody got their count everybody got their say and everybody got their vote. And do not get me wrong when I say like it is hard but I mean I was 28 29 then. There was a huge sense of will show you. We will be back. So single transferable vote on that day worked against me but I think it worked out perfectly. Robert Krulwich          Perfectly. I mean let me just make sure if I get this right. There is this woman Maureen who hardly anybody loves she scores almost no votes as the favorite. She is just everybody's eh you know. A fourth fifth six I will choose Maureen and yet because the votes keep getting shuffled and shuffled and shuffled it is Miss Meh who becomes the winner. She is chosen because a lot of people do not hate her. Simon Adler                Yeah. Well so here's what it makes me think of right. And I had this moment where I was just imagining if we had been using this at various crucial moments in our very recent history things could have gone an entirely different way. Take the American presidential election of 2016 between- Robert Krulwich          Hillary and Trump. Simon Adler                ... Donald Trump Hillary Clinton but also Gary Johnson and Jill Stine. Robert Krulwich          Yeah but nobody voted for them hardly anybody. Simon Adler                Well no but hardly anybody that number of hardly anybody's that is a sizeable enough number that they could have swung the election one way or the other. If you look at really key states the deciding states if you presume Gary Johnson's votes were split and if you presume all of Jill Stine's votes went to Hillary Clinton Hillary Clinton would have won Pennsylvania Michigan and Wisconsin and the whole kit and caboodle. Robert Krulwich          Whoa. That is interesting. Simon Adler                Now the weird thing is you can just keep playing this game and it will drive you crazy. But you can keep playing it. So if you go back to the 2016 republican primaries where Donald Trump emerged victorious right? Robert Krulwich          Over 10 people or something like that or more. Simon Adler                Over 10 people right. Robert Krulwich          Right. Simon Adler                But there was a sizeable number of people in those primaries who were never Trumpers. If those people had- Robert Krulwich          I see where you are going here. Simon Adler                ... been able to block their votes together they might have been able to rally behind a candidate who was not Donald Trump. And then rewind even further back the 2000 election where the number of votes that Ralph Nader got in Florida were more than the difference between Bush got and Gore got- Robert Krulwich          No elect a republican can you? Simon Adler                Okay so go back to Ross Perot right George H.W. Bush was running against Bill Clinton in 1992. Robert Krulwich          Oh that is right. Simon Adler                Ross Perot it is very controversial whether he really was a spoiler in that election but I mean if you ask the Bush people they say he definitely was. And so if the Peroters went to Bush then Bill Clinton would have just been a historical footnote. He would not have been the president. It is like a huge huge seismic difference in world history. Robert Krulwich          Huh. Simon Adler                So when we come back we are not going to be looking at my own imaginative math. We are going to look at what is rank choice actually look like if it was in the United States because it is in the United States. Robert Krulwich          It is about to happen. Simon Adler                Yeah. Robert Krulwich          When we come back. Cory                            Hi my name is Cory and I am from Minneapolis Minnesota. RadioLab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Robert Krulwich          Welcome back I am Robert Krulwich. Latif Nassar                  I am Latif Nassar and this is RadioLab. Robert Krulwich          And we are trying to fix democracy. This is how we are ... In little bits and pieces. Latif Nassar                  Yeah so let me just back up for a second because we have been talking about this and thinking about this around the office for a little while and at some point as we were meditating on this dwindling faith in democracy one of our fellow producers at our sister show More Perfect- Sara Kari                      Okay. Latif Nassar                  ... Sara Kari. She just took me and Simon- Simon Adler                Great. Latif Nassar                  Great and just dragged us into a studio. Sara Kari                      Okay. So we have been having this conversation about whether our democracy is broken for a few months now and every meeting that we have had I have been the one in the room being like Guys our democracy is fine. Have you seen other places? This is crazy. Who are these people that think our democracy is broken like they do not know what they are talking about. Latif Nassar                  And do you know why? Like where is that feeling coming from? Sara Kari                      Well- Sara Kari                      Okay can you tell me your name? Usma                           Usma. Sara Kari                      And who are you? Sara Kari                      Probably because of this woman. Usma                           I am Usma. Sara Kari                      Who are you in relation to me? Usma                           Oh I am your mom. Sara Kari                      My mom and both of my parents actually grew up in Pakistan. Usma                           That is the big thing 25 years of my life where I spent and I feel that- Sara Kari                      Which is a pretty young country and it is just struggled so much to keep its democracy alive and healthy. Usma                           And I saw the consequences of not getting the full democracy there in Pakistan. So that then after living 25 years of the next 25 years of my life in America I really found out the value of democracy as an individual and as a group also. So I can differentiate now very well between those two. Sara Kari                      So that is kind of how I have always understood our democracy. But then Simon I listen to your Ireland story with all of this rank choice voting stuff and that is the first moment when I was like oh. Like maybe our way of doing things is broken. Maybe we do need an update. Simon Adler                Okay why? What about it made you switch teams? Sara Kari                      Because it made me suddenly aware of the fact that in our system candidates do not actually need a majority of the votes to win. Simon Adler                Right. Sara Kari                      So you have candidates who then make that calculation where they say I only really have to win the votes of people who are in my base and if my base is bigger than everybody else's base than screw everyone else. Simon Adler                Yeah. It seems like in a democracy most people should vote for the person who wins not just that the person who wins is going to have the biggest base to- Sara Kari                      Totally. Simon Adler                ... a bigger base than everybody else. Like it should be that most people are in some way in some preference supporting the person who comes to power. Sara Kari                      Yeah exactly. And it is funny when I heard about rank choice voting I was like oh this system is so cool because I feel like it addresses that exact problem. And so I totally got sucked into it and I started looking around. And it turns out there are a bunch of people who think that this could be used here in the U.S. and not only that it already is. And when I asked around a number of people pointed to this moment in 2000 with the election when Bush loses the popular election but he wins because he wins in Florida. And so people look at the results in Florida and see that a bunch of votes that might have gone to Al Gore they go instead to Ralph Nader. Who then becomes sort of notorious as this spoiler that maybe ruined the election for Al Gore. And after 2000 at that point you do see some cities that start to adopt rank choice voting at the local level. Sara Kari                      So what I did is- Latif Nassar                  Okay I am putting my phone on airplane mode. Sara Kari                      ... I grabbed Latif and we kind of did this cross country rank choice voting tour. And the first place we are going to start with ... Sara Kari                      Hello San Francisco? Dominic Fracasa          Yes San Francisco is here. Sara Kari                      Is San Francisco. Sara Kari                      Is this Dominic? Dominic Fracasa          Yes this is. Sara Kari                      Oh hey Dominic. What is up? Dominic Fracasa          Hi what is up? Sara Kari                      So this is Dominic Fracasa. Dominic Fracasa          Check check check yeah. Sara Kari                      He used to do radio. Latif Nassar                  You got the pipes for it Dominic. Dominic Fracasa          Hey let me know if you need any ad spots so we can get right to it you know. Latif Nassar                  Okay cool. Sara Kari                      But now he is a reporter at the San Francisco Chronicle. Dominic Fracasa          I am a city hall reporter for the Chronicle. Yeah so the very first rank choice election in San Francisco happened in 2004. But it was actually rank choice voting became I guess the city's method or the city's system if you will back in 2002. Where there was a ballot initiative that was passed by voters that said Look this is going to be the system that we are going to implement going forward. So the vast majority of local elected offices are chosen with rank choice contests. Sara Kari                      So city council- Dominic Fracasa          The board of supervisors ... Sara Kari                      The school board ... Dominic Fracasa          Our assessor recorder ... Sara Kari                      And in one very specific election ... Dominic Fracasa          The case in the mayors race. Sara Kari                      The case in the mayors race. Dominic Fracasa          Okay great. I cannot believe this was just a few months ago. It seems like a long time ago at this point. Sara Kari                      Okay so early 2018 the San Francisco mayor's race kicked off. Dominic Fracasa          And when it really kicked into gear there were three leading candidates. You had- London Breed             Hi I am board of supervisors president London Breed. Dominic Fracasa          ... London Breed and you had ... Mark Leno                   Hello I am Mark Leno- Dominic Fracasa          Former San Francisco supervisor Mark Leno. And you had ... Jane Kim                     Hi I am Jane Kim- Dominic Fracasa          Current supervisor Jane Kim and these are not these are all democrats. News Clips                   The field of candidates is set now. KPIX5 Joe Vasquez is live- Sara Kari                      Okay so out of the gate- News Clips                   New front runner in the San Francisco mayor's race and it is- Dominic Fracasa          London Breed. London Breed             This campaign is a winning campaign. Sara Kari                      She was the more moderate more established candidate. News Clips                   She is getting one heck of a bounce in the polls. Dominic Fracasa          And she had a fairly strong lead and a lot of wind in her sails. News Clips                   The two to one lead over her two closest rivals Mark Leno and Jane Kim. Sara Kari                      And as the campaign made it is way to election day- Dominic Fracasa          Things are going pretty well. London Breed             We are winners and we are- Sara Kari                      And it was almost like sure there are three names on the ballot- Dominic Fracasa          But ... Sara Kari                      At the end of the day it was more like- Dominic Fracasa          London Breed London Breed and London Breed. News Clips                   The favorite in the recent polls heading into Tuesday's election. Sara Kari                      But then right before the election something happened that you basically never see in American politics. Jane Kim                     We are proud to stand together to say that we are united in our belief that we need fundamental change here in the city and county of San Francisco. Sara Kari                      In the very last few weeks before election day the two underdogs Jane Kim and Mark Leno they held a press conference on the steps of city hall. Jane Kim                     Mark and I are opponents as everyone knows. Dominic Fracasa          They stood outside city hall literally joined hands and said ... Jane Kim                     And I am proud to be the first set of candidates to truly take advantage of the rank choice voting system and encourage our supporters to vote for both of us. Robert Krulwich          Wait a second. So what she is saying is vote for me definitely vote for me but also vote for this guy who I am running against. Sara Kari                      Yeah exactly. Dominic Fracasa          Vote for me first but vote for Jane second. Or vote for me first and vote for Mark second. Sara Kari                      So if one of us were to come in last let us say Mark comes in last if all the people who voted for him ranked Jane as their second choice then all of those votes would go to her and vise versa. That way they actually have a better chance of beating the front runner. Dominic Fracasa          London Breed and that made a lot of sense. They were both quote unquote More progressive candidates and saw each other at least the rhetoric goes as the person that they would like to see as mayor if not themselves. Simon Adler                Was that a surprise move to you as you were covering it? Did you see that coming? Dominic Fracasa          I did not see it coming no. I think that was just a surprise to a lot of people. News Clips                   I almost had to do a double take when I saw these new campaign posters supporting both Jane Kim and Mark Leno for mayor. Sara Kari                      After that press conference ... Dominic Fracasa          Mark Leno and Jane Kim started appearing in campaign adds together. Jane Kim                     I am Jane Kim ... Mark Leno                   And I am Mark Leno ... Sara Kari                      Campaigning for one another. Jane Kim                     Mark and I are opponents ... Mark Leno                   But Jane and I agree ... Jane Kim                     You should pick our next mayor ... Mark Leno                   Not the billionaires- Sara Kari                      And so basically the whole campaign is like If you do not vote for me first than at least vote for me second. Mark Leno                   Let us stand together. Jane Kim                     Vote for me and Mark Leno. Mark Leno                   Vote for me and Jane Kim. News Clips                   KPIX5's Joe Vasquez is with the London Breed campaign. Where just moments ago Breed addressed the crowd. Joe- Sara Kari                      So on election night London Breed has a pretty commanding lead as the polls are coming to a close and basically she is trying to get up to this marker of 50 of the votes plus one vote. That is a majority and if she can get to that then she wins. There is no rank choice runoff there is no vote swapping and as the night goes on- News Clips                   She is not yet declaring victory but this crowd is celebrating. Sara Kari                      She is got like a double digit lead things are looking pretty good. News Clips                   They are celebrating the person they believe could be the next mayor of San Francisco. Dominic Fracasa          Holy smokes she is beating Mark Leno by 10 percentage points and she is beating Jane Kim by more than that. So we are getting to midnight. I am completely bleary eyed staring at my laptop refreshing the department of elections website every few seconds. When 30 at night ... Sara Kari                      It happens. News Clips                   In the early returns London Breed had a sizeable lead but she did not reach 50. Sara Kari                      She came in just shy of 50. News Clips                   So the rank choice voting system kicked in and- Dominic Fracasa          And all of the sudden this entire race has changed. Sara Kari                      Okay so the rankings had been London Breed number one Mark Leno number two ... News Clips                   Jane Kim who was in third place was now eliminated in that ranked choice system. Dominic Fracasa          But when Kim got eliminated a huge chunk of her voters about three out of four went to Leno because Leno was their second choice. News Clips                   And now ... News Clips                   By a razor thin margin ... News Clips                   Mark Leno is leading the race. Sara Kari                      The Kim Leno strategy had come to fruition. Dominic Fracasa          He is up .84 the slimmest of leads. News Clips                   The mayor's race is still too close to call out here- Sara Kari                      The race would actually drag on for days. Dominic Fracasa          As more ballots got counted. News Clips                   Tens of thousands of outstanding ballots. Dominic Fracasa          We did not have a mayor chosen until I think eight days later. Sara Kari                      When in a gymnasium packed with screaming supporters out walked the new mayor of San Francisco- Dominic Fracasa          London Breed. London Breed             Yes I am your mayor. Sara Kari                      Mark Leno came up just short. Dominic Fracasa          He came within 1.1 or a little over 2500 votes- Sara Kari                      Oh man. Dominic Fracasa          So I mean okay it did not work in that he did not win but you cannot say that it was completely ineffective. Sara Kari                      And so ultimately what did people think of this whole Mark Leno Jane Kim coming together? Dominic Fracasa          People saw the duel endorsement strategy as gaming the system. As saying Look they are doing this in order to keep London Breed from winning. Sara Kari                      And that was at your- Dominic Fracasa          And they already- Sara Kari                      ... paper right? That was the editorial one? Dominic Fracasa          Yeah our editorial board said as much. And I think that is not just the ed board. I mean people do feel that way. That it was this strategy especially London Breed supporters who saw a teaming up a piling on and in this ... I mean just very quickly just zoom out all the way. I think people just find that weird in a country in which politics ends up being a zero sum game often times in which you are relentlessly attacking your opponent- Simon Adler                Blood sport yeah. Dominic Fracasa          ... beating them down. Exactly exactly. But at the same time that is very much there might be some people at my own newspaper that disagree with me but I think that is very much in the spirit of what rank choice voting invites. Coalition building- Sara Kari                      Now Dominic wanted to be clear that in the case of the mayor's race this coming together of opponents ... Dominic Fracasa          I do not want to make it sound like it was just some kind of kumbaya thing. Because that was not the case. Sara Kari                      But at the very next stop on our tour we actually found that case. The kumbaya case. Hey Curtis are you there? Curtis Gilbert              Yeah I am. Sara Kari                      Which also on the line we have Latif. Latif Nassar                  Hi how you doing? Curtis Gilbert              Hey what is up? Sara Kari                      We heard about from this guy. Curtis Gilbert              Curtis Gilbert and I am a reporter at American Public Media. But I used to be a reporter at Minnesota Public Radio. Sara Kari                      So Curtis told us in Minneapolis they actually started using rank choice voting in 2009. Curtis Gilbert              But it is gotten much more interesting since then. So in 2013 was the first time Minneapolis actually had a competitive mayor's race under rank choice voting. News Clips                   There is a record breaking number of candidates vying to succeed Minneapolis mayor R. T.Rybak who is stepping down at the end of this year. Curtis Gilbert              35 candidates signed up to run to replace him. Latif Nassar                  Oh. Sara Kari                      Wow. Curtis Gilbert              Yeah. News Clips                   Curtis Gilbert covers Minneapolis politics he joins me in the studio. Boy you are going to be busy. Curtis Gilbert              Yeah you betcha. Curtis Gilbert              I mean there were so many ... I mean 35 candidates is a lot. Sara Kari                      Unlike the race in San Francisco the mayoral race in Minneapolis ...                   People say Are not you the republican? Sara Kari                      Did have more diverse candidates.                   And I say Sure I have done some work in the republican party and I also stand fiercely for marriage equality always have. Sara Kari                      There was a republican an independent a bunch of democrats ... Curtis Gilbert              It was a wide open free for all race. It was really interesting. Sara Kari                      But despite all that ... Curtis Gilbert              They were very very civil. News Clips                   Thank you very much it is nice to see you are not utterly infallible. I always thought you were. Curtis Gilbert              Very very gentle to each other. News Clips                   We will not be rude with each other because it does not benefit us to be rude with each other. News Clips                   Right. Curtis Gilbert              And this is one thing that the advocates of rank choice voting sort of look at as a positive voters are turned off by negative campaigning. And there is a theory that goes that if you are hoping to get second and third choice votes you will be much nicer to your opponent so you do not alienate their supporters. So maybe you get a second or third choice vote. And it did seem like there was an element of that playing out in the race. News Clips                   I will talk more about the issues because I think I have run out of time thank you. Sara Kari                      So at worst there was some light ribbing. News Clips                   They said we could finish our sentences if we have run out of time but I think that was a run on sentence. Sara Kari                      There were polite stage logistics. News Clips                   Getting out of that chair is a little challenging so we may want to pass the microphone around. Sara Kari                      And ... News Clips                   Thank you thank you Jackie. Sara Kari                      Plenty of thank you's. Curtis Gilbert              The most remarkable one of all was the final debate. It was there and it was in a church. I think it was in downtown Minneapolis I cannot remember what the church was. And at the end of the debate the candidates and I think there were eight of them all kind of put their arms around each other and one of them suggested that they all sing ... News Clips                   One two three. News Clips                    Curtis Gilbert              ... Kumbaya. News Clips                    Latif Nassar                  No. Sara Kari                      After the debate? Curtis Gilbert              After the debate. News Clips                   . News Clips                   That is going on into the rest. News Clips                   The farewell tour. News Clips                   Right there. Latif Nassar                  So it is almost like a cartoon right? Like the Kumbaya it is really funny but it is also I think for a lot of people right now that feels like a relief. It feels like a relief to hear politicians not biting each other's heads off. And that is something that comes from rank choice voting. You find consensus. You find coalition. You find commonalities instead of differences. But that also flattens everyone out. If everyone ends up running to the middle and then you just have kind of a bland consensus where no one's saying bold things and everybody is just kind of middle. Robert Krulwich          So in a way when you make this choice you are choosing for do this carefully. Latif Nassar                  Right. Robert Krulwich          Do this carefully. I wondered about that because I was thinking maybe do not do this carefully maybe have a country that can be dynamic. Although right now I am not so sure. So- Simon Adler                We are too dynamic yeah. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. But that in a deep way that is what is being asked here. Latif Nassar                  Yeah what do we actually want? Like do we want a system where you are lined up behind your alpha dog who is going to argue for all of the things you want and maybe you are going to get them but maybe you are also going to lose them all. Or do you want to be in a system where we are all sort of begrudgingly bought into our second place person who we can kind of get behind but it definitely was not our ... It is not our ideal. I think that is a question. That is like a soul searching kind of a question. What do you want and what do we want this country to be? Robert Krulwich          Right. Latif Nassar                  And for that reason I do not know how I feel about it. Robert Krulwich          Well nothings going to be perfect. I think what is really interesting is what seems sort of mechanical and technical it does affect the tone of your country and of history. So the world we have got is the function of how we vote now. Change the system before we vote you might get a very different world. How different what different where different which kind of difference scary different good different you do not know. Sara Kari                      Well we might actually know soon because I actually have one more stop on our cross country rank choice voting tour. Sara Kari                       Sara Kari                      The great state of Maine. Sara Kari                       Sara Kari                      Super politically diverse fiercely independent like a lot of independent voters. Sara Kari                       Sara Kari                      And in fact in 2016 there was this coalition of independents and democrats that managed to get this ballot initiative that would change all statewide elections to rank choice voting. Latif Nassar                  State wide? Sara Kari                      Yeah. Latif Nassar                  Oh. Sara Kari                      And ... Steve Mistler               Rank choice voting was adopted in 2016. Sara Kari                      According to Maine Public Radio reporter Steve Mistler it passed. Steve Mistler               It passed however with a major flaw. News Clips                   It was a scam. It undermines the integrity of our election process. News Clips                   Put forward by a group of people- Steve Mistler               The state senate which was under republican control at the time picked up on this constitutional conflict within the state constitution. News Clips                   The reality is we are not happy with it. News Clips                   My oppose to it very unconstitutional. Sara Kari                      The Maine constitution literally says you have to use a plurality vote. Steve Mistler               The word plurality is actually written om the Constitution. Sara Kari                      As opposed to a majority. Steve Mistler               Correct and ultimately the Maine legislature passed a law that delayed implementing rank choice voting. News Clips                   This is one more example of where politicians are standing against the will of the people. Sara Kari                      And it set of this whole fight where people rallied against the state legislature and held another vote ... Steve Mistler               In June ... Sara Kari                      Literally this past June. News Clips                   But the people gathered at the state house this morning- Sara Kari                      To get around the delay. News Clips                   ... legislature through what was billed as a people's veto. Sara Kari                      That passed- Steve Mistler               By almost the exact same margin if not slightly more than when it passed originally in 2016. Sara Kari                      At some point the Maine Supreme Court gets involved and really the details of this are all kind of a mess. But what it boils down to is this in the upcoming elections like the midterms that are happening now Maine will use rank choice voting for its congressional races. Steve Mistler               We have three of them this year. We have a first congressional district race. It will be used in that contest. Sara Kari                      And also in Maine's second congressional district. Steve Mistler               Which is a swing seat and one of a dozen or so nationally. Sara Kari                      Aka one of the districts that everybody is going to be watching in the midterms and on top of that they are going to use rank choice voting for the senate. Steve Mistler               The U.S. senate campaign it will be used in that contest. Latif Nassar                  Do you know is this the first time it is going to be used for a position in the federal government? Sara Kari                      Yeah no other state has ever done it. Latif Nassar                  Oh wow. Sara Kari                      But at the same time because of their state constitution- Steve Mistler               It is not being used in the gubernatorial race. Sara Kari                      So does the ballot just look insane like part of it is this rank choice voting thing and part of it is not and like- Steve Mistler               They are just separate. Sara Kari                      Okay. Steve Mistler               So there is separate ballots for the federal races and then there is a separate one for the state wide one. So I have not actually seen how many ballots that voters are handed on- Latif Nassar                  So this is really going to happen now like this week. Sara Kari                      Yeah oh yeah. Steve Mistler               Two main claims of rank choice voting are being put to the test in its very first role out in Maine. News Clips                   Voters in Maine will head to the polls later this month- Steve Mistler               Whether it can work for a third party or independent candidates but it is also a test case about whether or not it does what it promises. News Clips                   He just told another big fib right in front of everybody in Maine. News Clips                   First you are lying about my rep here and you are also- Steve Mistler               Which is reduce scorched earth campaigns. News Clips                   Dude I do not know where you are getting this. News Clips                   It is Tiffany  do you have a problem  News Clips                   This is why we are getting nothing done. News Clips                   When they go low we kick them right? News Clips                   And Mr. Desantos lied 21 times. News Clips                   If you voted as much as you lie  News Clips                   Of course I support the senator. News Clips                   Crazy. News Clips                   The democrats ... News Clips                   They have gone wacko. News Clips                   Trump supporters are just nasty and deplorable. News Clips                   You may not understand how the house and the senate work. Sara Kari                      But also I guess I just wonder if the people of Maine are going to come out of this election feeling a little bit more like democracy is working for them. Robert Krulwich          Would not it be interesting if in Maine somebody who was everybody's eighth choice gets elected to congress. It could happen. I do not know we will see. Yeah. Robert Krulwich          This RadioLab was reported by Latif Nassar Simon Adler Suzie Lechtenberg Sara Kari Tracy Hunte. Produced by Simon Adler Matt Kielty Sara Kari and Suzie Lechtenberg. Our story on PRSTV was produced with support from RTE's Drive Time huge thank you to them and to AB for making that possible. Latif Nassar                  Also thanks to Rob Richy at Fair Vote Dawn Sari Diana Lagerman. Thank you to Anna Lurman and the rest of the team at the Varieties of Democracy Institute in Sweden. As well as Carolyn Tolbert Bobby Agey and Edward Still. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Latif Nassar                  And I am Latif Nassar and thanks for listening. And go vote what the hell right? Robert Krulwich          Yes yes. Latif Nassar                  Yeah. Jenna Calderoni          Hi this is Jenna Calderoni calling from Raleigh North Carolina. RadioLab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our Director of Sound Design. Maria Matisar-Padea is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracy Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Anne McEwin Latif Nassar Alyssa O'Donell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Cap Flaslow and Moe Asipiomo. Jenna Calderoni          Our fact checker is Michelle Harris. 