Jim Dixon Hello there. This is Jim Dickson speaking. Soren Wheeler Hello Dr. Dickson. My name is Soren. Jim Soren? Soren Yes. I am the producer for today. You will actually be talking to our host Jad he is on his way over to the studios right now. Jim That is good. Jad Abumrad Let us just start the story here. This is a bit of tape we have had for a while. It is just fun It will lead into the story in a second. Hello Dr. Dixon. Jim Hello there Jad. Jad Hi. How are you? Jim I am very well thank you. I am always pleased to talk about my delightful obsession. I have had for more than 10 years which led to my marriage to a French lady. I am not joking.  Jad How does the marriage to the French lady factor in? Jim Well we met on email. A bit like you have got mail the Hollywood film. Well my wife is sitting beside me and she is making signals. Well what is it that you are saying dear? Jad Sorry is there any chance we could talk to your wife? She is sitting right there next to you? Jim Yes they want to talk to you dear. Mrs. Dixon Oh yes  Jim Come on. Mrs. Dixon Hello? Jad Hi. Mrs. Dixon Hi. Sorry I am French and my English is not very excellent. Jad No you are fantastic. Bonjour? Mrs. Dixon Bonjour. Jad He mentioned that tzi was what brought you together. Mrs. Dixon Yes it is true. I was a teacher a primary school teacher. Jim She emailed me some questions about tzi and I answered them to the best of my ability and shortly after we were married. Mrs. Dixon Yes. Jad No kidding. Jim tzi is my benefactor my friend.  Jad We should introduce ourselves real fast. I am Jad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert. Jad This is Radiolab. Robert The podcast. Jad That guy Jim Dickson he is a botanist. Called him four years ago to talk about this fellow tzi. We are going to tell tzi story in completely in just a second. There is something in the whole interaction between him and his wife there they just kind of captures how everybody gets when they get into tzi. They either get married or they get obsessed. Robert Yes but it was not until very recently our producer Andy Mills and I happened to talk to this graphic artist named Aaron Birk who is also totally obsessed with this guy tzi. Andy Mills Yes. I think there is this hunger on the part of the-- Robert That is when we really understood what this story is all about. Jad Yes. At least for me that is where it all started. Robert Since Andy has been reporting this piece why do not Andy you just take the ball from here. Jad Do it Andy. Andy Story starts 1991 way up in the Alps. Jim At 3210 meters above sea level. I know you Americans do not think in meters that is roughly 10.5 thousand feet. Andy This is a frozen glacial spot and up there walking around- Jim -were two hill-walkers Jad Two hill-walkers hikers. Jim Hikers. It was a Germany couple a man and a wife. Andy It was early in the afternoon. Jad At some point they take a notion to the head-off trail. Jim They were only a hundred yards off the beaten track. Andy After just a few minutes- Jad -they round a little rock and that is when they were stopped dead in their tracks. Robert By what? Jad By a corpse. Jim A corpse sticking out of the ice. He was lying on his stomach. Andy Face-down in the ice. Jim He was draped over a big Boulder. Jad His legs are buried under the ice up to his hips and his top-half is just sticking out. Andy His left arm is under his forehead almost like a schoolboy falling asleep in class on his arm. Jad These two hikers they see this and they run off for help. Jim They hot foot it into the nearby mountain hut thinking it was a mountaineering accident. Andy A recent one. Jim They called the police. Andy They said Hey somebody a tourist or a climber had some accident the cops showed up with drills and ice picks and started to chip away at the ice trying to get the body out. Then they started noticing some things this guy had all these tattoos. Jim On his back and the behind his knees. Jad Then they start noticing all this stuff buried with him. Andy He is got some kind of moccasin looks like ox skin. Jim He had a bare skin cap. Andy Unusual stuff. Jim He had a copper headed u-hafted axe. Jad A what? Andy A small pouch filled with medicinal tree fungus Robert Really? Jim A quiver full of arrows a longbow. Andy He had grass socks. Jim Grass socks? Jad Yes woven grass. Andy A dagger that had been chipped out of stone. Jad These cops realized- Andy -this is not a 20th-century tourist who wandered off-trail. Jim This was something extraordinary. Andy This is old. Robert Like renaissance or old middle ages or old? Andy Well would not we like to know? Jad What did the police do? Jim Well the police reported it to the forensic authorities in the University of Ensberg. Andy Basically they took it to a team of local scientists who sent samples out to a bunch of labs and eventually confirmed that yes this is old but not just old this was really old. This body is 5300 years old. Listeners Wow. Andy That is way before Jesus way before Moses. Jad If you had to use it as a historic mark point let us say the pyramids of Egypt. This would be the 700 years prior to the construction of the pyramid in Giza. Jim It was beyond archeologists' wildest dreams. A 5200-year-old perfectly preserved corpse. Andy We are talking about a man with all his skin with his eyeballs his teeth his tongue his groin his organs his guts everything's in there. Everything is almost perfectly freeze-dried. Jim There he is. Jad What does he look like? Jim Oh well he was bearded. Andy He is 45 years old which I think for a 3000 BC is pretty darn old. Jim He was a small guy. He was only about five-foot-two in height. Andy His calf muscles his thigh muscles are incredibly developed. This would suggest that he is a hunter or a shepherd of some kind who walks these mountains. Jim His physique is comparable to the modern Olympian wrestler. He is very obviously a human being. Very very obviously and he would have all the hopes and the fears of you and I. Andy They even gave him a name. Jim tzi. Jad Artsi Otpsi tzi. Andy Even though some of us cannot really pronounce that name. Jad tzi. Robert Spell it. Andy O with two dots on top. Automated voice Scientists call him tzi. Andy There is all kinds of drama. There is Austria competing with Italy. He is our mummy no he is our mummy he is on the border. Whose mummy is he? Jad Eventually the Italian got him. Jim Because he is said to be 92 meters inside Italy.  Andy A whole museum is built around him. An entire facility is built to freeze him. There is teams of researchers there is competing universities. You have documentaries you have books and articles about this incredible mummy who was walking in the ice he fell is not that fascinating? Jad You know Brad Pitt? Jim Yes. Jad He got a tattoo of tzi his arm. Jim Really? Jad What everyone really wanted to know was- Jim Who was this prehistoric person? Jad Who was this guy? Jim Where did he come from? Andy Was he a scout? Was he a traveler? Jim Where was he going? Andy How did he fall? Jim How had he died? Andy Was it a storm that took him? Jim What was he doing so high in the mountains? Andy Yes but when we found him there really was not any way to answer these kinds of questions all you got was wild speculation. This is where it becomes more than a story about an ancient dead guy. Over the past what 22 years since he is been found all these researchers keep coming back to tzi and they have gathered just enough little pieces of evidence that when you put it all together what you get is this surprisingly intimate look at this one real dude who lived 5300 years ago. For our purposes the first piece of that puzzle falls into place on a summer's day in 2001 when a radiologist named Dr. Paul Gossner is staring at a CT scan. Jad Basically a 3D X-ray of tzi chest. Andy Maybe for the umpteenth time for the thousandth time. Jad When suddenly- Andy - he notices something unusual- Jad - right up by tzi's shoulder blade. Andy In the left scapular. Jim What does he notice? Jad He finds an arrowhead- Andy -lodged in the shoulder blade. I think it was hard to see because it is stone not metal. If it was metal they would have picked it up right away. Jad Is this meaning that this is a possible murder? Andy That is right. The whole thing blows up to a full-scale murder mystery. Albert Zinc From that moment on we knew that he was shot with an arrow and then it all started the research about-- Jim That is Albert Zinc he is actually the top scientist in charge of tzi these days. Albert What we do is like doing a crime scene investigation. We try to put together-- Andy Not too long after Gossner spotted that arrowhead. Zinc and his team they take tzi they actually put him into an ambulance rush him as fast they can to a hospital trying to make sure that he does not thaw and they put him into a higher resolution full-body CT scan. Jad The plot thickens further. We find severe abdominal wounds and ribs fractures. Andy Things that before may have come across as 5000-year-old wear and tear- Albert There is an orbital fracture of the cranium. Andy -now it is like we are seeing them with new eyes. Albert His head is busted. Jad Not only that Jim his right palm is very badly cut. It is very deep. Jad How deep? Andy It is so deep that there is cuts in the underlying bones. Jim Some pathologists say it is a defensive wound. Andy A wound that comes from a fight. Jim He held his right hand up and he got slashed on his right palm. Andy In trying to piece together what happened one of the questions that scientists like Albert Zinc asked was like This cut on his hand was it a- Albert -Fresh wound or this was already a healing wound? Andy How much time had passed between when he got the cut and when he died? Albert We took a little tissue piece out of the wound. Andy They rehydrated it they slice it up with lasers. Albert We made little slices and we have a look at them at the microscope. Andy They could see evidence that when he died the blood from this wound was just starting to clot but that it had not yet formed a scab when he died which told them that this attack- Albert This must be a wound that happened already three or four days before he died. Andy Which added another question to the list what happened in those last three or four days between the time he got cut and the time he died? Jim I think this is the most fascinating thing of all about tzi. Jad Jim told us luckily for scientists Jim his intestines are all there. Jad To the trained eye your intestines Jim it is like a map and a diary. Jad A diary? Jim Yes a diary. Jad In what way? Jim If there is any food in your stomach it is less than four hours old. Jad Which would probably be your last meal? Jim The stuff in an intermediate position like the colon is between a few hours old and a few days old. Jad Your last few meals. Jim If you can get samples from all these and look at the content you can deduce all sorts of things. Andy One small problem. If you have got a 5000-year-old mummy on your hands you cannot exactly just cut them open. Jim and his team what they did is they snaked some fancy equipment up his butt and started rooting around. Jim I did not do that. You appreciate I am a botanist I am not a medic. Andy Someone else from his team did that. In any case they got up in there and first of all they could not find the stomach but they did pull out samples from the rest of his guts and they found- Jim Pollen. Andy Pollen. Actually two kinds of pollen one from Jad from the fresh flowers of the hop-hornbeam. Andy A tree that blooms down in the Valley and Connor for pollen a second pollen from high altitude evergreen trees. You have got the high mountain firs in the deciduous trees of the Valley of the low places you have got the hornbeam. Both of these kinds of pollen were found in tzi's gut. Probably because he drank some water which contained the pollen but here's the key. The pollen from the Valley it is sandwiched in between these two layers of mountain pollen. That implies an order. tzi must have first ingested the pine pollen then the horns beam and then the pine pollen again and that suggests. Jim About two days or so before he died he was high up in hills. Jad Drinking pollen-laded water high above. Jim Then he was very low down below the tree line. Jad Drinking pollen-laded water down below. Jim Then he came back up again to meet his end. Andy Taking all that and a couple other pieces of research here is what we think happened to tzi in his last days. We know that it would have been summertime. Jim Probably June. Andy Because that horn's beam pollen in his gut only blooms in the early summertime in June. Jim For whatever reason. Andy Maybe he is hunting maybe he is looking for copper we do not know but we do know- Jim He is high up in the mountains. Jad Well above the tree line. Jim Then he goes back down to his village. Andy Which we believe was South of the mountain because certain chemicals in the local water were also found in tzi's teeth and bones. Anyway it was not a short walk home. Jim It is a long way down it is 5000 6000 feet we are talking about. Andy Then we know that within the span of about 24 hours. Jim Something happens in his village. Andy Something violent. Jad Maybe his people were fighting with other people when he got there. Andy The details are a little blurry but it is clear that he was attacked that he put his right hand up to defend himself and that he gets that cut. Jim It is very deep it is very bloody it is very painful. Shortly after that event he bends down and picks up a clump of  Andy Jim actually found that  mass on tzi and he says that it is- Jim It is mildly antiseptic. Andy Anyway tzi he heads back up the mountain. Jim He goes back up again perhaps pursued by somebody or people plural. Andy We think that maybe he was in a hurry because- Jim -of 14 arrows- Andy -that he was carrying- Jim -only two had flint tips and feathers and the other 12 were useless. Jad Which suggests a frantic state. You have got a guy who is running bleeding and he is busily curving his arrows. Andy Curving as he runs and for about a day- Jim -maybe a day and a half- Andy -he is running a lot. We know that he runs over 12 miles that he gets up above 10000 feet above sea level managing to evade whoever it is that is coming after him but then-- Jim The fatal arrow shot. Andy This is the official report from the South Tyrol Museum of Archeology. We can see that the point of the arrow tore a hole in the artery beneath his left collarbone which led to a massive hematoma which bled into the thorax cavity which in turn caused cardiac arrest and sudden death. Jad He bled to death. Jim He would have died in less than half an hour. Jad Really? Jim He would have died in 20 minutes perhaps. Andy According to a lot of researchers whoever killed tzi came over pulled the arrow shaft out of tzi's back picked up a big stone and bashed his head in. Then within about an hour maybe two his body would have been completely covered in snow. Then within a month or so that snow would have become ice. Then when the next summer came around that ice would have thawed out just enough to allow a little sunlight to come through. The next winter he would have froze again following summer thawed a little bit and then froze again and then thawed. Here's why that is important bodies that are completely frozen deteriorate. Those periods of thaw kept him from deteriorating. You had this perfect mixture throughout all these years a season of snow a season of ice and then a thaw and then a snow and then an ice and then a thaw. Just think about it year in and year out. Throughout the building of the pyramids the rise and fall of Rome the enlightenment the industrial revolution all of this time tzi was there in that spot just a few feet away from where he was murdered until 1991 when a couple of German hikers decided to head off the trail. Albert We have forensic proof of his suffering. We have forensic proof of his hunger. We have forensic evidence that he was cold. We have all of this undeniable irrefutable forensic evidence that this man was a living human being who was tormented and was enduring with incredible tenacity. Andy In the last few years scientists have still been at it. They have still been poking at tzi trying to figure out who was this guy not just who might have been but who was he really? Jad I think there is a hope that something will be found which will say yes he was a hero. Yes he was a King. Yes he was a father. I think there is this hunger on the part of the researchers to find something beyond the biology beyond the molecular chemistry to find some sense of the humanity. Jad In the years since we spoke with Jim Dixon Scientist did find something which for Aaron at least does give him that sense. Andy In 2010. Jad They found tzi's stomach which Jim and his team they could not find because it was- Andy Tucked deep up under his rib cage pressed up against his heart. They find the stomach. Jad Inside- Andy -one and a half pounds of undigested goat meat and bread in his belly. Jad His last meal. Andy This was eaten on the day of his death. Jad Maybe just an hour before he died. Andy It was a huge feast. Jad For Aaron imagining tzi's sitting at that fire right before he died that is what did it. Andy Oh I can see it. He is eating. He cooked his food. We have proof he cooked the meat and he sat down and it must have taken time it took at least an hour or two. Like I can feel it I am in the cave. I am by the fire. Jad That is what brought him back. Robert So you are saying then that some hours before he had somehow the time to build a fire catch or acquire or carry a fairly substantial meal and sit and eat it somewhat at rest. He must not have known what was coming was coming. Andy Maybe he knew. Maybe he had found some resolution around it but we have forensic proof that for this brief moment in time the Alpine ice man felt safe enough to stew his meat and his bread and sit by the fire and eat his dinner.  ?Soren Before we go two brief notes first Robert and Jad will be back from our live show tour by our next podcast. If you want to see them this week in either Portland or Seattle go to our website radiolab.orglive. Second a friend of the show a novelist named Stefan Blackie. He heard about this guy tzi got obsessed but unlike Brad Pitt instead of getting a tattoo he wrote a fictional piece that tries to answer some of those remaining questions like why was tzi pursued? Who was after him? Why did they kill him? You will soon be able to find that piece along with a lot of other great stuff on our website radiolab.org. Of course thanks for listening.   Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 