Jad Abumrad Before we get going uh just a quick warning this podcast contains some descriptions of graphic violence and also some strong language so be warned.  Intro  Wait wait you are listening   Intro  Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Intro  You are listening-  Intro  Listening-  Intro  ... to Radiolab.  Intro  Radiolab.  Intro  From...  Intro  W-N-Y-  Intro  C?  Intro  Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Go.  Matt Kielty So nice to see you again Jad.  Jad Abumrad Uh why did you say that with some venom?  Kelly Prime .  Jad Abumrad Uh it is just uh you have been away for awhile.  Matt Kielty   Jad Abumrad The only way only way I can see you is when I come visit you with your other family.  Kelly Prime .  Jad Abumrad Okay. So this is Radiolab producer Matt Kielty.  Matt Kielty Yeah.  Jad Abumrad We are talking about... What are we talking about?  Matt Kielty We are talking about a Supreme Court case from 1989.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . And uh today Matt has a story that he is been recording for about two years that we are going to play both here on More Perfect and also here on Radiolab.  Matt Kielty So buckle up.  Jad Abumrad Where where should we start?  Matt Kielty I think uh we might as well just start...  Woody Connette Should I try to sound Southern?  Matt Kielty With a guy named Woody Connette.  Woody Connette I am a lawyer with Essex Richards a law firm in Charlotte North Carolina.  Matt Kielty We will pick it up in 1985.  Woody Connette Back in 1985 I was a very young lawyer. I was 32 years old. I just started my own Law Firm and I was takin' about anything that came through the door.  Matt Kielty And one day says Woody this guy walked in.  Woody Connette Uh late thirties uh fairly thin.  Matt Kielty 5'9 5'10.  Woody Connette On crutches.  Matt Kielty And he is he is a black man.  Woody Connette He is... or was. He is passed away. Mr. Graham.  Matt Kielty The man's name was Dethorne Graham and Woody says well you know like what what happened to your leg? What is with the crutches? And Dethorne lays everything out for him.  Woody Connette Here we go. So he was pulled over on West Boulevard in Charlotte which is a four lane road.  Matt Kielty Dethorne told Woody he worked for the city of Charlotte in the department of transportation.  Woody Connette Owned road crews doing road repairs.  Matt Kielty It was a Monday afternoon and on that day one of Dethorne's friends and coworkers stopped by his place.  Woody Connette And-  Matt Kielty After talking for a bit-  Woody Connette Mr. Graham asked to be taken to a nearby convenience store. That was only two or three blocks from his house. He needed some orange juice because he was uh suffering the onset of a diabetic insulin reaction.  Matt Kielty So Dethorne hopped in his friend's car they drove over to this convenience store Dethorne got out-  Woody Connette Got a bottle of orange juice.  Matt Kielty ... got to the checkout counter-  Woody Connette But there is a line there. So he puts the bottle down and hurries out.  Matt Kielty ... gets back in his friend's car-  Woody Connette They take off. Now uh this is where the problems started.  Matt Kielty Turns out at the same time all that is happening there is actually an officer-  Woody Connette ... who was African American.  Matt Kielty ... sitting in his squad car.  Woody Connette And what that officer observed was a man hurrying out of the store jumping into a waiting car and quickly driving off.  Matt Kielty So he starts to tail Dethorne and his friend.  Woody Connette And after a couple of blocks pulled him over just to determine what was going on there.  Matt Kielty So he goes up to the driver's side presumably gets Dethorne's buddy's driver's license goes back to his squad car starts radioing um to get to get a hold of the convenience store to see if anything had happened. And it is right around that moment that Dethorne who is in the passenger seat of the car suddenly opened his door got out of the car.  Woody Connette Circled the car once or twice.  Matt Kielty Like sort of stumbled around it.  Woody Connette Then he sat down on the curb.  Matt Kielty And he started going into shock.  Dethorne G Jr. Uh like almost like a seizure he would have.  Matt Kielty Oh really?  Dethorne G Jr. Uh huh . Yeah and it was terrifying.  Matt Kielty This is the Dethorne Graham Jr.  Dethorne G Jr. He was a type one diabetic.  Matt Kielty What is type one diabetes? Cause I know it is one and two.  Dethorne G Jr. From what I understand the type one diabetes is when your body just does not produce enough uh insulin.  Matt Kielty A- and what would that seizure look like?  Dethorne G Jr. Well y- you know I can one incident in particular I can remember us being in church and he got like this blank stare on his face and you see the beads of sweat come on his forehead. His body was seized up and he would shake and he would bite his tongue up and-  Matt Kielty Oh.  Dethorne G Jr. ... and so I can remember my mother trying to you know force a spoon into his mouth to keep him from biting his tongue up. And the main thing was try to get some orange juice in him. That way it would raise his uh blood sugar. And and once you got the orange juice in him he would sleep for a couple hours and and he would wake up and he would be exhausted. But he would be alive.  Matt Kielty All right. So Charlotte city street...  Woody Connette At this point four other officers arrived.  Matt Kielty Dethorne has actually passed out on the curb.  Woody Connette One of the officers rolled Mr. Graham over on the sidewalk and cuffed his hands behind his back.  Matt Kielty At one point uh one of the officers grabs Dethorne by the handcuffs and picks him up off the curb from from behind.  Jad Abumrad Oh wow.  Matt Kielty Dethorne was sort of in and out at this point I guess he tries to tell the officers-  Woody Connette That he was a diabetic that he had a medical card in his wallet asked the officer to pull the wallet out of his back pocket and one of the officers said Hey nothing wrong with the motherfucker but he is drunk.  Matt Kielty At some point around here the details are a little unclear.  Woody Connette A pretty nasty scuffle ensued.  Matt Kielty According to what is known as case syllabus uh Dethorne was resisting the officers. And apparently when the officers slammed Dethorne's head into his friend's car he suffered head and shoulder injuries. He also ended up with a broken foot cuts around his wrist and eventually the officers pick him up one on each arm one on each leg and just throw him into the back of a squad car.  Jad Abumrad Hm.  Woody Connette While this was going on um a few people gathered around.  Matt Kielty And not long after that-  Woody Connette The officers learned that nothing at all had happened at the convenience store. There was no crime there was no robbery there was no shoplifting.  Matt Kielty So they drove him back to his house still in handcuffs.  Woody Connette Pulled him out of the car.  Matt Kielty A friend at Dethorne's house got him some OJ.  Woody Connette And uh the officers laid him out in his front yard took the handcuffs off and then just drive away.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Matt Kielty Was there an apology?  Woody Connette Oh no.  Matt Kielty Now what came out of that day in Charlotte would end up becoming one of the most important Supreme Court cases in our history when it comes to policing. And what drew me in about this case is how something like-  Woody Connette He needed some orange juice.  Matt Kielty ... that. Something so seemingly small would eventually become tied to-  Crowd Hands up do not shoot! Hands up do not shoot!  Matt Kielty ... this. And all the shootings we have seen in the past few years mostly of young black men. Every time we hear one of these shootings every time there is an outcry every time the cop gets off this incident is looming in the shadows shaping the outcome. In many ways it has quietly defined the era that we are living in. And I wanted to know how? How did that happen?  Court Announce The honorable the chief justice and the associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States. Oyez oyez oyez. All persons having business before the honorable the Supreme court of the United States are admonished to draw near and give their attention. Oyez oyez. For the court is now sitting. Oyez. God's faith the United States in this honorable court. Oyez. Oyez.  Matt Kielty All right. To wind back the clock a little bit.  Dethorne G Jr. I will say this about my dad now. He was not someone that would would uh just lay down and roll over.  Matt Kielty Talking to Dethorne Jr. I asked him a little bit about his dad and he told me that Dethorne Sr. grew up in the South.  Dethorne G Jr. Eastern North Carolina owned a tobacco farm.  Matt Kielty He was a hard worker good student.  Dethorne G Jr. His sisters told me that he was the first uh black acc- or African American accepted to Duke university.  Matt Kielty Huh.  Dethorne G Jr. But uh my grandmother she would not let him go because of you know during the Civil Rights era that she did not want them to have to experience uh all that all that mess.  News Reporter This is a CBS news special report.  Matt Kielty And just for a little bit of context here I mean like the Civil Rights Movement was a lot of things but there was this big part of it that was about police brutality.  News Reporter Last night there was open war.  Matt Kielty In 1965 you had the infamous Watts riots in Los Angeles.  News Reporter Snipers make the streets a battlefield.  Matt Kielty Also what was known as the long hot summer of 1967.  News Speaker Are we going to die for our freedom?  Crowd Yeah!  Matt Kielty Where there were more than 150 race riots across the country.  News Speaker Getting tired being pushed around by you white people that is all.  Matt Kielty A lot of which were sparked by accusations of police brutalities.  News Speaker Stopping us on the street kicking in the doors taking down to the police station they are kicking your teeth in.  News Speaker I will not accept charges against policemen. I will not accept charges against policeman. This is a judge not some wild eyed cracker that made this statement although there might not be any difference there might not be any difference if you can think on that. Do you understand that if we cannot bring charges against the policemen who have murdered us and destroyed our homes and businesses where will we go? Where will we go?  Dethorne G Jr. She did not want him to have to experience uh all that all that mess. So he ended up I think he ended up going to Fayetteville State-  Matt Kielty A historically black college.  Dethorne G Jr. ... in North Carolina.  Matt Kielty And when Dethorne Senior graduated... Actually one of the first jobs that he had-  Dethorne G Jr. He worked for an employer called uh Precision Springs.  Matt Kielty This was a steel company that specialize in making springs but a- at a certain point he ended up actually suing the company.  Dethorne G Jr. For discrimination based on how they were treating uh you know people of color.  Matt Kielty So after that day with the officers in Charlotte-  Dethorne G Jr. The one thing I do remember dad saying was that it was not right.  Matt Kielty ... Dethorne was going to fight.  Woody Connette Right. And-  Matt Kielty That is how he ends up walking into Woody's office on crutches in 1985 and he tells Woody I want to sue the Charlotte Police Department.  Woody Connette So we went ahead and just filed our lawsuit in Federal Court.  Matt Kielty Woody takes it to trial and basically his argument is that the police-  Woody Connette They had used excessive force that was totally unnecessary under the circumstances.  Matt Kielty Like they roughed up a diabetic who is telling them that he was a diabetic. And eventually the judge presiding over the case ruled that no-  Woody Connette No.  Matt Kielty ... these officers did not use excessive force. And if you are going to claim that they did-  Woody Connette We had to show that the police officers had acted maliciously for the purpose of causing harm.  Jad Abumrad Huh. So they they had to prove that the officers actually meant to hurt him?  Matt Kielty Yeah. That Woody and Dethorne had to prove that the officers had it out for Dethorne.  Woody Connette And we simply could not do that.  Matt Kielty Yeah that seems like a really hard thing to prove.  Woody Connette It is an almost impossible standard to meet.  Matt Kielty And I think it is important to zoom in on this for for a second because this is really kind of like the crux of the story. Um if the question is what should the standard be for holding a cop accountable for their use of force then in the mid '80s um malicious intent was sort of the prevailing standard. If you are going to claim that a police officer used excessive force against you then the standard was that you had to prove that the officer did so with malice in their heart.  Jad Abumrad Why was that the standard?  Matt Kielty This is kinda hard to explain.  Woody Connette I do not have the Fourteenth Amendment in front of me but it essentially says-  Matt Kielty All you really need to know is that it was connected to the Fourteenth Amendment to a particular clause in the Fourteenth Amendment. And this is why Woody and Dethorne lost that case.  Jad Abumrad Okay. All right So loses at Federal Court-  Matt Kielty Loses at Federal makes its way up to-  Woody Connette The Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. That went nowhere. The Court of Appeals ruled against us.  Jad Abumrad Same thing?  Matt Kielty Same thing. But then not long after that ruling Woody gets a phone call.  Gerald Beaver Radio can you hear me?  Matt Kielty From this guy.  Gerald Beaver Yup.  Woody Connette Gerry Beaver.  Matt Kielty A known Civil Rights lawyer in the area.  Gerald Beaver In Fayetteville North Carolina.  Woody Connette Gerald was older and wiser than me.  Gerald Beaver That is your wording not mine.   Matt Kielty Gerry had caught wind of the circuit decision and was just like-  Gerald Beaver Oh no no no no no no no. You should not have to require that the police officer had it in for you and just wanted to beat the crap out of you just cause it made him feel better. So I call Woody and said Are you guys planning on taking this case to the Supreme Court?  Matt Kielty And Woody was like-  Woody Connette No.  Matt Kielty My client cannot really afford that.  Gerald Beaver And I said tell him he does not have to worry about that. We will be glad to take it on pro bono and see if we can get this ruling overturned.  Matt Kielty When he heard that Woody said-  Woody Connette Sure let us go.  Matt Kielty So Gerry and Woody get together and they start looking around like like what is out there? What cases can we draw on to argue that there should be a different standard and this just so happened this was the mid '80s and there was this swell of police use of force cases kind of bubbling up in the courts and you had lawyers trying out all these different ideas. Now most of the courts were using the Fourteenth Amendment malicious intent standard that Gerry and Woody did not like.  Woody Connette But then there was also in the number of cases the Eighth Amendment.  Matt Kielty What is the Eighth?  Justice Prior Cruel and unusual punishment.  Matt Kielty Hey justice prior.  Woody Connette The Eighth is cruel and unusual punishment.  Matt Kielty Problem there-  Justice Prior Which does not totally explain itself...  Matt Kielty What is cruel? What is unusual? Like take the word cruel. Cruel seems to imply-  Woody Connette They had intent.  Matt Kielty That you are trying to hurt somebody which means if you are gonna prove anything you still have to crawl inside somebody's head.  Jad Abumrad Right.  Matt Kielty But there was this other amendment that some of the courts were using that Woody and Gerry looked to as their sort of like redeemer.  Woody Connette The Fourth Amendment.  Gerald Beaver The Fourth Amendment.  Matt Kielty The Fourth Amendment. Which is...  Gerald Beaver Well which is the government cannot subject citizens to unreasonable search and seizure.  Matt Kielty I have it on my legal pad. The Fourth Amendment is the right of the people to be secure in their persons houses papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated.  Jad Abumrad And is seizure just another uh word for force? Like I have the right not to be like beaten or shot by my government?  Matt Kielty Yeah yeah it is it is not just that but yes it it also includes that. And to Gerry and Woody what they like so much about the Fourth Amendment is that in there is this one important word. Un-  Gerald Beaver Reasonable.  Woody Connette Reasonable.  Matt Kielty Reasonable.  Gerald Beaver The concept of reasonableness what is reasonable and what is not reasonable.  Matt Kielty In law reasonable is is supposed to be objective.  Gerald Beaver You look at the case from the facts of the case.  Matt Kielty You look at the who what where when. Not the why.  Gerald Beaver Correct.  Matt Kielty Then you ask was this person's behavior reasonable or not?  Gerald Beaver They have to act with objective reasonableness.  Jad Abumrad Wait a second. I mean reasonableness is a slippery thing. What you find reasonable and what I find reasonable-  Matt Kielty Could very well be different?  Jad Abumrad Could be completely different.  Matt Kielty Yes and no. It it can feel slippery. But legally-  Gerald Beaver The whole concept of reasonableness had hundreds of years of precedent.  Matt Kielty I mean I I find this very fascinating and I do not know if you want me to give you like a little bit of a a backstory?  Jad Abumrad Well uh do you want t- to give me a little bit of backstory?  Matt Kielty I do not know. I think it is kinda it is it is interesting how it came to be and how popular it is.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. C- take me o- take me on the ride.  Matt Kielty Okay. All right. So uh we go back to like the 1830s.  Jad Abumrad Uh is that Andrew Jackson era? Now he is 18-  Matt Kielty No no no. Actually we are over in Europe.  Jad Abumrad Oh okay.  Matt Kielty Uh we are we are in Belgium. Uh this is going to be like a little windy but I think it kind of makes sense. So in the 1830s this guy Adolphe Quetelet. Adolphe Quetelet is a mathematician he is an astronomer. If you want to picture something he had hollow cheeks these big sideburns. Uh looked a little bit like um David Strathairn... the the guy from the Edward Moreau movie the Jason Bourne movies. If you have if that helps you at all.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Yeah totally. It is great.  Matt Kielty Anyhow uh he was a super smart guy and in the 1830s the Belgian government wanted to set up an observatory but astronomers had this issue um that they had trouble pinpointing the location of stars because their telescopes were just uh so bad. But Quetelet was one of these astronomers who knew you could use uh st- statistics to figure these things out. You could take an average of all the different measurements and average of the meteorological data and that can help you pinpoint where stars were actually going to be in the sky-  Jad Abumrad Really?  Matt Kielty ... so that they can make predictions.  Jad Abumrad Interesting I did not know that.  Matt Kielty Yeah this s- statistical average thing was like revolutionizing astronomy. And so what happened is Quetelet became fascinated by this idea of averages. And what he did is he he kind of took that idea like took it down from from the heavens from the sky and started applying it to humans. So he began combing through data in medical journals trying to determine the average height of a person and the average weight um the circumference of somebody's chest.  Jad Abumrad Was he trying to like come up with the sort of proto-man kind of thing?  Matt Kielty Yeah totally. And it would have a huge impact on public health. But he ends up actually going beyond this and it is beyond just like physical traits and he starts to like push into man's morality and he is looking at uh crime rates suicide rates marriage rates. And in the 1830s he starts uh laying out this concept what is uh in French uh l'homme moyen which translates into the average man.  Jad Abumrad The average man. So he so this is like big data 1830s style.  Matt Kielty Yeah. And and this idea of l'homme moyen the average man it became uh very useful in law English law.  Jad Abumrad Really? How exactly?  Matt Kielty Let me explain. In Victorian England there was much to do about people who wanted to sue for damages or left in bandages. There was a need for constant averages a way to take measuring stock to see if a person had straight from the flock. This surely seemed like the best way to determine if the accused had to pay.  Jad Abumrad Uh what are you doing?  Matt Kielty Oh uh that is stanza one.  Jad Abumrad   Matt Kielty All right. On to two. English judges they decreed here's how we will fill this need. Put a man on the stand have him raise his right hand. Let us say he stacks some hay in a terribly negligent way much more like a funeral pyre caught his neighbor's home totally on fire. But he says the days are hot and long that he did nothing wrong. So Gerry I ask of you what is it that we shall do? How about think of ordinary folk your average typical reasonable bloke. And then juror take a look at the accused at hand and ask yourself this one question. Did he behave like your ordinary average reasonable man?  Jad Abumrad Wow.   Matt Kielty What?  What?  Jad Abumrad I did not even know you had that in you Kielty. Wait so okay. So you are saying that judges and juries began to use these averages as a way to sort of like figure out like if you are suing somebody else that this somebody else did they act out of the ordinary? Were they unreasonable?  Matt Kielty Yeah and it was just a few years after Quetelet and this whole average man thing that English law started developing this idea this standard known initially as the Reasonable Man Standard. Um eventually switches to Person uh to be a little bit more gender inclusive.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Matt Kielty But uh this reasonable person it is one of the longest established fictional characters that exists in what is known as like the legal village where you have these other little characters.  Jad Abumrad   Matt Kielty Like it starts with the reasonable person and then you start you get like a slew of these other these other characters that come out of that which is uh I have a little list. There is the ordinary prudent man of business. Uh the officious bystander.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Matt Kielty There is the fair minded and informed observer. There is the reasonable juror. There is the reasonable parent. There is the reasonable landlord. There is a reasonable neurosurgeon. A reasonable civil engineer.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Matt Kielty There is also a reasonable hairdresser.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Matt Kielty It is it is sort of like it is like in any sort of cr- uh uh trade or craft um where there is business being done or you have the ability within your craft to harm somebody. Legally it became very useful to have an average archetypal person doing that craft so that the jury or the judge um would have something to use as a measurement when rendering judgment.  Jad Abumrad That is interesting. So like in the hairdresser example whatever it was that led to that phrase probably was a Queteletan survey at least an imagined one of hairdresser behavior.  Matt Kielty Yeah. Like like maybe you went in to get a haircut and you walked out and half your ears gone-  Jad Abumrad Right.  Matt Kielty ... and you are just like where did half my ear ago? And then it is just you go to court and you are like any reasonable hairdresser would not have made that cut.  Jad Abumrad Right. That is so interesting. So it starts with this astronomer and ends up with this village of reasonableness.  Kelly Prime Can I chime in with a funny thing about the village thing?  Matt Kielty Please.  Jad Abumrad This is producer Kelly Prime.  Kelly Prime So like in English law um like Matt said there is like this village of people. But in England at the time they had this idea that it that it was not like a village i- it was people on a bus.  Jad Abumrad   Kelly Prime It was called The man on the Clapham omnibus. Which is uh roughly I looked up London bus route 88.  Jad Abumrad Wait so this is like a bus full of regional people?  Matt Kielty   Kelly Prime Yeah yeah. So all those people are-  Matt Kielty Where are they going?  Kelly Prime I do not know they just ride all day.  Matt Kielty .  Kelly Prime All those people just waiting for their case to come up and be like Oh that is that is you hairdresser. Um and then like that concept moved and like Australia was like Okay we should use that. And so one part called it the man on the Bondi tram another part called it the man on the Burke street tram.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Kelly Prime And then Hong Kong got it. And they said it is the man on the uh Shang Shang Ki Wan tram.  Jad Abumrad W- so the bus is just a convenient vessel to hold all these reasonable people?  Kelly Prime Yeah yeah yeah. So um England said all these people are on a bus because you did not want someone who is like like so lowly that they are like they are not riding the bus. They are like holed up in a cave somewhere or someone that is like high up on their castle. It is like-  Jad Abumrad It is like the common man.  Kelly Prime Yeah exactly. So it said um it was described as reasonably educated intelligent but nondescript.  Matt Kielty And I think like what what Woody and Gerry to bring it all the way back were essentially t- trying to do is to say we need to use the Fourth Amendment and this idea of unreasonable search and seizure to create a reasonable officer.  Jad Abumrad Oh. So we need to add a reasonable officer to the village.  Matt Kielty Right.  Jad Abumrad Or the bus.  Matt Kielty So...  William  Really the case is submitted.  Matt Kielty In 1989 almost five years after everything happened to Dethorne Graham that one day in Charlotte-  William  We will hear argument next to number 876571.  Matt Kielty ... his case went before the Supreme Court.  William  Dethorne Graham versus M.S. Connor.  Matt Kielty Now Dethorne was not there for the arguments. Woody was there-  Woody Connette As a spectator to watch.  Matt Kielty Gerry was actually arguing the case. Did you have butterflies?  Gerald Beaver Of course.  William  You may proceed whenever you are ready.  Gerald Beaver Mr. Chief Justice may I please the court?  Matt Kielty And pretty quickly these arguments-  William  You do not know it-  Gerald Beaver It is the beginning of-  William  ... completely unreasonable unless you know what the subjective intent of the officers are.  Matt Kielty ... turned into like this word soup.  Justice Some objective standard.  Matt Kielty Where you got Gerry-  Gerald Beaver Objective-  Officers Lawyer Whatever.  Gerald Beaver ... jurisprudence.  Matt Kielty The lawyer for the officers.  Officers Lawyer Subjective.  Matt Kielty The justices.  William  The objective subjective dichotomy but just saying-  Matt Kielty All getting super meta about what constitutes objectivity-  William  Objectively unreasonable I-  Matt Kielty ... subjectivity-  Officers Lawyer Subjective factor have-  Matt Kielty ... analysis tests and standards-  William  Severe objective tests and the objective analysis of-  Matt Kielty ... bad intent no intent.  Officers Lawyer Subjective intent.  Gerald Beaver I think we are playing with words there.  Matt Kielty Until-  Thurgood  Well-  Matt Kielty One justice uh Thurgood Marshall the lone African American on the court comes in and just asks-  Thurgood  What reason was there for handcuffing the diabetic in a coma?  Officers Lawyer At the time the officers did not know that he was a uh diabetic in a coma. The uh-  Thurgood  What was he doing that was so violent that he had to be handcuffed?  Officers Lawyer You have to go back one step even before that. Officer Connor saw a petitioner act a very suspicious and unusual manner-  Thurgood  Violent?  Officers Lawyer ...hurry in to the convenience store. Well it was not clear. He saw him hurry into a convenience store and hurry out.  Thurgood  But what did he do that was violent?  Officers Lawyer Excuse me?  Thurgood  What did he do that was violent?  Officers Lawyer Mr. Berry's-  Thurgood  He had not threatened anybody.  Officers Lawyer Testimony as petitioner's own witness said that uh petitioner was throwing his hands around that Barry had asked for officer Connor's help catching-  Thurgood  What was he doing I am talking about before they put handcuffs on him. What was he doing before they tried to put the handcuffs on him?  Officers Lawyer He was acting in a very bizarre manner. He ran out-  Thurgood  I-  Officers Lawyer ... of the car circled around it twice and then sat down. The district court.  Thurgood  Was that threatening anybody? Did he strike anybody?  Officers Lawyer Well the officers did not have to wait until-  Thurgood  Did he did he strike anybody?  Officers Lawyer I do not believe the record indicates that he struck anybody.  Thurgood  Did he threaten to strike anybody?  Officers Lawyer He was acting in an-  Thurgood  Did he correct-  Officers Lawyer ... in an unpredictable and potentially dangerous manner.  Thurgood  Did he can you answer did he threaten to strike anybody?  Officers Lawyer He did not overtly threaten to strike anyone.  Thurgood  Did he have a weapon of any kind?  Officers Lawyer Uh the record does not indicate I do not believe.  Thurgood  He the record did not show he had a weapon of any kind?  Officers Lawyer That is correct but the record-  Thurgood  Why was he handcuffed?  Officers Lawyer The record shows that he was properly stopped as a suspect for a criminal investigation that he was acting suspiciously that he was acting in a bizarre manner and did even after he was handcuffed and the officers wanted to put him in the car the undisputed record shows that he was vigorously fighting and kicking.  Thurgood  Well should not a diabetic object to being arrested rather than given treatment?  Officers Lawyer He was not arrested he was never arrested.  Thurgood  Why was he handcuffed?  Officers Lawyer He was handcuffed because the officers were concerned that he was a criminal suspect. He was acting in a very unusual and erratic way. He was throwing his hands around and do the district court stated from the record that he was handcuffed in part to protect himself as well as the officers and-  Thurgood  In order to protect himself?  Officers Lawyer That is the the uh district court summarized the record uh as indicating that that is correct. Now-  Thurgood  May I differ?  Officers Lawyer May you differ?  Thurgood  A different conclusion.  Officers Lawyer Um...  Gerald Beaver When Justice Marshall said that suddenly I heard a judge who understood our point of view. Somebody gets it and all of a sudden I felt like I was not an idiot after all.  Matt Kielty The court eventually puts out their opinion. It is written by the Chief Justice William Rehnquist. And in that opinion Rehnquist says uh skipping down here a little bit um claims that law enforcement officials have used excessive force in the course of an arrest investigatory stop or other quote-un-quote seizure of a free citizen are most properly characterized as invoking the protections of the Fourth Amendment which guarantees citizens the right to be secure in their persons against unreasonable seizures and must be judged by reference to the Fourth Amendment's reasonableness standard.  Jad Abumrad So they get their reasonable officer standard?  Matt Kielty They get it and they get it unanimously.  Gerald Beaver Denying nothing opinion.  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Woody Connette It was a breakthrough.  Matt Kielty I do not think it would be a stretch to say uh that at the time to a lot of people who were concerned about police brutality uh police using force it felt like this was the beginning of a new era.  Woody Connette That favored plaintiffs and claimants.  Matt Kielty Because now if you were a victim of police violence and you wanted some justice you had this new universal standard.  Gerald Beaver An objective standard.  Woody Connette We no longer had to show that the officers acted maliciously or sadistically.  Matt Kielty You do not have to get inside the officer's head. You do not have to prove they have bad intent. You just look at the case.  Gerald Beaver From the facts of the case.  Matt Kielty And you say would a reasonable officer do the same thing or not? And you could establish like what a reasonable officer is what they would do by uh calling experts looking at data about age and rank and experience all sorts of things. But the thought was that this would be objective. For the first time in hundreds of years maybe they would have an objective standard.  Woody Connette That was a breakthrough.  Matt Kielty So w- after winning did the case get kicked back down to the circuit like what happens to Dethorne?  Woody Connette Um after we won in the Supreme Court the case went back to the trial court level for another trial.  Matt Kielty Okay.  Woody Connette That was the effect of it. And so Mr. Graham had another day in court another trial. We picked another jury.  Matt Kielty The facts were presented.  Woody Connette A bad insulin reaction bottle of orange juice pulled him over.  Matt Kielty Unconscious.  Woody Connette Handcuffed.  Matt Kielty Physical altercation.  Woody Connette Broken foot.  Matt Kielty Lacerations wrists bruised forehead.  Woody Connette Squad car front yard.  Matt Kielty Essentially he was the guy who did nothing wrong and was beaten up.  Woody Connette The case was given to the jury.  Matt Kielty And the jury was told okay knowing what you now know take this standard this reasonableness standard and ask yourself is what happened to Dethorne Graham reasonable? The jury deliberated came back out.  Woody Connette And they decided in favor of the police officers. Mr. Graham lost.  Matt Kielty Now whether you think this is reasonable or not the jury really focused in on the police officer's perspective. And from the officer's perspective all they saw was a black man running in and out of convenience store. They thought he might be stealing something. They had no idea he was a diabetic and when the police picked him up-  Woody Connette He was a little bit out of control.  Matt Kielty ... he is acting weird. He is running around the car-  Woody Connette Creating trouble.  Matt Kielty Not because he is a diabetic.  Woody Connette But he is a drunk.  Matt Kielty Might be dangerous. A reasonable officer would subdue that person.  Dethorne G Jr. Excuse me I am so sorry.  Matt Kielty Oh did did that doorbell ring?  Dethorne G Jr. There goes the dogs again.  Matt Kielty Oh the dogs.   Matt Kielty So when I talked to Dethorne Graham Jr. he was actually moving from his home in St Louis.  Dethorne G Jr. Hey Brian I am just gonna open the garage up for this guy.  Matt Kielty Back to where he still had a lot of family in Charlotte.  Dethorne G Jr. Okay. I am I am back hopefully-  Matt Kielty All right cool.  Dethorne G Jr. ... we are we are okay now.  Matt Kielty Um I I was just wondering did your dad talk about the about what happened that day or did he talk about the court case at all?  Dethorne G Jr. No he did not. It was not something that he talked about.  Matt Kielty Dethorne Jr. says that his dad was just kind of trying to get on with his life.  Dethorne G Jr. He he started making furniture in his spare time.  Matt Kielty Going to church a lot.  Dethorne G Jr. But he had his he had his troubles. He had uh he ended up having uh uh substance abuse issues. So uh and which fortunately he a- he was able to overcome that. And-  Matt Kielty That was after the Supreme Court case? After the-  Dethorne G Jr. That is correct. That is correct.  Dethorne G Jr. And so I I mean I do not know if his his way of trying to deal with that was through substance abuse. I do not know. You know uh you know y- when you are dehumanized like that when when another individual whether they it is you know it is it is it is kinda hard to explain that. But when when someone who has authority just it is it is it is like it is they it is like they take something away from you. When someone does something like that to you it strikes at your core. It strikes at your very being. And I think you lose a part of yourself that you cannot get back.  Matt Kielty Dethorne Graham Sr. died in the year 2000. He was 54 years old. But after his death his name lived on in this case in this very weird way. So 2014.  News Reporter Rumors growing outrage tonight after an unarmed African American teenager was shot and killed by police in the St. Louis suburb of Ferguson Missouri.  Matt Kielty Not far from where Dethorne Jr. lives a white officer Darren Wilson shot and killed a black teenager Michael Brown.  Dethorne G Jr. A reporter from CNN contacted me. And uh he talked about how uh they were going to use my dad's case during that trial.  Matt Kielty As a defense for the officer.  Dethorne G Jr. The CNN reporter informed me said-  Matt Kielty Do you know about this?  Dethorne G Jr. No I I had no idea.  Gerald Beaver The grand jury deliberated over two days making their final decision.  Matt Kielty One of the questions posed to the jury was did officer Darren Wilson act reasonably when he shot Michael Brown?  Gerald Beaver They determined that no probable cause exists to file any charge against Officer Wilson and returned a no true bill on each of the five indictments.  Matt Kielty And the jury was basically like yeah that was reasonable.  News Speaker I swear they think this a fucking joke.  News Speaker They killed her baby man.  News Speaker They will not hear back and Ferguson and I cannot get nobody back.  News Speaker We are going to get justice. We are going to get justice.  Matt Kielty Later that same year-  News Reporter The 12 year old boy shot and killed by two officers while holding a pellet gun.  Matt Kielty ... Tamir Rice.  Juror We were instructed to ask what a reasonable police officer would do in this particular situation.  Matt Kielty The jury found that the officer who shot and killed the 12 year old boy Tamir Rice acted reasonably and then...  Crowd   Matt Kielty Eric Garner.  News Reporter A grand jury in New York city has refused to indict yet another white police officer said to have killed an unarmed black man.  Matt Kielty His death was reasonable. John Crawford-  News Reporter 22 year old black man killed last month-  Matt Kielty ... reasonable.  News Reporter Carrying around a BB gun.  News Reporter After a judge declared a mistrial today-  Matt Kielty Samuel DuBose-  News Reporter In the case of a white police officer who killed an unarmed black man-  Matt Kielty ... reasonable.  News Reporter With Sterling on his back.  Matt Kielty Alton Sterling-  News Reporter One officer pulls his gun.  Matt Kielty ... reasonable.  News Reporter Sterling laid dying on the streets.  Matt Kielty Terence Crutcher-  News Reporter An unarmed black man-  Matt Kielty ... reasonable.  News Reporter ... shot and killed by police in Oklahoma. Charlotte Police have-  Matt Kielty Keith Lamont Scott Jamar Clark-  News Speaker This city kill my son.  Matt Kielty Philando Castile reasonable.  News Speaker Are you kidding me right now? We are not evolving as a civilization. We are devolving. We are going back down to 1969. Damn!  Matt Kielty And in almost every one of those cases Graham versus Connor the Supreme Court decision that many people felt was supposed to establish a new universal standard that would deliver justice for victims of police violence in almost every one of those cases it ended up doing the exact opposite. It prevented the victims from getting relief and instead protected the cops.  Kelly Prime One person my my colleague who covers cops describes it as like cops cops see it as like their First Amendment.  Jad Abumrad After the break we will ask how did that happen? And we will watch it happen. More Perfect will continue in a moment. Radiolab will continue in a moment.  Christopher This is Christopher calling from South Florida. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Advertisement Want more from your podcast app? Graduate to Pocket Casts your free one stop shop for podcast listening search and discovery. The beautifully designed app gives you more control and makes it easier to discover an organized podcast with powerful tools to customize listening. Hear all your favorite shows at pocketcasts.com or find us in the Apple App or Google Play stores.  Jad Abumrad This is More Perfect. I am Jad Abumrad. We are featuring More Perfect on Radiolab today. Uh and let me just say a few words for context. Police officers have dangerous jobs. I think we can all agree. And on occasion they do have to use force and we should say that the majority of the people who are killed by police every year are white.  Jad Abumrad But if you look at the number of black people who are killed and you balance that against the fact that black people only make up about 12 of the overall population what you end up with is that an unarmed black man is roughly about seven times more likely to be uh killed by police than an unarmed white man. That is according to one study.  Jad Abumrad Now these numbers are very disputed and argued about but what is clear is most police officers who use deadly force are never charged. And e- even smaller percentage serve jail time. So Matt.  Matt Kielty Yes.  Jad Abumrad Matt Kielty. Let me just ask you like all the cases we heard about before the break that litany of cases from the past few years in every single one of those the jury was asked did this officer behave like a reasonable officer should. And in every single one the jury said yes?  Matt Kielty Yeah yeah.  Jad Abumrad Why?  Matt Kielty Well that is because uh the reasonable officer standard like from from the moment that it was created uh it was actually kind of it was constrained in a few very important ways. And uh-  Kelly Prime Yeah. And actually like um I have here the the jury instructions from the Ninth Circuit and this is what jury members are are told to think about when they have to assess this kind of use of force case.  Matt Kielty Oh sweet you want to just read those?  Kelly Prime Yeah yeah yeah. And so-  Matt Kielty This is what the jury the jurors are actually told this is your job?  Kelly Prime Yeah exactly.  Matt Kielty Just to back ID primetime Kelly Prime.  Kelly Prime Yeah.  Jad Abumrad   Kelly Prime So it says Under the Fourth Amendment a police officer may use only such force as is objectively reasonable. Uh you must judge the reasonableness of a particular use of force from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene and not with 2020 vision of hindsight.  Matt Kielty Those those are um a couple really crucial phrases which is perspective of uh an officer on the scene. So you have to look at it through the eyes of the officer on the scene and then you cannot look at it through the 2020 vision of hindsight. So you have to put yourself in the shoes of an officer in the moment and look at the world through their eyes. And and that is how you have to understand these things.  Kelly Prime Right.  Jad Abumrad And where did that where does where did that idea come from?  Matt Kielty So that comes from Graham like that comes from uh the Chief Justice uh William Rehnquist's uh opinion which I have right here. The reasonableness of a particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene rather than with the 2020 vision of hindsight. And it is calculus must embody an allowance for the fact and this is extremely important that police officers are often forced to make split second decisions about the amount of force necessary in a particular situation.  Matt Kielty And so as you can see this this idea of reasonableness is circumscribed very tightly by time. It is not asking like what a reasonable officer would do here in in general during a moment where um where they have to use force. Instead what it is asking is what would a reasonable officer do in this split second in this little tiniest sliver of time where where the force actually occurred. And in fact that moment legally has come to be known um as a superseding event.  Jad Abumrad Meaning what? What does that mean?  Matt Kielty Um meaning it this is I find this kind of crazy uh meaning that that that moment that superseding event it it essentially it breaks the chain of causation. So if if you think of time as just this like continuous flow this is like no you break that you stop that and you take this one little moment and you pluck it out and you are like this moment this is the one moment that you look at.  Jad Abumrad That is all that they can think about? The jurors.  Matt Kielty Right. And it turns out if you ask a jury the question about use of force that way about this one little moment the Graham standard that many people thought um and hoped would would help victims of police violence does the exact opposite.  Kelly McEvers One person my my colleague who covers cops describes it as like cops cops see it as like their First Amendment.  Matt Kielty They just think of it like as a shield?  Kelly McEvers Yeah.  Matt Kielty Okay. So this is NPR reporter-  Kelly McEvers Kelly McEvers um host of Embedded podcast and All Things Considered.  Matt Kielty So Kelly's actually uh she is covered police shootings for the past like year for NPR. And we have sorta been comparing notes with her as we have been producing our story. And a little while back uh she sent us an email basically saying that she had this opportunity to go and see something that most people do not get to see to sort of see how cops are actually trained to understand Graham. And so she asked us do you want in? And we were like yeah.  Jim Glennon Let us go!  Kelly McEvers Okay. So I went to Cleveland.  Jim Glennon All right all you hungover cops let us get this shit started.  Kelly McEvers For this two day training course called street survival.  Matt Kielty It was in a hotel ballroom.  Kelly McEvers One of those hotel ballrooms where you have like a big conference. And-  Matt Kielty How many people do you remember?  Kelly McEvers Um there was somewhere just under 200. Um cops. Lots of really jacked dudes with tats.  Matt Kielty Mostly white.  Kelly McEvers There were some sergeants some lieutenants.  Matt Kielty Rookies right out of the Academy some mid career guys.  Kelly McEvers From all over Ohio Pennsylvania. And they were not super happy about me being there.  Jad Abumrad Did you get like angry stares?  Kelly McEvers I mean in the beginning there is just like a lot of side eye.  Jim Glennon Nice nice. Good morning Cleveland. How is everybody doing?  Crowd Good. Good.  Jim Glennon How many of you have been to a Calibre Press seminar before? Please show hands. Let us do it this way. Who is never been here before? Never been to a Calibre Press class. Oh wow. Good good deal.  Matt Kielty Kelly said the whole thing was put on by this company-  Kelly McEvers Called Calibre Press. It is a company that is actually been around for a really long time and they teach classes.  Matt Kielty Classes that are aimed at police departments. Uh they offer 'em all across the country. In this particular one-  Jim Glennon Oh we are going to talk a lot about stress survival instincts.  Kelly McEvers The general idea is how to survive and like make it to retirement.  Jim Glennon I mentioned heart attacks emotional health suicide.  Kelly McEvers You know how to basically do this job and-  Jim Glennon It is really about 247 survival.  Kelly McEvers ... and live.  Jim Glennon Living and lasting a 25 30 year career.  Kelly McEvers They talk a lot about self care.  Jim Glennon And what do you eat?  Kelly McEvers About sleep and exercise.  Jim Glennon My my wife and I talked about this if if I start getting crabby or is there something else there?  Kelly McEvers Making sure that your spouse and your family like understand the stresses of your job and they talk about going to therapy. I mean it is like-  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Kelly McEvers ... there is times when it is this really touchy feely kind of thing.  Officer I just started getting overwhelmed. I did not know what was happening with me.  Kelly McEvers There was even a moment she says when an officer got up uh talked about contemplating suicide.  Officer My wife kept on telling me I needed to get help. I started secluding myself. I started alienating myself fucking hating everybody.  Kelly McEvers Everyone was like crying. So I mean it is a really intense couple of days.  Matt Kielty But for our purposes the reason we were there or the reason we were excited for Kelly to be there is that a big chunk of the class-  Jim Glennon All right let us talk about the-  Matt Kielty ... is devoted to Graham.  Jim Glennon ... about Graham versus Connor and the us actually using force.  Matt Kielty About teaching these cops how to understand Graham and and how it impacts their lives. Um and by the way this is the instructor the like Graham instructor his name is Jim Glennon.  Kelly McEvers He himself was a cop for years and years and years.  Jim Glennon I was in charge of Houston force for 18 years-  Kelly McEvers Was a lieutenant outside of Chicago.  Jim Glennon And I tell you we talked about Graham versus Connor and our our use of force uh policies on a regular basis. I do not mean I got up four times a year and just read. What I would do is show a video and then let us talk about Graham versus Connor based on this video.  Matt Kielty So... fired up the projector.  Jim Glennon Come on.  Kelly McEvers It is really interesting to see these videos from their perspective.  Jim Glennon Like this one.  News Reporter Video of a Fresno police-  Kelly McEvers September 2015 a guy named Freddy Centeno.  News Reporter 40 year old Freddy Centeno.  Kelly McEvers He is gone to a woman's house like to a woman's front door and threatened her and says he has a gun and the cops pull up-  Matt Kielty Get out of their car. They are just like 20 feet away from Centeno who is walking towards them on the sidewalk.  Fresno  Hey Fresno PD.  Fresno  Get on the ground.  Fresno  Get on the ground.  Fresno  Get on the ground.  Kelly McEvers 10 shots seven of them hit.  Jim Glennon The seat was with 47 brand long. That translated to about 1.566 seconds.  Kelly McEvers Jim's claims it happens in 1.566 seconds.  News Reporter 40 year old mentally disabled man is hit seven times and dies in the hospital 23 days later.  Matt Kielty And in one of these news clips that Jim shows the lawyer for Freddy Centeno's family is basically just like-  Lawyer This is a a you know a bad shooting. It is it is an atrocity.  Matt Kielty Like this was an atrocity. Nothing about this use of force should be considered reasonable because the cops in this situation they rolled right up on Freddie Centeno. They did not create any space they did not give Freddy Centeno any time.  Lawyer They tell him Get on the ground. He did not have a chance to get on the ground. One second before he began to fire.  News Reporter In Gisar's view the video shows the officers did not give Centeno a chance to respond to their commands.  Matt Kielty So Jim plays all these reaction clips.  Kelly McEvers And then...  Jim Glennon Here's what happens. It is real quick.  Matt Kielty He plays the original body cam video again.  Fresno  Hey Fresno PD.  Matt Kielty You see Freddie Centeno-  Kelly McEvers They tell him to get on the ground. He does not.  Matt Kielty ... and then Jim slows the video down.  Fresno  Get on the ground.  Matt Kielty And when he does you can see Centeno's right hand.  Kelly McEvers Reaches into his pocket.  Fresno  Get on the ground.  Matt Kielty Jim pauses and he is like Take a look at this right here.  Jim Glennon This.  Matt Kielty And up on the screen Jim has this frozen moment where you can see that Freddy Centeno's hand has started to move.  Jim Glennon The movement of the hand a couple of inches.  Matt Kielty Just starting to come up out of his pocket.  Kelly McEvers This moment from the pocket to the out of the pocket.  Matt Kielty This to Jim was the moment.  Jim Glennon The moment. Remember that word.  Matt Kielty Jim's like this is the only moment that matters. Like forget what happened before. Forget that the officer's rolled right up on Centeno. Forget that they were not giving a much time or space. It is this moment right here when Centeno starts pulling his hand out of his pocket. This is the moment where you ask the question what would a reasonable officer do right now?  Jim Glennon This man appears to be pulling out an object from his pocket. I cannot tell what it is and you probably cannot even without ou- outside information.  Kelly McEvers Turns out he had a a nozzle from a garden hose.  Jim Glennon What was the call?  However you see this whether he started moving up or down he does not go to the ground. He goes into his pocket and pulls something out. They think it is a gun. Any reasonable person would think it is a gun.  Matt Kielty And so-  Jim Glennon Does this work under Graham? Yeah. It it it is sad. Yeah but yes.  Kelly McEvers Yes.  Jim Glennon Under Graham it is fine. I believe.  Kelly McEvers For him he is just like over and over and over stresses what would a reasonable police officer do?  Jim Glennon At the moment you use force-  Kelly McEvers In that moment.  Jim Glennon ... what did you know? Not what you could have known not what you should have known. What did you know what was going on? Look what it says up there.  Kelly McEvers He talks about Rehnquist and the decision. He is like what Rehnquist said is-  Jim Glennon Allowance must be made for the fact that police officers are often forced to make split second judgments in circumstances that are tense uncertain rapidly evolving about the amount of force that is necessary in a particular situation.  Kelly McEvers This is fast. It is dynamic. It is nothing like television. There is no five cameras on it. There is no change in the music. There is no upswell in the music. It is fast and the court recognizes that.  Jim Glennon This is a Albuquerque case.  Matt Kielty Jim plays another example. Uh this one of a guy-  Albuquerque  Drop the gun!  Matt Kielty A white guy a police officers shot because they thought he had a gun.  Jim Glennon Guy did not have a gun.  Matt Kielty Got a knife but the cops had gotten a call that he had a gun and in this split second he raised his arm like he was raising a gun up. And so the cop shot him.  Jim Glennon Does this work under Graham? Yeah.  Matt Kielty Another one.  Jim Glennon I talked to this officer. He uh gets a call to a uh domestic.  Matt Kielty Showed another video of a police officers shooting an unarmed white man in the head. And again he walked through it beat by beat.  Jim Glennon With Graham you gotta put yourself in that officer's position right?  Matt Kielty Said you gotta look at just the superseding moment forget everything else. And what you realize if you do that if you force someone say a jury to look at just that one moment forgetting everything else just look at this one slice through the eyes of an officer. Then the whole concept of what is reasonable shifts. And the only real question you can ask when the moment is so confined is did the officer feel threatened? Like was the fear that that officer had a reasonable fear in that moment? And that is a very different standard than what Woody and Gerry and Dethorne Graham had intended.  Kelly McEvers Um yeah so...  Matt Kielty Kelly actually told us uh a story that she recorded for her podcast Embedded that actually gets at some of this stuff.  Kelly McEvers In this particular case-  Matt Kielty Who who was Jonathan Ferrell and what happened?  Kelly McEvers Jonathan Ferrell um was a football player. He is from Florida.  Matt Kielty Is he a big dude?  Kelly McEvers Yes.  Matt Kielty Okay.  Kelly McEvers He looks like a football player.  Matt Kielty So this was September of 2013. Jonathan Ferrell is living in Charlotte North Carolina. He is a black man 24 years old.  Kelly McEvers And...  Matt Kielty One night-  Kelly McEvers It was a Friday night he goes out with some friends goes out to a bar.  Matt Kielty He has a couple drinks makes his way home.  Kelly McEvers You know we do not exactly know what happened.  Matt Kielty But while Jonathan Ferrell was making his way back home at some point-  Kelly McEvers His car was-  Matt Kielty ... he lost control of uh his car crashed into the woods off this road in suburban Charlotte.  Kelly McEvers He did not have his phone-  Matt Kielty But he is in like this little suburban neighborhood. So he gets out of his car.  Kelly McEvers Goes up to the house of this woman is knocking on her door.  Matt Kielty The woman inside she is a white woman new mom.  Kelly McEvers She comes to the door thinking it is her husband who works nights. So she just comes to the door and she is like about to let him in and then she is like whoa wait a second who is this person?  Matt Kielty Apparently she opens the doors sees Jonathan Ferrell and quickly closes it.  911 Dispatcher 9-1-1 Hello?  Kelly McEvers So she calls 9-1-1.  Woman I need help.  911 Dispatcher What is going on there?  Woman There is a guy breaking in my front door.  911 Dispatcher There is a guy breaking in your front door?  Woman Yeah he is trying to kick it down.  Matt Kielty The woman tells the dispatcher that she does not know who the guy is.  911 Dispatcher You said he is a black male?  Woman Yes.  911 Dispatcher Okay.   Kelly McEvers Her alarm system's going off.  911 Dispatcher All right. Okay. I am right here.  Kelly McEvers And you can hear Jonathan Ferrell screaming Turn off the alarm. Turn off the alarm in the background. And you can hear him in the 911 tape. You can like hear him banging on the door.  911 Dispatcher Where is he at now?  Woman He is still there yelling. Oh my God.  911 Dispatcher Do you have your baby with you?  Woman No he is in bed. I do not know what to do.  911 Dispatcher It is okay I am right here. Police are on their way okay?  Matt Kielty Now we do not know why Jonathan Ferrell was banging on the door but very possible very likely it was just because he wrecked his car and needed some help. So three officers get called to the scene.  Kelly McEvers Thinking that they are going to the scene of a breaking and entering.  Matt Kielty There is a dash cam video from the squad card when the officers.  Kelly McEvers They have gotten a description. It is an African American man with a green shirt and light pants.  Matt Kielty So this officer is driving down this road driving driving driving and until finally-  Kelly McEvers You see an African American man with a green shirt and light pants walking on the side of the road.  Matt Kielty He is walking towards the squad cars.  Kelly McEvers You see the red light of a taser on his chest. And then-  Randall Kerrick Get on the ground.  Matt Kielty Ferrell just like takes off. One of the officers is yelling at him to get on the ground.  Randall Kerrick Get on the ground.  Matt Kielty But Ferrell keeps running.  Kelly McEvers Runs off camera.  Randall Kerrick Get on the ground.  Matt Kielty Cannot see what happens next but then... One of the officer's fires 12 shots 10 of them strike Jonathan Ferrell he falls to the ground.  Randall Kerrick  Shots fired. Shots fired. Do not move. Do not move.  Kelly McEvers And he dies.  Matt Kielty The facts of this case are that here's a guy who was unarmed who did nothing wrong and then he was killed like plain and simple. If you if you ask was that reasonable? Well on some basic level no it was not reasonable. This man should not have died. But in the trial this case did go to a trial a jury trial the jury was instructed forget everything but that moment of force. Like no 2020 hindsight look at just the superseding moment and then ask the question again. Was it reasonable for the officer to pull the trigger i.e. was it reasonable for that officer to be afraid?  Matt Kielty And the officer who shot and killed Jonathan Ferrell who was facing charges his name was Randall Kerrick he was being tried for voluntary manslaughter.  Randall Kerrick The suspect began aggressively coming towards me.  Matt Kielty And during the course of this trial officer Kerrick took the stand.  Lawyer And could you tell the jury about what pace he was coming at you?  Randall Kerrick At first it was a pretty rapid pace more more of a a fast walk. I gave loud verbal commands for him to stop and get on the ground.  Lawyer How loud were your verbal commands?  Randall Kerrick Very loud.  Lawyer Tell us show the jury how loud you are yelling to the suspect and what you were yelling to the suspect.  Randall Kerrick Get on the ground. Get on the ground. Get on the ground.  Kelly McEvers So he says he was running at him and this is a huge question. Was he running at him or was he running away from him?  Matt Kielty Like trying to run past him by him.  Kelly McEvers Yeah like if you sort of diagram the whole thing out the way the cop cars were parked the way Kerrick was standing it is possible that Jonathan Ferrell was trying to just sort of run between them all.  Matt Kielty That is what the prosecution was saying. The defense was like no no no no. He was running at the cops.  Lawyer Did the suspect say anything to you?  Randall Kerrick No sir.  Lawyer What did you interpret his body language to mean?  Randall Kerrick He was going to attack me. He was going to assault me. He was gonna take my gun from me.  Lawyer Did you have time to holster your weapon?  Randall Kerrick No sir. And here I was s- suspect matched the description and he just ran through a taser which at the time I thought was had had worked. I thought the taser had struck and made contact and I had absolutely no idea if he had a weapon on him or not.  Lawyer And was he ever st- was the suspect ever still?  Randall Kerrick No sir.  Lawyer Did he continue to advance on you?  Randall Kerrick Yes sir. No matter what I did he would not stop. I was not sure how many rounds I had fired. None of them affected him in any w- any way. I did not think my gun was working. I thought I was going to die cause nothing I would do would stop him.  Lawyer What was the reason that you continued to fire your weapon?  Randall Kerrick Because he would not stop. He kept trying to get to my gun.  Matt Kielty To boil it down the question was was it reasonable for Officer Kerrick to feel afraid? And after 11 days of testimony the question was put to the jury.  Bruce Raffe There were six opinions one way there were six another.  Kelly McEvers When they first go into the jury room it was six to six.  Matt Kielty On one side-  Kelly McEvers ... a white guy named Bruce Raffe.  Bruce Raffe We were sitting in that courtroom and we were sitting in that that jury deliberation room was no bigger than this living room. Okay. And it is hot. We are arguing where it is it is it is going nowhere. And so the more it went on this went on for days.  Kelly McEvers And he is sort of the leading the charge on the we have to acquit Kerrick side.  Matt Kielty He felt that Officer Kerrick had every right to be afraid and he told Kelly that Jonathan Ferrell the guy who Kerrick shot-  Kelly McEvers So what Bruce Raffe's saying to me like you know he was a young man-  Bruce Raffe Distraught disheveled confused angry if if you will.  Kelly McEvers ... he made a very aggressive move.  Bruce Raffe ... towards these police officers after disobeying commands. You have many choices in this video. And it was clear from the very first time I viewed it. Stop sit down put your hands up do any of those things other than what you chose to do which was to charge the Officer Kerrick. And so th- there is no other way around what I saw an- and I kept coming back to that.  Kelly McEvers And this is exactly how the defense painted it right? This case is not about race. This case is about choices. And that stuck in Bruce Raffe's mind so that when he was asked was it reasonable for Kerrick to shoot him? It is like well yeah cause Jonathan Ferrell made all these bad choices.  Moses Wilson This is an old trick from from from uh defense attorneys.  Matt Kielty This is another one of the jurors that Kelly spoke to.  Kelly McEvers Named Moses Wilson.  Matt Kielty An African American man.  Moses Wilson He was not supposed to be here. He might have had a few drinks where he was. The police responded to what he caused. This was early in the morning. This was far from where he lived. This was this this was that which caused me at the end to write on the board just what did he do to deserve to be shot so many times? I it is no-  Kelly McEvers In the jury room?  Moses Wilson In the jury room. I wrote this on the board. What did he do?  Matt Kielty Well so what happens with the jury?  Kelly McEvers It splits.  Matt Kielty I mentioned the tally is eight to acquit four to convict.  Kelly McEvers Eight jurors most of them wight side with acquitting Kerrick. And four jurors most of them people of color-  Matt Kielty ... side with convicting Kerrick.  News Reporter Breaking news. In the trial of officer Randall Kerrick the judge has just declared a mistrial. This after the-  Matt Kielty In 2015 the city of Charlotte settled a lawsuit with Jonathan Ferrell's family for 2.25 million. Later that same year Officer Kerrick resigned from the Charlotte Police Department. The city paid out 179989.59. The money was for back pay Kerrick's Social Security and retirement and an attorney that represented him in a separate civil suit.  Kelly McEvers Yeah.  Matt Kielty There is something interesting about listening to Moses talk.  Moses Wilson Just what did he do to deserve to be shot so many times?  Matt Kielty Because I do not it feels like this um Fourth Amendment reasonableness standard this reasonable officer standard. Like what from what I understand is is that it was an attempt to really kind of look at these situations these shootings-  Kelly McEvers Mm-hmm .  Matt Kielty ... these uses of force cases through this sort of objective lens where you are just looking at all the facts-  Kelly McEvers Right.  Matt Kielty ... on the ground.  Kelly McEvers Uh-huh .  Matt Kielty Um and yet the cases do not seem to be tied to like any sort of objectivity.  Kelly McEvers Yeah.  Matt Kielty And there is something about l- hearing Moses where you are like oh that is actually like that feels like a pure sort of objectivity. Like what what did what had this guy done? He had not actually done anything.  Kelly McEvers Yeah.  Matt Kielty He ran at somebody maybe.  Kelly McEvers Uh-huh .  Matt Kielty But that was it.  Kelly McEvers And like this is the thing like if you are white are you more likely to say yes that was reasonable because he is white and he was afraid of a black man?  Matt Kielty Right.  Kelly McEvers Like that is the question.  Matt Kielty I do not know given the history of our country I would say in many cases that is not even a question. Right? But I guess the question I am actually left with is if this is where the reasonableness standard has led us is there another standard?  Woody Connette I think that is right.  Matt Kielty This is Woody Connette again. He represented Dethorne Graham in that original case.  Woody Connette Um when you see it applied you wonder whether or not this is the best standard or there might be something better. I just do not have an answer to that.  Elie Mystal I I... I would I would suggest a whole more radical standard then.  Jad Abumrad This is Elie Mystal More Perfect's legal editor. Uh we ended up talking with him about this uh shortly after the Philando Castile verdict came out. So he was uh well that was a tough pill for him and many people to swallow.  Elie Mystal I would suggest that they have to be the cops have to be right in fact which is something we usually do not apply to the law.  Jad Abumrad What does that mean? Like i- from a in a in the scenario of a police person wh- who is does that mean like I need to be right-  Elie Mystal So if you-  Jad Abumrad ... that you do not have a toy gun?  Elie Mystal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Is that that is what you mean?  Elie Mystal Yeah. So if you shoot me because you think I have a gun I had best have a gun. And if I do not have a gun your ass is going to jail because you were wrong. I do not care if you really thought so. I do not care if I was telling you I had a gun. If I d- if you are not right in fact then you have to go to jail. I think that is the that would be a standard that would allow us to prosecute these police officers.  Jad Abumrad But then a police person is gonna just gonna argue that like-  Elie Mystal Sure.  Jad Abumrad ... you do not understand the pressures that I am under-  Elie Mystal Sure.  Jad Abumrad ... it is a split second decision-  Elie Mystal Sure.  Jad Abumrad ... Monday morning quarterbacking.  Elie Mystal Sure.  Jad Abumrad If you do what you just said we are not going to be able to do our jobs.  Elie Mystal And I would say f- you police officer I am sick of you. I would say screw you. You have had your chance you have had your chance to police my community without murdering us and you have failed for 300 years. Enough. That is what I would say to that. More people might get hurt if I was not I am willing to risk that. I am willing to try it that way then.  Jad Abumrad Gotcha.  Elie Mystal I am I would rather I would rather 10 illegal shoplifting people go free than one illegal shoplifting person gets shot in the street like an animal.  Jad Abumrad Gotcha.  Elie Mystal If you want to talk about changing the standards that is a standard change that could help.  Matt Kielty Now that is as Elie said radical and probably not realistic given that most Americans according to polls uh respect the police have confidence in the police perceive police to be you know the enforcers of the law. But there are other ideas out there that are starting to bubble up. And if what is constraining us if what is keeping us stuck where we are are the words of Graham then what offers us a way out could actually also be hiding in there.  Jad Abumrad What do you mean?  Matt Kielty Okay so you know how um Chief Justice Rehnquist when he wrote the decision in '89 he put in uh all these phrases that took the idea of a reasonable officer and and constrained it so-  Jad Abumrad Right right.  Matt Kielty ... uh these were like um it is constrained only to this little moment in time. It is constrained to the perspective of the officers-  Jad Abumrad Right.  Matt Kielty ... uh constrained that there is no 2020 hindsight all of that stuff. Well in the decision he also he slipped in this other phrase. Uh he was actually calling back to an earlier decision and what he wrote was um the question is whether the totality of circumstances justifies a particular sort of seizure.  Jad Abumrad The totality of circumstances.  Matt Kielty Totality of circumstances. Which you know it seems to be at odds with all of the other stuff.  Jad Abumrad Right. Which is all about like little slivers and moments and things.  Matt Kielty Yeah. It is about all these little tiny little bits of time where totality seems to be suggesting that this is like this is the whole thing.  Jad Abumrad So he had both both ideas in there at once.  Matt Kielty Yeah. Which is why right now you see the lower courts are arguing about what this phrase actually means. And so half of the circuits are saying kind of like everything that we have already talked about which is that all that totality of circumstances means is that you look at everything to answer the question was the officer scared?  Matt Kielty You look at everything that the officer would have known everything the officer would have seen perceived and then you ask okay knowing all that was it reasonable for the officer to be scared in the moment? The other half of the circuits say no no no. Totality of circumstances is not just about what the officer knew what the officers saw and how it answers the moment. Totality means like totality. Like what did the officer do leading up to the moment? Did the officer try to get a a search warrant? Did the officer tried to deescalate the situation before uh using force? Did the officer tried to subdue the person before using deadly force. Like suddenly all those things that are usually kept out of the frame maybe can be let back in.  Matt Kielty Supreme Court so far has shown no interest in ruling on this in trying to sort this out. But they might because the argument is happening in the lower courts. So in a in a way we are kind of living at a time very much like 1984 when Dethorne Graham got pulled over outside a convenience store in Charlotte waiting to see whether it matters that Dethorne Graham was not trying to steal anything that he was just a diabetic trying to get some orange juice.  Matt Kielty Did what happened to your dad affect how you thought of police? How you thought of police at being being a black man?  Dethorne G Jr. Well you know believe it or not uh it did not. Uh...  Matt Kielty Hmm. Why is that?  Dethorne G Jr. I like to base my opinions based on my own experiences. My dad I I can say this Kelly and Matt I can remember my dad telling me stories of where he grew up in Eastern North Carolina owned a tobacco farm in that small town. I can remember him telling me a story of a black man who had been accused of uh being inappropriate with a white woman and how the whites got him in broad daylight and castrated him in broad daylight.  Matt Kielty Wow.  Dethorne G Jr. And uh and and I say that in saying that although he experienced all that stuff growing up and the racism that he experienced growing up he did not teach that to us. He did not teach that to us. He taught us to love people for people. So even now myself I base my experience of a person I base my experience of the police based on my dealings with the police. And and not that I will not but I have yet to encounter a police officer who is been mean to me who is been rude to me who is mistreated me.  Matt Kielty Huh.  Dethorne G Jr. And that is the God's honest truth without a but in being completely honest when I see on the news like the kid and the 12 year old and uh that had the BB gun. Um-  Matt Kielty Oh Tamir Rice.  Dethorne G Jr. Yeah yeah. Like you know y- examples like this that that that does affect me and that does make me want-  Matt Kielty Does that make you think of your own children? Have you talked to your own kids about-  Dethorne G Jr. Of course I have got a- Of course I have got a 12 year old at home. He is got BB guns that look just like real guns.  Matt Kielty Uh-huh .  Dethorne G Jr. And you know but he he knows that hey they do not leave the house.  Matt Kielty What is your what is your 12 year olds name?  Dethorne G Jr. Uh my son's name is Tanner.  Matt Kielty Tanner.  Dethorne G Jr. Yes.  Matt Kielty And when you when you talk to Tanner about the fact that like the BB gun does not leave the house. I mean what is that conversation?  Dethorne G Jr. Like with the Tamir Rice when he was shot and killed when the news story came on I paused it and cause you know you can do that with live TV now say come here I I want you to watch this right now. Tanner is 12 years old. He is cute he is this he is that. But the fact of the matter is in a few s- few short years he would be considered a black man. Unfortunately he is going to have a a target on himself. So hey so those BB guns you got. See this is why you cannot take these out of the house. I do not want you to take these out of the house. Even if you are outside in New York playing and a police should happen to come down the road. Hey drop it drop it immediately.  Jad Abumrad This story was produced and reported by Matt Kielty with a big assist from co-producer Kelly Prime.  Compilation Whether objective reasonable behavior along with a unreasonable crime was enough. They have to know. They have to know people worse. Do you think that would be reasonable execution of the law? Objectively unreasonable. Whether objectively unreasonable behavior alone is enough? It is saying how would of a reasonable person have felt. Why does that make it an unreasonable search and seizure. Reasonableness. Because if you just burst in uh that person may reasonably think this is a burglar. One's unreasonable. That is on what would a reasonable person believe? Objective. Unreasonable behavior.  Jad Abumrad Definitely check out the other More Perfect episodes. There are many more at radiolab.orgmoreperfect or search for More Perfect wherever you get your podcasts. Definitely check it out. Spread the word. More Perfect is produced by me Jad Abumrad Suzie Lechtenberg Jenny Lawton Julia Longoria and Kelly Prime.  Kelly Prime Alex Overington and Sarah Qari with Elie Mystal Christian Farias Linda Hershman David Gable and Michelle Harris. We had production support this week from Derek Dawn and Dylan Keefe. Thanks to Kelly McEvers and Tom Dreisbach from NPR's Embedded Ben Montgomery at the Tampa Bay Times Frank Aycock Leonard Feldman Cynthia Lee and Joshua Rosenkranz. Supreme Court audio is from Oyez a free law project in collaboration with the Legal Information Institute at Cornell. Leadership support for More Perfect is provided by the Joyce Foundation. Additional funding is provided by the Charles Evans Hughes Memorial Foundation.  Compilation ... an unreasonable search and seizure. Do you think that would be reasonable?  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 