 A quick note before we start. This episode contains graphic language and descriptions of sexual situations may not be suitable for all listeners.     Im Jad Abumrad this is Radiolab. And this is the third and final part of our series In The No about sex and consent. We started a couple weeks ago with some excerpts from a podcast called The Heart produced by Kaitlin Prest. And then last week had a long at times difficult conversation with education consultant Hanna Stotland. Heard a bit from some college-aged men in that episode. Today ...   Yes can I take off my shoes?   Yes. If anyone wants to take off their shoes get comfortable.   Were gonna start with some college-age women.   If you need to stretch you can like be like Hey its been too long. Like we can do yoga. No.   Because what we ended up doing sort of midway through the process was gathering together a whole bunch of different groups of men and women -- college-aged men and women -- in three different cities. And just asking them general questions about how they were thinking about this stuff.   Are you excited? No.   I ended up interviewing the men so Ill turn this part over to Becca Bressler and Shima Oliaee who were with the women.   Okay so Im just gonna like dive right in.   Yeah so the average group that we talked to was maybe a dozen women. We tried to make it as diverse as possible.   You saw it? You saw it coming? Why did you--how did you see it coming?   And the first thing that really struck us I think Shima tell me if you agree is that there was sort of a disconnect. Like on the one hand it seemed like affirmative consent for almost everyone we talked to seemed like second nature.   Yeah so I actually teach like a workshop on consent for high schoolers.   Some of them were even teaching classes on it.   Yeah PHE. Yeah okay so you know. too yeah. So like a clear and concise yes at every step of sexual activity. I think thats like amazing that were teaching kids that now. And like I do feel like its my generations problem to change it and change the narrative about it.   So a lot of them were really committed to actually changing the way consent looks the way that these sexual experiences go and how theyre navigated.   But then when we would you know focus in on what they were actually experiencing in their lives what we saw was much different.   My friend and I ended up at a bar and like the bartender was really cute and we were like flirting. And he like -- I dont want to give any identifying information but we were just like vibing and I like hooked up with him. And then like immediately after I started hooking up with him I was like Oh this is not what I want. But like at that point its kind of like saying no would be like much more of an uncomfortable situation than just like going through with this and like understanding that I already regret it kind of.   I dont know why I didnt leave but eventually I was just like Okay fine. Like whatever. Because they would just be like Please. Like come on please! Like you know youre turned on a little bit. Like and I would be like Fine whatever. Like let us -- fine lets fuck.   I think he was going down on me and like had asked me if I wanted to have sex and I said no. And eventually like I just like kind of wanted to be like over with like the entire interaction. And I was just uncomfortable. And then I was like Okay like lets have sex. Just because I thought that like that was the easier way to like make him happy make -- like get done with it and then like it be over.   We just heard a lot of stories of people having sex that they didnt want to have you know where maybe affirmative consent was in effect. They did say yes. But it was either because the guy wore them down or they were way too concerned with how he was feeling.   Like it would make him feel really really bad. I know that like if he would have known that I felt that way he wouldnt have gone through with it. And like I just didnt want to like hurt his feelings and be like -- and make him feel like he like took advantage of me or whatever when I knew that there would be no possible way that he would know that I was feeling that way.   Some women told us that they say yes sometimes when they dont want to because theyre scared.   Part of the fear in saying a hard No is that that hard No can then be violated and thats like -- that is like a terrifying thought. Like to say like a hard No like thats more traumatizing to me like in my head almost than having like a soft No just sort of like slid past.   Its like having fear of future trauma.   Wait say it again?   Its like having a fear of future trauma.   I take that to mean if your aim is to stay in control and you feel like you might be out of control then the best way to still be in control is to convince yourself that you are cool with whats going on.   Wow.   I walked away feeling like many of the young women felt frustrated both with their world but also with themselves.   Yeah afterwards I would feel like very disappointed in myself because I would feel like I had compromised my own needs for other people.   That they would walk away from a situation and they would have regretted how it went. They maybe didnt actually want to do it but didnt stick up for themselves.   And then I -- and then you fight like a battle with yourself because its like wait a minute like Im like strong. Like I know I can like just stop it or like why -- but its so hard like in that moment to find like -- I dont know like the words just to say it you know? Because then sometimes youre just like yeah it is just easier just to be like -- let it -- like just like let him finish thats it.   Like it was clear for most of these women that in the moment of these encounters there was some conversation that needed to happen that was not happening.   But then there actually was this one young woman that we spoke to ...   Some people -- I think a lot of people talk about consent as if it is like awkward and weird and like ...   She just said ...   Consent has really become popularized and is really well-advocated for by the BDSM community.   BDSM is an abbreviation. So it abbreviates bondage discipline or domination sadism and masochism.   Because you constantly have to make sure that somebodys okay and be like is this rope too tight?   She told us -- I mean the BDSM community has this figured out. And then she started talking about her own experience. So were sort of like Hmm. What does that mean that the BDSM community has figured that out?     Hello?   You got a buzz there?   Oh yeah. Its like the B-52 bomber buzz.     Oh that sounds better.   All right.   Okay hi!   Yay. Hi.   We did it.   We did it!   Dont you feel like we are -- I always feel like after these technical snafus theres like a bonding that happens. I feel bonded to you guys.   I feel it.     Well its actually a statistically true thing that people suffering together feel bonded to one another.   Well there you go. Who are you by the way? What do you do?   My name is Julie Fennell. Im an associate professor of sociology at Gallaudet University and I have been studying the BDSM community since about 2012.   We called up Julie because she is one of the I think its safe to say leading academics when it comes to the BDSM community and all of its subcultures. She has written papers she has done surveys and she has done it from the inside.   A lot of kinksters like me pretty much feel like we were sort of born this way. And its really common to talk to a lot of kinky people who will tell you the same thing. Like I was five and fantasizing about tying up peoples genitalia.   Wow!   Whoa!     Its deep stuff right? I didnt know what genitals were.   Anyhow. One of the things that we heard from Julie -- and we subsequently heard this also from a lot of academics that we talked to after her -- is that the whole consent conversation in many ways grew out of BDSM.   A lot of people will trace like the history of BDSM in the United States to the Leatherman community.     This is World War II era by the way.   These gay men would hang out in -- in biker clubs at bars. They would socialize. They were a really tight-knit brotherhood.   Over the decades the brotherhood grew into this much bigger community. And then it really exploded in the '80s but theres a problem.   At the time no one had ever really formally distinguished between BDSM -- a practice between willing participants and violence.   BDSM I think had to make the case to the vanilla community to the non-kink community that they were not insane that people were not getting off on hurting people that it was about roles and role-playing and power.   This is Joe Fischel. Hes an associate professor of womens gender and sexuality studies at Yale.   Consent was a slogan to convince non-kink people that what they were doing was not violent or a crime.   The full slogan they came up with -- and this was in the '80s -- was Safe sane and consensual. And it really stuck.   To this day you can find it on tee shirts at any -- at any BDSM community event or play party.   Parties that are organized at formal spaces. Theyre called dungeons right?   So getting back to Julie we asked her Okay if it is true as that one woman said that the BDSM community -- if it is true that they have figured something out about how to do it better well what is it? And she told us a couple of things. First drinking.   To my way of thinking thats incredibly risky.   Very frowned upon in the BDSM world.   In the BDSM scene in my mind thats what wed call edge play which is like kind of the things that people do where youre like Ah it seems like a bad idea. Negotiating sex when both people are really really drunk with somebody that youve never met before qualifies as really really risky.   And speaking of that negotiation another thing that was an interesting contrast between the quote vanilla world and BDSM is that when two people are negotiating theyre trying to figure out if theyre gonna get down in BDSM that conversation is formalized and its often public.   Generally speaking most of whats happening is out in the open.   These days you have people called consent monitors that sometimes roam around these parties.   Its also not uncommon to be standing there negotiating with someone where your friend or their friend is right next to them.   The idea is that that kind of social monitoring makes things safer. Anyhow I asked her to zoom in on a specific consent conversation. How does it usually go?   People with different experience levels are better and worse at this typically. Like lets say I was going to play with you right? Like youre telling me you have never done anything like this before right?   Yeah zero.   Zero. So I like to knife-top which is a way of describing the fact that I like to do things with knives onto people.   Actually cutting of people or -- or threatening of cut -- or no?   No. This is just dragging knives along people and sort of threatening with them.   Got it.   Like playing with knives. And in truth the thing that I do to make it more interesting is I like to cut peoples clothes off of them.   Okay.   Like I teach a whole class on how to cut peoples clothes off of them with knives.   Are they -- are they like serrated?   Uh they can be. So some of them have rough edges and some of them dont. And thats actually one of the questions that I would ask you. So I would ask you if you -- you maybe would be more interested in sort of a poking type sensation or more of a scraping type sensation based on just hearing that.   All right. Im going to go with dragging.   I would select my knives accordingly at that point. Because I have separate knives for these purposes.   Okay.   And then I would -- if I was gonna cut your clothes off for example I would ask you -- I would let you know that theres -- Im pretty good at what I do but theres no way that I can guarantee that I wont cut something that you dont want me to. So if possible it would be great if you could take off the thing that you wouldnt want me to cut right? Like a necklace or your socks or whatever.   Okay.   And I also like warn people going into it like I am pretty experienced at this but I definitely have accidentally have cut people before so you know I just need to let you know that this is not a 100 percent guarantee. If thats something that you absolutely cannot tolerate then -- then we probably cant go forward with this. Or if you say Well I mean Im fine with it as long as it isnt on my arms because I dont want to show up for work. Then I say Great. Like well I will just restrict what I do to not your arms.   She says sometimes shell even get a pen and make a tiny little dot on all of the places the person says are off limits just so she can be super-duper sure shes respecting their wishes.   There are actual classes on it.   Hello everyone.   Most well-organized BDSM scenes in the country ...   You guys are allowed to talk here believe me. I know we have mics around.   ... have weekly or at least monthly classes.   And we actually went to one.   How many people here have taken any of my events before? Raise of hands. There we go. So everyone else is new.   It was in Manhattan a small studio space. About 15 people were there. And the instructor a guy named Dominus Eros was sort of at the front of the room in a leather kilt with these two leather straps across his chest.   Now is everyone here familiar with consent? Please?  All right good. Does everyone know the difference between consent and enthusiastic consent?   One guy in the back raised his hand.   Thats sort of a new thing thats sort of coming up in a lot of clubs. If theres a moment of hesitation in that persons brain you should automatically be picking that up and be like Do you actually want to do this thing with me? And generally within the first 10 seconds someone can tell if they want to have sex with you. Youre not gonna convince someone otherwise. Youre not going to be like Im going to wear them down. The wearing-down technique it pisses me off. At a party nobody owes you anything. Everyone on board so far?   A lot of nods.   Good.   And then he sort of demonstrated how all of this works in action. First ...   Look at the table.   He took everyone over to this table showed them the toys different kinds of whips floggers a little stick with a feather on the end.   Let me grab what is going to be my little tool to play around with.   He grabbed one of the floggers. And then he and a woman named Bella who was in black lingerie they walk over to this giant cross-looking thing in the corner of the room. She then leans against it.   Good. So I currently have Bella with her arms spread on the St. Andrew's cross. Her legs need to be a little bit wider. Bella is not that tall. Now weve already had our talk. Hey whats cool? I just met you. Am I allowed to put my hand on your ass your shoulders your skin? Do you want to keep your clothes as is or do you want to sort of slowly undress as we play? Get all your things because you dont know where theyre at. They could totally just want to be like this. Bella has told me she does not want to take any more clothes off. Correct Bella? Bella also doesnt like a huge amount of pain. So then we go with that. You feeling alright? Looks like your shoulder's a little funky. You want to warm them up. You dont go to the gym and do your heaviest set right away correct? Youre going to sort of warm up the muscles. I do light touching light hitting.   He starts slowly whipping her shoulders.   Get some nice movement down here.  Im sort of just observing. Waiting for their body to sort of tell me some notes. When I do impact their bodys going to tell me something. If I go a little heavy theres a little bit of a turtling in. So the hips crawl in. If the ass comes right back out right away thats saying Daddy hit me again right? If this stays turtled in Ive went a little hard. I can come in and stay and again your talking can be sexy. Is that a little too much for you baby? Does daddy need to go lighter?   Yes please Daddy.   Keep it sexy. You dont have to say Hey was that too hard? You can totally keep in very sexy and see how it goes. Staying engaged is very important. If youre in a space thats loud you cant fucking hear anything so I cant hear if shes moaning or if shes like ow you know? So I want to be able to get my ears in close see how they do. Then I create this sort of cadence  play around a little bit more  and then from there Im combining between using impact play and sense play. Well go a little more in-depth once you guys start playing around a little bit. And Ill go around the room because I want to get to the workshop aspect ...   Dominus spent the next hour sort of moving around the room helping people as they paired off with their whips and their floggers learn how to better read each other. And for a moment it felt like oh we should all be doing this. I mean maybe not using whips and having sex in public unless thats you thing. But finding ways to help each other be explicit and communicative and to have a code for what words mean. When we talked to college-age men and women a lot of them were like We need a script. We need something written down. Because one of the things thats been found in surveys is that theres very little agreed-upon language. For example a phrase like slow down. When surveyed many college-aged women will tell you that means stop. Many men will say no it just means go slower. Well in the BDSM world they seem to have sorted some of this out.   So like I was at a play party and it said on the thing house rules say yellow means you should check in or pause red means stop. And if somebody says safe word that means that youre calling for help from one of the people thats around.   It all seemed so clear. And sensible. And dare I say uncomplicated. But Julie was like Yeah no.   Not really.   When we come back Julie rains on the parade that we were throwing her.     Hey Im Jad. Were back. Third installment of In The No. And Julie was about to tell us -- Julie Fennell -- that even in the BDSM world with its very clear rules and safe words like red and yellow things to wrong.   The actual real problem with that yellow-red situation is that in public people almost never end up using red. Like theres -- one of the huge problems that the BDSM subculture basically has is that theres massive  massive social repercussions to calling red in a public place basically.   And as we talked about this more it started to sound a lot like what we heard from the college-aged women. That saying no even you know when its buttressed by all of these rules and norms can still be really hard. Theres a cost.   One of the worst situations that I ever personally found myself in was I was tied up and suspended and -- so all of my feet are off the ground. And Im having a great time. I had negotiated ahead of time that there was to be nothing genital happening. I was very clear about that. I was like nope this is -- this is not a thing.   Then she says the person who she was playing with who tied her up decided to try some genital stuff.   And I was really caught in that moment because we are in a very public place. I could yell red but in that place yelling red means the whole scene has to stop. And I didnt want the scene to stop. I liked being tied up and Im also cognizant of the fact that this guy is my friend. I really like him. And I dont want him to get in a ton of trouble. But if I yell red really loudly in this public place theres a pretty decent chance hes gonna get banned from the event. And a pretty decent chance hes gonna get banned from a lot of events.   What did you do?   I kicked him in the face. And he stopped.   'ecause I was going to say youre tied up. Thats very -- the whole point is youre in a compromised situation.   I am in a compromised situation but it turns out it puts my feet a lot closer to his face.     Even though she navigated that one fine in the end she says generally speaking the BDSM community is in terms of the consent negotiation not a utopia. In fact what she experienced in that moment was for a long time not uncommon.   So I should explain that the scene actually got its own Me Too movement about three months before the Me Too movement hit. Like it didnt have that hashtag but exactly the same thing happened where a bunch of high-status people got outed as consent violators in the scene.   These are a bunch of dudes or ...?   Yeah theyre all men. Theres definitely a lot of consent violations that happen with women but people dont pay attention to it. And I have a whole other rant about that. But people who got a lot of attention on them were men and pretty much that everyone they had hurt was women.   And thats part of the reason that Julie is in the end a little suspicious of all of the rules that we were just enamored of. Or I should say shes a little suspicious of placing too much faith in those rules.   Its not -- its not foolproof right? Like so I mean I definitely know people who they dont want to tell you anymore that theyre not having fun. So theres a real sense of like I dont want to disappoint this other person. So one of the things that I also will ask in these types of negotiate -- my version of negotiations is like Do you feel reasonably certain that you will be able to tell me if you dont like whats happening?   The more I thought about that question like after wed done the interview I was sort of noodling on that. It occurred to me like what -- thats a key question. Can you say no when you need to? Some of us just are people pleasers. I am one of those people. It hurts to say no if you know its gonna bum someone out. Others have no problem with that. So she asks Which kind of person are you right now? It is situational. Who are you at this moment? If they say Yeah right now Im not good with the no's then she goes one direction. If they say No no I can tell you.   Then Im like All right. Can we both agree that we are adults?   That we dont have to get into all the stuff we dont want to have happen.   And that we will take responsibility for actually communicating how were feeling in this situation. And if we fail to communicate that that we will also take responsibility for that. So are you okay with kind of whatever and youre gonna tell me if youre not? And the other person goes Yes. Thats how I want that to go. At that point our conversation changes from what am I not allowed to do to what do you find hot?   One of the things we kept running into again and again was this sentiment that was maybe best captured by a guy that Becca and Shima spoke to.   Im Michael Lisack. Im the director of Empowering Victims and Im one of the people who came up with the concept for the We Consent app.   That app was actually the one that a guy last episode sort of jokingly referred to.   Hello would you be -- like can I record you on my cell phone of you saying youre down to make out right now?   Turns out its actually a real app that this guy made.   Theres no really good -- the problem is that weve got a meme. And the meme is already well-established and the meme is consent. Unfortunately that meme frames the entire question the wrong way. Consent means that youre giving someone permission to do something to you. We dont do sex to someone else. We have sex with someone else.   Are you saying that thats the like dictionary definition of consent? Its interesting because Im curious if this is just like a semantic issue.   The dictionary definition of consent is giving someone permission to do something to you or on your behalf.   Yeah I just looked it up and youre so right. Compliance or approval of what is done or proposed by another.   Its the wrong word.   And Joe Fischel the academic that we heard from earlier ...   It doesnt capture ...   ... agrees.   ... what I think is probably the biggest problem for young people and for sex on college campuses which is all of the sex is consensual but unhappy and unpleasant and unwanted and people -- typically women -- endure. The core issue may not be non-consent and it may not be sex discrimination. It might be the fact that men are leveraging their positions of power to extract sex from women that dont want to be there. And I think its hard to target that problem if you call it non-consent.     It was a second date. I went home with him and I wasnt really sure if I wanted to sleep with him and I was kind of going through the motions. And at one point he pulled away because he could tell I was like not entirely there. And he was like Do you want to have sex? And I kind of said like Uh. Like I didnt even say yes or no and he just stopped entirely. And we just like -- and that was it. And I remember being like -- like relieved first and like really surprised. Because he read my body -- like second date like read my body language respected me and like didnt push.   I was at a bar a couple weeks ago and I was with this girl and you know she was -- we were both you know -- we are both pretty drunk and she was like you know Hey you want to go back to my place? And I was like Yeah I cant do that. Like Im drunk youre drunk. Like ... She was like Youre right. And just kind of like moved on. And we continued like dancing and it was fine. We had a fine night. And then like I woke up the next morning and she had texted me and was like Hey thank you so much for like not taking advantage of me. Like that means a lot. I was like that was really easy.   Ive been lucky in the regard that like if Im uncomfortable having sex with like my partner like like right when Im about to be like I cant. Like I dont want to do this right now he always catches like my eye and is like -- like hell stop immediately and like -- you know Ive had like my own sex trauma stuff and he like -- Im gonna cry. But like he will stop. Its so nice to have a partner that can like read your body language and be like This doesnt feel like -- feel right. Are you okay?   This episode was reported by Becca Bressler and Shima Oliaee and produced by Bethel Habte. Very special thanks to Kaitlin Prest and the team she worked with at The Heart to produce that series that inspired this whole thing for us. To all the men and women who shared their stories with us. Thanks to Jimena Priato Roy Volchek Samantha Shahee Lainey Goodwill Don Black Margo Weiss Dominus Eros and Pagan's Paradise.   I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.   To play the message press 2. Start of message.   Hi this is Julie Fennell. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria-Matasar Padilla is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Katz Laszlo and Mo Asebiomo. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.   End of message.  