ADVERTISEMENT  INTRO   Hey Im Jad Abumrad. This is More Perfect a mini-series about the Supreme Court. To begin And by the way I will explain the title of this podcast at the end. We live in a democracy with three branches in it Youve got the Executive branch the Legislative branch and the Judicial branch. Now that third branch the judicial the courts consists of a hundred-ish federal courts. And on top of those courts is THE COURT...this temple of 9 -- now 8 -- unelected life-time appointees who seem to have this tremendous power   ALMOST TYRANNICAL POWER   They are wickedly important and were reminded of this   Scalias death throws a hunge unknown factor into this campaign   Every time we turn on the TV.   We are one justice away from losing our fundamental rights in this country   Because here we are in this election and the phrase that you hear a lot   One of the most important things in that election I think   This might be the most important thing to those of you who are young Ill say today   Is that one of the most important things the next president is gonna do   This next president may very well appoint   Between one and three   Four Supreme Court justices.   Now never mind that most Americans dont know who the justices are two thirds cant even name a single justice   I cant even name the one that just died   I honestly couldnt tell you any of their names   No I cant even tell you any--   I dont either  The only name of a judge I know is Judge Judy   Doesnt matter. We all know that whoever they are theyre incredibly powerful people  MUSIC IN   That they can boom instantly strike down a law that took years to pass  CLIP  The Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates   They can undo Executive orders they can even change like these long-held definitions like what is a person what makes a marriage They can even decide an election   Justice Scalia  CLIP  My usual response is get over it.   Get over the possible corrupting of the American Presidential system?  CLIP     Now with all the background chatter in the election its sort of interesting to think about the fact that when it comes to the court and their power it didnt have to be this way.   It didnt have to be this way   And it wasnt for a long time   And it wasnt for a long time   Yeah   Reporter Kelsey Padgett will take it from here   I mean if you go back in time say like early 1800s the court had so little power. In fact they were   Meeting in the basement of congress   Thats Linda Monk constitutional scholar   one newspaper refers to it later as a dark dank potato hole.   Potato hole  Like it was damp or something   I mean DC at this time was like a swamp so I imagine there were spiders in there and they said there werent very many windows   Well   Maybe it wasnt that bad but still   We think of three separate branches. Its kind of hard to think of yourself as a separate branch when you are meeting in the basement of a congress.   Not only that...   When congress actually sets up the first supreme court they created originally a Supreme Court of six justices   Thats Yale law professor Akhil Redamar   An even number. How odd. Today were freaked out oh the court could be divided four-four whats going to happen?   The Supreme Court is not designed to function with an even number of justices   You know were were in a crisis.   So should cable news be creating their constitutional crisis graphics   But originally the first congress they created six members because theyre not  imagining the court as deciding everything.   In other words like you know if the court is split...who cares? Because at the time they werent deciding big cases. They werent deciding like affirmative action Roe v. Wade nothing like that. They were handling like these little tiny rinky dink cases. And most of their time was spent literally riding in carriages from town to town   trying cases around the country and thats a big hassle.  They dont even get to sleep in their own beds   Wait why are they riding around?   Well so they actually each had a separate geographical zone that theyre in charge of. So thats actually still true today.  But unlike today where people come to the Supreme Court. Back then  People werent coming THEM! Why would I do that!?   Thats Elie Elie Mystal our legal editor.   Why would I go seek out these guys someplace else to hear my local issue in South Carolina? If they have something to say about it they can come to South Carolina sit on my farm and talk to me.  Gotta think about the country in 1800 in 1804. This is a states rights states centric country.   All of which is to say that being a Supreme Court Justice at that time    Its not a great gig   Its a rough. Consequently the people who chose to do this   Well  CIRCUS MUSIC   Theyre kind of misfits   Uh yeah totally! Who are like really smart but like a motley crew that isnt organized.   Thats Ari Savitsky.  Hes a lawyer constitutional history enthusiast. He says at the time on the court you had this guy nickname Red Old Bacon face...   Who is like a maniac  MUSIC WILD THING!   Hes like the kind of like the Charlie Sheen wild thing in Major League type character   Very hot tempered had a foul mouth   Theres another one that is you know four foot nine and really silent.  The Supreme Court was a pretty rag tag bunch.   All of this happens and I think its important for people to understand all of this happens in part because the constitution is embarrassingly silent on what the Supreme Court is what it should do how it should be constituted.  Article 3 says Article 3 of our United States Constitution says there shall be a Supreme Court.  PAUSE   Thanks guys.      Its true I mean its kinda weird. Like if you read the constitution...   Boy it spends a lot of time talking about the house of representative how are you gonna count slaves.  And its gonna be a population there has to be a census every ten years. Cause the house is important.   But when it comes to the Supreme Court all you get is like a couple of sentences   Almost nothing at all   And you know thats kinda the puzzle of this. Like how did they get so powerful? I mean they started out as these nobodies in a basement and now theyre these all powerful you know priests of the Constitution   The Supreme Court of the United States. 9 men   And women   High in government who sit in judgement on many of the great questions before our nation.   So how did that happen?  MUSIC POST   Especially when theres like arguably nothing in the constitution to said that that SHOULD happen.   All right so how did that happen?   Well  MUSIC OUT   You could trace so much of this back to one move...by one man.   John Marshall!  John Marshall   John Marshall   The new chief justice   He arrives to the court in 1801   Marshall like calls his first meeting of the court  and one person shows up.    What do you mean the other--   Eh out of town got something better to do like they just dont show up   Actually it was three people but still   Wait before we go too deep Can you just like--   What did he look like?   oh they all look the same to me      He didnt mean that.   He was tall. He was gaunt.   He had a square jaw   Very jowely.   Piercing eyes   Marshall was a smart cookie   And he would need to be because he ends up getting in this very famous fight with his very famous second cousin that would change the course of the American history like forever.   Who is his very famous second cousin?   Well just a little old man named Thomas Jefferson   Oh. TJ   Now John Marshall and Thomas Jefferson really really really dont like each other. Whew.  MUSIC   I mean on a personal level. You think Hamilton and Jefferson is something on Broadway. Actually it was Marshall and Jefferson who really despised each other.  And yet they both come from Virginia they both come from the back country.   Why all the hate?   Well I mean part of it was like this family beef.  At one point John Marshalls wifes mother rejected Thomas Jefferson romantically   What?   Yeah   Wait. His wifes mother? So his--   Yeah. His mother in law   Said no to the great Thomas Jefferson   I know   But that doesnt seem like enough of a reason   Well I mean OK so the main reason the non-gossipy reason the non-fun reason is because they were in opposite political parties...   I think the important thing to understand about Marshall is that hes a party man.  Hes a party man   Hes a party man   Like he likes to party?    hes committed to his team.  And his team are the Federalists.   The Federalists. They love big government.   lets have a national bank lets rev up national power.   The Republicans Thomas Jeffersons people they like small tiny government. Let the states have the power   You know were maybe in favor of the view that states can veto Federal law if they dont like it.   So these two guys these two cousins.   Both national figures. Totally different philosophies.  And Even before Marshal hits the court  MUSIC   Theyre going at it   they beef and they beef and they beef   Its actually a slugfest   To paraphrase Marshall youre dishonest. Jefferson youre a hack. Marshall you and your friends are poisoning America.   Its like its a food fight.   Its very difficult to stop the tendency to view the people that you disagree with as evil   CLIP  We need somebody who can take our jobs back because Were going to hell!   Its really hard we do that all the time today right? They even as much or not more than today they thought the other side was trying to destroy the America that they just created.  SFX    Anyway  MUSIC    Throughout the 1790s the Federalists are in power.  The Federalists hold all the branches of Government.   John Adams is President.  Mostly loved by his own party. Hated by Thomas Jeffersons party.   they literally call him his rotundity  KELSEY    Very offensive!   So Adams is in power...and ultimately our guy John Marshall   Marshal is secretary of state one of the highest officials in the Adams administration.   You know   a party man   And for a while things are going well for his party.  But then in 1800  MUSIC SHIFT   Thomas Jefferson and the Republicans sweep in and CRUSH  MUSIC   ...absolutely crush...the Federalists.   Like Landslide crush?   Yeah. Fleetwood Mac style   The Republicans ran the table in 1800. Theyre going to take over the House theyre going to take over the presidency.   So John Adams is like crap what do I do?   We need to save the republic!   The Federalists have basically been swept out   But in his dire moment he has this idea. Hes thinking like oh Ive lost the house Ive lost the White House.  Oh. The Supreme Court the Supreme Court. Normally nobody cares about the Supreme Court but in this moment hes thinking oh my gosh this is my last hope.   And in fact   As luck would have it a vacancy pops up   A vacant chief justice position.  So just as Justice Scalia has recently died and theres a vacancy well the sitting Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth steps down.  And Adams picks his secretary of state John Marshall to be the new chief Justice.   Tah dah   And thats how we got John Marshall   And John Adams does one other thing  MUSIC   In the waning seconds of his presidency   Adams and these repudiated Federalists jam through a whole bunch of Federal judgeships   They create scores of new judges   And they throw Federalists into almost all of those positions.   Like 40 appointments   He just throws in 40 judges at the last minute?   Congress creates 40 judges at the last minute and then he appoints 40 judges at the last minute.   Wow if I were Jefferson Id be PISSED.   Jefferson IS pissed.   Which well get to in a second but in the meantime Adams has just a few days left in his presidency hes like frantically trying to get these judges in   Nominate these people. Confirm them.  Once you confirm these people you have to give them your commision.  You cant just go around claiming youre a judge or claiming youre a whatever-- you have to have a commission. Like a piece of paper with the formal seal and the signature of the president.   And as the story goes   As the clock is striking midnight on John Adams last day   Adams and his team are in his office and theyre trying to get these papers out the door theyre frantically signing them and stamping them   I just imagine like young boys sprinting through the dead of night waving these papers over their head.   Your commission your commission! In fact I think the totally apocryphal story is that Jeffersons attorney general like busts in the door at midnight and he is like put down your pen!      Dont do it!  But apparently some of the commissions dont get delivered.  MUSIC STING    They just are left sitting on the desk   Was it like an oversight or something?  Clerical error?   its not even like a clerical -- They just ran out of time   But they thought like if a couple are left on the desk its no big deal   Because like its a signed commission from the president.  Its like still a binding document. The fact that it wasnt formally delivered? You still get your appointment.   That sets up this kind of terrible situation for Jefferson. He shows up the next day to take power   And the judiciary is filled with ghosts of presidential appointees past   Just a bastion of partisan judges   So   As you can imagine   Jefferson and his friends think that this is not fair.   Jefferson sees Marshall and all the other judges Adams appointed as Adamss spies on his administration.   So Jefferson he decides to immediately retaliate.  Because you know he won the presidency he won by a lot and hes like youre shoving all these judges down my throat?  And on top of that the guy youve named to be the head of the judges the head of the Supreme Court is my evil second cousin? What is this?    So Jefferson is running the country  MUSIC   and working with a republican congress to  MUSIC   among other things  SFX   Cancel the supreme court term for 1802    They just canceled the whole term?   They just canceled it. They were like--   What did they say? Like go home?   Yeah they were like theres no more supreme court sorry.   Imagine if that happened to day when Obamas plan for immigration gets smacked down imagine him like instead of him having that peaceful press conference where he like shows his disappointment imagine instead if he was like Supreme Court   Go to your room  CLIP   no good punks! Thats right!   Anyhow  MUSIC   Marshall is sent away for over a  year... theres no full supreme court meetings And when he comes back...and its very clear to him that the Supreme Court its on life support.  MUSIC SHIFT   That the Republicans could pull the plug at any minute.   Marshall knows already that there are rumblings that one of his colleagues a man named Chase   Old Bacon Face.  You know  HING   That guy   Should be impeached   So when he sees this   this motley crew   in dark dank potato hole  Hes like I gotta do something. Were fighting for our life here.   I was thinking about this on the on the way over and it kind of reminds me of you know those summer camp movies where theres like a baseball team and theyre like super ragtag and they cant get it together. And then like at the end they have to play the really good team with like the nice professional uniforms thats kind of like the judges on the Supreme Court. And Marshall is like either the counselor or the camper or the new kid on the block who comes to the team and says we can do this guys! We can do it!   Que 80s movie training montage  MUSIC   He knows if the US is gonna even have a court system and a Supreme Court...hes gotta beef this team up.   one of the first things Marshall does is just professionalize the judiciary.   Like for example he starts this tradition of wearing black robes.   That made them look the part.   The judges appeared in their robes of justice!   He figured that the black robes would make them look less like partisans hacks and more like  MUSIC   Theyre...floating above the fray. Beyond politics. Next  MUSIC SHIFT   He moves all the justices into the same dorm.   the same rooming house   No wives no family  all business   Hes trying to create that more perfect union in the judiciary  And just to grease the wheels a little bit  MUSIC   Have some madeira my dear!   is that some wine?   Yes its a fortified wine.   the funky cold medina!   Justice Marshal would order it in great quantities. That many scholars think was part of John Marshalls secret.   OK so hes professionalizing the team hes getting them together and then they get put to the test in 1803. Its a cousin on cousin smackdown  MUSIC IN   Thats coming up when we continue. This is More Perfect.  ADVERTISEMENT   Hey Im Jad Abumrad this is More Perfect. Back to our story from Kelsey Paget and we arrive at the pivotal moment the cousin on cousin smackdown that would change America   OK so remember how Ari told us that some of the commissions didnt get delivered?   Yeah   I think five   And that they were sitting on a desk somewhere   Mhm   And how they thought it wasnt a big deal   Because its still a binding document   Well when Jefferson comes to power apparently he finds those papers and is like oh. Look at this.      You didnt deliver these commissions. Guess you cant get those positions. Sorry.   And one of the people that lost out because their commission didnt get delivered was one Mr. William Marbury   He was a businessman. 39 years of age.   He got appointed to be justice of the peace. Its a pretty low ranking position   So hes sitting there hes waiting for his commission to show up and of course it never does.  And it--finally it dawns on him oh the Jefferson administration has it. Im going to go get it.   He files a lawsuit.  So-- and what he does actually ends up being very important he files a lawsuit directly in the Supreme Court.   Wait you can do that? You can go right to the Supreme Court? Like first?   Well at this time Congress had just passed a law saying in certain strange circumstances you can go directly to the Supreme Court.   He goes directly to the Supreme Court and he says I have a right! I have a legal right!   I want you the supreme court to order   Thomas Jefferson give me that darned piece of paper that says I am really a judge.   The case gets named Marbury v. Madison because James Madison is Jeffersons secretary of state who hes actually suing but   Hes essentially suing the President!   Forcing Marshall and the court to have this confrontation with Jefferson.  SFX   So now its the showdown between Marshalls ragtag team and Jefferson  MUSIC    So basically what happens is  LAW AND ORDER SFX   The court has a trial.  MUSIC   Marbury and his lawyers they get up there and theyre like what happened to the papers?    Where is the commission?  Did you have them? Whatd you do with them?   Jeffersons people get up there and say...I dont know what youre talking about.   I wont answer the question of what happened to them.  They stonewall.   ...to which Marburys lawyers are like seriously.   These are all like important official documents signed by the president like no one knows what happened to them? Like its kind of like--   They go back and forth   Back and forth   Things get very tense.   And you know I mean to their credit like no one gets punched out.   Eventually they stop arguing about whether or not the papers exist and they Re like this is the more important question does the Jefferson administration have to honor those papers? Do they have to give the commission to Marbury?   Are they required? Is there a legal requirement that the give it to him?   And in Marshalls head its a resounding   Hell yeah he should have gotten that commission.   Cause the law is the law.  And if you just decide youre not gonna follow the law just because you dont like the guy who made the law or you dont think its fair thats anarchy.    Thats-- I mean we talk a lot in this country we pat ourselves on the back in this country about our peaceful transition of power.   Elie Mystal again   About how we seamlessly can go from one party to the other party without bloodshed in the streets and whatever.  Yeah good for us. But how did we actually get to that point? And this is a key reason WHY weve gotten to that point because the decisions of the past administration still hold value even when that administration is kicked out of office kind of overthrown by popular vote their decisions still have sway still have legal force. Jefferson was quite obviously negating that.   So Marshall WANTS to say to Jefferson you know suck it up cousin. Give this guy his papers.   Youre an official do your job.   But he thinks twice   He understands how weak his court is.   According to Akhil Redamar Marshalls afraid that if he orders Jefferson to give over those papers Jefferson is going to straight up   Laugh in his face and say You and what army? Im not gonna do it.   Literally they just got back from a congressionally mandated you cant come to work time   Jefferson knows full well that he has no intention of granting that commision.  He will never give that commission. Jefferson knows this. Marshall knows this. Marshall knows that if he tells Jefferson to give him the commission Jefferson is going to ignore him and then the power of the Supreme Court basically evaporates   Because Elie says like if you think about it   If the executive branch is gonna say right at the jump that if you make a decision I dont like Im just gonna ignore that then every executive branch going on from Jefferson throughout the rest of our history is just going to ignore the Supreme Court when the Supreme Court does something that the executive doesnt like.   So basically Marshall is kinda stuck. If he rules for Jefferson and hes selling out the law and making the court look impotent. If he rules against Jefferson Jefferson is gonna ignore the court and theyre gonna look weak. Either way   Jefferson wins   And either way...the Supreme Court maybe disappears forever   Marshall needed to find a way to get through this   He needed to find some way to kick the case.   And to be clear John Marshall is running away from a fight with Thomas Jefferson. He says all these sorts of things but he knows that Thomas Jefferson you know straight up has more power. And so hes retreating.   Wow so suddenly it feels like an apocalyptical moment   Yeah   What does he do?    Well so the thing that he does its like the most jedi master-ish thing ever.  LIGHTSABER FX   He writes this hundred-something page decision...and in the beginning...   if you actually read the decision its a lot of pages of telling Jefferson  LIGHTSABER SFX   How hes wrong.  How he cant do what he did.  LIGHTSABER SFX   How he cant do what he did!  How hes you know ruining America! Right theres a lot of that in the Marshall decision.   But then when he gets to the matter at hand he does this little shift. So he says OK hold up  Yes   Mr Marbury IS right.    He shouldve gotten that commission   And   Yes   Mr Jefferson should no be doing this    BUT...   We the Supreme Court?    We dont have jurisdiction to hear this case.  A court needs to have the power to hear a case.  And if a court doesnt have the power to hear a case even if youre completely right even if your position is right you cant get relief.   Wait why would he say that they dont have jurisdiction? Whats their--   This is like where he uses the force. You know earlier I had mentioned that Marbury brought this case under a law Congress had passed that said Marbury could come straight to the Supreme Court like for this kind of situation. Well John Marshall he goes back to his constitution.  Hes reading around and hes like uhh. Trying to figure out what he can do here. And he finds this little sentence.    Yeah. So its article 3 section 2   In the Constitution that says like basically youre not supposed to go to the Supreme Court first.  Youre supposed to go to a different court and THEN the Supreme Court. Its an appeals court   Wonky   Exactly. But he basically he tells Marbury the plaintiff...  You came in and you came to the Supreme Court first. And you did that because Congress passed a law that said that you could come to the Supreme Court first.  BUT...the constitution says that you cant come to the Supreme Court first.   So I cant help you   Nope   Its not your fault Mr Mabury.   But that law is unconstitutional   And were not going to follow that unconstitutional directive   You see what he did there?   I-- Maybe I see--I dont know if I see.   Well OK so its--you know that part in Star Wars   Your father was a weak old man   The first one where Obi Wan Kenobi is fighting with Darth Vader and he says   If you strike me down I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine   This is like that but real. Marshall is agreeing to lose - hes like found this way to lose to like let Darth Vader strike him down. And thats  actually going to make him more powerful. He basically saying to his cousin OK you dont have to give Marbury his commission. And the reason you dont have to give Marbury his commission is because that law doesnt work because we the court we get to decide when something agrees with or doesnt agree with the constitution.  So like congrats you win cousin.   Oh and by the way we the court have the power to declare things unconstitutional.   That was the sort of  Jedi master move.   Thats the move.   Instead of jumping off the cliff or laying down he jukes to the right and he establishes a new rule of the game   UNCONSTITUTIONAL  MUSIC   Inside this one highly technical highly political drama between these two cousins John Marshal sneaks in an atomic bomb this incredible power. And in Marshalls decision he wrote   Its the emphatically the duty and province of the judicial department to say what the law is  To say what the law is.   To say what the law is.   And with those words he made the court what it is today   The US Supreme Court ruled Monday a law allowing Americans born in Jerusalem to list Israel as their place of birth is unconstitutional  MASHUP NEWS CLIPS   And no one had ever done that before?   Well I mean like people had talked about it and there was lots of theories about it in smaller courts and smaller decisions but this is the first time that the Supreme Court does it. And he does it in the face of the president  MONTAGE OF IMPORTANT DECISION NAMES   And that set us on this path  MONTAGE CONT.   Today the court is so much more powerful its grown into the 800 pound gorilla when it says jump other branches tend to say how high   Well hear argument now number 00949 George W. Bush and Richard Cheney--   And we just take it for granted   Three words. Bush v. Gore. They decided a presidential election and no one blinked  MUSIC   Let me just jump in for one second   Yeah. Yeah yeah.   Now you could--we have to say this before we close. You could reasonably argue that Marbury v. Madison was not the big moment when the court got its power because it really depends on what you mean when you say power. Like as we were talking with our legal editor Elie Mystal and constitutional scholar Linda Monk they both said like look at what happens after this case. Just 30 years down the road ish John Marshall is still the chief justice. He gets into a dust up with Andrew Jackson   And this is Jackson were talking about so generally it was I would like to do horrible things to Native Americans and the court was like you probably shouldnt do horrible things to Native Americans. And Jackson was like shut up.  JAD    I dont remember asking you a goddamn thing   So essentially you had a situation where Marshall makes a ruling saying we have to respect Native American sovereignty   And Andrew Jackson famously said   Or supposedly said we dont know if thats true   Look I think its more fun to believe that Jackson did say that. It works better in the musical   OK    The court has made its ruling now let them enforce it   John Marshall has made his decision now let him enforce it   And obviously he couldnt. So to make a long sad story short you get the Trail of Tears. Thousands of Native Americans were marched off their lands   Theres evidence that they were purposefully moved during the winter so that more people would die along the way   So while the court maybe had constitutional authority it didnt have actual power. Until   We just got a report here on this end that the students are in   Fast forward to the 1950s court orders schools to desegregate they dont and the president sends in the troops   Takes Eisenhower   --directing the use of troops under--   Putting boots on the ground. Takes Kennedy   Residents of Alabama National Guardsmen   Putting boots on the ground. Takes force. It still so often comes down to an executive willing to put boots on the ground in order to enforce their laws.   Thats when the power becomes real. Although maybe not  ELIE MYSTAL Elie I dont know a time before I went to college and even shortly after I was in college where things were not separate   At one point as we were working on this story Elie talked to his mom and she told him that when she was growing up in the mid 60s--and this is years after desegregation more than a decade past Brown v. Board you would still never know what happened  ELIE MYSTAL No one would know it in Clarkesville Mississippi at that time. There was a public library but I was not allowed to go to that library. My father who was Chinese could go into the library. So many times Id sit in the car while dad went into the library to get a book that I wanted.   And this is after the passage of the Civil Rights Act even.  ELIE MYSTAL Yes. Im saying high school. I graduated in 67   67 wow   Just yesterday as we were recording this a court had to issue--a current court had to issue another ruling ordering a town in Mississippi to desegregate its schools   Yeah. Yeah.   That didnt have five years ago. That happened yesterday man. Yesterday. The courts can make these laws but if the people arent willing to go along with it then what do these laws mean?  MUSIC IN   I think ultimately I agree with Learned Hand   He was a judge in New York in the early 1900s   That we place our hopes too much upon laws and courts and constitutions that these are false hopes. Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women and when it dies they are no law no court no constitution can save it  MUSIC   In the end for better or worse we the people still have the power.  MUSIC   OK so why do we call this podcast the strange thing we called it? As it turns out--well I guess we mentioned this at the top vast majority of Americans like 66 percent cannot name a single Supreme Court Justice. We also found when we went out a lot of people had no idea how many justices there are   I do not know how many Supreme Court justices there are  MONTAGE OF GUESSING   Nine yes. Well now eight. We think we should know about these people. We should at least know their names. So the title of this podcast is a mnemonic device to help you remember the names of the justices. So their last names are Kagan Kennedy Thomas Ginsberg Briars--sorry Briar no S there. Roberts Alito Sotomayor and if Merrick Garland gets on then youve also got Garland. Kagan Kennedy Thomas Ginsberg Briar Roberts Alito Sotomayor maybe Garland. So first letter last name K K T G B R A S maybe G. What if you turned that into a song to help you remember?  KITTENS KICK SONG   You can find that song on our website radiolab.orgmoreperfect. And maybe you make one and send it to us. Seriously.  CREDITS