     Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab.   And we have been spending a lot of time dancing and singing lately.   We just put out a thing about square dancing.   Yeah. You have the Dolly thing going on in another ...   Indeed.   A whole 'nother operation over there.   Yes sir. And both of those -- those things have kind of a question at the heart of them which is ...   Mine or yours?   Is it mine? Is it yours?   Could be everybody's you know? And there is some music that does sort of break through.   Exactly. And the crazy thing is like 11 years ago we did a show called Pop Music.   Mm-hmm.   Which I think it was initially like about like why are certain things catchy? Like why do certain earworms get stuck in your head?   Right.   But I think it also ended up being more interestingly about why do certain songs seem to sort of just slip across borders?   From weird places. From Tennessee to Zimbabwe say Or then from -- to Afghanistan. So you get a song and it moves strangely around the world. It is popular for some and not for others. And when we were stumbling about this question way back then it was a thought that we heard first from -- well from this guy.   I am Aaron A. Fox.   He is a professor of musicology at Columbia University in New York.   And a damn good country and western lead guitar player. Country not that rock and roll s! One-two-three. I hear that train a-coming it is rolling around the bend.   Country music is a genre we normally associate with Kentucky.   Nashville.   West Virginia.   A particular part of America.   Cowboys pick-ups.   Yeah. But it has spread he says to the most unusual places.   So some examples of that and there are quite a few include the extreme popularity of American country and western music over the last 50 or 60 years with Aboriginal Australians.   You mean Hank Williams would be recognizable to somebody somewhere in Western Australia?   Absolutely.   Really?   Dolly Parton being another one.   Dolly Parton?   Dolly Parton is this international global star of the world's music. So especially in southern Africa she is a revered like a saint.     Yes it is true. Zimbabweans love Dolly Parton. You can fill a venue with a band playing Dolly Parton songs and everybody will know all the words. And most universally of all Don Williams.     What if Don Williams were to go to Dar es Salaam or to Zanzibar or to Kenya or someplace and book a club.   Don Williams has actually gone to Zimbabwe where he has filled a soccer stadium with 40000 people twice in a row.   Whoa!   I just wonder like what exactly are they hearing?   I have asked Grenadians St. Lucians Trinidadians Jamaicans Norwegians Finns Germans Russians Chinese Native Americans Aboriginal Australians Thai why do you like country music? And the first answer is virtually always something along the lines of it is the stories.   Like as in the stories in the lyrics?   I was drunk the day my mom got out of prison. And I went to pick her up in the rain. But before I could get to the station in my pickup truck she got run over by a damned old train.   Um that does not sound very Aboriginal to me.   You know how many Aborigines are actually run over by trains? Thousands actually. That is not what Professor Fox is saying. He says ignore the details and listen for the larger story which has to do with moving with migration and with regret. You are lonesome for something and the thing you are missing is ...     You know the green green grass of home.   Aaron Fox says you can boil much of this music down to just this feeling. You look you long for something simpler something that you left behind.   What would be the best couple of examples you can think of of I miss the farm I miss the crickets?   Oh where do you start? The first hit country song was a nostalgic reverie for quote The Little Old Log Cabin In The Lane performed by Jimmie Rodgers and Fiddlin' John Carson.   The song was recorded in 1927 and that happens to be the moment ...   If you look at the US census ...   ... as he will tell you ...   When the United States crosses the threshold from more than 50 percent agrarian and rural dwellers to more than 50 percent urban dwellers.   In other words country music really exploded -- and this is not an accident -- when most people no longer lived in the country.   Country music is born when the country becomes a nostalgic idea.   And so in America anyway suddenly there was this dreamscape of country places that no longer existed except in heads and the music started just then. So if people in Los Angeles and in Chicago heard country in their minds seems just as logical that people who move from the country to the city in Asia in Africa and Australia might have exactly the same experience.   Yeah but these songs are sung in English. If these people in these faraway places do not speak English what are they hearing?   Well it is important to understand English and the real enthusiasts around the world are English speakers. However one explanation for its popularity elsewhere is that even if you do not speak English the message is literally in the music itself. There is grammar here. In the vocalization the singers -- this is a very normal country western thing they actually make a croaky sound that is very distinctive.   One of the principal vocal articulations is what country singers call a 'cry break.' In my book I parse the cry break into dozens of different specific articulations.   And it is not just the voices by the way says Fox. It is the instruments. The instruments seem to be crying.   In fact the steel guitar is the signature sound of country because it is recognized as iconic of a crying human voice. It is called the crying steel.   You can hear the lonesomeness. And what seems to come roaring through is things just are not what they were before. And all over the world where people are leaving from the country to the city and they are in enormous numbers this is a story all kinds of people can understand.   Country is just as much Grenadian music as it is Kentucky music. It is just as much Hawaiian music as it is West Virginia music.   Are you -- is that -- when you fill a football stadium with Dolly Parton listeners are we saying that they are there in part because the song she is singing are their stories too?   Yep. Yep. This is our music.     We are all going through some version of you know a one- to two- or three hundred-year change from being essentially peasants to being moderns.   Professor Fox has a book on this subject Real Country Music and Language in Working-Class Culture.   You can find more information about that on our website Radiolab.org.   Okay we are gonna take a little break and when we come back we are gonna travel east. Way way east to a distant land where we are gonna stumble across interestingly very familiar music.   And I gotta say this next story this is one -- it is one of the more charming and delightful -- it is got one of the best moments I think of any piece we have ever made and this is going back again 11 years. So we are gonna play that story in a minute.   Yeah.       Three two one. Jad.   Robert.   Radiolab.   We are back and we have just heard a story about country music that traveled across the world in patches. And for this next story we are gonna hear from one of the -- from a truly international you know reporter. A radio reporter Gregory Warner.   Yeah.   He was a ...   Longtime NPR East Africa correspondent right?   That is right.   And done a bunch of stuff for us too.   From -- yeah from Kenya from Russia. He does a podcast about the trials and tribulations of passing from one language and one country and one culture into another. He calls it Rough Translation.   It is great.   But this is before all that. This is Gregory 11 years ago. When -- well he was just as crazy as he is now but you will hear about this in just a second.   Gregory Warner you won a journalism fellowship and they said to you you could go anywhere in the whole world. Where did you decide to go?   So I went to Afghanistan.   Have you ever been to a war zone before by any chance?   I mean I have -- no.   Have you done any international reporting before?   Well actually earlier that year I had been in Estonia covering an accordion festival.      So that was a prime piece of ...   That counts. So you play the accordion?   I play accordion.   Are you like an accomplished accordionist?   No.   No.   No no. I am just an amateur accordionist.   Okay.   But -- but ...   So when you go to Afghanistan do you bring your accordion with you?   Yeah I brought my accordion.   How did that work out?   Well I show up in Afghanistan I am carrying my accordion and I am thinking Maybe this was not the smartest idea.   Because?   It was not an accordion-playing crowd. I mean I was going down the street and women in burkas are holding their babies and little boys will actually sob -- sob begging you to sort of buy a piece of gum. Here I am with my shiny red accordion and it is just not very appropriate.   Does there come a time when you are actually willing to use the accordion?   Well it was a weeknight. It was in my living room. I find Najib who is my fixer and translator. He is working for me. He is lying on his back and he is flinging his legs up into the air. A guard is catching his legs and flinging them back down.     Why are they doing that?   Well this is a kind of ab crunches.   That is what we are listening to now?   Yeah there he is throwing his legs up guard pushes them back down. Going up. Back down. So I figured I would help him out. So I start playing my accordion for him.     And it is going well. Najib's bopping his head to the tune. And then he kind of looks at me. He says Hey how do you know Afghan music? I say I am not playing Afghan music. And he says Yes you are. I say No I am not. Yeah you are. I said No no no. That is like a folk are from the '60s called Those Were The Days My Friend. Some song that my mom used to sing.  GREGORY' Those were the days my friend.   Yeah that is my mom.  GREGORY' We thought they would never end. We would sing and dance forever and a day.   He says No no. That is an Afghan song. And then he is back to the ab crunches. And I am like No no no wait wait wait. Please tell me the story of Those Were The Days My Friend.   So what is the story of Those Were The Days My Friends? That is what we call it. Tell me about that song.    That song is from a singer who is famous for being a Casanova. His name is Ahmad Zahir.   Ahmad Zahir. Famous singer in Afghanistan. It is 25 years ago.   How does -- how does the lyrics go in ...      Wait wait wait. That is -- that is not da da da da da.   Okay it is true. He did get it wrong. So I forgot about it. I thought he was crazy. Then it kept happening. I would bring my accordion play it for some people. Every time people would say Hey is not that a Ahmad Zahir song?   How do you say -- how do you spell his name?   Z-A-H-I-R.   Ahmad -- who is he?   Well that is what I wanted to find out. So the first thing Najib gave me was his entire CD collection. And one night I sit down and listen to it. I am hearing one Western riff after another. John Lennon Nat King Cole definitely a lot of Elvis. Like I realize on this tune ...     This is an Ahmad Zahir tune. You can actually overlay the Elvis version right on top of it.   Is he stealing these tunes? Is that what you saying?   It is more like he Afghanized them. Like here's one of his biggest hits Tanha Shodam Tanha. Now you remember this is the song that Najib sung to me but it did sound familiar. So I emailed this tune to an old friend in St. Louis. He immediately said Oh yeah. That is that Western disco hit El Bimbo.   Oh that is amazing!    So now this is the Western version. It is the same melody as the Ahmad Zahir version same key even. Now let us just go back to the Ahmad Zahir version for a second. Now listen to this violin line. Da da da da da.   Oh yeah.   So this is East meets West Ahmad Zahir style. And this is like the mega-hit in Kabul in '73. This is the sound of Afghanistan in the '70s. So I begged Najib to tell me more about this Ahmad Zahir guy and finally he says Okay I will take you to meet the old childhood friend of the man himself. So we drive up to this gate this guy with white hair opens the door. He and Najib chat for a bit. This guy named Sadat Dardar.   Sadat Dardar.   He is been friends with Ahmad Zahir since the fourth grade. And he takes us inside he closes the gate behind us. And the scene changes. Suddenly it is a garden birds are chirping. And then Sadat stops and he points to this old fountain in the courtyard and he says something to Najib and Najib starts laughing. And Najib says You know this is the fountain where Ahmad Zahir used to play his accordion. Ahmad Zahir plays accordion just like me.   He is saying that 40 girls were lying down there and he was playing accordion here you know?   40 girls?   40 girls?   Well they -- they did call him Casanova for a reason.   But was that okay? Because in Afghanistan maybe girls and boys are supposed to like be hanging out.   Well yes and no. Because Afghanistan was a pretty different country in those days. It is something I did not even realize until I got there. This is the '70s. The women were wearing skirts and Jane Fonda haircuts. The men are wearing sideburns and they are doing their James Dean. And it is not just what people are wearing it is that there is this sense of possibility in the air. Things are opening up finally. And the poster boy for all this is Ahmad Zahir. He is a bad boy.     When he had a concert everybody all the boys and girls would come to his concerts wearing new clothes. And not only all the girls of Afghanistan but the foreign girls they also were in love with him.   Let me just play one little clip from one of his shows and I want you to hear a little scream that comes right in -- right here.     For young Afghans at the time especially young Afghan women Ahmad Zahir he was like a god.     No mother will give birth a child as good as Ahmad Zahir.   And this is where the story gets a lot darker. It is 1973. The Russians start to move in. And the new president that they put in he does not really like Ahmad Zahir at all.   Why?   Well it was really in their interest that Ahmad Zahir would come out publicly praising the government and he always refused to do it. Anything political he would not play the show. And some of his songs especially the later songs started to actually have coded anti-government lyrics in them.   Ay-yi-yi.   And then he would have other lyrics about how freedom is the most important thing.   So what did the government do to him?   They banned his songs from the radio they started throwing him in jail kind of regularly. But even when he gets out of jail he refuses to play any of the Communist Party events but he plays plenty of his own shows. In fact after one concert he meets this beautiful woman named Fahira. The way she tells the story he taps her on the shoulder. He says Hey.   He says Hi. Can I talk to you? I turned my face I said Yeah. He said No never mind.   He tapped you on the shoulder and he said Can I talk to you? And then he said Never mind and he walked away?   And he just walked away.   That was a pretty good seduction technique.   I guess he was very good in it. He got lots of girls like that.   And he got her. And they got married and she got pregnant. Meanwhile the political situation was getting worse and worse. All his friends are fleeing the country. There are murders tortures.   Somebody came to our house knocked the door. And he said Can I talk to Ahmad Zahir please? Ahmad Zahir offered him Can I get you a drink? He said No no no. I have just come from the Ministry of Interior. There is a plan for you. I do not know what they are going to do to you. That is all I want to tell you. To be careful.   But Ahmad Zahir and his wife they do not do anything.   They do not?   They do not leave.   Why?   He says Oh we will go after the baby's born.   Oh.   Five days later it is his birthday. June 14th 1979. He is actually signing a contract for a concert that day.   He went to sign a contract.   And as he is driving away he tells her to make some lunch.   He said when we come back we will go shopping and then I will make lasagna and then we will go out.   So she makes lasagna and she waits for him to come back. And she waits and then she falls asleep.   I had a very weird dream. I am somewhere very high in the mountains and I have no shoes and there is a very strong wind blowing and my hair is everywhere. And I see him not the way he went in the morning. His beard is out like he has not shaved for the past two days and he has something white around him. And something is pulling him. And he is calling to me that I do not want to go. And suddenly I woke up. I run down I saw my father-in-law. He would not talk. He was just bending you know like shaking himself and bending and just holding my hand. I did not know anything what -- what happened.   So what happened then?   Well the government says that Ahmad Zahir had a traffic accident but everybody else tells me he was shot in the head probably by government operatives. And the news spreads through all the neighborhoods in town. So you have Tajiks Pashtuns Uzbeks they are all getting up and not really knowing what else to do. They come walking to Ahmad Zahir's house. The courtyard starts filling up with people. 50 hundred 200. They are inside the house they are outside the house they are on the street. At this point the body comes born by six policemen on a stretcher. People start to wail they start to push. In fact all the windows break the doors break. They bring the body through the courtyard into the living room and Fahira pushes through the police and she sees her husband's body on the stretcher.   So I thought he was hurt or something. And when I pulled the sheet from his face that is when I fell down on top. When I fell they took me to the hospital and that is how Shabnam was born.   So does she go into labor?   She goes into labor.   Right there?   Yeah yeah. And she almost dies in childbirth but her baby's saved she is saved. And her baby has the same birthday then.   Her baby was born on that very day?   That very day.   So then what happened?   Well then the music basically stops. It is that winter that the Russians invade starts a long period of war. You have the jihad then the Mujahideen then the Civil War. When the Taliban come in they just ban music entirely. I mean no instruments. We are talking 20 years where the cultural life of this country basically is frozen. I cannot even imagine what that is like. I can barely go a day without hearing some tunes. 2001 the Americans come in. Afghanistan's opened back up. The radios turn back on. And who comes out of them? Ahmad Zahir.   So Greg when you turn on the radio today in Kabul do you hear Ahmad Zahir?   I am telling you it is my main way that I connect with taxi drivers. Invariably they are listening to an Ahmad Zahir song.   Even now?   Oh yeah.   Why? Because they are just not been a chance for new artists to emerge? Or it is just you know it was a deep freeze?   And also Ahmad Zahir reminds everybody of what Kabul used to be. I had this experience with my accordion again and again myself. Even when I played people my music they would get this smile on their face as if I was reminding them of something they knew before me. In fact there was one time I was up north and there was this big music festival and I had brought my accordion. And they said Well why do not you play? And I said Well I mean I could play for you sure. They said How about right now? And so they kick the band that is on there off they send them to drink green tea. They shove me up on stage. I am standing in front of 300 Afghans and these guys they are not from Kabul. They do not speak English. They are not wearing suits and ties. This is a very Afghan crowd. So I figure I should play some Johnny Cash.    Of course!     But they are going crazy!   It was the best crowd I have ever had.   Greg Warner traveled to Afghanistan with support from an international reporting project fellowship from the John Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. And if you visit our website Radiolab.org you can see video -- actual video footage of that Johnny Cash concert. It is worth checking out.   Yeah he shot it so there you see them all in their strange non-country western clothing.   Well we should -- we are out of -- we are out of time. When you are on our website Radiolab.org you can also send us an email RadiolabWNYC.org. I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   Thanks for listening.       Well okay. That was -- that was ...   That was Gregory.   That was Gregory and a very sober Jad outroducing him 11 years ago.   Are you embarrassed?   No just commenting. I am just noticing.   You now are more relaxed I think on the radio than perhaps you were then.   Maybe. Maybe a little bit. Certainly older.   Older.   But anyhow ...   Gregory too. Gregory's older too.   But what is interesting -- what interestingly has not changed is that some of the ideas that we were talking about in this episode we are still playing around with. You know I just actually last night released episode three of Dolly Parton's America and episode four coming up next week very much vibe with these ideas and explore them in their very Dolly-specific very strange context. But the same kind of questions.   Well where can people find the Dolly Show?   At the -- at the bodega.   At the bodega.   No they can find it at DollyPartonsAmerica.org and also Apple Podcasts and iTunes and Google Play and all the things.   And wherever you get your podcasts.   Yes.   That is what they say these days. Okay that is it for us for the moment. We will be back ...   But only for the moment.   Only for the moment. We keep returning.   Mmm.   And that is our intention.   Yes.   So wait for us for the next time we are here and until then lead a clean useful and virtuous life.     Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 