   Let us just start the beginning. How did this series -- I know it is ancient history for you already but how did it come about? What was the sort of spark for it?   I remember seeing the word No just written down on the page and immediately being like Oh my God I have so much to say about that word.   Jad here. This is Radiolab. Today we are gonna be airing work from radio maker Kaitlin Prest.   Wow how exciting.   I know it is exciting.   Oh my God!   Because what we are going to play for you today sent all of us here on quite a journey. Kaitlin is a fellow traveler. She just released a show through the CBC called The Shadows. Apparently it involves puppets. You should definitely check it out. But before that she was the host and creator of a podcast called The Heart and here's what happened. About a year ago about four or five different people on my staff seemingly all at once were like You have got to hear this series from The Heart. It was made pre-MeToo but now that we are in MeToo you stop what you are doing listen to this series. It is a four-part thing and it is called No.   I personally I have always had a complicated relationship with saying no in any context but especially within a sexual context. And one of the people in our crew wanted to make -- she just said I want to make something about like No. Like just No.   Now when I finally listened to the series I was like Damn I have never heard anything like this. Like really and truly. And so what we are gonna do is kind of construct for you the journey that we went on. It sort of starts with Kaitlin's work. And so today we are gonna play you excerpts from her series that she produced for The Heart. And then over the next few weeks we are gonna dive deeper into some of the issues that she raises in her series. Because like I said when I heard it and when we started talking about it internally it sent us on a whole thing. And we ended up having a series of conversations that went all over the place. And we will play you some of that in the next two episodes. But right now we want to play you excerpts from Kaitlin's series. And just as a warning there are scenes in what you are about to hear that are sexually explicit. Very much so at times. And strong language. Probably not the kind of thing that you want to listen to with kids anywhere nearby. Anyhow we are going to start with an excerpt from the second episode of Kaitlin's series No for The Heart. This episode she titled Inheritance.   I fucked him like a champ.   Seriously?   The bed was in the middle of the room and I had a urinary tract infection for like two weeks after.   Shit dude. That is intense.   Hello and welcome to this month's edition of Audio Smut.   I am in my 20s. I left my tiny little town for the big city. I live in NYC now. I make an artsy feminist sex radio show. Third wave sex-positive feminism tells me that I was onto something back in my teens. Adopting the same ruthless sexual posturing that boys are encouraged to would allow me to wield some of their power. If we fucked without feelings we too could be free. Having slut pride would subvert the double standard and it would force the world to recognize that women's sexual pleasure is real. The only problem is that I hate casual sex. To make up for it I masturbate with abandon and tell the world about it. I have become an expert at advocating for my own pleasure. I know what I want and I feel entitled to it.   I really want you to sleep over but just FYI I am not secretly inviting you over to fuck. Is that cool?   Yeah totally.   Are you sure?   Yeah that is cool.   After all these years I have mastered the art of saying no.   Want a lift?   That is okay.   Are you free to do this job that totally does not appeal to you?   I do not think it is the right one for me.   Hey baby can I get a smile?   Fuck off!   Stretch yourself out from downward dog into play.   No.   Hey are you able to come out on Friday to my barbeque?   Nope.   I know now that what I am looking for is love even though I know it is corny.     I am on a big brown couch wrapped up in the arms of my friend Jay.   You want another beer?   No.   His arms are really dude-ly. I am trying my best not to like this more than our friendship would deem appropriate.   I am gonna have one.   Okay.   You want one?   No.   You want another beer?   No!      Yes.   Yeah!    I do.   Okay.   Cool. Go get it.   But of course I cannot stop myself from wondering if this friendship is the friendship the right-under-your-nose-that-whole-time kind of friendship.   Do you want a cigarette?   Yeah.   You do? Hi.   Hello. It is me.   I have been friends with Jay for eight years. It is like my oldest friendship.   Hey are you okay? How did the date go?   Jay and I have always kept it in our pants and that is given way to this perfect friendly intimacy. We call each other 'babe' and 'boo.' We bitch about our relationship dramas. We have extensive G-chat conversations into the night and always sign off with the word 'love' spelled in full.   What do I do if I hate my current relationship?   Whoa!   And that is good night. Night. I love you.   I do not know.   But that being the case there are -- I think there are like great great hook-ups that are just hook-ups you know? Like a great one-night stand.   I do not think we agree on this and that is fine.   Yeah.   Let us just talk about something else.   All right.   So ...   I have always thought he was hot. It looks a little bit like my cousin Robert I had a forbidden crush on when I was a kid.   Hey do you still have that boyfriend?   Nah. Broke up with that guy   It is the Fourth of July. It is late. 30.   Hey I got super sunburned today at the beach.   I got a text from him asking him if I want to come over for a snuggle party.     Hey!   Hello. Hi.   Hey.   What is up?   Come in.   Hi.   What is happening?   We put on some music and sit on the bed.   So this woman she is so cool. And she -- we kind of have this thing in common where we are both really feminine people and we were talking about how like she is not really used to making the move but that she sort of creates the conditions in which a move can be made.   No that is bullshit.   Why?   Because that puts like some weird power into that like submissive role that I just do not think is really there.   Are you serious? That is dumb.   No.   Oh really? You are gonna --- mmm.     He is kissing me.   Are we gonna fall in love?   Whoa.   I am -- I feel like I am kind of nervous.   Really?   Yeah.   That is cute.   I am starting to undo my pants. It is too quick.   Is it okay if we just make out?   Yeah.   He says yeah but he keeps going. He is not reading me.   Hey Jay? Is it okay if we -- I do not wanna do sex things.   Yeah fine. Whatever.   Sorry I just have to pause the scene for a second and give you some information. So what you are hearing right now if you had not already noticed is a re-enactment.   Okay.   Here we go.   Yeah do it.   Hey.   This is an actor.   Hey!   His name is Tommy.   And then I will be like Hey like can you -- can like slow down a little bit?   So it is just like -- like just ignoring it basically.   Yeah yeah.   Like not even hearing it.   Yes.   Okay.   He was pretty like ...   Aggressive.   Yeah.   In the making of this story I called the real Jay to verify what happened that night. I also asked him if he wanted to write and re-enact the whole story with me. But he did not.   Are you guys still friends?   Well we started being friends again since I called him and asked him if he would do an interview about like the weirdest night of our friendship.   You are going to hear more from the real Jay later. But what I need you to know right now in this moment is that what you are hearing is not the real thing. I built this scene so that it sounds as close to the way that I remember it as possible.   And then we will kiss again and it will get kind of intense again. And then I will say it again. And then you get kind of pissed at that moment. You say ...    Fine. Fine. I think I am just gonna go to bed. I am tired.   I stare at the overhead light. I look at the clock. Almost 1 am. The air is tense. I feel like it is my fault. But I know better than that. I should just go. But I do not. I am frozen. I cannot move.   Can you come back?     He is back at the zipper of my jeans. He puts my hand on his dick.   Wait. If you -- how about like 'kay. This is -- what if you just like go to the bathroom and -- and just like yank one out and come back?   What? What?   'ecause then we can just make out and it will be fine right? Just do it.   Come on. Just touch it. Come on. Come on. Just feel it.   Dude!   What?   On the outside I act like everything's fine. And on the inside I give up in the way that feels so familiar to me. I make myself come in front of him so he can make himself come and we can go back to having a nice night. I feel defeated. At the same time I am getting off. I am really good at masturbating so it is not hard for it to feel good. For a few moments I forget that I feel like shit. I am sad when I leave. I do not get angry until days afterwards.   July 5th 2013. I had the most vile experience with Jay last night.   And then I am so angry I can barely write about it in my diary.   Ugh. Too angry!   It is just a big scribble. I am angry at so many things. I performed for him.   I performed to placate him.   I wanted him to be happy more than I wanted myself to be happy. I forgot about myself.   He forgot about me. He was supposed to be my friend. My defenses were down. What the fuck? I thought this was a dumb high school dude thing a college dude thing. I thought I was past this shit. I thought I would practiced avoiding this shit. I am fucking 27.   It is true. He did not force me to do anything but I nonetheless felt like I had no choice. Why? Is that on me? Or is that on him? I begin to wonder if having sex I do not want is something I have absorbed from generations past. If it is something I have inherited from my foremothers.  KAITLIN' How do you say no that is rude? Or that is not polite or ...   This is my mom.  KAITLIN' Why are you saying no? You are hurting the guy's feelings.   Her friend.  KAITLIN'S MOM' With someone who you are interested in if you say no are they gonna just give up and walk away? And then you are going Okay is -- should I just go along with it so I do not lose that. He could have been a great guy. But if he is that pushy is he that great of a guy right? You balance that out but I think that is where the challenge lies is with what if he then just walks away?   Oh so true!   Another friend of ours.   I mean it is subtle because you know on the one hand you are having attention. I mean I was brought up as a female to -- to want male attention you know? That -- that was a status symbol actually. You know if you were a attractive enough woman that you could get attention from men that was considered an important thing. That was how you were maybe going to end up finding a husband and having children and doing that really conventional stuff. So those ideas they do not just like come up all of a sudden you know? You are -- you are surrounded by that your whole upbringing.   And like when was the first time that you had an experience where you felt like you were allowed to change gears?   I was in my late 40s and he stopped and asked Are you sure this is what you want? I had never ever ever been asked that before and I was like shocked. I did not -- like you know speechless in responding to him because I never had been asked that before.   By this point in my life I felt strongly that I was different from my foremothers. That my generation would be different. But I talk to people my age and I hear the same attitudes same feelings.   He kept telling me that the reasons I was saying no were stupid.   And I was drunk and crying. A drunk crying girl generally wants to be consoled to some extent but not with sex.   I told him he could not fuck me and then his dick was in me you know? And then I was like Oh my God we are having sex. I thought we talked about this. And even then the whole night was nice. That part was -- just sucked. How do I give him what he wants in a way that is not terrible for me but I can like deal with? It is like your gut instinct will tell you like No I do not want this. And say no in a cute way and then say no in a force way and then push. And then there was a point where you just like -- it is like I literally just gave up. Let us just let him have this now because I fought enough. And like I do not want to make a scene. I do not want to wake up anyone and like you know it is like Oh my roommate's sleeping and she is gonna -- again being like a slut on the couch. And like it was like these mental gymnastics that you do to not tell yourself that you are not putting your needs first but that like all these people matter so much.   I talked to my 20-year-old cousin. She is almost a decade younger than me.  KAITLIN' Like my first boyfriend I just wanted to please because I did not know what I was doing. So I was just going for it and trying stuff and like not asking questions. And at the beginning it is Oh I want that person to like me. I want this to be fun for that person. And not thinking about yourself and just being like Okay I am trying stuff.   It makes me think of something that my best friend Lara said.   I was talking about being a people pleaser and like how -- and you said that that is how -- that is how women ...   That is how we survive. Yeah. I think women survive by yeah being aware and reading social cues. And we know when someone's gonna be angry we know when someone might lash out. We know when someone's afraid we know when somebody's sad. We know when somebody's happy and -- and we know when -- when we are safe and we know when we are not safe. And sometimes you know there is the element of using sex as a social currency to stay safe and using sex as a social currency to belong in the group even if the group is just you and one other person.   I start to wonder if this is how anyone who is historically been on the shitty side of a power dynamic learns how to move through the world. How important it can be to be liked by someone who has your fate in their hands. Sometime after the Jay night I discovered something that brought me answers.   Yeah.   It sounds so different does not it? It sounds so cool.   Is this what I am gonna sound like?   Is not that the best?   It was a recording. Not a re-enactment an actual recording. I would made this recording two years before the Jay night when I was 25. In this recording I am sitting in a windowless bedroom with a guy named Raoul. I am doing an interview about intuition for the show.   So intuition what is it?   Well a lot of times for me intuition just means getting your mind out of the way and being observant.   This guy Raoul and I dated for a while. I smiled at him in a coffee shop and he would ran down the street after me asking if he could take me out sometime. I was charmed by him. But after a few weeks he totally ghosted me. At the time of this recording it is been months since we would last spoken. And I did that dumb thing where I needed an interview for the show and I was like Oh my God Raoul! He would be perfect! So here we are. When the interview ends I leave the tape rolling because it is just good radio practice. Often the most intimate parts of the interview happen after it is officially over. So we are just sitting on his bed. And I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I do not want to have sex with him or anything along those lines but we are flirting a little bit and I am enjoying it.   Why do not you lay down?   Hmm. Hmm. I do not know if I feel like it.   Oh I just want to caress you. Like a massage.   Okay.   Yeah.   I am down. I am down for that. I like massages. But ...   But I want you to start on your -- lying on your back.   On my back? Oh you cannot turn off the lights!   No no no I am not going to! I am turning this one off.   You cannot try to seduce me.   I will not. But I want you to lie on your back.   Okay. And you cannot touch me in sexy places.   I will not.   Do you promise?   Yeah.   Okay.   Can you move this up?   This. All the way off?   Yeah. So breasts are off?   Breasts are off. Definitely.   What about under breast?   Under breast is okay but you have to be very like you know aware. Use your intuition.   I will.   But even if it seems like I want you to you have to be nice and good okay?   Okay.   A massage to me is as intimate as a handshake but I know that is not the case for everyone. So I start to try to vocalize my boundaries and make sure that what is going on is cool for everyone here.   Can you -- do feel like you can do -- like you can touch a woman without like having -- like feeling like you need to fuck her?   Hmm. I do not know. Maybe.   I do not know. I mean like so for example -- for example right now the way that you are touching me makes me feel like later I am gonna have to tell you that I do not wanna have sex with you. Do you know what I mean?   Mm-hmm.   And I just wonder like if it is possible for -- like is it possible for men to feel like -- to it -- to genuinely enjoy like ...   I do not do anything I do not enjoy.   Right. Right. Yeah. Okay. But do not -- but do you get off on like trying to change someone's mind?   Mm-hmm.   Okay.   I get off on good stuff.   This is the sound of me and Raoul having sex. When I listen to this recording I hear myself say no again presumably when he tries to escalate to full-on penetration.   Do not.   Mm-hmm.   No.   Do you feel okay about that?   I feel a little bit like weird actually?   Oh yeah?   Yeah. I mean I feel good but mostly just because I said I did not want to.   Yeah but are not we just retarded when it comes to what we want? How do we know what we want? What part of you knows what you want? Is it your thinking analytical mind that knows what you want? No. How could it be? I mean it does not make any sense. This is not logical. We can only try guessing what we want.   After the post-coital cigarette I did not stay over which is really unlike me. I walked home through a gray Bushwick warehouse land angry at Raoul for ignoring everything I said at myself for totally folding when he pushed my line and at my body for betraying me for enjoying the sex. I cut together the interview part of the recording we did produced the Intuition show and left this recording silent in the archives for years. Until one shitty night just like it happened to me on the fourth of July with an old friend Jay.   In the months after the Jay night I dug up this recording and I listened closely to myself. I listened to the way that I actually sound in a night like this where my boundaries are crossed.   And you cannot touch me in sexy places.   When my best friend Lara listened to this she said it definitely sounded like I wanted to fuck this guy. And if you take away the words and just listen to the sounds this is probably exactly the way that I sounded when I was with Jay. Saying no in this sweet seductive tone and trying so hard to be nice and not hurt anybody's feelings that my no basically sounds like fuck me. But on the other hand I wonder how many people sound just like this when they are getting hot and heavy with someone and they are trying to draw a line express what they want in a way that does not break the flirtatious vibe that does not negate the possibility of doing other things. I wonder how many people sound just like this when they are scared.   I think this is why the definition of consent has evolved to mean more than no means no or even yes means yes. Consent is about knowing that someone is excited about what is going on. It is about knowing that both people are on the same page. And it is knowing that knowing that is really complicated. Not just because communication is hard and sex-ed is awful but also because there are invisible social and historical contexts at play in these intimate moments contexts that impact how entitled we feel to our own comfort how likely we are to put someone else's needs first. These contexts could be historical like race or class or gender or they could be super-situational like when one person is a little bit in love with you and you are not in love with them and you can totally sense that they will do whatever you want. When things are uneven in this way it is important to take extra care to create an emotional environment that allows for a no. I did not feel like I had that space in either of these encounters. But on the other hand I should have been stronger in advocating for myself.   I am bummed because I thought I was over this shit. But it seems like I am going to be struggling with this for my entire life. And after all this contemplating the anger that I have at myself slowly dissipates. And I start getting angry at Jay. I was not that angry at Raoul because we were not that close but Jay and I were close. I expected so much more from him. I expected him to care more about the way I felt in the same way that I had cared about the way he felt. I knew that the strong thing to do would be to talk all of this out with him. Two days after the night. He G-chatted me.   Hey how was working yesterday? I ended up sleeping all day.   And then two days later.   Hey how was the rest of your weekend?   A month later on my birthday.   Happy birthday.   Thanks darling.   How are you babe?   Two weeks after that.   Hiya.   Five days later.   Hi?   Same day.   Hi.   Jay what is up?   Thank God you answered I was getting worried you were actively ignoring me. How are you?   I stay home every time our friends get together and I know he will be there. I try to tell our friends what happened but when I say it out loud it does sound like almost nothing. On the surface we had what Jay would later call a drunken night of masturbation failure. No big deal. The problem is that we do not have a vocabulary around emotion that would let me describe with any sense of legitimacy the totally invisible things that happened between us that night.     When we come back from break we are going to hear from the other side of the aisle. From the guy's point of view. Including Jay. This is Radiolab. We will continue in a moment.   I am Ryan and I am calling from Lake Tahoe California. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.   I am Jad Abumrad this is Radiolab. In The No part 1 in collaboration with Kaitlin Prest. So we are starting things off with excerpts from a series of stories that Kaitlin produced for a show she hosted and created called The Heart. The series was called No. We just heard a chunk from episode 2 of her series which she calls Inheritance. In the third she explores things from the men's point of view.   Yeah like there was -- somewhere along the way where I was like I knew that I wanted to interview men. And I just interviewed the people who I had access to which are my best friends my exes and I was like Oh I will interview men. I will interview people who have -- have perpetrate -- like who have pushed on the other side. And so I just -- yeah I realized that almost all the -- all of my close friends had a story in the same way that all my close women friends had a story about pushing and knowing that they would pushed too far.   And that is actually what you hear in episode 3 of the series called Answers. We are going to play you some excerpts of that now starting a few minutes into it.   Just as I unknowingly and to the disappointment of my parents absorb certain ideas about how I was supposed to be a girl in this world boys to the disappointment of their parents absorbed ideas too.   Steal the beer meet the girls get them drunk try to get some. That was the plan.   A 13-year-old boy and his friends create an elaborate plan to get the girls to do sex stuff.   Combination of like like beer and making the move. Like that was like the magic answer.   They learned from older boys and men's magazines that getting girls drunk is crucial to the goal of getting girls to do sex stuff.   I remember she even like kind of leans into me and I put my arm around her and ...   In the construction site after three beers he slides his hand underneath the lip of Janice's pants. She sits up straight ...   That was weird but you know that is like so I will try a little more ...   She takes his hand away.   Just give it a minute and then ...   He puts it back.   I am gonna try it again. 'ecause that is what you are supposed to do right?   She takes it away. He puts it back.   This whole like you know no-means-yes thing that is like embedded in ...   A 15-year-old boy leans back in his chair letting his knees rest on the back of the chair in front of him. Leaning up against whatever girl's butt is in the seat.   If I was sitting behind a girl who I was attracted to then I would spend a lot of time leaning back in this not that unnatural but not that natural either position. And that -- uh I am cringing.   A 26-year-old boy invites his good friend over to his house late at night and playfully ignores her when she says she does not want to do anything below the belt. When she asks him to jerk off in the bathroom he laughs and they resolve to jerk off beside each other instead. After that night I do not talk to or see Jay for years. In that time I search for answers elsewhere. I become obsessed with the topic of consent.   Okay. So the idea about the episode is that I want to hear about a time where like someone said no and you pushed it.   It became clear you both wanted different ...   Was consent inherent to you like when you were young? Or did you have to like unlearn things that you ...   Almost every woman and queer I know has a story about being pressured or coerced into sex by a dude.   ... if you are going to be involved sexually with men ...   And that made me wonder does that mean that every man I know has a story about pressuring or coercing someone into sex? I start out by talking to the men in my life that I trust the most.  KAITLIN' Shall the guilty remain nameless or what?   Oh yeah. Yeah. Well it is hard because you are my dad. Do you know what I mean?  KAITLIN' It is fine. Whatever.   Okay so tell me the story.  KAITLIN' Long story was I had a real crush on this girl. She got pretty drunk. So I went down and snuggled up. And I was rubbing her sides and then we kissed a little bit but that was the extent of it. You know nothing too too serious by today's standards but by then that was a big deal.   What?  KAITLIN' At that time.   What was the big deal?  KAITLIN' Feeling her up you know? Yeah. And enjoying that plus she was wearing a furry sweater which was really nice you know? Anyway I still remember it. Anyway but it was not -- it was not mutual so ...   When did you know that she was upset about it?  KAITLIN' Oh the day after. We heard through the grapevine. We did not have texting or Facebook then but you heard pretty quick through the grapevine yeah that it -- she was very unhappy about what had happened and felt abused or taken advantage of. And our relationship was never the same after that. I went and apologized but that was -- there was no coming back from that. And so I felt regretful and paid for it because we were no longer friends after that.   This is a best friend of mine.  KAITLIN' As soon as I knew that sex was not an option I became a bit of a dick. I got kind of cold and like not really communicative or -- yeah I just became like a stereotypical dick. And I became like grumpy. And had this really like fuck this attitude. Like Oh if I am not getting what I am -- what I came here for then like nah. I guess I am lucky that I got this like really intense detailed email from her you know breaking down what I did why it was bad how much it hurt her how it affected her for like days after. And -- and I am not gonna lie I also had that reaction which you have described. This like initial reaction of like Ugh. You are like over-exaggerating.   This is my first love.   Well I remember you told me this story of the -- this one night that you had with this woman. Can you tell me that story?  KAITLIN' I can tell you that story. So um we were dancing. We were drinking. She ended up getting really drunk. And her friends were like definitely putting down the collective foot saying that no I should not sleep with her tonight. That she was too drunk. And she -- she is like I want you to come over. Went over to her place and was in bed with her and we were making out and it was getting heavy. She could feel that I was like moving in. She kind of like -- it was like No no. Like just kind of like a whisper. Like kind of keeping it sexy but like saying like No you know?  KAITLIN' I felt kind of confused because that night like you know we were out and she invited me over to her house. And for me that is like a message that she wants to hook up that like she wants something to happen. Otherwise like why invite the person you have been making out with all night over to your place at like 00 in the morning unless like you are looking to like fool around a bit more. And so like I remember like kinda getting off of her just lying there for a bit feeling kind of disappointed then like started making out again fooling around again. It was kind of like the same process. It happened and like after doing that for I do not know maybe 20 minutes like I like got back on top and was kind of making the same moves and she did not say no. There was not that point of interjection where she like said no before. And like so I just went for it because I was like stupid and young. And I feel like it is wrong now you know? Like I feel like she had said no before and like I should have just been really vocal about like communicating boundaries and like seeing what she wanted for the night you know?   Like do you think that there was a moment where you stopped thinking about what she wanted and was focusing mostly on what you wanted?  KAITLIN' Yeah. I mean I feel like probably the entire encounter I was thinking what I wanted as opposed to what she wanted. I mean I thought that what she wanted was the same thing as what I wanted. And you know when it was not that way I felt like I was trying to make it that way.   In this episode Kaitlin goes on to speak to a whole collection of other guys who all describe different flavors of the same experience. Of gently pushing -- sometimes not so gently -- past that first No. We are going to skip over some of that and jump forward a few minutes because eventually Kaitlin does end up convincing Jay to speak with her on tape.   Do you want to start?   Me?   Yeah.   Yeah. I mean well what were you thinking?   That you should start.   Yeah that is what I was thinking too. But when you gave me the option I was like was there an alternative? I mean I would love an alternative. Should we ...   Not starting would be the alternative.   I know!   This is Jay. The real one. No re-enactments no actors. It is been three years since we had that shitty hook-up that inspired this entire series. I knew that after interviewing all of these men that he was the one I really needed to talk to. I procrastinated calling him for months. He definitely knows that I was upset but I do not think he knows exactly why. And in this interview I have to tell him why. I am afraid. I am afraid of the same thing I was afraid of that night. I am afraid of silencing myself to avoid an uncomfortable moment. I am afraid that he is going to convince me that my feelings are illegitimate. And I am afraid that he will be a jerk. Over the years Jay has become kind of a monster in my head. A stereotype. He is morphed into a combination of every man I have ever felt sexually coerced by. He is become the poster boy of fake feminist men who think they are feminist because they took some courses in college and really love women. My friend Jay is gone. I do not even know who that person is anymore. But a part of my heart opens when he says yes to doing this interview. I can tell that he does not really want to do it. I can tell that he is doing it because he wants to help me out. He could sense how much I really wanted him to say yes.   Yes so what if -- I do not know why do not you ...   I mean should we do the hard part first or the easy part first?   Is there a hard part?   Well I mean I feel quite nervous about talking about like me and you and stuff you know? I know. Why do you have to make that face? Is that face because you feel like it is stupid or is that face like ...   No it is not stupid. It is -- of course it is valid. It is like it is legit. But I just -- I do not know does not it feel like such a small thing.   But see I think that that is the thing is that it feels so much bigger to me than it does to you I think.   I know. I really knew you were going to say that.  I just saw it coming.   It is okay!   No. Is it? I mean it is gotta be. Whatever. I also just do not feel like me just rehashing every -- it is just so much work. Cannot we just -- cannot we just move on? Like really -- is it really that big a deal? Like honestly?   I mean the thing is it is not that ...   'ecause it cannot be. In your daily life like can this really follow you around?   I mean there is like the honest answer to that question and then there is the answer to that question which is like me really wanting to not make you feel bad. Do you know what I mean?   To my thinking it is just like in all of our friendship knowing what you know about me do not I get a pass for one infraction of this line? I just -- like stupid -- I just was a drunken fool. Like -- like pushed over. All sort -- and just made such a big mistake. And I get that it was a big mistake but it was a mistake and it was like one -- and like you know would it be so bad? I am not asking you to get over it. But just like in the abstract if you think about other -- like another friendship not ours. Would it be so bad to just get over that one thing you know? Like does it really warrant becoming baggage for so many years?   Yeah.   I do not know. That could also just be me since I am the one who fucked up. But I also think you fucking over-reacted so you know? I do not know.   I mean ...   And you also like have not talked to me for years until now you need something right?   My giggling tells me that I am nervous. But I know that in this moment I am also relieved that we are getting right into it. Looking him in the eye through the computer seeing into his bedroom watching him angle the camera so that the light's flattering. The dude bro monster melts away and I am just chilling with my friend Jay about to have a pretty intimate conversation. It is kind of nice. I am not scared of him anymore. What I am scared of is that I will not have the courage to say what I need to say. But I start to try.   Yeah that is true. That is true.   So whatever.   Fair point. But I have to say that like I did not remember you ever saying sorry or like acknowledging my feelings about it. Or even just saying sorry. Like I just did not remember you saying sorry. Like I felt like I really trusted you as a friend and that like I said I do not really want to touch junks and then you kept trying to -- you kept junk-touching. And putting my hand on your junk and stuff like that. You know what I mean? And telling me to touch your junk and like and I kept trying to sort of like push back you know what I mean? Like in a nice way.   At this point I talk for about 10 minutes straight. I tell him all of it. And he just listens wincing here and there. I tell him what he did how it made me feel. I tell him about Trevor Smalls and the blowjob in the basement. I tell him that he would said and did things that had brought me back there. I tell him he made me feel like a means to an end.   Yeah okay. I do not -- yeah I get that. I do not know what else to say. It would have been nice to have had this conversation then right? Like after it happened. Because like you said too it is -- it is like then we jerked off in front of each other and I was -- yeah I was like a super-pushy drunk hook-up guy. But that is all I was. I was not basement guy.   I know but ...   And like -- no no. But hear me out. I understand that it just -- it pushes and it is like I heard everything you have said. That you just said. Like I heard it all. I guess it -- what is frustrating is like the fact that there is trauma that then compounds that is like a fact. But it would be nice to know like -- like which specific ones were getting added to -- me. Because like I know I pushed you back there but then those things that you experienced are not what happened necessarily? I do not ...   Yeah. I mean I think that like it is ...   But there is not even much of a difference at that point.   But that is the thing. Like I guess it did feel ...   But like that was enough -- that was enough for you to just like write me off? Like where do I get to draw the line and be like well you know what? That is not me. Like I am not all those other people. I am sorry that this had -- that like we got drunk together and that I tried to do hand stuff and you did not want to and then it ended up with us doing hand stuff next to one another and then I am sorry that still drunkenly I was a dick. And then I am sorry that drunkenly I said a bad thing. And you know I am sorry for all that. But it is like how bad do I have to feel? One thing is like parsing out where I end and like all the other terrible dudes in the world begin which is a frustrating thing for a young man to deal with. Fuck man. Also like have not I done my time? Like do I really have to feel like I have not gotten to talk to you for years now because of it. Like how much guilt do I really have to have?   See? You are making me feel bad.   Okay. No I just want to know.   Okay.   You are making me feel bad.   Okay.   We talked for about an hour and a half total. I will spare you all the details. Mostly we just kept circling back around the same point why it should not be that big of a deal. I realized that I never got a chance to ask what his inner monologue was of that night. Or what larger personal and social contexts might have been at play. But I was not silent. I stood my ground. And I fought for the legitimacy of my feelings.   But I felt like you missed some of my cues. You were pushy. Most women are dealing with some degree of sexual trauma. It feels like the right thing to look at it through the lens of being a dude. There is something slippery about isolating specific sexual activity. This one's worse than that one. If a friend of mine says that they are upset my first reaction is to be like Oh my God. What the fuck did I do? I am so sorry times a thousand. And I did not feel that from you. Suddenly to you I was just like a means to an end.   It still makes me angry that I had to fight so hard for the legitimacy of my feelings in the first place. And when I start cutting the interview I start to hear how accusatory his voice sounds.   Yeah Kaitlin. I mean it sucks. Like I had fucked up.   Instead of talking about why he was a jerk that night we talk about why I am a jerk for being upset about it. I hear how each of his apologies were paired with a rebuttal of the entire premise of the conversation. Like this is not what an apology sounds like.   I am sorry that still drunkenly I was a dick. And you know I am sorry for all that. But it is like how bad do I have to feel?   This is what an apology sounds like.   Kaitlin I am so sorry. I mean I -- I fucked up.   That is Tommy. The actor who played Jay in the last episode. I hired Tommy to pretend to be Jay for one more day. And I tried out what it would feel like to do more than just explain myself politely and tactfully but to actually get angry.   It was your fault.   I am -- I am realizing that now. That ...   Do you know why it was your fault? I am going to -- I am going to tell you why it was your fault. You are a fucking asshole! It is fucked up that you belittle the way that I feel about this just because we did not have penetrative sex. You were mean to me! Fucking me. You hurt my feelings and you will not even fucking apologize in a real apologizing way about it. If I fucking hurt your feelings I would feel like shit about it. You do not feel like shit about it. You treated me like a fucking Barbie doll. I was taught from birth to put what you want before what I want and it is your fucking job to be sensitive to that. You perform masculinity really fucking well. You are doing a great job at it. You are a man and I hate you for it. You have all the fucking privilege cards. You treated me like shit. You are acting like I have wronged you. I fucking hate you and your kind.   Wow. Okay so you made that -- that documentary that we just heard a big excerpt of. That was -- that was a few years ago at this point.   Yeah.   Have you spoken with Jay since then? Have you revisited that -- that conversation at all?   Uh I wish. I mean like it is -- I would -- I would love -- I would love to have a kind of like a closing-out conversation with him. I did check in with him over the course of the whole production. And I sent him the cuts before they went out. And I just keep reaching out to him saying Do you want to talk? He does not want to talk. He is not answering.     So Kaitlin's stories for The Heart which we would encourage you to listen to you can find the whole thing -- we only played bits and pieces of it. You can find the entire series -- well worth a listen at TheHeartRadio.org. We will also link you to it from Radiolab.org. Now what is interesting is that Kaitlin made that series well before MeToo. And after we listened we just ended up like having a bunch of questions. Like where are things at now? Like the conversations around consent in the moment of consent. The aftermath conversations like the one she had with Jay. How are those happening or not happening now? And we took all these questions and we walked them around a little bit. Talked to a series of academics app makers BDSM practitioners. Many many roomfuls of college-aged men and women. And in the next two episodes we are gonna bring you in on some of those conversations. Kaitlin will also join us for some of them. In the meantime I want to sincerely thank her for allowing us to share her work. Definitely check out her new podcast called The Shadows.   Also want to thank Kaitlin's team that helped her producing the No series for The Heart. Kaitlin wrote and directed what you heard. She also had help from editors Sharon Mashihi and Mitra Kaboli. Assistant producers Ariel Hahn and Phoebe Wang. And associate sound design and music composition from Shawnee Avaram. Okay we will be back next week with more. 'Til then I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.   To play the message press 2. Start of message.   Hi I am Kaitlyn. It is Kaitlyn. Hello. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria -- Maria -- Maria Natasha Padilla is our Managing Director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte -- Bethel Habte Tracy Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser -- Nasser -- Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Katz Laslow and Moe Asabiamo. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. The end.   End of message.