Intro Speaker Listener-supported WNYC Studios. Intro Speaker Wait you are listening. Intro Speaker Okay. Intro Speaker All right. Intro Speaker Okay. Intro Speaker All right. Intro Speaker You are. Intro Speaker Listening. Intro Speaker To RadioLab. Intro Speaker Radiolab. Intro Speaker From... Intro Speaker WYNC. Intro Speaker C? Intro Speaker Yeah. Skip Sherry Hey man how are you? Aaron Scott Doing very well yourself? Skip Sherry Good. Jad Abumrad So Aaron set this up. Who are we about to meet? Aaron Scott So this is . He lives in Brooklyn. Jad Abumrad And that is we should say Aaron Scott. He is a reporter who turned us onto Skip and Aaron met up with Skip because he had this experience. Aaron Scott That is common to a lot of people who move to New York City. Just tell us where you grew up. Skip Sherry I grew up in the country outside of Athens Ohio on 54 acres of wooded land and I would work all day as a kid in heat. Aaron Scott Hoeing and picking strawberries- Skip Sherry Hauling water. Aaron Scott Planting trees. He would play in the woods. Skip Sherry I love the woods. Aaron Scott But as he got older he knew he could not stay in Athens. Jad Abumrad Why not? Aaron Scott Well he is a musician. He wanted to make a living at it so he bounced around for a bit. Skip Sherry So I finally- Aaron Scott And then finally at age 30... Skip Sherry There was no place to go except for New York. Aaron Scott Wait so it was not a matter that you wanted to live in New York- Skip Sherry No I did not want to live in New York. Aaron Scott ... it was more so New York was your last option? Skip Sherry It was my last option. Aaron Scott And he hated it. Skip Sherry Because it was ugly to me. Too many humans too much concrete. Aaron Scott Yeah. Skip Sherry One theory about autism is that the things that come into an autistic kid's brain all have equal value. They do not know how to sort through it. When I first came to New York it was really... It was pretty overwhelming. I had decided to leave for sure. Aaron Scott But then take us to the roof. Skip Sherry I was lucky when I first moved here. Aaron Scott So he is staying with a friend who lives in this big building in Brooklyn Heights. Skip Sherry Right across from the Twin Towers and it is 36 stories high. Aaron Scott And he decides one lonely night to go up onto the roof. Skip Sherry And there is this intense fog. The Twin Towers the bottom of them was covered in the fog but not the top so it was like they were floating and there is a little cuticle sliver of moon in the sky and the foghorns are going and the boats are slowly moving. There is this breeze. I had this brass penny whistle that my father had given me and I was standing there and I was playing it and suddenly something clicked. I was like Oh those are all the bridges. That is the Williamsburg Bridge that is the Manhattan Bridge there is the Brooklyn Bridge. That is New York. It is small now. Skip Sherry I am looking at the Statue of Liberty and my grandmother Anastasia Panny came from Albania and they went to Ellis Island. I could see my history there too and it suddenly hit me like Oh my goodness. This is like a coral reef. You cannot see the people but look at this beautiful structure they have created. Skip Sherry That fog and that air it was just the whole city was breathing. Nature was breathing. Everything was breathing and I felt connected on a spiritual level to the city for the first time. Jad Abumrad And so Skip decided to stay. Skip Sherry For a while. Jad Abumrad For a while. Robert Krulwich All over the world people are now moving of course. We know this from the country to the city. At this point... Jeff West The world two years ago crossed this extraordinary benchmark... Jad Abumrad That is physicist Jeff West. Jeff West ... where more than half the planet is now urbanized. Robert Krulwich 51. Jad Abumrad And that made us wonder how do cities work? Robert Krulwich Is there some deep organic logic that holds all these people together? Jad Abumrad Or as writer  puts it- Robert Krulwich Are cities just... Joe Nalara These tumors of people on the landscape? Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab and our topic today... Robert Krulwich Cities. Jad Abumrad Cities. Robert Krulwich I love them but I do not know why. Jad Abumrad All right. So in talking about cities it was kind of hard to know where to start because every city has its own... Robert Krulwich DNA kind of. Jad Abumrad Yeah its own unique feel. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad For instance let me just give you my own stupid example here. Every time I go to St. Louis to visit my mom- Robert Krulwich Yeah? Jad Abumrad ...I am on the plane I am in my own kind of groove and I step off the plane into the airport and it is just like with the first step just hit this wall of... Something is different. You feel the difference in your bones. Robert Krulwich Because? Jad Abumrad Well that is the question. Is he there? Bob Levine I am here. Jad Abumrad What gives a city its feel? Oh is this Mr. Bob Levine? Bob Levine This is Mr. Bob Levine. Jad Abumrad Mr. Bob Levine is a professor of psychology. Bob Levine California State University. Jad Abumrad And he thinks the answer to that question is time. Bob Levine Time. Jad Abumrad That each city warps time in its own unique way. Bob Levine My cities are my subjects. Jad Abumrad He studied this idea for the past 30 years in all kinds of different ways. Bob Levine We looked at things like percentage of people wearing watches. Jad Abumrad How long does it take bank tellers in each city to change a 20 bill. Robert Krulwich Really? Bob Levine Yeah and then we looked at talking speed. Jad Abumrad Really? Robert Krulwich Talking speed. Bob Levine Yeah we would get on the phone and call post offices since that seemed like something that would be available every place and make a standard request. Would you tell me the difference between regular mail certified mail and insured mail? Postal Worker  Okay certified is when you just need someone to sign for it. Jad Abumrad Then he says they would calculate... Bob Levine The number of syllables per second. Postal Worker  Regular mail just goes air mail if it is out of Utah. Jad Abumrad Salt Lake City Utah. Automated Voice 2.73 syllables per second. Postal Worker  Then if you want the return receipt card to come back to your house... Jad Abumrad Springfield Mass. Postal Worker  You pay an extra 70 cents. You understand? Bob Levine Yes. Automated Voice 3.45 syllables per second. Jad Abumrad And this one? Postal Worker  Certified is when you want... Jad Abumrad Not really sure where it is from because the tape lost the ID but it could be Nashville. Postal Worker  ... proof of mailing and then you want to know who... You want a return receipt. Jad Abumrad And if it is Nashville... Automated Voice 2.65 syllables per second. Bob Levine Slow. Jad Abumrad Well Springfield is like . But the whole talking thing was just really a prelude for Bob. It got him into what I think he is most known for. Robert Krulwich And what we find most fascinating. Bob Levine We actually looked at walking speed. Jad Abumrad Walking! Robert Krulwich Walking. Bob Levine Yeah. Well what I would do is I would get into a new city. Listener 1 - Mumbai And I am in Mumbai India. Listener 2 - Jerusalem Jerusalem. Listener 3 - Buenos Aries Buenos Aires City. Listener 4 - Chiang Mai Ching Mai Thailand. Jad Abumrad We actually put out a call to Radiolab listeners everywhere... Listener 5 - Liberia We are in Buchanan in Liberia. Jad Abumrad ...to help us repeat the study. Listener 6 - Dublin Okay good morning Radiolab. I am recording from Dublin in Ireland. Listener 7 - Oslo Downtown Oslo. Listener 8 - Copenhagen Copenhagen. Bob Levine I would get into a new city and- Jad Abumrad Step one. Bob Levine ... I would scope out main business and shopping areas. Listener  I am in . Listener  . Listener   Street. Jad Abumrad Step two get out some string. Bob Levine A roll of string? Listener 8 - Copenhagen My red string. Bob Levine 60 feet long. Listener 6 - Dublin 20 meters we use over here we would not say feet really. Jad Abumrad Step three use that string to measure out the distance. Listener 8 - Copenhagen Now I just have to roll out the string. Robert Krulwich Now do you tape the one end to the sidewalk? Listener  I would just make more. Jad Abumrad Step four go under cover. Bob Levine Get in a corridor and- Jad Abumrad Be cool. Act like you are reading a paper. Bob Levine ... or waiting for somebody. Listener 8 - Copenhagen All right. Found myself a discrete place. Listener  I think I found a pretty nice spot here. Robert Krulwich Do you use a stopwatch? Bob Levine I would use a stopwatch. Listener 6 - Dublin The stopwatch with its trusty beep. Watch is working. Jad Abumrad Ready?  Listener  Okay I am ready now. Listener 6 - Dublin And go.  And it all goes quiet the minute I want to start. Brilliant thanks Dublin. Jad Abumrad This experiment was actually harder than you would think. Robert Krulwich Much harder. Listener 8 - Copenhagen Radiolab people this is not very easy to do. Jad Abumrad Timing was an issue. People trying to sell you stuff. Listener 6 - Dublin No no no. I do not need a shoe shine. Shoe Shiner Very good shine. Look at my color. Listener 6 - Dublin No. Pigeons do not count. No pigeons do not count. Jad Abumrad Okay. All together now. Robert Krulwich All together now. . Listener 8 - Copenhagen Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Listener  Step. Step. Jad Abumrad Actually it did not sound like that at all. They were not in sync as you can imagine. Every city had its own beat. Listener  Start.  Step step step step step step step. Jad Abumrad Which on some level we knew. But still the range was pretty amazing. Listener 7 - Oslo Stop. 12.2. Automated Voice Oslo. Listener 1 - Mumbai 14.4 second. Automated Voice Mumbai. Listener 5 - Liberia 27 seconds. Automated Voice Buchanan Liberia. Listener 5 - Liberia Wow. Listener 3 - Buenos Aries 13.8. Automated Voice Buenos Aries. Listener  12.13. Automated Voice Mexico City. Listener 8 - Copenhagen 10.1 seconds. Automated Voice Copenhagen. Listener 4 - Chiang Mai 21.5 seconds. Automated Voice Chiang Mai. Listener  11.57 Automated Voice Portland. Listener 2 - Jerusalem 15 and a half seconds. Automated Voice Jerusalem. Jad Abumrad Just to break it down. On the high end you have got... Listener 6 - Dublin Step. Steps. You are on it. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Jad Abumrad The Dubliners. Listener 6 - Dublin Okay she was 9.5. And that is 10.4 Jad Abumrad Who take on average 10.76 seconds to cover 60 feet. Robert Krulwich Compare that to Buchanan Liberia. Listener 5 - Liberia Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Looking around something actually on the head. She got a tiny pink blouse. Robert Krulwich Whose walkers covered the same distance in about... Listener 5 - Liberia 21 seconds. Jad Abumrad 21 seconds. So if you want to think about it in football terms by the time the Dubliner has scored a touchdown... Robert Krulwich The guy from Buchanan Liberia is somewhere I guess around midfield. Oh my god. Jad Abumrad And the spooky thing according to Bob Levine if you do these under the same conditions same place you will get the same time. These times do not change. Dublin is always about this. Listener 6 - Dublin Step. Step. You are on it. Step. Step. Step. Step. Step. Robert Krulwich And Buchanan Liberia is always around this. Listener 5 - Liberia Step. Step. Step. Step. Jad Abumrad Manhattan as we found is right about here usually. Step. Step. Step. With thunder. Step. Step. Step in pink. No Dublin but not bad. Robert Krulwich But why the consistency? What is it that makes that walking speed? Yeah. Jad Abumrad Where does it come from? Robert Krulwich I mean is anybody beating the drum? How well can you change the walking speed? Say a bunch of us got together and decided we were just going to up it my five percent on a given day. Would we get everybody to do it and would they even notice the difference? Jad Abumrad Do we make the city? Or does the city make us? Automated Voice Thank you to our walkers. Listener 3 - Buenos Aries Milena in Buenos Aires. Listener 5 - Liberia Mustafa  Liberia. Listener 2 - Jerusalem  Jerusalem. Listener 8 - Copenhagen Mira Killaman in Copenhagen. Listener 7 - Oslo Marta Oslo. Listener  Aaron Scott. Portland Oregon. Listener   Thailand. Listener  Grant Fuller Mexico City.  Listener 1 - Mumbai  in Mumbai. Listener 6 - Dublin  Nolan. I am Dublin in Ireland. Automated Voice Props also to Daniel  and Anna Sussman. Robert Krulwich Why? Jad Abumrad I do not know because they did not say their name so we put them in there. Okay so getting back to that question I asked a second ago. Robert Krulwich Why is it that cities develop particular beats? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich I mean is it because the city does it to the people? Jad Abumrad Or the people do it to the city? Robert Krulwich Yeah. We ran into a couple of guys who may at least have the start of an answer. Jeff West Yes. Robert Krulwich A couple of physicists oddly enough named Jeffrey West and Luis Betancourt. Jeff West This is Jeffrey and there is Luis on the other side of the table. Luis B. I am here as well. Jad Abumrad Cool. Robert Krulwich They are at the Santa Fe Institute in New Mexico. Jeff West Lots of mesas and so on. Robert Krulwich Nothing like the cities we just visited. Jeff West It is almost biblical in its expanse. Luis B. Yeah the blue skies just kind of make you brave and contemplative and all those good things. Robert Krulwich Brave enough in fact to claim from their high desert perch that these beats the meter of every city that we have just been to actually has underneath it a kind of logic. Jeff West If you tell me the average speed of walking in some City X. Robert Krulwich Take Rochester New York where people walk at about this beat. Automated Voice 60 feet in 12.67 seconds. Robert Krulwich If you do not tell them Rochester you just tell him the number of beats he will tell you... Jeff West The population is maybe one and a quarter million people. Automated Voice Actual population 1.03 million people. Jeff West And the average wage about 60000 a year. Automated Voice Actual average wage . Jad Abumrad Wow. Robert Krulwich Let me ask you a precise question. Are you 100 correct? Are you 80 correct? Jeff West No of course some things you will score close to 100 other things 80. Robert Krulwich But if you start with just the number of footfalls per unit of time they can tell you all kinds of other things about the same place. Jeff West I can tell you how much crime there is in the city. Luis B. Income wages GDP. Jeff West Number of colleges. Luis B. Restaurants. Automated Voice Fancy restaurants. Jeff West Number of theaters for lease. The number of patents being produced there. Cultural events per capita. Number of theaters libraries. The number of AIDS cases it is going to have this year. Jad Abumrad Really? Automated Voice Really. Jeff West All of these things are correlated in a quantitative and I use the word predictive fashion. Jad Abumrad Wait are you saying that just from the number of footsteps per given time that you can tell... Can you tell me how many libraries there are? Jeff West Yeah. Luis B. Yes we can tell you how many you should expect. Jad Abumrad Wow. Robert Krulwich How many things can you count when you are- Luis B. Oh presumably an infinite number but it is limited by the things for which there are data. Jonah Lehrer They have got data from the US Census. Robert Krulwich That is Jonah Lehrer. He is written about Luis and Jeff and he is the one who kind of got us thinking about all this. Jonah Lehrer Japan. Jeff West In China. Jonah Lehrer Data from- Luis B. Sociological surveys. Some data on cell phones. Robert Krulwich And when they put all these numbers together they discovered a deep pattern. Jad Abumrad Call comes from the footsteps. Robert Krulwich No not the footsteps. Even the footsteps are a reflection of this deep and fundamental pattern that governs everything. Just one fact. Jad Abumrad What is it? Robert Krulwich You really want to know? Jad Abumrad Yeah what is it? Robert Krulwich Size. Jeff West The size. Robert Krulwich How many people live there. Jeff West Size matters. Size is the largest determinant of all characteristics of the city. Jad Abumrad They would say Tell me the size of the city and I can explain the vast majority of all these different variables that we can measure. Jeff West Right. Robert Krulwich As a city scales up they say... Jeff West From 100000 to 200000 one million to two million from five million to ten million... Robert Krulwich Everything about it all those things that they have been measuring they scale up too but they scale up- Jeff West According to a very simple mathematical formula. It does not matter that New York has big skyscrapers and is on the ocean and that Boise is in the Rocky Mountains that San Francisco is on San Francisco Bay. Jad Abumrad Wait a second. Wait wait wait wait. That cannot be. That cannot be. No I was with you right up to that last point. I mean you go to the Midwest and it is landlocked and then you go to a port city and it is on a port. That is got to matter. Jeff West It matters but these actually are superficial effects and account for only 10 20 percent of their variation. Jonah Lehrer What they are saying is that those specificities the local history is in large part insignificant and it is completely overwhelmed by these generic laws of urban scaling. That to me is a very interesting and surprising idea simply because we do not think of cities like that at all. Jad Abumrad No we certainly do not. Robert Krulwich That is because you are not a physicist so you do not think abstractly in that regard. Jad Abumrad Well why should I? Robert Krulwich Because sometimes it can be very useful. Remember what these guys have done is they have just created an average profile for every size city. If you are one million or seven million or twelve million here's how many things you should have. Jeff West Now you can ask Okay let us look specifically at that city and ask is it over-performing or under-performing? Luis B. Right. Jad Abumrad So what are some cities that are over-performing for their size? Luis B. Of the large cities San Francisco is quite an innovative city. New York's about average. Jad Abumrad About average? Luis B. In terms of patents.  Robert Krulwich New York's below average? Did you just say that? Jeff West New York produces roughly speaking the number of patents it should for a size. Luis B. You produce for example twice as many patents as Boston. Robert Krulwich We do? Jad Abumrad Hey that is something. That is something. . Luis B. You should have produced many more given the size difference of about- Robert Krulwich We are just average because they are counting patents. We do not have- Jonah Lehrer This is one of the problems with their larger theory which is that- Robert Krulwich Pay no attention to that. Jonah Lehrer ... they are relying on data that the US Census collected so that is a real blind spot. Robert Krulwich If you are counting fabulous if we ever can figure out a way to count fabulous. Jad Abumrad Yeah because he has a point. You are not taking into account the experience of living in a place. Jeff West Well what a theory cannot do is tell you about the essence of New York the New Yorkness of New York. So to speak the soul of the city. Jad Abumrad Where does that come from? Jonah Lehrer Who knows? I mean I think that is such a broad question. Jad Abumrad Obviously it has something to do with lots of people being jammed into a tight space bumping into each other. Jonah Lehrer The kind of people who move there. Jad Abumrad What the physicists would call human friction. That is a story you cannot really tell in math but you can hear it. Take Skip. He gave producer Aaron Scott a tour of his block in Brooklyn. Listen to who he bumps into everyday. Aaron Scott He took us on this tour. First place we went was this Jamaican body shop. Jad Abumrad Body shop as in cars? Aaron Scott Yeah. Skip Sherry Collision specialists. Aaron Scott I mean it is basically these West Indies Jamaican guys listening to Reggaeton and hip hop reggae. Body Shop Worker No I like our kind of music. It is like... Skip Sherry All right that is one place. Aaron Scott And across the street from this is Kinderspiel. Skip Sherry A hidden Orthodox Jewish cookie bakery. Around the corner from that... Aaron Scott It is a butcher that sells live goats and chickens. Skip Sherry And here are the goats. Aaron Scott On the the corner the Hispanic Pentecostal Church. Skip Sherry And every Sunday they give it up to God with this exceedingly enthusiastic band. I huddle at the window and I think This is the best music in the world. I feel that deeply. Aaron Scott Then across the street from that one is a mosque. Skip Sherry It is beautiful on the inside. Across the street... Aaron Scott There is this big building. Skip Sherry And the proprietor of this space is a gay foot fetish film producer.  Show me your feet! Show me your feet! Jad Abumrad Wait a second you have got Jamaicans Orthodox Jews with the cookies Hispanics Jesus Allah goats and gay porn?  Show me your feet. Jad Abumrad All on the same block? Skip Sherry Absolutely. For me that is the hammer and the nails. That is the raw ingredients. Now I am going to take that home and I am going to assemble it into a song. Jad Abumrad When you heard his music could you hear all that stuff? Aaron Scott Some of it is clearer than others. The sounds of the neighborhood like the Reggaeton music of the West Indies auto body shops he kind of takes them and then filters it through some device that makes it sound like bells. Jad Abumrad Oddly enough the day that Aaron spoke with Skip was the day Skip decided... Aaron Scott He is leaving New York City and he put in his notice. Jad Abumrad Which I guess makes his latest album Sonic New York kind of a Dear John letter to the city. You can hear it on our website radiolab.org. Robert Krulwich And Robert Levine's book the one about walking and time stuff is called A Geography of Time. Jad Abumrad More information about that too on our website radiolab.org. Also you can subscribe to our podcast there. Bob Levine This is Robert Levine. I have been told that... Jad Abumrad RadioLab is funded in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Bob Levine And... Jad Abumrad Produced by WNYC and distributed by NPR. Hey it is Jad. RadioLab is supported by Rocket Mortgage by Quicken Loans. Home today is so much more than it was yesterday but at Rocket Mortgage home is still all about you. During these challenging times the top priority at Rocket Mortgage is the health and safety of the communities they serve. Jad Abumrad If you need mortgage assistance their team is available 247 to answer questions and offer solutions whether that means saving money on your mortgage or finding a new way to navigate payments from their home to yours the team at Rocket Mortgage is with you. Visit rocketmortgage.comradiolab to learn more. Call for cost information and conditions. Equal housing lender licensed in all 50 states and MLSconsumeraccess.org number 3030. Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad. RadioLab is supported by Honey. We all shop online a lot and finding promo codes that work is not easy unless you use Honey the free browser extension backed by Paypal that scans the internet for the best promo code and automatically adds it to your cart. Just download Honey to your computer shop like normal click the Apply Coupons button and watch the prices drop. Jad Abumrad It is 100 free to use and installs in just a few seconds. Get Honey for free at joinhoney.comradiolab. That is joinhoney.comradiolab. Intro Speaker I feel like I am looking at a future that is just dark. Anna Sale There is so much that feels scary right now including our finances. I am Anna Sale host of the podcast Death Sex and Money from WNYC Studios. Amanda Clayman And I am financial therapist Amanda Clayman. Yes financial therapy is a thing and right now we could all use it. Intro Speaker There is a lot of fear. Intro Speaker I am furloughed. Intro Speaker What happens next? Anna Sale Listen to our new financial therapy series on the Death Sex and Money podcast. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Adumbrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is RadioLab. Robert Krulwich And our subject right now is... Jad Abumrad Cities. Robert Krulwich So far we have tried to pin down the character of a place with math or with a story or with some music. But it is like trying to take a snapshot of something that is growing and... Jad Abumrad Changing. Robert Krulwich All the time. Jad Abumrad That feeling that Skip had on the rooftop like the city was breathing maybe the city really is. Robert Krulwich Like a living thing. Jeff West Well yes in some ways that is exactly right. They evolve they grow. Robert Krulwich Think about it says Jeff West everyday every minute becomes energy and... Jad Abumrad Food. Robert Krulwich Trucks. Jad Abumrad Water. Jeff West People. Out goes... Jad Abumrad Garbage. Robert Krulwich Ideas songs. Jad Abumrad Stories people. Robert Krulwich Energy in energy out. Energy in energy out. Jad Abumrad That is just what a city needs to do says Jeff. Jeff West Metabolize food so to speak because without that organisms and cities and so on will simply decay. Robert Krulwich So how does a city stay alive? What does it really take for a city to grow? Jad Abumrad Well that question got me thinking about New York and led me to a place I would been wanting to go for awhile.   Jad Abumrad I am starting to hear the reverb a little bit. Robert Krulwich Where are you? Jad Abumrad Underground. 100 feet underground. This is the sound of one of New York City's water tunnels. I am standing in it. It is exactly what you would imagine. A big tube that is about nine feet wide nine feet up perfectly polished cement and it seems to just go forever. Jad Abumrad This is basically you might call it a smaller artery inside the city's circulatory system. When this is online in a couple of months it will pump up to 290 million gallons a day. Something like that which is an awesome thought in the literal sense of the word. Catherine Mallen When you walk through the streets of Manhattan... Jad Abumrad This is Catherine Mallen from the Department of Environmental Protection. Catherine Mallen These water tunnels are anywhere from 200 to 800 feet below your feet. They are silently there and when you turn on your tap... Jad Abumrad When you take a drink you are basking in a daily convenience that is born from blood sweat and death. To explain you really have to go back to a time when there were no tunnels. Diane G. This would be 1790 1800 or so. Jad Abumrad Around that time says historian Diane  New York's population... Diane G. Was booming. It tripled in 20 years. Jad Abumrad And you suddenly had 100000 people all getting their water from the same spot. Diane G. A large freshwater pond called The Collect and they had pigs running around by the hundreds and the chamber pots on the streets. There were livestock in Lower Manhattan at the time. People had cows for milk and so when they died they had to do something with them so... Jad Abumrad Often she says they would throw their dead cows and everything else... Diane G. In the pond. Jad Abumrad The same pond that they were drinking from? Diane G. Right. Jad Abumrad No way. Not surprisingly... Diane G. As the city grew... Jad Abumrad People got sick. Diane G. In 1798 there was a yellow fever epidemic. Killed a couple of thousand people and cholera and typhoid. Jad Abumrad City officials were like This has to change. Diane G. As if to accentuate the point in 1835 there was this huge fire. Jad Abumrad The fire department rushes out to put out the fire but they cannot. Diane G. It was in December and the rivers froze and they could not get water to the fires. John  If you do not have water to fight the fire the city burns down. Jad Abumrad It is pretty simple. Diane G. Yeah 700 buildings. Jad Abumrad That is our starting point. A New York City that could not grow. By the way the guy we just heard... John  John . Jad Abumrad He is a Sand Hog part of the long line of guys who blasted New York out of its poopy pond phase and into its future. Can I ask you a question? Why are you guys called Sand Hogs? Why would not you be called tunnel blasters or earth movers or something that is more... Do you have any idea where that name come from? John  Yeah it comes from the dictionary. Really and I love the look on people's faces when they ask me that and that is the answer. It is described in Webster's Dictionary as- Automated Voice A laborer who digs or works in sand. John  The original Sand Hogs were the soft ground guys compressed air that is where you- Jad Abumrad To back up for a second when the city decided to scrap the pond in favor of clean water from upstate it faced a couple of challenges and this was also true when they designed- John  The subway system. Jad Abumrad Namely nature. How do you for example build a tunnel under a river? John  Well they were Sand Hogs. Send them down they dug. Literally dug with what we call mucksticks shovels  60 50 100 feet under the bottom of the river. Nick S. Men with shovels excavating ground. Jad Abumrad That is Nick . Nick S. I am a tunneling engineer. Generally it is a dark dank place. Jad Abumrad Now the obvious engineering problems at the river bottom which is now above their heads is soft. Nick S. Sands and silts and gravels. Jad Abumrad How do you keep that from not falling on your head? Nick S. That is when compressed air started being used. Jad Abumrad The basic idea says Nick is that these huge pumps would basically pump air into the tunnels at such pressure that it would basically push the ceiling up. Nick S. Exactly so the mud does not cave in on you. John  The compressed air holds that thing from collapsing in on you. Jad Abumrad Usually. The engineers on the shore had to get the pressure just right says Chick because if they did not you would get this absolutely terrifying situation that is maybe the best cocktail party story ever. John  We used to give an award. We have not given it in many years. We call it the Marshall Maybe award. They were doing one of those tunnels to Brooklyn. The men were up in the face of the tunnel they are digging away. Nick S. And then very suddenly... John  There is a blow out. Jad Abumrad In the face of the wall a puncture hole develops. Tiny at first but it quickly becomes- John  Bigger and bigger. Jad Abumrad Until it is the size of- Nick S. Sort of an eye. Jad Abumrad Then a whole head and all the compressed air rushes into that hole. John  It would be like if you shot a hole through an airplane. All the air would... Jad Abumrad Hats are flying into this whole lanterns shovels then a guy goes into the whole. Robert Krulwich A guy? Jad Abumrad Yeah a human being into the whole and another guy then a third. John  The third guy must have been the luckiest Sand Hog in the world. Nick S. This is an article from The New York Times. As I struck the mud it felt as if something was squeezing me tighter than I would ever been squeezed before. John  He blew through all that 60 feet of muck then through the river up to the surface. The pressure blew him right up into the air. Nick S. They tell me I was thrown about 25 feet above the water when I came out but I do not remember that. That is remarkable. John  He came back down and landed right alongside a police boat. Jad Abumrad In the water? John  In the water. So they took him they cleaned him up he went home he came to work the next day. Jad Abumrad What? John  That is why they gave him the award. That is why the award is- Jad Abumrad You are kidding me. John  No I am not kidding you. Jad Abumrad  In the early days no one kept track of how many people died building New York's tunnels. The number is probably in the thousands. So wait this right here this plaque that we are looking at... Richie Fitzsimmons This plaque was donated. Jad Abumrad This is Richie Fitzsimmons. He is the current head of the Sand Hogs Union and we are standing in front of a big stone plaque with two dozen names on it. Richie Fitzsimmons It is in memory of all the people that we lost in tunnels in New York City since 1970 since we started keeping records. Some more of the photos come on. Jad Abumrad Later he showed me a picture which really underlined the point. It is a picture of him on his first compressed air job. Oh wow look at that. Richie Fitzsimmons This is myself. Jad Abumrad He is 19 he is huddled with five other guys and they are in this crowded tunnel and they are all black with soot and he points to each guy in turn. Richie Fitzsimmons Dead dead dead dead had cancer is still alive still alive. Jad Abumrad If you ask any of the Sand Hogs why they do this mostly they will tell you We have got to. The city cannot grow without its tunnels but you also get answers like this from Chick. He says When you are down there and it is pitch black and you are just walking along... John  You are 600 foot under Manhattan you are at approximately 30th Street or something you are in the middle of the greatest city in the world nobody even knows you exist. Nobody has a clue. It is just beautiful. It is a weird place. It is like being on a planet somewhere. Jad Abumrad He says when he is literally in this rock that is half a billion years old he sometimes feels very humbled. John  You are in the middle of the earth. You want to see nature here it is. Richie Fitzsimmons That is a romantic way of saying it. The human reality of it is... John  Here's Richie's take. Richie Fitzsimmons Remember when you were a kid and they used to give you the ant farms and the ant farms were big. We are ants. The ants there is so fricking many of them that if you got to squish a few if they have got to use each other to step over each other to keep that whole thing that is it. Jad Abumrad That does not sound very grand the way you are putting it. Richie Fitzsimmons That is reality. Jad Abumrad Our job is conquer nature he says plain and simple. Richie Fitzsimmons We are builders. Human beings are builders and collectively there is nothing that we cannot do. Nothing. Jad Abumrad October 14th 1842. Diane G. Oh it was a huge celebration. Jad Abumrad Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers lined Broadway. Diane G. There was firing of cannons and the ringing of church bells. Fireworks even. Jad Abumrad And at the end of it all says Diane everybody gathered in City Hall Park. Diane G. They turned a big fountain on and... Jad Abumrad Water shot 50 feet into the air. New York City would never be the same. It could finally be a city. But here's where you start to wonder a little bit about the real legacy of cities. What you see almost immediately after this moment according to Diane is that water usage- Diane G. Skyrocketed. Jad Abumrad Suddenly you had indoor plumbing. Diane G. All the new buildings were being outfitted with water closets and... Jad Abumrad Kids were playing in the hydrants all day long and to make a long story short just 10 years later the city is out of water again so they got to build more tunnels and then more and if you follow the water in those tunnels back upstate you see that the city is gobbling up reservoirs. Diane G. One after another. Jad Abumrad Dozens which meant it had to kick people off that land. Diane G. A thing called imminent domain. Jad Abumrad Their villages would have to be- Diane G. Bulldozed and burned. Jad Abumrad Cemeteries. Diane G. Uprooted. Jad Abumrad Do you see what is happening? I mean you could see this city that we live in as a kind of monster. It is just always hungry. Eat eat eat. Eat eat eat. Robert Krulwich Wait a second because there is another logic available here. If you took all the people in New York City all those New Yorkers... Jonah Lehrer If you have every inhabitant of New York City suddenly left New York City and moved to small towns all across America you would need a ton of resources to make that possible. Jad Abumrad That is Jonah Lehrer again by the way. Jonah Lehrer In a sense New York City saves lots of forests. Robert Krulwich Saves lots of water and the reason why well that takes us back to Jeff and Luis's ideas about cities. Jeff West Well I suppose- Robert Krulwich Because it all started years ago. Jeff was studying this time it was living things. Jeff West Let us go back to biology for a moment. Robert Krulwich He looked at a huge variety of creatures and for each one he collected data. Jeff West Everything from its metabolic rate to length of its aorta how quickly it breathes. Robert Krulwich He discovered something kind of fascinating about creatures as they grow bigger and bigger. Jeff West If you double the size of an organism you double the number of cells that need to be sustained. You would therefore expect that the energy you need to supply would double. You would double the number of customers so to speak. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jeff West No. Jad Abumrad No? Jeff West That is not the case. Instead of doubling it needs less energy per unit cell to sustain the whole organism. So there is a kind of- Robert Krulwich Wait a second. That means that the cell is somehow doing more with less? Jeff West Right. Jad Abumrad Does that also mean though that an elephant cell somehow is more efficient than a mouse cell? Jeff West That is correct. Jad Abumrad Huh. Robert Krulwich And Jeff says the way they do that is pretty simple. They just move slower. Jeff West They process energy at a slower rate. Robert Krulwich If you take a mouse cell cell that lives in a mouse and does its work brings in resources spits out the waste brings in more resources spits out the waste it does this to a particular beat. But now says Jeff if you listen to an elephant's cell bringing in stuff and pumping out the waste it is moving obviously slower. So it is using less energy in a given moment which makes it more efficient. Jad Abumrad What does that have to do with cities? Robert Krulwich Turns out cities work kind of the same way. Jonah Lehrer In cities you see the same kind of efficiency when it comes to infrastructure. Jeff West Electricity. Luis B. Length of roads. Jeff West Water. Luis B. Length of pipes. Length of electrical cables. Jeff West Gasoline. Luis B. How much gas is consumed. Jeff West Here's the point. The bigger the city the less roads you need per capita. Jad Abumrad What does per capita mean anyways? Robert Krulwich Per person. Jad Abumrad Per person. Jeff West The less electrical cable lines you need per capita the less gasoline stations you need per capita et cetera et cetera. Robert Krulwich Every unit of pipe carries more water or more sewage. Every line of electrical wire carries more- Jad Abumrad Right right. Jeff does that mean then that if I move to a bigger and bigger city do I in a sense become greener the bigger the city I live in? Jeff West Mm-hmm . Yeah that is a very interesting- Luis B. Yeah it is a very good question. Jad Abumrad This is where Luis and Jeff- Luis B. I think the case is still a little bit out- Jad Abumrad And even Jonah. Jonah Lehrer It gets complicated when you ask Are people more or less efficient- Jad Abumrad This is when everybody starts to throw in all these caveats and qualifications. Jeff West All these other variables.  Jad Abumrad Quivocations and ambivalations and prognostications and . Let me just tell you what I think. Robert Krulwich I think you better. Jad Abumrad All right we all love to talk about how green we are when we live in cities. This is something everybody in the city talks about. Robert Krulwich Because we are. Because we take the subway and the bus.  We do not drive and driving is the most energy consuming thing. Jad Abumrad Right but listen to me. The analogy that you just gave me it does not work. Okay you said that cells as they go from small bodies to big bodies slow down. Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Well... Jonah Lehrer Cities the opposite happens of course. As cities get bigger each individual unit in that city moves faster. Jad Abumrad Thank you Jonah. We speed up. Robert Krulwich That is true. Jad Abumrad We learned this earlier and this is not trivial okay? Because as we speed up we bump into more people we have more ideas we invent new things we want more things. We want more. Jeff West More of everything. Luis B. New tastes new ideas. Jad Abumrad More interactions more human friction. More! Robert Krulwich More choices. Jad Abumrad Yeah a better life. That is what a city's all about. Robert Krulwich Is there anything wrong with that? Jad Abumrad No not at all but all I am saying is there is a cost to it that we do not acknowledge. Jonah Lehrer West and Betancourt did this back of the envelope calculation where it is long been known that a body at perfect rest if you lie in your bed all day in a coma you will consume about 91 watts of electricity. Jeff West That is called your basal metabolic rate. Jonah Lehrer If you are a hunter gatherer living in some tribe in New Zealand you will consume about 240 watts of electricity everyday. Jeff West The energy just simply to stay alive plus the energy you need to hunt and gather. Jonah Lehrer However if you are living in America the wattage required to drive your car run your computer make your clothes- Jeff West Heat air conditioning being able to go to movies. Jad Abumrad On and on and on. Jeff West All of the various things that constitute our life. If you add all those up... Jad Abumrad Your lifestyle requires about 11000 watts of electricity everyday. Robert Krulwich Whoa. Jad Abumrad That is more energy than a blue whale requires. Robert Krulwich Some of you listening particularly if you are an engineer you may think Wait a second why are you calling these watts when it is power through a system? Power through a human call them joules. That is the technically correct word and you would be right would not you? But the numbers are the same so we will just call them watts. Jonah Lehrer One way to look at what cities have enabled us to do is basically live like 300 million blue whales in America. Robert Krulwich Are you sure that cities are causing this development that it begins and ends with cities? Jad Abumrad You cannot assign it all to cities but that psychology of wanting more that is a city psychology. That is why people come to cities and then the lifestyle that grows up around that gets broadcast out on TV and radios and movies which are city industries out to the country. Jad Abumrad If you just take a historical look at this the last 300 years have seen more and more consumption right? And that trend says Jonah... Jonah Lehrer It is grown in neat parallel with the growth of cities. Cities have enabled that kind of growth. Robert Krulwich Even if you guys are right and we know that half the planet already is living in cities- Jad Abumrad 80 of America. Robert Krulwich So yes there are more people. I will agree with that. Jad Abumrad More choices. Robert Krulwich Asking for- Jad Abumrad More consumption more energy more more more more more. Robert Krulwich Even if that is so cities because they also are ingenious and they come up with all these new ideas maybe cities will solve the problem. Right now Jad someone somewhere in Calcutta is about to invent the super light bulb elevator telephone pipe that will make it possible for another 200  people to live together in peace harmony and beauty until the next round. Jad Abumrad All right you go ahead and cling to that optimism. Robert Krulwich And you of course can go hang yourself in the corner. We will be right back. I am Robert Krulwich that is Jad. This is RadioLab. John Hey this is John calling from the City of Brotherly Love. RadioLab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is RadioLab. Robert Krulwich And our subject today is cities. Jad Abumrad Cities. Robert Krulwich If cities are like organisms and one thing we should say about every organism that is ever been... Jad Abumrad They die. Robert Krulwich Yeah they die. Jad Abumrad So you would think cities would die. Robert Krulwich You would. Jad Abumrad But Jonah says no. Jonah Lehrer Cities die very very rarely and they almost never die if there has not been a total total catastrophe physical catastrophe. Jad Abumrad Which is weird if you think about it says Jonah because take a company. Robert Krulwich Sometimes they can get very big so that they included hundreds of thousands of employees and yet they die all the time. Jonah Lehrer Of the 30 companies in the original Dow Jones only three are still on the Dow Jones index. If you took 30 cities from the 1920s I can guarantee you all 30 of those randomly selected cities would still exist on the map and the question is why. Why do not they die like every other social organization? Robert Krulwich What is it about cities that gives them this crazy persistence? Jad Abumrad That question led us to a place that by all measures should have died long ago. A place called . Okay so we begin on the side of... Where are we? Pat Walters We are on Route 61 in eastern Pennsylvania. Jad Abumrad Right. This is Pat by the way. He is a producer at RadioLab. Pat Walters Hello hello hello. Robert Krulwich I know who Pat is thank you very much. Jad Abumrad Anyhow. Pat Walters We are waiting for this guy named Tom to meet up with us. Jad Abumrad Hey are you Tom? Tom Yep. Pat Walters Tom . Jad Abumrad How you doing? I am Jad. Tom  When did you get here? Just now? Jad Abumrad Just now. Pat Walters We had asked Tom to show us around his town. Tom Probably the best place to go is up on the hill up there and you can look over everything. Pat Walters Okay sure. Jad Abumrad So we go up on the hill with Tom. Pat Walters We actually meet up with another Tom. Tom D. Tom Dempsey. I was the former postmaster here. Jad Abumrad So we now have two Toms. Tom Tom. Pat Walters Very confusing. Jad Abumrad Anyhow the four of us stare down into a valley that used to have a town in it. Tom There was all streets with homes on them all over here. Jad Abumrad Now Centralia is just trees. Tom D. Right down here was the- Jad Abumrad Tom 2 points to some trees. Tom D. Our high school. Over here... Jad Abumrad More trees. Tom D. Saint Ignatius Church.  There used to be a playground right at the bottom of this little hill right here. You can still see the bars. Jad Abumrad This is where things get a little strange. I mean right next to the swing set where kids used to laugh their little heads off there is a hole in the ground. Pat Walters Right there I can see some steam coming out of the ground. Jad Abumrad Spewing steam. Pat and I would later discover when we got close to it that that steam was really hot. Pat Walters It is hot and wet. Jad Abumrad Oh my god. Pat Walters Motherfucker. Jad Abumrad Where exactly is the fire? Tom Underneath us. Jad Abumrad Like how far? Tom Here? 50 feet maybe. Jad Abumrad So 50 feet down. Tom If it is. Jad Abumrad Can I ask you if the smell does not bother you guys? Tom What smell? Jad Abumrad You can smell it. It smells like burning tires here. Tom D. I do not smell it. Tom That must be from New York that is stuck in your nose or something. Jad Abumrad Come on. It really did smell. Pat Walters But the thing no one can deny is that underneath our feet there is a web of coal mines that stretches for miles. Tom 40 miles in each direction 30 miles. Jad Abumrad Somewhere in those mines is a fire that is been burning for 40 years and has either destroyed this town... Pat Walters Or not. Jad Abumrad Depending on who you ask. This is Pat right here. Mary Lou My name is Mary Lou . I am 82 years old and I lived in Centralia most of my adult life. Jad Abumrad What year were you born in if you mind me asking? Mary Lou What year was I born? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Mary Lou 1927. Jad Abumrad Mary Lou Gone grew up in a town not too far from Centralia. Pat Walters Tiny little farm town called Burnsville. Jad Abumrad When she got to Centralia she said... Mary Lou It was like moving to the city. It had a legion had a truck store it had... Jad Abumrad Couple thousand people. Mary Lou Lots of bar rooms in Centralia. Somebody told me one time there were 22 bar rooms in Centralia. I do not know if that was true because I did not frequent bar rooms at that age. Jad Abumrad And all these places that she just mentioned were right on top of each other. Pat Walters So when you were walking around you would see people all the time. Mary Lou Just take for instance you go to the post office after work- Tom D. I will show you where the post office was. Mary Lou Tom would be there sometimes. Tom D. I was post master here for a number of years. Pat Walters You are pointing at a forest. Tom D. It is hard to imagine this stuff. Pat Walters It is hard to imagine. Mary Lou Yeah I walked in the post office because your mail was not delivered. So I would go up to the post office I would get my mail and you would meet people in the post office you would meet people coming out of the post office. Tom D. This was a good football field here now it is all growing in nobody's cutting the grass there is bushes growing up in it now. Mary Lou Tom Dempsey would have a story. I would be an hour until I got home. A whole hour. This is how Centralia was. Jad Abumrad Okay fast forward. It is Memorial Day 1962. Tom This is where the bar used to dump all their garbage. Now the fire started I would say just about right here where I am standing right now. Jad Abumrad Tommy points to a little patch of non-descript yellow grass. Tom Right here. Jad Abumrad How did it start? Do we have any idea? Tom Well it started- Jad Abumrad The most likely scenario he says we also heard this from a writer named Joan Quigley. Joan Quigley I am the writer of The Day The Earth Caved In. Jad Abumrad Is that people used to heat their homes with coal and maybe somebody threw their ashes into the garbage which then ended up onto the dump. Pat Walters It caught the whole thing on fire. Joan Quigley Furniture rugs kerosene cans. Jad Abumrad Which Joan says was not that unusual. Joan Quigley Some of the former fire fighters said the dumps caught on fire all the time. Jad Abumrad And usually the fires just fizzled out on their own but this one for whatever reason before it did wandered a little bit. Pat Walters It found its way over to an old exposed... Tom D. Exposed  there. Jad Abumrad Basically an old strip mine that should have been covered but was not. Joan Quigley So there was just a big open cavity. Jad Abumrad When the fire got in there and- Tom Hit that coal vein. Jad Abumrad Poof. Tom Fire trucks came up here and they hosed down the fire until they thought it was out and they left. Following day somebody says Oh we see smoke and steam coming out of the ground up there. So they came back the next day and they tried to get the fire out and they could not very well do it. They were not getting it. Jad Abumrad Because at that point it was too late. Mary Lou I would not know where to start with this mine fire. I would not know where to start. Jad Abumrad The first place that fire camped out was right underneath Mary Lou's house. Mary Lou I have some . Pat Walters And from that point on it kind of took over her life. Jad Abumrad My goodness are these your scrapbooks? When we were there she pulled out these two- Pat Walters Gigantic scrapbooks. This is going to take four men to lift this book. Jad Abumrad Each book is literally three feet tall and they document in painful detail how that fire split the town in two. Mary Lou This is how intense I was with this mine fire. Pat Walters She heaved open the book and she showed us this picture of three people crouched on the street in front of a hole. Mary Lou This is my husband my son and me. Jad Abumrad Husband holding a thermometer. Mary Lou We dropped this down on a fishing pole down on a- Jad Abumrad Oh like you are ice fishing. Mary Lou Yeah. Jad Abumrad This was their way of measuring the temperature of the fire below. What did it read? Mary Lou It was pretty high. Jad Abumrad 100 degrees high. Mary Lou 850 something like that. Jad Abumrad What? Under your house? Mary Lou No this was on the street. Pat Walters But the street right in front of her house. Jad Abumrad Oh wow. Mary Lou The garage was right... As you can see the garage here it was right there. Jad Abumrad She showed us another picture of her standing in her garage in front of a trench that they dug and inside that trench you see flames. Mary Lou Oh we used to go out at night and watch the glowing and the embers. Pat Walters Fire up there got so bad that some of Mary Lou's neighbors actually got government money to leave their houses. Joan Quigley They were the first people bought out. Pat Walters Never once at the beginning did you think Oh maybe we should just get out of here? Mary Lou No. Pat Walters There is a fire under. Never? Mary Lou No. I never  no. Jad Abumrad Instead she did exactly the opposite. Mary Lou This was my husband and this was a big official and this was- Pat Walters She dug in her heels and started writing letters. Mary Lou Congressmen Mulligan Musto we wrote letters to him. We talked on the phone with him. I could not tell you all the congressmen we talked to. Four governors all the Harrisburg officials and they were promising everything but the sun but it never happened. Joan Quigley But other than the people who lived on that street many many people in town did not have to worry or even think about the mine fire. Mary Lou Nobody ever believed that the fire was even serious in Centralia. My husband myself and . Pat Walters Oh so everyone else was kind of . Mary Lou It is uptown. The fire's uptown. Jad Abumrad All that changed on Valentine's Day 1981. Todd D. We are up a little bit higher. Pat Walters Because of this guy. Jad Abumrad A fella named Tom Demboski who at the time was just a boy. Todd D. I was 12. Joan Quigley 12 year old boy. Jad Abumrad He is playing outside. Joan Quigley In his grandmother's backyard. Todd D. I noticed some small whisps of smoke coming out of the ground. Joan Quigley So he went over to take a look. Todd D. As I bent down to investigate I noticed that my feet were starting to sink in. It was really soft. Joan Quigley It was like quicksand. Todd D. The more I tried to struggle the more I was just opening the hole larger. Joan Quigley He wound up sliding. Todd D. To my thighs to my waist. Joan Quigley Until he was... Todd D. I was under. Joan Quigley All the way underground surrounded by hot steam. Todd D. The smoke was so intense. Joan Quigley Smells like rotten eggs. Jad Abumrad Whoa. Todd D. I was screaming for my cousin. Joan Quigley And his cousin heard him and came running over. Todd D. Plucked me out like a flower. Joan Quigley What happened to him changed everything. Jad Abumrad Because suddenly reporters were everything. Todd D. Reporters from the Evening Herald. News Reporter This is Night Line. Joan Quigley National news media. Jad Abumrad Everybody pointing their cameras at Todd. Todd D. I seen smoke so I went over to see if it was the mine fire and when I did I just fell right through. Jad Abumrad And doing stories about this town that was on fire. News Reporter Beneath Centralia the underground coal fires still burn hot. News Reporter Centralia is an inferno. Literally. Joan Quigley That attention- News Reporter Parts of Centralia look like the outskirts of hell. Joan Quigley ... would focus- News Reporter Toxic fumes. Joan Quigley ... on what had to happen for the town. Pat Walters It was not long says Joan before some of the other residents- Joan Quigley Very small informal group of young parents. Pat Walters ... organized a march. Joan Quigley Down Locust Avenue down the main street in town. Pat Walters How many people are we talking about here? Joan Quigley Couple dozen with red ribbons around their arms and their wrists. They walked two by two down the main street of Centralia like striking miners. Jad Abumrad Mary Lou glared at them as they passed. Mary Lou I was bitter. I was bitter. They claimed they were for helping the town to be saved but they were not. Jad Abumrad What they were really for she figured was getting out. Mary Lou They were looking for funds to get relocated. Jad Abumrad She even hated their name. Joan Quigley Concerned Citizens Against the Centralia Mine Fire. Jad Abumrad She thought how are they the concerned citizens? She is the concerned citizen. She had been fighting the fire for years. Mary Lou Yeah. Joan Quigley The media was there taking video. Jad Abumrad Cameras filmed the marchers looping red ribbon over everything and Mary Lou's neighbor Helen... Joan Quigley Cut the red ribbons down. Mary Lou Because we fought so hard to try to save Centralia. Why did they want to do this? Joan Quigley People like Mary Lou and Helen Wilmer... Jad Abumrad They started telling people... Joan Quigley No no no. Here's why it is safe. Here's why you should stay. Pat Walters While parents from the other group were on TV complaining about gases... Parent It is in the home and it could be a death house. Jad Abumrad Mary Lou Helen and a few others started up their own committee. News Reporter The United Centralia Area Mine Task Force. Jad Abumrad They got on TV themselves and in the community they started printing out fliers. Joan Quigley Fact sheets. Jad Abumrad And handing them out. Joan Quigley Yep door-to-door. David Lam Okay I call this meeting to order. Jad Abumrad At town meetings the dueling committees would get up there and make their case. Parent But this is a- Jad Abumrad Get yelled down. Parent ... will not protect us! Jad Abumrad Would it get- Mary Lou Get rowdy. Parent Absolutely ridiculous. David Lam Families fighting against families neighbors against neighbors. Mary Lou There is Lammy. David Lam They split the town apart. Jad Abumrad Who is that? Mary Lou David Lam. Jad Abumrad This guy David Lam ran a motorcycle shop in town and he was also a member of this concerned citizens organization. One morning about 00 AM... Joan Quigley He was sleeping in an apartment and someone threw a Molotov cocktail through his plate glass window. Jad Abumrad Mary Lou showed us an article from scrapbook. It was related to Lam's activities as an officer of Concerned Citizens. Wow. This is no joke. This is like the Sopranos but worse. Mary Lou This was really... It was really bad. Pat Walters In the midst of all this chaos Congress started considering a bill that would basically let them buy out the town. News Reporter Some observers believe that for about 50 million Centralia could be totally bought out. Pat Walters Until the mayor decided let us hold a referendum. Joan Quigley And the issue was stay or go. Jad Abumrad In the weeks leading up to the referendum Mary Lou and Helen again went door to door talking to people they would known their whole lives and pretty much everyone they talked to said... Joan Quigley I really want to stay. My mother wants to stay. Jad Abumrad August 11th 1983. News Reporter Shortly before 00 this evening Centralia's mayor announced the results. Mayor There is 545 votes cast. 200 voted to stay 345 voted to relocate. Mary Lou I was crying yes. In my heart I never thought that would happen ever. Jad Abumrad You thought that everybody would stay. Mary Lou We would stay. Maybe 40 people might decide or maybe 30 but that was devastating to know that so many people wanted to move. It was. Jad Abumrad When you look at her scrapbooks everything stops after that day. Mary Lou Yeah this is just thrown in papers. Pat Walters Wow it just stopped so abruptly. Mary Lou Yep. I was mad and disgusted. I did not want to do no more about it. That was the end. Pat Walters Almost immediately after that vote Congress bought out the town people started packing up and leaving. Mary Lou Let me see where it is. I have some that has the big numbers on it. Pat Walters Mary Lou told us that when you decided to leave a demolition crew would actually come to your house and paint... Mary Lou Red letters like this. Pat Walters A big number one in front of your house. Mary Lou It looked like blood was dripping off. Jad Abumrad Oh it is like you were marked. Mary Lou Yeah. Jad Abumrad What would happen she says when your house was marked is that your neighbors would see it they would get nervous then suddenly their houses would be marked. Then suddenly the whole block would be marked. Mary Lou I know everyone quite well and I think I stopped talking to some of them. Jad Abumrad She would see them on the street she says and look the other way. Mary Lou I did not like any of them. Jad Abumrad Really? Mary Lou Mm-hmm . Pat Walters Then one day in the fall of 1987 these divisions caused something to happen that is just kind of mythically bad. Joan Quigley Yeah. Jad Abumrad It involved a married couple who would been in the town. Well she would been there her whole life. Joan Quigley As a couple they were divided. One wanted to stay one wanted to go. I think it was the wife who did not want to leave. Mary Lou The husband he was a shovel runner and he wanted to take the money you get from relocation and get out. Joan Quigley Their neighbors were moving had moved. The houses around them were being torn down and they had to make a decision. Pat Walters All we really know is that at some point they started to argue and it escalated. Joan Quigley He stabbed her to death with a kitchen knife and then drove up to an old stripping pit and set himself and his car on fire. Jad Abumrad Wow. This is going to sound like a strange question but is there anything about that that makes sense to you? Why could not people let go of this place? Joan Quigley It is very primal. Jad Abumrad Beyond that she really could not say why. We asked Mary Lou who hung on long after the murder after that referendum after the town was basically empty. Mary Lou I have no idea what kept me there. I have no idea. Jad Abumrad You have no idea? Mary Lou Uh-uh . No idea. I just did not want to move. Jad Abumrad  Yeah. Today 11 people live in town. Tom His brother and his wife and... Tom D. My mom and them live down in the intersection. Jad Abumrad Tom and Tom pointed them all out from the hill. We knocked on every door figured we would ask them what it is that keeps them living literally on top of a fire. Hi good evening. Wow. That was the shortest... Pat Walters But none of them wanted to talk to us. Jad Abumrad Not even the dogs. Hi. Whoa! Okay  all right. But then Tom 2 took us to one last spot. Pat Walters Where are we right now? Tom D. We are in Saint Ignatius Roman Catholic Cemetery. Jad Abumrad This cemetery is just a few feet away from the hill where we started and it is a really strange contrast. You go from this steamy hell and then suddenly you are in woodsy Vermont. Tom D. There is a lot of people. Jad Abumrad It is beautiful. Tom D. This is my grandfather and my grandmother. Jad Abumrad Tom has four generations buried here. Pat Walters Do you know how many people are here Tom? Tom D. There is over 3000 burials in this cemetery alone. Pat Walters 3000? Tom D. Yes. Plus. Jad Abumrad The thing is says Tom even the people that left fled that fire continue to come back and be buried in this cemetery which means this place this cemetery is the only thing in Centralia that is still growing. Suddenly how Joan put it earlier... Joan Quigley It is very primal. Jad Abumrad Made sense. Joan Quigley You can experience your life on a multigenerational plane. Tom D. This is where my great grandparents are buried. Pat Walters Which means in a sense this town will never die as long as the cemetery's still here. Tom D.  read their name on here. Jad Abumrad This year? Tom D. Dig it out. Jad Abumrad Oh it is under the dirt. Tom D.  Get this up out of here somehow. It is sinking down into the ground. Jad Abumrad It is in the dirt now. Tom D. Yeah see it? Jad Abumrad Here we go. I can see it. Tom D. S-E-Y. Jad Abumrad See the S. Y. Thanks to Pat Walters for reporting that with me and also to Chris Perckle and Georgie Roland who directed a great documentary about Centralia called The Town That Was. You can find out more information about that on our website radiolab.org. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad. Bye. Joan Quigley Hello this is Joan Quigley. RadioLab is produced by Jad Abumrad and Brenna Farrell. Our staff includes... Jad Abumrad Ellen Horn Soren Wheeler Pat Walters. Joan Quigley Tim Howard and Lynn Levey with help from Nicole Corrie and Sam Rowdman. That is all folks.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 