  Before we start a quick heads-up. This episode contains some graphic language and descriptions of very sensitive sexual situations including discussions of sexual consent and accountability which might be very difficult for some people to listen to.     Hey Im Jad Abumrad this is Radiolab. Today we have part two of a three-part series that were calling In The No. No as in n-o. We were inspired to do this after hearing a set of stories on a show called The Heart produced by Kaitlin Prest. Last week we played excerpts of that series. And if you havent heard last weeks episode I would encourage you to go back and listen. Because the stories that Kaitlin told which got some very intense reactions from our listeners online all over the map. However you feel I mean those stories that she made are a very striking personal view of consent from the inside. Now it also just so happens that Kaitlin produced those stories in the spring of 2017 which was the spring just before all the accusations started hitting the news. First against Harvey Weinstein and then congressmen like Al Franken actors like Kevin Spacey and then comedians. And then in many cases the very people the very men who were reporting about those stories.   And much of what made it into the news was pretty clear cut. Like criminal cases or accusations of clear breaches of consent. But then we started to hear about the cases that were harder. Not explicitly criminal more nuanced. And that gray zone which Kaitlin was -- was in many ways exploring in her piece it occurred to us like this is a conversation were all trying to have right now. So what we started doing in the wake of listening to her stories was doing a series of interviews of our own with people all over the map who are thinking and re-thinking consent in interesting ways. Well play a couple over the next two weeks. But we ran into one particular interview.   Let us see if its working. Kaitlin are you there?   Yes Im here.   Hey hey I did it!   You did it!   That we could not stop thinking about. In fact it created a lot of really difficult conversations internally. And we -- so we just kind of decided why do not play this thing relatively raw? Which we dont do very often but lets just put it out more or less how it happened in all of its flaws.   Kaitlin Kaitlin? Can you hear Hannah?   Yes--its Hanna.   Hanna. Okay sorry.   Yeah.   Kaitlin could you hear Hanna?   Im speaking can you hear me?   Yes I can hear you.   Okay sweet. Thanks for coming in both of you guys.   Thank you. Really glad to be here.   Okay since Ive already pronounced your name incorrectly can you tell me who you are and how to say your name and what you do?   Sure. My name is Hanna Stotland. Im an independent consultant. I work on -- sorry Im an independent educational consultant and I specialize in educational crisis management.    And we called up Hanna because she has a very particular vantage point on this whole set of questions.   When I see an unfamiliar number from a distant area code on my phone if I can I pick that up. And it happens quite regularly that I pick it up and I just hear sobbing.   Hmm.   Thats a mom whose kid just got expelled. So that happens regularly.   Like daily weekly?   More like once or twice a month.   Often the calls are coming from moms whose sons have been accused of some kind of sexual misconduct.   I got my first two calls on that topic in January of 2014. And since then its grown and grown and grown. And about a third of my work now is students who are involved with Title IX in one way or another.   Title IX is a federal law that deals with among other things sexual harassment sexual violence on college campuses. What Hanna will do when she gets these calls is shell work with these young men whove been accused to get them back into school. Either the school they were in but more often it means transferring to a different school.   So families hire me to help their kids get into college or grad school usually. I think it is a good thing when people in general even people who may have done something very bad who want education can continue to get education as long as theyre seeking it honestly.   But what if you -- but what if you are then just deferring the problem to some other campus? Lets say theres a guy who -- thats victimized somebody.   Mm-hmm.   And you help them get to another college where maybe they do it again?   Well theyd -- they would be in the community one way or another. And I think this is an area where I see a lot of problems with classism and probably racism too. Where were so concerned about that accused person being on another college campus if he isnt on a college campus where do you think hes gonna be?   Because hes not going to jail. The students that were talking about typically the police dont even get called but if they do they come and see the evidence and say This evidence is so thin you know were not even gonna impose charges. So say you know okay well hes not going to college anymore hes gonna work at McDonalds. And so if theres a risk to the fellow people at McDonalds then we just dont care. Because they are not the upper middle-class white women who were actually worried about ...   Oh interesting.   ... on the college campuses. And I have misgivings about the idea that -- that college students are special. Need -- that community needs special attention that other young adults dont need.   So youre -- just so that I know that I have your point of view -- that I understand it its that you dont -- its not that you dont think that some people should be expelled sometimes.   Oh yeah. Oh sure they should.   Its more that -- yeah okay.   But I feel very comfortable with the idea that people who want to continue their education ought to be able to make their case for why they want to continue it. What I do is help them talk about what happened. So if youre interested in covering it up or hiding it theres no reason to hire me.   Mm-hmm.   I help you have that hard conversation or write that difficult essay about what went wrong. Even if you feel you were wrongly accused you were railroaded by the school you better find unwise choices that you made selfish choices that you made. There are not a lot of these cases where I think Wow you handled everything perfectly. You didnt make any risk-preferring choices. Theres nothing you could change to keep this from happening to you in the future. You still have to tell a story about mistakes that you made and how youre working to fix them.   How does that go? I mean do you find that people will maintain that -- like will they sort of hold onto the idea that they did have consent even if the other person says that they didnt?   Oh certainly and Im not trying to change ...   Or do you find that people will ...   Im not necessarily trying to change their mind about whether they had consent. I mean they were there and I was not.   Thats interesting. Do you see in a scenario where you have both sides of the story whats the usual difference?   It depends. Theres a few cases where the stories just are incompatible. But there are -- most of my cases the dispute is narrow. Everybody agrees that the encounter was generally consensual but either the consent to all of it was withdrawn or -- you know according to the accuser. Or there was consents to acts A and B but not C.   Hmm.   And C just happened before they knew it and there wasnt a conversation about it. And that one party feels that C was a rape. Or that no I agree I acted like I wanted this the whole time and maybe even I said yes but in retrospect I was too drunk or high and that -- that consent was no good. It nullifies the consent.   At this point in the conversation we talked a little bit about like the different kinds of consent and what works. Like affirmative consent where its about clear permission -- often verbal permission -- that can be withdrawn at any time. Which Hanna says she is all for a thousand percent.   The question is if you dont do it is it rape? And thats the dichotomy that I object to or am a skeptic about I should say. I mean if -- again if people can show me that this works then Im interested.   But when you say -- if -- I guess thats the thing. When you say if people can show me if this works ...   Mm-hmm.   Can you sort of unpack what you mean by that? Like it seems so clear to me that it does work. I dont know just based off of my own experience. So Im just sort of curious.   Yeah. Let me tell you a few stories. Theres a couple that I can give more identifying information about because the case is in litigation now and so thats on the pubic record. And the fact that Im involved in the case is on the public record so I can say a few more things.   So I have a student. He and a girl were in his room after a party. They didnt know each other well. He touched her private parts and there was vaginal penetration with his fingers. Both parties agree that he asked for and got affirmative verbal consent. He said Do you like this? And she said Yes and she faked an orgasm. Both parties are telling the exact same story. And he was found responsible for sexual assault because she said I didnt mean it. I said yes I was enjoying it in order to get it over with faster.   Hmm.   I wanted a graceful way to leave his room and I thought making him think I was having an orgasm would help me get out of there more gracefully without being rude. And he was suspended for two-and-a-half years.   Ill let you finish -- I will let you finish and then Ill say what I think. I am just -- or Ill just pose my -- my -- yeah. Go ahead.   Thats -- that is what Im seeing in practice. You know its -- it is other cases that Ive seen is someone who -- basic -- my student is a big Black guy. You know well over six feet tall a lot of muscles hes an athlete. And its undisputed that he and the accuser were in her dorm room together to hook up. They took off all their clothes and she touched his genitals and performed oral sex on him. And she said that she did that because she was fearful once they were both naked. And she felt that -- that the situation was so overwhelming that she had to reach out and touch him and then reach out and use her mouth on him. And the -- the school decided in that situation that the only thing that had gone wrong was that there wasnt a verbal confirmation. And so if you go in somebodys dorm room and you take -- and both of you take off your clothes and she touches you and places your penis in her mouth when youre not speaking she has not conveyed consent.   Hmm.   Which I think most of us would feel ...   Yeah. I guess from my -- from my point of view like the rules are set up in a way that kind of protect the person who feels violated. Like it -- like I guess to me ...   I agree. They are set up to protect the person who feels violated.   There is a difference between -- like I mean there is a -- sorry?   Well were not supposed to be concerned about who feels violated. Were supposed to be concerned about who was violated.   Yeah. But I mean I guess the person who was violated -- I mean if they feel violated then I would argue that they are -- that they were violated.   So if they feel violated ...   What Im saying is that like I think that having affirmative consent be a rule thats -- thats followed and taken seriously when it comes to like legal stuff it just -- it protects that ambiguity you know? It favors the ...   So you -- so you think that people should go to jail for not getting the verbal yes?   Well I mean I think it is legally complicated.   What?   I think its complicated. But I think that it -- it makes it so that the person who was violated feels violated is the one whos always protected and whos the one whos always in the right. And I think that thats a good thing.   Yeah I dont agree with you about that.   Do you know what I mean?   I dont think theyre always in the right. I dont think theyre always in the right.   I dont think theyre always in the right but I think that its safer to assume that theyre always in the right you know? There is gonna be a very small margin of people who are not but I feel like its important to -- thats just my point of view.   Well first of all how do we know how small that margin is? I dont know how small it is. I mean Im thinking to various -- various encounters that my students have had. For example where they both agree that they were having consensual intercourse and they both agree that the consent was withdrawn during the intercourse and that the intercourse stopped. The dispute is about how rapidly it stopped.   Hmm.   And so -- and there isnt -- you know in that case I just -- I just hesitate to say -- and again it seems clear on paper the absolutes of that. Well you control your body. The second you convey for example start to cry during sex. All right well then okay I would assume non-verbally that this should stop or you know we should make sure. And it did stop. But you know did that take two seconds five seconds 30 seconds? And that from the moment of -- theres -- the other problem is theres no -- you know what should you reasonably be aware of. And Im very uncomfortable with the idea that person As feelings determine whether person Bs behavior was rape or not. Because ...   Well were not always calling it rape. I mean sometimes its not called rape. Its called sexual assault you know? Sexual assault I feel like thats a really important distinction. That like the terms -- even sexual assault is not -- is not adequate you know? Because there are so many different gradations.   Yeah. Absolutely.   But I dont think -- I dont think -- like I dont think -- I personally I do think that if someone -- someones feelings should determine whether person B has assaulted them you know? Like I think -- even thinking about like when someone cries in the middle of sex you know? Talking about -- talking about is it five seconds is it 10 seconds is it 30 seconds? Like what are all the things that happened leading up to that moment?   Well because he -- he disputes -- he says I stopped as soon as I realized she was crying.   Yeah. And she says ...   But she says I was crying for like 25 seconds lets say. 30 seconds. And so that period between when I started crying and when he realized I was crying.   But even like ...   Or when he says he realized he was crying.   But I feel like to me when I hear a story like that I think that there was actually a lot of other -- there were probably a lot of other things leading up to that moment that were not perceived you know? Or that the reason why shes coming forward and saying that this was an assault this was a violation theres probably a lot -- theres a much -- an unseen architecture to that -- to that story that is really complicated I guess. Like I dont think that someone would just come out and be like I cried for 30 seconds and then you didnt stop. Like its probably a lot -- it runs much deeper than that. There was something -- there is something unnameable happening in that room and she sort of hinges that unnameable feeling of violation on this moment.   Oh I agree that they feel violated.   It seems trivial when you talk about it out loud but shes trying to say something was not right here you know?   I agree.   Yeah. Yeah.   So I very much agree ...   Anyway its just complicated. Im sort of just trying to get into the complicated area of it.   Right. I think that area we agree on a whole lot. That -- I dont dispute at all. I -- even in my cases where I have the most doubt about what happened I dont dispute that the accuser feels violated. I think -- I think thats true. They usually convince me ...   But why is it not true that if she feels violated she is violated?   Because theres all kinds of reasons besides being sexually assaulted that a person might feel violated. I mean Ill talk about one instance for myself. You know the people who have broken my heart. When I was in love with people. And you know there was a breakup where I got treated like dirt. When we were in love and like knew each others families and all of that. And then you know basically ghosted me and then dumped me on a phone call 10 months in. I felt extremely violated. I cant put into words how bad he made me feel. You know and --and how it colored my memory of every interaction wed had for 10 months. And Christmas together with my family in Hawaii you know? And -- and calling into question did -- was he lying to me then? I feel very violated by his actions. Its probably not a word I would have come up with but I feel unbelievably -- you know Im happy and married now its all good. You know I should not have ended up with him. But especially at the -- I mean that -- that was an experience that permanently changed me. Im not the same person I was before that heartbreak.   He didnt sexually assault me. You know it was awful what he did. And it just makes sense to me that people could be unbelievably deeply hurt by all kinds of behavior that isnt sexual assault.   I can see that. I can see -- I can see that but I guess I feel like you know what were doing right now is working against history you know? Like I think that were trying to make progress on this issue of sexual assault and the much larger issue of the -- the imbalance of power as it is distributed between the genders. Like can you ever really as a woman -- and this is -- I dont know if I fully agree with what Im about to say but its just -- Im just posing it as a philosophical question. You know if youre -- if you are taught from birth to define your pleasure based on someone else and someone else's pleasure how can you even know what you want or dont want in those private moments you know? And like how do we restore that balance you know?   Yeah I think a lot of what youre describing is a what Im seeing as a generational divide in feminism. I dont know how old you are. Im 42.   Yeah. Im 30 yeah.   Yeah. Women who are my age and older I find tend to agree with me. And the women who are -- are college-age or in their 20s now often dont. And the disconnect stems I feel like when you were describing how because of societal pressures and training from birth and all that when a man was naked in my room I could not do anything but give him a blow job. I could not say no. And I would say you did not say no. And there may be situations where we agree that this is a cant situation. But I dont see that as positive for my feminism to say well the woman is just helpless there. She has no agency. They put her in a pink dress so now she has to give a blow job.   Yeah. I understand that. And I think thats a really important point of view but I also -- I guess people have done research about the fact that like young girls define how good sex was based on how much they perceive the other person enjoying it. And -- and even something as simple as that creates a power dynamic. And I feel like Im not really seeing the men in -- the men that I know the young men that I know Im not seeing them understanding the power that they have thats really easy to -- to abuse you know? Like how do you fix that? Thats what it kind of all comes down to. And like theres has to be -- there has to be some kind of consequences if were going to see it change.     Were gonna take a quick break and we will come right back to this conversation between Kaitlin Prest Hanna Stotland and myself in just a moment.       Im Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. Were back with the second episode in a three-part series that were doing inspired by and in collaboration with Kaitlin Prest. Its called In The No. And were gonna jump back into the conversation that Kaitlin and I were having in Hanna Stotland. But before we do I wanna bring in some other voices because ...   As we were working on this series I mean it really was an exploration for us. One of the things that happened along the way is we convened some groups of college students in different spots across the country. Groups of college-aged men and women. I was with the men. My colleagues Becca Bressler and Shima Oliaee are with the women. We are gonna hear more from the women next week. I want to play you just a bit of the men because when Hanna and Kaitlin and I were talking it called to mind something that I heard a lot in these conversations.   You have to take a leap at some point. You have to take -- like youre talking to this person youre making eye contact whatever. And like you can ask like Can I kiss you? And like they say yes. But like at the same time sometimes you just go for it. And like thats where it gets iffy because ...   I guess my question is whether like sacrificing that is what we need to do for no one to get raped you know? Or no one to get raped in these non-super malicious scenarios. Like maybe what we have to give up is just youre looking into her eyes the sun is rising youre like Hello would you -- like can I record you on my cellphone of you saying youre down to make out right now?  You know? I mean and as I say you know thats something I guess Im willing to give up if thats whats being asked and if that actually solves the issue. But -- but I just think that were coming to a point where that might be the line.   By the way the -- the thing hes talking about that is actually an app that exists. We talked to the guy who made it. But what he and other guys were saying was that theyre uneasy. They still feel somehow caught between those old gendered expectation that its the mans job to pursue and the world that were in now which seems to not want that. But maybe not entirely not not want that? Theyre not sure. And a lot of them worry that maybe theyve already crossed a line without knowing it.   Its--its always in the back of my mind. Like Ive hooked up with a girl thats like instigated it. Like -- like while having sex she decides that like she doesnt want to do -- like shes gonna go home. Gets up leaves. You know?   Okay.   Like then what -- then if the next day she decides that or she realizes that like she didnt want to do that maybe after the fact then itd just be my truth versus hers.   Ive definitely hooked up with people where they were very drunk. It was the first time wed hooked up. No one ever was like Oh that was not okay or anything. But in all those situations I guarantee you based on myself I was drunker than the person I was hooking up with. But because Im a man that could be -- retrospectively that couldve been sexual assault you know? And thats definitely the biggest question Ive given myself post this thing is like Wow. Could it even be claimed? Like I dont even think I sexually assaulted someone at all. I mean and given that one I asked Are you sure? But that isnt even enough because lets say alcohol -- you know even if you get a vocal consent if theres alcohol involved. So I guess thats where it gets interest -- not interesting. Not to make it cold but yeah.   No matter what though even if -- even if it did end up that you did make a mistake and someone's like That was not okay what you did to me last night or something right? Say youre sorry. Be like Yo I really need to understand that you know? And like you learn. Like we dont have to be -- I dont think like -- be free. Be a good person.   I understand that. But if somebody says like You sexually assaulted me and if its a situation like youre talking about where you both have been drunk and you say Im sorry is that not -- I would be scared to say that because ...   Scared to say what Im sorry?   Im sorry. Because thats like youre admitting youre guilty even if you dont think you are. If you try to engage in a conversation like that.   So maybe just like you dont say Im sorry. You say like Oh my God. Like please explain to me like how I did that or like what happened. Because I was too drunk to even remember. Or like something ...   And after you know after having -- after -- after listening to these guys and then having this conversation with Kaitlin and Hanna I mean for -- for one the things that they were afraid of were exactly the things that we were talking about. And two I started to think about the fear that sort of ambient fear that was always in the room in sort of a different way.   But couldnt you argue theres something useful about the fear because that fear might push these guys to address exactly what Kaitlin was just saying? It might push the guys to -- you know what I hear over and over again when I talk to -- when I talk to students is that the women in a -- in a sexual encounter are thinking about 12 things and the guys are thinking about one thing. Which is themselves right? Theyre just --theyre not reading the room. Theyre not reading their partner. Whats gonna change that if not fear? Like the fear that these guys feel right now could actually make them start to pay attention make us I should say start to pay attention.   Yes it might. I certainly think of my essay writing support as a form of education. Coaching how a student should handle a tough situation. Im not sure that making the consequence really bad is what makes it more likely that the behavior will change.   Hmm.   But I would love to see young men encouraged to go through the kind of analysis of their actions that mine do with me. And it is -- I think its a really positive process for them. And I see what looks to me to like greater insight.   Hmm. Can I -- I want to bring it back to the moment itself because a lot of what were talking about on a macro level still has to be negotiated in these moments right? And youve talked about the idea of -- of we need a reasonableness standard for -- for the consensual moment. So what does that mean to you?   So to me it means that communication needs to be in a shared language. You know if someone says to me in Russian that doesnt feel good. I just dont speak that. So is it reasonable to expect me to understand what this person was conveying in a language that I dont speak? Like I would consider crying to be a universal language. Now if its dark and youre not touching the persons face whatever you might not realize immediately that they are crying without -- you know its not wah-wah type crying. Its just -- its tears and -- and emotion and clenched throat and all that. How rapidly is it reasonable to expect that you perceive that communication -- which it is communication. And if you could see the persons face then Id say its a very unambiguous communication. Is it reasonable to think it might take you a minute to realize that this -- my partners feelings are totally changed. So theres -- there is a spectrum between saying No no no stop! and expecting somebody to read your mind right? Theres a million different ways to convey that with different levels of urgency and clarity. And I just think we should -- we should take into account what can we reasonably expect him in this scenario to realize about her changed frame of mind?   Kaitlin what do you think?   For me I think a step forward is just being aware of the power dynamics that are happening in sex talking about them explicitly understanding what they are understanding the ways that theyre fun the ways that theyre pleasurable and -- and being really open about those things. And I think that it like it all comes back to communication. I mean like I really liked what you said Hanna about the languages you know? Figuring out how to speak each other's languages figuring out trust and also just like having there be less of a stigma around conversations -- explicit open totally shameless conversations about sexuality would bring us forward in massive massive leaps around this stuff. And also just that like I mean I think the thing that Im not seeing that I wish I did see was just giving a shit you know? Like caring. Like having -- you know when somebody says you know hey that experience sucked for me having the other person be like wow lets talk about it. Are you OK? You know? Like I feel like so many situations would be -- would be solved if that was the dynamic as opposed to what are you talking about? Like the gaslighting all that stuff.   Yeah totally.   And this connects to the work I do with some of the students. When I say So what do you regret? And sometimes theyre not sure. Theyre like I really didnt attack her. And I said But do you regret -- is it ever your goal to get into your bed with someone and have them walking away going Oh Im glad thats over! And the guys are like No I dont want that! And I was like Well thats what you got.   Hmm.   And we can dispute -- we can dispute whether it was an assault or not. It is objectively the case that this person had a bad experience with you. Everybody agrees on that.   Yeah.   And if that wasnt what you wanted to happen then you probably have regret about that. I should have done something differently so it didnt come out that way. Im not telling them what they ought to want sexually but I do tell them to consider what they want sexually. It is -- It is not -- I want to preface this by saying Im not saying that the training of men and women is symmetrical. Its not. But that some of them may realize -- some of the men may realize You know what? I was told that men are supposed to like any -- any kind of sexual contact we can get from anyone anywhere. Were supposed to be happy about that. And is that actually what I want? Or is that what people expect me to want? And maybe I would prefer more of a you know loving gentle kind of relationship. Maybe Im a man and that kind of model would actually work better for me than this conquest model.   Thats interesting because I mean what I hear a lot coming out of the MeToo movement is that I hear a lot of women saying Guys you need to do the work okay? Like this is -- this largely your work to do right now. And I hadnt expected to hear you talking about what you do as in some sense being a part of that. Like you are actually it seems involved in some of the guys doing the work. I mean like how to do the work is its own sort of can of worms. Like who -- which is something we havent really talked too much about but it is interesting to hear that. I wasnt expecting that to be the case.   And in a sense that its not necessarily my goal but it may be necessary in order to achieve my goal which is to help you advocate for your education. You cant do that effectively unless youve been thoughtful about your past.   Hmm.   And my my thesis is gray. Help the kids see the gray. And you know this is -- this is not a binary world we live in in terms of gender in terms of communication. And to some extent I feel like we have to work with the complexity of whats in front of us even if we wish it were black and white and that would make our job a lot easier.   Yeah. Kaitlin any final thoughts?   Amen no. I dont think so. I guess yeah this has been really great combo. Loved it.   I want to thank Kaitlin Prest and Hanna Stotland for sitting down to talk. A few notes before we close. If you have experienced sexual assault there are resources out there to support you. And the national Sexual Assault Hotline at 1-800-656-HOPE that is 1-800-656-4673 can provide support and connect you to resources in your local area.   And also one thing I do want to add is that this conversation the reason we aired it without a ton of edits and amendments is that this was not meant to be a comprehensive take on anything. This is one small piece of a much larger conversation. If anything this was simply an attempt to hold a space for that continuing conversation a space where we can talk about this stuff. Which were going to continue to do next week. And next week well end up in a place where that conversation happens very explicitly and very differently for better or for worse.  In this episode we had production help from Rachel Cusick research and reporting help from Becca Bressler and Shima Oliaee. Im Jad Abumrad thanks for listening.   To play the message press 2. Start of message.   Hi I am Kaitlin. It is Kaitlin. Hello. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria -- Maria -- Maria Natasha Padilla is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte -- Bethel Habte. Oh guys! Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser - Nasser -- Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Katz Laszlo and Mo Asebiomo. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. The end.   End of message.  -30- 