 Good. Okay.  Is your mic on?  Yeah. I am gettingthis is making me nervous. Maybe I should get my EpiPen.  Are you allergic to radio greatness?  Not that I know of. I have not been really exposed to it yet.    Anyway let us go!  Are we rolling? We are good? We are going?  We are rolling.  Okay.  I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab. And today we are gonna begin with a conversation between Dan Pashman   Okay.  Host of a podcast here at WNYC called The Sporkful. It is about food. And Amy Pearl.  Amy?  Yes.  A digital producer here at the station who likes food.  Mmm.  And the conversation they had was about something that happened to Amy which she never expected certainly did not want and yet it could happen to any of us at any time.  So years ago before any of this happened to you just tell me what was your relationship with meat?  My relationship with meat?  Yeah.  Well you know how when you are little and your mom is like You can have any special dinner for your birthday? My dinner was meatballs. And she was like Except meatballs. They are so hard to make. So it was pot roast.    And then Peter Luger you know Peter Luger's?  Famous steakhouse in Brooklyn.  Yeah. I used to go there quite often and I live there. And I have a Peter Luger credit card.  Are those hard to get?  You know I do notI do not know how they give them out but nobody seems to have one. I do not think they give them out anymore but I mean I was very into Peter Luger. I was living in Williamsburg and it justit opened at like one oclock every day and you could just walk in at one. They had an amazing bar. There is no tablecloths on the table. These old German waiters they would bring out your porterhouse for three. They would put a little plate upside down and then put the big platter on top of it so it is tilted and all the juice runs to the end. And then they like have this special double spoon thing that they somehow like scoop juice onto your steak. And oh so good!  And also like the smell of burning fat from a hamburger.  What about hot dogs?  Oh my God. I love hot dogs so much. When you bite into them and they are like klack and have like a snap. And like having a weenie roast out in the open air it is justit is like theoh God it is so good. Anyway I was always very into meat.  What changed?  Oh my God. It was terrible. It waswhat happened was I was having this beautifulit was springtime. I was having a beautiful leg of lamb with some neighbors and we like put it on the grill and it was just a delicious beautiful dinner. And I had served with it some ramps that I foraged in my mom's yard.  A ramp by the way is just a wild onion.  And so we had this delicious meal and then you know I went home and I was going to sleep at like midnight like a few hours later. And I just felt weird. I was like Ooh God. Something's wrong. I feel like really anxious like something's wrong with me. And I went in the bathroom and I like look in the mirror and my face was like all weird looking and I was like I kept laying down and be like I will just sleep it off whatever it is. But every time I laid down I felt like I was gonna faint. So I was like prop myself up. And I was like Ugh! God I was having terrible like stomach cramps and just like a weird feeling of impending doom you know?  But just like anybody I am just like Just get a good night's sleep. This will pass. I like splashed a little water on my face. I mean I do not know what made me think this but I thought like maybe a snail a tiny snail was on one of the ramps that I ate and it was like poisoning me somehow. You know snails I mean they probably poison us.    So I called my friends in the morning and I was like Hey how you guys doing? How was dinner? And they were like Oh it was so great! And I was like Really? It was so great? Nothing weird? Like ...   No horrific panic attacks?  And they were likeand they were like Oh that was so lovely. Thank you so much. Let us do it again. Blah blah blah. And I was like Wow I really had a rough night. But I did not think anything of it and I went on with my life you know? Just like whatever. And then about a week or two later I made some cheeseburgers. And I ate a cheeseburger and I was watching Goodbye Mr. Chips a really tear-jerking movie and a good book too. And about a couple of hours after I ate I like started to feel really weird. Again I was like feeling like I waslike had to stand up. I was like I think I am gonna faint. I feel really lightheaded. I cannot catch my breath. I feel like really woozy. But any time I laid down I really felt like I was gonna faint. So I was like trying to stay sitting upright and I was like Oh my God this is very similar. And I ran into the bathroom and I was like looking in the mirror and lo and behold I had hives all over my stomach and then they started coming out on my hands. And I was like Oh my God something's happening. And at one point I did get up and unlock my door because I did feel like I am gonna pass out call an ambulance and then they are not gonna be able to get in. So I mean I was a little bit afraid of what was happening.  And when I woke up in the morning the first thing I did was Google Sudden meat allergy because I was like This seems like an allergy and the only thing that was the same was meat. And I am going through and like the second thing that came up was this article that was like Florida Man Has Sudden Meat Allergy. I was like Oh my God I think is it possible I could have this? And so I made an appointment with my doctor. I brought in the article. I am like I am going to be this person but I can do it. I had the article in my pocket.  What person?  You know the person who goes to their doctor with something I found on the internet.    So I brought the article. It was in my pocket and like I got through the whole like checkup and I was too chicken. I wentwhen I was paying the receptionist I pulled it out and gave it to the receptionist and I was like Could you give this to the doctor? So that was like the best I could do. And then I did call my doctor and had a conversation with him on the phone asking him if I could get tested. And he was like No there is no such thing as a meat allergy. Blah blah blah.  So some people think allergies are just like in your head.  This is science writer Peter Smith. We got in touch with him after we heard Amy's story because Peter is an investigator of many things including strange allergies.  And people are like mushrooms hurt them or they think ...  Wi-fi hurts them.  Yeah wi-fi hurts them. And I do not know ...  And when our producer Latif Nasser and I got into the studio and we told him about Amy's story. He said ...  Yeah. All right.  I know exactly who you need to talk to.  Hello?  Yeah hi!  Thomas Platts-Mills.  This is Thomas Platts-Mills. That is right.  How are you?  I am very well.  Dr. Platts-Mills is down at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. He is a professor and he works at an allergy clinic.  In an allergy clinic we are constantly sifting through stories which not only you do not believe but are actually nonsense. It is simply ...  And he told us in the last 10 years or so he started hearing lots of stories just like Amy's.  Right.  Somebody shows up at the office convinced that they are allergic all of a sudden for no apparent reason to red meat.  The first time I heard it was probably as early as 2004.  And every single time he heard the story he would tell the patient exactly what Amy's doctor told her.  No.  No way.  No no no.  It is not possible.  Right.  So what was wrong with these complaints you know in an orthodox medical way?  Oh everything.  Everything.  Adults do not become allergic to something they have eaten for 40 years out of the blue and certainly not red meat.  So you are basically saying to these patients I think you must be making this up because I cannot explain it  I do not use language like that.  I say There there.  I was trying to give you your inner voice.  Oh you do not want to know what doctors are thinking in their inner voices. You know you often think in the middle of an interview Is it possible that he is got you know some ghastly disease?  Mad cow.  Yeah you know?  The point is that when he would hear a story like Amy's he just ...  Did not believe it.  But then everything changed. Thanks oddly enough to a cancer drug.  This new cancer drug called cetuximab.   This is the very drug that got Martha Stewart in all that trouble for insider trading.  You remember that? And went to jail for six months?  Yeah.  Anyway very promising exciting new drug. But then ...  Doctors were giving people this injection and they would just like end up on the floor of the doctor's office.  In shock?  Yeah they would be in anaphylactic shock.  Their hearts would start beating faster they would get short of breath they would get stomach cramps. Their immune system would start to overreact to something new and alien that came in with the drug. Basically a classic allergic reaction.  So the mystery lands on Thomas Platts-Mills's desk.  Yes. So we were asked to look at cetuximab.  To see if they could figure out what was causing the reaction.  And he tests two groups of blood a control sample and then people that have this allergy.  And he quickly zeroed in on a particular molecule a sugar that was part of the drug.  This sugar galactose-alpha-1 3. Galactose or alpha-gal.  Alpha-gal?  Yeah.  As in a particularly great lady? Better than the Beta or Gamma gals?    Yeah it is like alpha male but alpha female did not quite have a ring to it.  Anyway it seemed like alpha-gal was the culprit.  Yeah and if you would told me four years earlier that there is a whole lot of people out there who are allergic to this sugar I would have thought you were smoking you know vaping again.  Because not only does this sugar alpha-gal show up in the cancer drugand this is where we get back to Amyit also shows up in the blood of mammals.  All non-primate mammals.  So every time you eat ...  ... lamb ...  ... or ...  ... beef goat camel.  Even ...  Tripe.  Or ...  Pig's kidneys.  You are also eating alpha-gal.  So I am reading this article and it says like it is this thing called alpha galactose or alpha-gal or whatever.  So it made no sense that someone like Amy who would been eating meat all her life would suddenly somehow be allergic to alpha-gal.  I just was like this was so stupid.  So one day ...  It is getting to be barbecue season. I usually have like a couple of barbecues where I just do a whole pork butt and a brisket like hang out all day doing it. And I was like very wanted to do that. And I was like I am just gonna not eat meat and not even know? So I was like Forget it. My doctor will not test me. I am gonna test myself. So I was gonna be very careful. I got a thing of Benadryl. And I was like I am not gonna do it alone. I will do it with my mom. My poor mom.  And so I went up to my mom's and she is like really into food too. So she was like Oh this is so exciting! I got two porterhouse steaks on sale at Stu's.   Did you explain to her what you were testing?  Yeah I did because I had talked a little bit about it with her. So like fire up the grill do the porterhouse. I even think I like Instagrammed it as a joke. Like Ha ha ha. This might be the last time you hear from me. But you know we are having a nice summer day just me and my mom having our steak. I only ate like a couple bites because I was slightly nervous. And I was like sitting in the grass with my dog and reading a book and trying to think like do I feel normal? Which try it folks. It is hard to figure out. When you start asking yourself Do I feel normal? Does thisam I breathing? Does my stomach hurt? Is something wrong? And I was like after a while I was like I feel pretty good.  And the neighbor came over and was like chatting with us and it was in the middle of that conversation where I was like I kind of feel like I have to go the bathroom. But maybe I just have to go the bathroom. So I went to the bathroom and I was sitting there and I was like Oh God something feels bad. I am and then I was like Oh God I definitelythis is not right. Something's wrong. And I went in to get the Benadryl and I took the Benadryl and I went on my bed in the guest room at my mom's house. I was like sitting on there and I was like I just do not feel right. Maybe if I just take a deep breath. I will just stand up. Maybe I will just put my hands over my head like this. Oh that does feel slightly better I think. Then I was finally like I think we should go to the hospital.  And I went outside. I was like Mom I think you have to drive me to the hospital. She was like talking to her neighbor like What? Oh my God honey! What? Oh let me go change my clothes. Change my clothes. Like Mom you know she is not wearing the hospital-level clothes. So I am like Okay Hurry up mom. Mom are you ready? Mom? And then I was like while she was changing her clothes I suddenly was like Oh my God. Got my wallet out and my cell phone and I like threw it towards my mom's bedroom door. And I was like Here's my insurance card. Call an ambulance! And I just like hit the floor.  Eventually the ambulance arrives and I got stabilized. I was strapped to the thing. I was in the emergency room. Like they were shooting me full of I do not know what epinephrine and adrenaline. And the little like 12-year-old emergency room doctor runs in and he was like I looked it up on the internet. Alpha-gal. Fascinating! What? That is terrible. I have never heard of that. Could it be true? Yes it is true. Like they are all having this discussion there. Then when I went back to my doctor after that I was like Hey just got out of the emergency room because they tested me for alpha-gal and I am allergic to meat.  So this is an allergy.  Yeah.  So all of a sudden you are looking at the quote crazies and they are not so quote crazy anymore.  Absolutely. We suddenly had a blood test. And of course what turned out is all these patients who would been telling us this story were allergic to alpha-gal.  But ...  But ...  ... it is still like a mystery.  Right. There are patients ...  Thomas Platts-Mills could not figure out why people like Amy who had lived for 40 years eating porterhouse steaks at Peter Luger's with a credit card why would she suddenly develop an allergy now? There has got to be some kind of trigger.  Yes. So we were looking for anything that could explain it.  It could be a mold. It could be a nematode.  A worm or a fungus.  But then he looked again and noticed that all the people who had had bad reactions to the cancer drug ...  They were in a particular area of the country. It was Virginia North Carolina Southern Missouri Tennessee Arkansas. No cases in Salt Lake City. No cases in Denver. Just smatterings down the West.  So he turned to his technician Jake and he said ...  I said You have got to Google every map you can find and say what matches that area?  Creatures or diseases that appear wherever the allergy appears. So Jake starts Googling.  Googling and Googling and Googling. And ...  And eventually he comes across a map that ...  Matches where the cases are very beautifully. The maximum area for Rocky Mountain spotted fever.  So he made this little map and it is like the shaded dark areas of the country are places with Rocky Mountain spotted fever. And then there is like some stars where you know this allergy had appeared.  Yeah.  And they overlap.  Ah very interesting.  And then all of a sudden it clicks. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a tick-borne disease.  This is the distribution of the lone star tick.  And actually just a little before this it turns out an allergist down in Australia Sheryl van Nunen ...  First name Sheryl. S-H-E-R-Y-L. Van Nunen. V-A-N and then N-U-N-E-N. And I am from the Tick-Induced Allergies Research and Awareness Center in Sydney Australia.  She says she was now being visited by all kinds of people who claim suddenly to be allergic to meat.  And whenever I take a history so for example I would ask them was there a family history of rhinitis eczema asthma stinging insect allergy and they would say they have all been bitten by ticks.  When we started asking patients we suddenly heard the stories just out the kazoo.  But at this point Dr. Platts-Mills all he has is a map some stories and a hunch.  Right.  So ...  So what does he do?  He decideswell maybe I will just do this to myself.  He does what?  He decides to test it on himself.  Oh my God!  He sort of like denies that he did it intentionally.  I know I had no intention.  I mean heI think he also likes to walk and amble and think about things.  Right.  So he goes for a long walk along the Blue Ridge Mountains.  And I knew I wanted to be off trail because I am actually rather allergic to humans.    So he is walking and walking and walking and along the way ...  Ah.  ... he bumps into a whole bunch of ticks.  And if you walk into a nest of those things ...  Oh my God this sounds like a nightmare.  Yeah absolutely. I got 200 seed ticks.  Oh boy.  And then in November of that year I was taken out to dinner. And the lamb chops were particularly delicious and the French wine was delicious. And six hours later I woke up covered in hives.  He is got an allergy to red meat.  All just because of a ...  Tick bite.  Tick bite.  That is right.  We will bite you right back after this.   I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab. Now we go back to Amy just when she is discovered that the allergy to meat that she is developed comes from a tick bite.  A tick bite? Hang on a second. Because like a few weeks before all this started happening as I said I was foraging for ramps in my mom's backyard and I had a tick on my arm.  Now it turns out that not only was that tick bite a terrible thing for Amy it was a kind of double tragedy.   And I think it is only right at this point to back up ...   ... and consider the story from the tick's point of view.  Okay so I am Graham Hickling. I am a wildlife disease ecologist at the University of Tennessee.  So I was wondering if you could help us tell the story of in this case of the lone star tick that bit Amy.  Oh yeah sure. So they start off in this little pile of eggs perhaps a mass of 2000 eggs under the leaves.  The proud mom who just gave birth ...  At that point she is just a kind of a withered husk.  Meaning dead. But anyway ...  A few weeks later those eggs will hatch and this mass of 2000 baby ticks emerge from under the leaves.  And could I see them with my naked eye?  If you ran into a mass of them all up together you would feel like you have got a little smudge of dirt and then the dirt starts walking.    And so they will just climb up and they will you know potentially all be on the same leaf or the same twig looking for something to feed on.  Now one teeny little tiny problem for these teeny little tiny ticks ...  Is that they dry out.  So when they come up from under the leaves they come up ...  ... briefly ...  ... and then they go back down get a little water come back up get thirsty go back down ...  ... and rehydrate.  So they like commute?  Exactly. And we refer to the behavior as questing.  Oh questing!  Questing.  So if you were one of these little baby ticks up questing for food ...  While you are up there you are essentially Velcro.  Because on each one of your little legs ...  You have little kind of hook-like structures. And so you are flat against the leaf.  Sort of sniffing in the air with your two little front legs.  That can detect CO2 heat movement.  So let us say one day you are sitting there on your leaf and you pick up the scent of a nearby mouse.  Mice are the potato chips of the ecosystem. Everything eats them.  Which means you might be about to have your very first meal. So you ...  ... basically stand up ...  ... stretch out all your little legs ...  ... and do a tick dance. And so it is kind of interpretive dance-like movements.  ... while you are waiting for that mouse to come just close enough that you can grab onto it. So you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting and you are dancing and you are waiting.  To be honest you are probably going to wait your entire life and die unfulfilled because there are 2000 of you starting off and a stable tick population there is only going to be two of you that survive.  Oh my gosh!  So 1998 little baby ticks are born ...  ... and then that is it for them.  But let us say that you are one of the lucky ones. And one sunny day there you are hanging out on your little leaf when you detect two incoming mammals. One is a 40-year-old hominid the other is her dog. So you perk up you thrust your legs out ...  ... wave do the tick dance.  And say that you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and you are waving and you are dancing and you are hoping and slowly the dog's getting closer and closer and closer. And you reach out with one of your tiny little limbs so you can grab on and eat and survive. But ...  But the reason that tick ended up on me was I slept in bed with my dog naked. I mean she is always naked but I was also naked. I mean that is not gross. I mean does that sound weird?  No but how do you know that is when it happened?  Because I know that like I did a good tick check on myself and I took a shower and everything. And then in the middle of the night I woke up with an itching sensation. And I went to the bathroom and I could not really see what was onlike something was on the back of my arm and it was a tick.  So as the tick is biting into Amy what is it giving Amy that is gonna make her allergic to meat?  Well actually I need to stop you there Robert.  Hmm difficult one Robert.  I do not know the answer to that. Hmm.  That is Peter Smith and ...  Well ...  ... rejoining us is Sheryl van Nunen the scientist.  It is all up for speculation.  We do not really know. But here's the theory. So ...  Normally when you eat a piece of meat you put alpha-gal in your stomach and your stomach digests it and it is in your body and it is no big deal.  But the tick cunningly ...  ... will drill into you poke into you ...  ... and injects ...  ... its saliva.  We will call that tick spit.  ... tick spit into its victims.  Straight into its victim's largest organ ...  ... the skin.  And tick spit has an anti-clotting factor an anesthetic anti-inflammatory compounds.  And ...  ... we think ...  ... the alpha-gal.  Now Peter says the thing about the skin is ...  ... the skin is like this enormous like surveillance system.  It is always on the lookout for invaders. So when the alpha-gal comes through your skin covered by all that bad bad tick spit stuff ...  That is gonna really like set off your immune system.  The immune system freaks out.  Like oh! Uh-uh!  And the alpha-gal covered now in bad spit almost sort of ...  ... by mistake ...  ... gets labeled bad. And now it is on the bad guy watch list. So ...  ... therefore ...  ... the next time you eat meat ...  ... the meat comes in ...  ...and then ...  ... the body unleashes wave upon wave upon wave of chemical attacks ...  ... to do battle against this alpha-gal.  And this reaction gets way out of hand. You got so many antibodies multiplying multiplying multiplying multiplying making yourather in this case Amy feel just horrible.  Right.  I mean it is very weird. It sounds like a science fiction movie. It sounds like the beginning of a science fiction at least kids' book let us not go to movie. But like it is just strange.  Which all goes to say that this really is a kind of double tragedy for Amy and her tick.  Yeah because ticks did not evolve to bite humans.  Right. We are a mistake.  Like we have opposable thumbs.  We are either gonna pull them off ...  I actually woke my mom up and she helped get it off.  ... or if they drop off they are gonna drop off in an airport terminal or a Walmart car park or somewhere like that.  Or a shag carpet.  Or a shag carpet indoors. Andand they are doomed.  And for us well we lose something that historically anyway is a big part of who we are.  Yeah because we havewe adapted in the grand evolutionary scheme of things to like eat flesh to eat meat.  Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean I am actually sitting here picturing a steak. But actually the thingI mean hot dogs. Like wrap ramps around a weenie and roast. Yum that sounds so good my mouth's watering.  Weenies and ramps.  Yeah.  But I am going to my allergist tomorrow because I didyou know I was reading about this allergy a lot when I first got it and I read that for some people the allergy can fade away. So I am gonna get a blood test to see what my blood level of alpha-gal is. So I am a little ...  So what are you hoping for tomorrow?  I want to be normal again.  That was the end of the Dan and Amy conversation. She was gonna go to the doctor get herself tested find out whatever. So we asked her back in ...  Okay.  ... to find out what happened.  So I actually did get an appointment with my allergist. Dr. Corn.  Her name is Dr. Corn. She is really nice. So I got the appointment I got the blood draw whatever. And a few days later my doctor called me and she said that my numbers were still really high. And I was like Well how high are they? And she was like Three. And I was like Three? That is not high. And she is like They are supposed to be like one or something. So they had gone down but they were still you know many times more than they should be. So ...  But when you left and you were waiting for the call were you waiting with the hope that you would soon be eating a bit of hot dog?  I mean honestly I was hoping no.  No?  No.  Wait a second you are the big the great ...  No I was afraid that she would be like Oh my God your numbers are so low. I think you could probably eat meat. And let us do a food challenge. And I would be like Ahh! Because like that is such a scary memory. Yeah I do notyou know actually just the other night I was eating at an Indian place and I was eating vegetarian but like I felt something and I pulled it out and in the dim light of an Indian restaurantlike why are they all lit like that? I was like Was this bacon? And I suddenlyyou know like you just get this drop in your stomach and I am like What time is it? Four hours from now if I and you know because there is something about it being delayed that makes it so difficult. It just is like ...  Like a suspense movie where you are the victim.  It is like it could happen in the next three hours. Or maybe not. I do not know. I mean honestly the only thing thatthe real reason I want to be able to eat meat is so that I will be prepared to eat it in case of emergency. I mean I went on a canoe trip in the Adirondacks and I was like Well what happens if I get stranded out here? And like what if I have to hunt but I cannot even eat meat? I would have to hunt fish. But then when the lake freezes over what would I eat? I cannot survive. Something's wrong with me! I feel evolutionarily challenged. This is what I think about before I go to bed every night would I be able to survive if I had just what is on me right now a pen underwear my dog? And so I mean that is a real issue. It is not a real issue obviously. It is never gonna happen I live in Brooklyn. But I do for some reason I always think like I want to be prepared in case. But I do not think I would go back to eating meat necessarily.  Like you are still more frightened than game so to speak.  Well also like I wish I could be a vegetarian for ethical reasons because it is not so much just the eating meat but just like you know the factory farming and that kind of stuff so I feel like morally superior now. I can be like Well I do not eat red meat. Of course I am forced to not eat it but at the same time I would if I had theif I had the willpower I would probably go that way anyway. And then also I think it is great. It is like we are all evolving to be on this planet which is getting harder to be on. And we know that meat takes a lot of resources. And like now I do notnow I am not doing that. So like the tick is helping me evolve into a better human being.  Like so one could instead of thinking of the tick as your teeny weeny irritating enemy you could think of it as a guiding light making the world safer to share with your fellow Earthlings.  Yeah.  So you may have lost your relationship with meat but at least you have your moral superiority.  Yeah. I mean I am superior.    Yeah.  So huge thanks to Amy Pearl for telling a story which never stoppednever stopped being scary and wonderful. And to the fellow who brought her into the room Dan Pashman whose podcast The Sporkful it is all about food in every conceivable way. Like he talks about eating it preparing it worrying about it as you have heard getting sick from it getting fat from it whatever. And you can find his show on iTunes or Stitcher or on the internet at Sporkful.com.  And this story was produced by Annie McEwen and Matt Kielty with reporting help from Latif Nasser. See you next time.