Molly Webster Hey this is Molly Webster. Radiolab is supported by Hello Monday. LinkedIn's new podcast with Jessi Hempel is back for season two. Each week join Jessi and her guests as they discuss the changing nature of work and how that work is changing us. Find Hello Monday with Jessi Hempel on Apple Podcast or wherever you listen.  Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad. Radiolab is supported by Better Help. Offering licensed professional counselors who specialize in issues such as depression and give counsel through text chat phone and video. Radiolab listeners get 10 off your first month with discount code Radiolab so why not get started today. Go to betterhelp.comRadiolab.   Wait wait you are listening    Good.   Alright.   Good.   Alright.   You are listening   Listening to   To Radiolab. Lab lab lab.   Radiolab.   From...   New York   WNYC.   C.   C.   Yeah.     Jad Abumrad Okay ready.  Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad Alright Jad.  Robert Krulwich Robert.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab. So Robert.  Robert Krulwich Yes sir.  Jad Abumrad The day is here. The day is here is here.  Robert Krulwich  You have been getting ready for this for this whole... We can just tell people that Jad last year produced...  Jad Abumrad With an amazing team.  Robert Krulwich A spinoff from Radiolab. It is it is a a a series about the law.  Jad Abumrad The law.  Robert Krulwich And the Supreme Court of the United States.  Jad Abumrad The highest court in the land. Yeah the idea was to take to take the Radiolab thing. The way of looking the way of seeing the way of sounding and producing and apply to this bizarre opaque body of  figures.  Robert Krulwich Robed as in people who wear black robes.  Jad Abumrad Robed.  Robert Krulwich That is not an English word.  Jad Abumrad No it is not but I am-  Robert Krulwich Robed.  Jad Abumrad It is an Old English word actually.  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad It is actually sort of the common law word that they used to-  Robert Krulwich   Jad Abumrad Use for robes. No so the v- the show is called More Perfect. The idea behind it is that we could tell personal human surprising thought provoking stories about not just the justices but the people and the ideas that get in front of the court. And in the process could we give ourselves a new way of thinking about this country.  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad That was the idea.  Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . It worked pretty well too.  Jad Abumrad I thought it worked all right.  Robert Krulwich The first season which was enormously popular. I think was enormously popular because these as you call them robed people.  Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich These people in black were were were had pulsing hearts. You know they would sit down  by themselves and go crazy with concern. They would-  Jad Abumrad Yep.  Robert Krulwich They were throbbing heart full nutty passionate angry fair beautiful people. It was really quite something.  Jad Abumrad Awe thank you. Okay so now Robert I would I would love to play you the first episode. The very first episode of the season. And one of the sort of central ideas of this season more perfect is that that these moments in history that we thought were gone they are never really gone. They will always swing back into the now. And one of the cases that is very much swinging back into the now is a... Well I... Maybe we should just play it. As you are listening uh know that there are already a couple of more extra episodes already in the More Perfect feed Radiolab.orgmore perfect or More Perfect on iTunes Google Play whatever. Okay here it is. Episode number one season two.  Jad Abumrad In February of 2017 Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said something that surprised a lot of people.  Ruth B Ginsburg Well I would say that we are not experiencing the best of times.  Jad Abumrad She stepped straight into the political fray and addressed this political moment.  Ruth B Ginsburg There was a great man uh once said that the true symbol of the United States is not the bald eagle it is the pendulum.  Ruth B Ginsburg And when the pendulum swings to far in one direction it will go back. Some terrible things have happened in the United State but one can only hope that we learn from those bad things.  Jad Abumrad Today we are gonna ride the pendulum to the dark side. We are gonna start with one of the most infamous decisions the court has ever made the Korematsu decision. You might imagine it is not gonna be the happiest of situations but the story that we are gonna tell you today and tomorrow as well actually they are not stories of bitterness. Because this curious thing happens in both cases when our characters cannot find justice inside the Supreme Court. They stop looking for it there and they find it somewhere else entirely. Producer Julia Longoria starts us off.  Julia Longoria The year is 1967 and the place is San Lorenzo High School in the East Bay of California. And we are in a U.S. history classroom.  Karen K. I was actually a junior in high school.  Julia Longoria This is Karen Korematsu.  Karen K. I am the executive director and founder of the Fred T. Korematsu institute in San Francisco.  Julia Longoria So on this particular day Karen is sitting at the back of the classroom.  Karen K. And our teacher had assigned each of uh my classmates a little paperback book to read.  Julia Longoria You know books about American history government.  Karen K. And the assignment was to then uh get up in front of the the class and give an oral book report. I mean this is a long time ago so that is the way they used to do things. I do not even remember what my my book was or my subject but...  Julia Longoria But Karen she was just sitting there in class listening as one by one her classmates got up talked about George Washington or Abraham Lincoln or whatever.  Karen K. And then my friend Mia who is um Japanese American third generation like myself. Got up in front of the class and her book was called Concentration Camps U.S.A about the Japanese American internment. And I thought Oh that is interesting. I had not heard about that before. What is that about?  Julia Longoria Mia's book report went something like this. In 1941 the United States of America was attacked.  Roosevelt Was suddenly and deliberately attacked.  Julia Longoria And the president.  Karen K. President uh Roosevelt.  Roosevelt As commander and chief.  Karen K. Had to respond.  Roosevelt I have directed that all measures be taken for our defense.  Julia Longoria So in terms of defense one of the big questions for Roosevelt was what happens if the Japanese invade the Continental U.S.  Julia Longoria They would probably come in on the West Coast and you had more than 100000 Japanese Americans living on the West Coast. Like would they turn against the United States they did not know.  Karen K. And so...  Julia Longoria Her friend Mia explained to the class.  Karen K. On February 19 1942 President Roosevelt issued executive order 9066. That gave the military the authority to forcibly remove anyone of Japanese ancestry from the West Coast.  Roosevelt All of them citizens and aliens alike would have to move.  Karen K. She goes on to explain these the horrific circumstances and how you know a 120000 people of Japanese ancestry had been you know forcibly removed from their homes.  Julia Longoria She explained they were put into these detention camps.  Karen K. Really without any due process of law. But then she went on to say but there was this one man...  Julia Longoria Who refused to go to the camps.  Karen K. And he was arrested.  Julia Longoria And he sued the government and took his case all the way...  Karen K. To the Supreme Court and then he became a landmark Supreme Court case.  Julia Longoria And that man's name is Fred Korematsu.  Karen K. Oh! I said to myself. That is my name.  Julia Longoria She says the class got really quiet.  Karen K. And I had 35 pairs of eyes turn around and looking at me.  Julia Longoria Okay yes. she thought My last name is Korematsu my dad's name is Fred.  Karen K. But no way.  Julia Longoria There is no way it is my dad.  Karen K. Someone would have of told me. So of course and I go running home and confronting my mother and asking her.  Elie Mystal What did she say?  Karen K. Well I got the standard uh answer uh Wait til your father gets home and you can ask him.  Elie Mystal   Jad Abumrad That voice you heard by the way was Elie Mystal our legal editor.  Karen K. And by the time he uh had got home it was eight oclock in the evening. And so that is a long time after you know 30 in the afternoon. And I calmed down a little bit and I asked him and and he said uh It happened a long time ago and what he did he felt was right and the government was wrong and it was that clear and simple.  Karen K. I could just see this hurt going over his face and I just could not ask him anymore questions.  Julia Longoria Karen says it was not until years later that she learned what really happened and why her dad never wanted to talk about it.  Fred K. Well I was uh 21 then.  Julia Longoria This is Fred Korematsu. It is a tape of him from the Densho archives.  Fred K. And I was up on the hill Sunday morning with my girlfriend.  Julia Longoria And Fred's story starts out on a date.  Fred K. You know when you are that age you know you have a girlfriend just like anybody else and she was more important to me than anything.  Julia Longoria Fred and his girlfriend Ida are driving in the hills above San Francisco looking down on the city the Golden Gate Bridge. He would been dating this girl for a while now.  Fred K. She she was Caucasian.  Julia Longoria Italian American. Most of his friends were Caucasian.  Fred K. And we were in a car and we were deciding what to do with such a nice day either go picnicking or something like that. And then all of a sudden I heard you know...   We interrupt this program to bring you a special news bulletin. The Japanese have attacked Pearl Harbor Hawaii by air. President Roosevelt has just announced-  Fred K. He came on the air in her car radio.   They have come with an electrifying shock. There are crowds right now gathered in front of the White House and the State Department and the Japanese Embassy.  Fred K. And I was quite shocked. We both were.  Julia Longoria Fred knew there was a war on and that the U.S. was likely to get involved. He would even tried to enlist in the U.S. Military but was denied because he was Japanese American. And he said sitting there one of his first thoughts was Why does it have to be Japan?  Fred K. If some country was going to attack Pearl Harbor I wish it was Russia. You know? I just thought about that you know. I was bitter with Japan for having this happen. So I took her home and then I went home.  Julia Longoria So he gets home.  Fred K. My parents were all shocked and they were all sitting around the living room.  Julia Longoria The house is just in despair. His mom is in tears.  Fred K. They were proud of being Japanese you know. They obeyed the law. They did everything that supposed to been to have this happen it put them in shame. It was even hard to talk to them after that.  Julia Longoria Fred had a traditional immigrant Japanese American family. His parents were born in Japan and then all his brothers were born here in the U.S.  Fred K. Born in Oakland California.  Julia Longoria He was the third out of four brothers and being the third not the second or the first. That mattered.  Lorraine B. Absolutely. Fred um was in a unique position as the third son he could resist.  Julia Longoria We asked Lorraine Bannai.  Lorraine B. I teach at Seattle University School of Law.  Julia Longoria For some context. She is a law professor and a friend of Fred's family.  Lorraine B. The cultural tradition is that the first son is the favorite son.  Julia Longoria The oldest was going to inherit the family garden and nursery business. The second would help out with that business.  Lorraine B. Fred as the third son was very low on the totem pole.  Julia Longoria His parents did not have the same expectations of him. Relatively speaking he was kind of off the hook.  Julia Longoria Unlike his older brothers he did not speak much Japanese and he felt more American than anything else.  Fred K. When I was in school we started each day with the Pledge of Allegiance. I studied American History. I always been good American citizen.  Julia Longoria So when he came home that Sunday when Pearl Harbor was attacked his family's response to the whole thing was unsettling.  Fred K. I um I did not know what to do.  Julia Longoria And Fred says pretty soon after things got very weird.  Fred K. Within a few days they put spotlights on the whole nursery at night. And they had a guard standing right near our home that rode around the fence there watching you. Because I went out one night to have a cigarette you know I was standing on the porch and I lit a cigarette. And uh a guard yelled out if I was signaling somebody. Ridiculous.  Julia Longoria Then came Roosevelt executive order. That big order 9066 authorized the military to make a series of smaller ones.  Lorraine B. The first set of orders was a curfew order thing that Japanese Italians and Germans were subject to a curfew.  Julia Longoria The second order was a freeze order directed just at the Japanese on the West Coast. They were not allowed to leave the area.  Lorraine B. And then the third order was an order that they could not remain on the West Coast except for in the custody of an approved location by the Army.   All persons of Japanese descent were required to move to assembly centers.  Julia Longoria There about 15 of these assembly centers and Japanese Americans were told to report to one of these centers by a certain date.  Fred K. When the evacuation notice came...  Julia Longoria Fred's family began to scramble.  Fred K. They had to worry about what they were going to take. What was going to happen to nursery? So especially my mother you know the tension and worries.  Julia Longoria So in the days before his family left Fred made a decision.  Fred K. Me being the third son you know.  I um I had my own worries and I had my own girlfriend my own problems.  Julia Longoria He decided not to go with his family.  Fred K. I um talked with them that uh that I did not want to leave.  Julia Longoria I will not leave with you. He did not want to leave Ida behind and he thought maybe the two of them could make a break for it later on.  Fred K. Leave the state before the evacuation deadline. And um they said Fine if you could do it go ahead.  Lorraine B. He was the third son so he knew that his older brothers would be able to take care of the family and they said he was a grownup and he should make his own decisions and so he did.  Julia Longoria He went off and got his own apartment and his own job as a welder and kind of lived under the radar. He knew his brothers would be there to take care of his parents.  Fred K. If you are with the family like my family or any Japanese family you feel the pressure and the sadness. But on the outside it is different it is just like a normal life you know. Just like we have been living all the time.  Fred K. I felt right at home. You know I says Well heck I I I am an American citizen too. you know? I did not feel guilty because I do not think I did anything wrong.  Jad Abumrad I sense that he was politically aware at this point.  Lorraine B. If you are asking me about whether he refused to go as an act of political resistance I do not think initially. Unconsciously he probably knew that what was happening to Japanese Americans was wrong. But I do not think he had the words for it that we might have today.  Julia Longoria It is on his way home from work one day that he reads in the newspaper about his parents and all the other Japanese Americans in the area being taken away to camp.  Fred K. It made me sick to my stomach you know that I could see my parents going in you know and my brothers going into camp and uh I am not there you know. But that was the only time that I felt um kind of lonely you know like well what am I going to do now. You know?  Julia Longoria It begins to slowly dawn on him what he is done. By staying in the Bay Area he is officially breaking the law and he and Ida are not sure what that means. Like will they be thrown in jail or worse. He talks in the archives about how he is worried and Ida is worried too because now he could get arrested. So they start to think about their options. Fred decides to get an I.D. with a Spanish sounding last name on it so he will not be recognized as Japanese. And then Ida says essentially that might not be enough.  Fred K. She pulled out an article regarding the plastic surgery. And uh she says What do you think of this? I looked it over and well I did not think it was a good idea.  Lorraine B. But she said Hey why do not you think about this. This might be a good thing that will allow you to stay here. So the idea would be that he would you know have his eyes doubled or something like that.  Julia Longoria A plastic surgery procedure where you put a fold in the eyelid so you look more white.  Lorraine B. Less Japanese American.  Fred K. And she says Do you think it would work? and I said I do not know. Well she said Shall we look into it? and uh well I said then We have not got anything to lose. so we decided to try it.  Julia Longoria So Fred gets into his car and he drives into the city into San Francisco and he just stops in front of the doctor's office and he starts pacing.  Lorraine B. Walking up the steps of this Victorian and then walking down the steps to leave thinking this was a really crumby idea. And then walking back up the steps thinking well yeah maybe Ida's right it is a good idea. And then down the steps this is a ridiculous idea. Giving some doctor your hard earned money to change your face.  Julia Longoria So he goes up and down and up and down and up and down. Until he decided to just go in and have the procedure done.  Lorraine B. He really did it as a way to protect them as they tried to leave the state.  Julia Longoria The doctor said he was going to work on his eyes and then also fix a broken nose.  Fred K. I had a broken nose from playing football and I never had it fixed. And um he said he could do pretty good work on me.  Julia Longoria But it turned out he did not do everything he said he would.  Fred K. Well he just took my money that is what it was actually. There was not anything changed except I did not have a broken nose anymore.   Julia Longoria So he drives back to the East Bay with a new nose but the same eyes. And shortly after that day at the doctor's office he is out buying cigarettes at a convenience store and a clerk recognized him and reported him.  Lorraine B. And one day walking down the street he was stopped and arrested. Um and spent his Memorial Day in 1942 in San Leandro jail.  Fred K. When we got caught they called her in too you know and um uh I see the police chief talking to her for quite a while.  Julia Longoria I imagine it is a small jail and he is just been admitted so he is sitting in the lobby and he sees Ida come in to the front desk. He is just out of ear shot he cannot make out exactly what they are saying but at a certain point they stop talking and she just walks out.  Fred K. So that was the end of it. I never did see her again.  Jad Abumrad They never saw each other again.  Lorraine B. No.  Julia Longoria So he is sitting there alone in the San Leandro jail and they end up transferring him to Oakland jail for some reason and then he ends up at the federal prison in San Francisco because resisting the order was a federal offense.  Fred K. Anyway um one day um I got a call from the guard and he told me I had a visitor and I did not know who it was you know. I knew all my friends were in camp or they were in the military.  Julia Longoria But Fred goes down to the visiting room anyway and there is this man there.  Ernest B. I am a New Yorker who well I believe in civil liberties. And when the right of the people is being denied this is something that I am concerned about.  Julia Longoria The man says his name is Ernest Besig.  Fred K. And he was a very nice fella easy to talk to. He asked me if I needed some cigarettes or something like that you know. Just to break the ice. By the way I asked him Who do you represent?  Julia Longoria And Ernest responds Well...  Ernest B. The ACLU.  Fred K. And I thought it was maybe with church or something like that.  Julia Longoria We have no way of knowing what exactly was said between Fred and Ernest Besig. Both men have passed away but it seems like something important must have happened in this conversation. Because if as Lorraine Bannai says...  Lorraine B. I do not think he had the words for it that we might have today.  Julia Longoria Fred did not have the language of resistance before this moment. Something in that conversation must have given it to him because when Ernest Besig asked him Do you want me to represent you in a court of law? Fred says Yes.  Lorraine B. Yes.  Jad Abumrad What do you imagine the words were that might have turned him in that moment?  Lorraine B. I imagine that Besig must have said to Fred we think that what is happened to Japanese Americans is unconstitutional. We would like to bring a lawsuit to say that Japanese Americans are being sent away only because of their race and in that he gave Fred language for what I think Fred knew was wrong.  Julia Longoria Besig tried to get Fred out of jail but the military stepped in and said he had to join his family in camp. They were at a place called Tanforan Race Tracks. It was a temporary holding spot so that meant that the first place that Fred went after jail was a converted horse stall.  Fred K. I opened the door and uh there is gaping holes on the walls. The wind just blew in and the dust blew in there and everything.  Julia Longoria And this was a small horse stall because Fred had asked for his own. He wanted to sit and think about what to say to his family who are also at Tanforan.  Lorraine B. He sat and looked at the single lone bare light bulb above and the smell of manure and hay.  Fred K. I mean it is made for horses not for human beings. And then all of a sudden I hear a knock on the door and I opened it and it was my brother. He say's Hey you cannot stay here you you got to come and s- see the folks.  Julia Longoria So he walks Fred over to the stall where his family's been living.  Fred K. And I was surprised the way they fixed up their stall. They filled up all the cracks and they put newspaper for the walls. You know papered it all up.  Julia Longoria This was a common thing for these families. Thousands of them were transferred to more permanent camps and many stayed there for up to three years.  Lorraine B. Over time the community kind of tried to build lives for themselves. You hear stories and see pictures of people building small Japanese gardens out of what they found in the area. You saw news reels about the people who made the desert bloom.  Lorraine B. You eventually saw people forming you know baseball teams.  Fred K. My brother he was involved in various Japanese activities. And uh he thought it might be a good idea for me to get some suggestions and opinions regarding to uh if I should fight the case or not.  Julia Longoria So Fred's brother called a meeting. He got about 30 young people together I imagine it was like in a mess hall or something like that and they discussed Fred's case.  Fred K. They were discussing it to themselves or in little groups. And I stood around and I waited for someone to speak but no one actually came out to speak to me.  Julia Longoria I I can see Fred kind of standing in a corner as people are gathered in small groups whispering to each other stealing glances at him.  Julia Longoria But no one says a word to him.  Fred K. Um finally one did and he said Fred uh we are undecided on if I should fight the case or not because they do not want to make any more disturbance. Anything to upset the parents right at this time because they were too upset already and being just being in camp.  Julia Longoria They told him they are parents had been through enough leaving their lives behind. Basically they said We cannot help you.  Julia Longoria But there was one Japanese American group that did decide to say something about Fred's case.  Ernest B. What is the name of the group? J-A-C-L.  Julia Longoria Ernest Besig had a nickname for this group. The Japanese American Citizens League.  Ernest B. The JACL's. I met with the leadership of that group. Several of them I urged them to oppose the exclusion but they did not seem to be particularly interested.  Lorraine B. The JCL.  Julia Longoria Condemned Fred's case and anyone else who fought against the government orders.  Lorraine B. Said it would not support any of these individuals who were fighting the orders and called them self styled martyrs.  Jad Abumrad Wow. They used that phrase?  Lorraine B. Yes. They would basically get everyone else into trouble.  Fred K. To do this by myself I just wonder if I was doing wrong or or maybe putting them in shame by uh bringing the issue up again. Uh because the Japanese people they they are peaceful people and they they like to leave things alone if they can. Because they were in enough trouble as it is because of this Pearl Harbor attack. And the country blamed them so they had this sort of a guilty complex. Even though um uh they had nothing to do with it.  Fred K. Majority of them just avoided me so therefore I uh assumed that um uh that uh I got myself in this problem and uh therefore it was my problem and and not theirs.  Julia Longoria Fred continued to fight his case. He argued that basically rounding up thousands of Japanese American American citizens without a trial without due process basically amounted to racial discrimination. His case made its way up and down the court and eventually two and a half years after he would met Ernest Besig in that jail cell the case arrives at the Supreme Court.  Karen K. You know he he thought that by the time his case got to the Supreme Court-  Julia Longoria That is Fred's daughter Karen again.  Karen K. He would be able to vindicate his family and everyone that had been incarcerated.  Elie Mystal Hmm.  Karen K. I mean that is how much he believed in the Supreme Court.  Elie Mystal And so when when that did not happen he felt like...  Karen K. He he felt like it was his fault.  Elie Mystal Hmm.  Karen K. That is a big burden to carry around.  Julia Longoria What ends up happening is on December 18 1944 the Supreme Court ruled against Fred. It is kind of a complicated decision. The Supreme Court said racial distinctions when the government is making racial distinctions it is serious. We need to look at this very very carefully. And that was a big precedent so in a lot of ways it is kind of a victory for people fighting racial discrimination.  Julia Longoria But then the court turned around and said even though racial distinctions are serious this one is not strictly racial. We are at war with the Japanese Empire therefore rounding up Japanese American citizens is a way to defend the nation.  Jad Abumrad God if you are Fred at this point like it sounds like it sounds like lonelier than I can almost imagine. because your you are by yourself pretty much on all fronts. The country that you feel so a part of that you want to actually enlist in the military to fight for does not seem to want you at that moment. Your own community does not seem to want you. Your family is ashamed by you. Your girlfriend is gone. I cannot imagine being more alone at this point.  Lorraine B. And he never shared that with my brother or I. He shared it with my mother but but we did not that was not part of our dinner conversation.  Megan Kelly They are discussing drafting a proposal to reinstate a registry for immigrants from Muslim countries.  Carl Higbie Yeah and and perfect to be perfectly honest it is really excited to hold Constitutional muster. We did it during World War 2 with Japanese which you know call it what you will maybe-   Come on you are not you are not proposing we go back to the days of internment camps I hope.  Carl Higbie No no no. I am not proposing that at all Megan. But what I am saying-   You know better to suggest that.  Carl Higbie We need to protect America.   I mean that is that is the kind of stuff that gets people scared Carl.  Carl Higbie Right but it is I am just saying there is precedent for it. And I am not saying I agree with it.  Julia Longoria This is the crazy thing about the Korematsu decision. It is still on the books. That guy Carl Higbie got on Megan Kelly and said this stuff about Korematsu. And the very next day he got on and apologized for saying that.  Julia Longoria But he is right Korematsu is technically still good law. Just as Antonin Scalia once said that sure Korematsu was wrongly decided but if you think that it is not gonna happen again you are kidding yourself.  Richard P. The the court is not gonna get is not gonna cross the president in a in a in a national emergency. Would you like it to?   Elie Mystal Um I think so. Um would you like it to?  Richard P. No.  Julia Longoria That is not Antonin Scalia it is a judge named Richard Posner. And at the time that Elie talked to him he was on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. And he was widely considered by people on both the left and the right to be one of the most influential judges in the country. He sometimes is called the tenth Supreme Court justice and he is a big defender of the Korematsu decision.  Elie Mystal What do you say then to Fred Korematsu? What do you say then to to a a Japanese American about kind of the law and the court?  Richard P. Well they were given compensation.  Elie Mystal Right I mean there is there is you know the there is you know pain and suffering. There is there there is anguish right that we cannot exactly commodify.  Richard P. Uh yeah. But um at the time it all happened shortly after Pearl Harbor it it seemed like the right thing to do and probably was the right thing to do. And I imagine that the officials in federal government in um 1941 they probably did not know anything about Japanese Americans on the West Coast. You think Roosevelt ever met a Japanese American. I doubt it.  Elie Mystal Right I just think that you know-  Richard P. So-  Elie Mystal  The fact that he had not ever met anybody um might of have been a reason for him to be more restrained in his executive orders. Right? I mean.  Richard P. No because all he cares about is the defense of the United States. If there is any possibility of Japanese American somehow cooperating with a Japanese invasion force then he has to move the Japanese Americans.  That is that is I am sure that is all he would have thought of. Right?  Elie Mystal Well I mean I think that is all he did think of.  Richard P. But what else could he have thought of. That is the only thing he is going to focus on and if he does not he could be impeached.  Elie Mystal We he he could also worry about citizens. Right and I think one of the-  Richard P. No no no. Look you are not your you are missing the priorities. The priority is defense. That is the priority. That is what these people are thinking about. You think they have time to be thinking about any any kind of nice ideas for protecting people.  Any more than than Lincoln did.  Julia Longoria What he is referring to there is a moment in 1861 when Abraham Lincoln basically tossed this alleged confederate in jail without due process. And then justified it by saying he had to save the Union. In that case Supreme Court Justice Roger Tawny ruled against him.  Richard P. So Lincoln said Oh well Tawny he is the Chief Justice and he said this jerk should be released. I guess I have to do that. He is the Chief Justice. No you do that enough times as the president you are out.  Elie Mystal It seems to me that that is why we have courts. We have courts-  Richard P. Oh come on.  Elie Mystal Courts to restrain the executive abuse.  Richard P. That is not why we have... We do not have courts so that presidents can be checked in situations of a national emergency. That was not why courts were set up.  Elie Mystal So that ... Then what I I mean I guess I am I am flailing now but then what stops them. What if court... If Congress cannot stop him and if the courts cannot stop him like what can stop a president in a time of war.  Richard P. There is nobody. There is nobody who can check that. That is the president's responsibility.  Elie Mystal Hmm. Obviously I would like a do over because somehow in the heat of the moment I forgot that I am talking about defending the rights of actual American citizens and Posner is talking about people who are rebels to the country. Um there is probably a way where I could have said pointed that out to him.  Elie Mystal Um in terms of the court stepping in I mean it happens. It happened to Truman. But you know Judge Posner is right that it does not happen a lot. Which is why he gets to be Judge Posner and I am the guy that had to check Wikipedia.  Richard P. And by the way do you think these Supreme Court Justices are great big brains.  Elie Mystal   Richard P. Big stars who were selected because they are the best lawyers in the United States and their decisions are are usually great. You think all that? I do not. I do not have a high respect for the Supreme Court at all.  Elie Mystal  Um I am I...  Richard P. Now you look at their decisions you look at them. How they are appointed? Who appoints them?  Elie Mystal Right. This is-  Richard P. So why do you think the Supreme Court is such a great balance to the president in a war.  Lorraine B. This is what gets me up and gets me going. Because I still think it can be used as a precedent.  Elie Mystal So your your your you are still worried that it can be used?  Lorraine B. Yes.  Elie Mystal And that it... Do you think it will be? Like do you think-  Lorraine B. Definitely. You know I think we can not take this for granted.  Robert Krulwich Wow that is just quite a I mean um... That judge is as revered and as thought highly of as as you guys said. Uh-  Jad Abumrad Yeah he just actually the thing we do not mention-  Robert Krulwich Judge Posner.  Jad Abumrad He just retired.  Robert Krulwich Yeah he just did.  Jad Abumrad Like I think within a with within the last month.   Robert Krulwich But you know I mean I am listening to that and I am thinking wow. Um not only is there a distinction to be made between people who are American citizens and people who are traitors. But there is also this this huge this huge fact that there are German Americans by the 10s of 1000s in this country at that time. We were at war with Germany too and Germans held big rallies in Madison Square Garden with Swastikas and supported Hitler out loud and marched for him for a while which they had every right to do. But uh they were not um give quite the same degree of suspicion as the Japanese and that is a question I think for for the court.  Robert Krulwich So there is an argument for Justice Posner but there is an argument against him.  Jad Abumrad Yeah for sure.  Robert Krulwich And uh...  Jad Abumrad For sure.  Robert Krulwich Yeah. Wow that is really interesting. So now Fred has to solve his problem else where.  Jad Abumrad Right so in the next part of the story the question really is like since Fred cannot get justice in the court can he find it on the outside? And he does in this uh place that you would not expect.  Robert Krulwich When we come back we will find out where that place is.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. All right so we will continue in a moment with uh our featuring of Radiolab's first ever spinoff More Perfect season two episode one. More in a moment.  Kevin Murrey This is Kevin Murrey from Fort Collins Colorado. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred. P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Molly Webster Hey this Molly. Radiolab is supported by Audible. Audible has the world's largest selection of audio entertainment including Audible originals that you cannot hear anywhere else. Like the Three Day Effect which dives into the science behind why being in wild can make us happier. With the convenient Audible app you can listen anytime anywhere and on any device. Mobile Alexa enabled Bluetooth and more. Start listening with a 30 day Audible trial. Choose one audio book and two Audible originals absolutely free. Visit Audible.comRadiolab or text Radiolab to 500500.  Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad. Radiolab is supported by IBM. Problems its human nature to hate problems but why is that? After all problems inspire us to mend things bend things make things better. That is why so many people work with IBM on everything from city traffic to ocean plastic new schools to new energy flight delays to food safety. Smart loves problems. IBM let us put Smart to work. Visit IBM.comSmart to learn more.  Ilya Marritz Hello it is Ilya Marritz cohost of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent president to not release his tax returns. The only president you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.   He did not care what records was. He tore up memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like Look you cannot do that.  Ilya Marritz Trump Inc an open investigation into the business of Trump. From ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. We are previewing uh the first episode of More Perfect season two.  Robert Krulwich So we go back to Fred Korematsu who as you just heard lost his case before the Supreme Court.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Robert Krulwich Did not get the remedy he wanted.  Jad Abumrad Nope.  Robert Krulwich So now he is... I do not know what is he going to do.  Jad Abumrad Well now he ends up getting a kind of remedy.  Robert Krulwich And you said it was something you did not that that it is not from judges.  Jad Abumrad No not no judges involved. And this when when I this this I this I find really really moving. I gotta say. Just personally the whole reason to tell this story is where it ends.  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad So-  Robert Krulwich Do not say anymore.  Jad Abumrad I am not going to say anymore.  Robert Krulwich Yeah just lets go.  Jad Abumrad Let us just listen to it.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Okay so so producer Julia Longoria is gonna pick back up the story with what happened to Fred after the decision.  Julia Longoria So the internment camp where Fred was staying closed in 1945. Um and Fred had gotten permission by that point to work at a steel mill in Detroit. So he was living in Detroit. He fell in love with a woman named Katherine. They got married moved back to the Bay Area and had two kids. And Karen his daughter says that they were kind of ostracized from the Japanese American community. They grew up outside of the Japanese community.  Karen K. He was involved in Boy Scouts Girl Scouts. I w- I was in Girl Scouts so you know the camps. When we had to open the camp he would work on that. Uh the Presbyterian Church in Oakland and then he became an elder.  Julia Longoria He even joined the Lion's Club.  Karen K. And he was president twice.  Julia Longoria And Karen says throughout the 40s the 50s the 60s she never heard him talk about his case.  Karen K. No never. No never. He he just... He never he never he never told the story.  Julia Longoria Even after she confronted him about it in high school.  Karen K. Yeah its that is it.  Julia Longoria But she says in like 1969 ish.  Karen K. 68 or 69.  Julia Longoria When the world was in a very different place they got a phone call.  Karen K. Back in those days you know my parents phone number was in the phone book of all things. So I mean my father would get phone calls from law students that wanted to interview him. But he but he really did not want to talk about his case much. He just it was just too painful.  Julia Longoria But this time there was a professor on the line.  Karen K. From the University of California Berkeley.  Julia Longoria He was a Japanese guy actually and he told Fred I really really want you to come into my class.  Karen K. There was an ethnic studies class that was actually off campus. Ethnic studies was not even recognized then. So he he talked at at this ethnic studies class and these kids were brutal. I mean you see Berkeley at that time had this you know notorious reputation of being very radical.  Jean Quan People were asking questions during the whole hour.  Julia Longoria This is Jean Quan former mayor of Oakland. She was in the class that day.  Jean Quan It was important time that you at at different times of life you have to learn how to stand up to authority.  Karen K. And certainly these students were like you know fist pounding saying Well why did not you why did not you protest? Why did not you do this why did not you do that?  Julia Longoria Why did not you fight harder?  Karen K. And were almost you know angry that he was not angry.  Jean Quan You know I think you got to remember that a lot of these students did not even know anything about the camps. Many many kids had not had frank discussions with their own parents. So with Korematsu he was probably a surrogate for like their parents. How could they have gone through that and never told me. They had no right not to tell me. And so they are really angry at their parents.  Julia Longoria Surrogate or not Fred felt like he was being indicted all over again.  Karen K. It it was such a painful experience for my father. He never wanted to speak to anyone again.  Julia Longoria Fred would ultimately challenge his conviction in a lower court and he would win. The Supreme Court decision still stands but he was able to clear his own personal name.  Julia Longoria And in around 1990 again the world is in a very different place. He finds himself again on a college campus. This time...  Karen K. The University of of Michigan. My father and mother were walking with some other students across a campus to see the newly renovated library. And you know my father loved architecture it was very old gothic uh library.  Julia Longoria So they are walking through this sort of open quad looking at the architecture. And then they come upon this group of students.  Karen K. A group of Arab American students.  Julia Longoria The students start walking toward him.  Karen K. They all of a sudden kind of surrounded my father and they had this certificate um to give to my father to thank him for speaking up. So that was meaningful to him.  Julia Longoria Why why did that make you emotional? Why that story?  Karen K. Um  uh well because it it meant so much to my father. That this group really honored him that also had been racially profiled. You know to think that he would be able to touch their lives. It it kind of reinforced what he was doing.  Elie Mystal Do do you have the same faith in the Constitution that your dad did? That that-  Karen K. Yes I have great faith in our Constitution.  Elie Mystal Hmm.  Karen K. It it is a great document it uh so happens though that it is the way that certain people interpret it that gets us into trouble. Yes definitely.  Donald Trump The danger is clear. The law is clear. The need for my executive order is clear.   The travel ban 3.0 coming here tonight. The Trump administration unveiling new travel restrictions on certain foreign nationals from eight countries.   Where are they gonna go because they sold everything with the feeling with the thinking they gonna start a new life in United States.   My nephew.   My nephew.   My nephew.   My nephew.   Has been detained since this morning.   Has been detained since this morning.   This is what we want. We want the freedom we want the liberty. We want the people. We are the people. We the people.   But there are many many lawyers here. They are all working pro bono today. They are from different organizations.   This is what resistance looks like today.   This sends a message that they can not do away with constitutional protections without people standing up for the Constitution. So uh I think this is inspirational I think it is wonderful and I think we need to be vigilant and keep fighting.  Robert Krulwich Oh wow. Oh man. Um well you know it it is interesting its like not only do the courts you know eventually go back and forth on these deeper questions so do all of us. And um the verdict of history is always going to be a little bit shifting but eventually you kind of hope that the arc sort of moves just far enough along that you cannot go back to far. You cannot go all the way back eventually you get to a better place.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert Krulwich You get a little bit more perfect.  Jad Abumrad Boom. Nice. More Perfect by the way is produced by me and Suzie Lechtenberg Jenny Laugthen the amazing Julia Longoria Kelly Prime Seam Ramsfurum Alex Overington and Sarah Qari with Elie Mystal Christian Ferries Linda Hershman David Gable and Michelle Harris.  Jad Abumrad Special thanks to the Densho Archives for the tape of Fred Korematsu and Ernest Besig. Supreme Court audio is from Oyez a free law project and collaboration with the Legal Information Institute of Cornell. Leadership support for More Perfect is provide by the Joyce Foundation. Additional funding is provided by the Charles Evans Hews Memorial Foundation.  Jad Abumrad So yeah I guess I we should just close. I mean I guess-  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad That was the first of it. That was the first episode of uh More Perfect season two. There are already two other episodes in the feed. Um and there will be many more coming so if you like that if you want to sort of keep up with it. Definitely go to Radiolab.orgMore Perfect or search for More Perfect on iTunes or Google Play or whatever.  Jad Abumrad Uh this season we will be producing a lot more episodes that are way more ambitious. We are just going for it so tell everybody. Tell everybody it is out. Spread the word.  Robert Krulwich Yeah because uh it I do not think there will be a big effort to spread it. I think this is this is very much of its moment. So um-  Jad Abumrad Yeah we will see. Anyhow let us go. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Robert Krulwich And thank you for listening. Yes.  Simon Adler Hey I am Simon Adler. Radiolab is supported by Hello Monday. LinkedIn's new podcast with Jessi Hempel is back for season two. Each week join Jessi and her guests as they discuss the changing nature of work and how that work is changing us. Find Hello Monday with Jessi Hempel on Apple Podcasts or wherever you listen.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 