 Announcer Listener-supported WNYC Studios. Intro You are listening to Radiolab. From- Intro WNYC. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad. This is Radiolab. Quick warning this episode contains strong language and graphic violence. So if you are listening with kids you might want to sit this one out. But okay with that out of the way we will start things off with-- B.A. Parker Recording. Jad Producer B.A. Parker. B.A. Parker Oh boy. All right. Jad Do you have a sense of where you want to start? B.A. Parker Yes sure. Jad Okay. B.A. Parker It all began I think in June the George Floyd protests were happening in full flux in New York. Jad Parker says since she was a journalist and forbidden from protesting she was just stuck in her apartment. B.A. Parker Feeling kind of helpless. Jad Just spending a lot of her time thinking. News clip -defund the police departments-- B.A. Parker I wound up having this genuinely befuddling thought of just Wait what exactly is the police for? Jad You mean like what is their job? B.A. Parker Yes. That was just something that I was really trying to figure out for myself. Jad Now I have to confess. Initially I did not see how that was even a question. I mean there are a lot of things that need to be talked about when it comes to policing in America but their job description did not seem to be one of them. That felt pretty clear to me. Police are supposed to enforce the law yes but more than that- Voice clip Police are sworn to protect and serve. Jad -they are supposed to protect us. Voice clip To protect and serve. Jad It is what they say right? I mean it is this thing you see written on the sides of their cars To protect and serve. Voice clip To protect and serve the people. Jad Now do they always do that? No but that is clearly their job. B.A. Parker Yes that is what you think that is what I thought. But then funnily enough a friend sent me like an animated video- Voice clip If you have ever been on the internet I mean you hear right now. B.A. Parker -of this guy- Voice clip My name is Joe Lozito. B.A. Parker -named Joe Lozito. He is got a bald head trimmed goatee and in this video he basically just tells this insane wild story- Voice clip -you are going to die-- whipped out an eight-inch knife. B.A. Parker -of this thing that happened to him. That took this question that I had of What do the police do? and just blew it open. Jad Tell me more. B.A. Parker I saw this video. It was about what happened to him. Immediately I went and I searched for him and messaged him. Joe Lozito Okay. B.A. Parker Cool cool cool. Can you just tell me your name and where you are from? Joe Yes Joseph Lozito but everyone calls me Joe. I am from Long Island Merrick New York but originally from Queens. B.A. Parker Hey Joe is there is something in the background? Joe Yes. Oh shit. I did not mute my TV. Hold on. Fuck I forgot about that. B.A. Parker  Joe Okay how about that? Is that better? B.A. Parker Yes I cannot hear it now. Let us go back to February of 2011. Joe 2011. Yes February of 2011 February 12 started like a regular day.  B.A. Parker 00 AM Joe got up. Joe I am a creature of habit. B.A. Parker Got dressed got out of the door walked over to a Wawa. Joe Got my coffee. B.A. Parker At the time he was living in Philly. Joe Working in New York City. Drove to New Jersey got out on the train took a nap. B.A. Parker Woke up in Manhattan. Joe Penn Station. B.A. Parker Made his way downstairs. Joe Where the subways are. B.A. Parker Got down the platform waited a minute. Joe Got on the first train which is the 3 train. B.A. Parker Got in the very first car took a seat. Joe In the very first seat. B.A. Parker Joe is basically at the very front of the train. A few more people got in. Joe If you have taken the subway before you know the doors are open for 10 seconds or whatever. B.A. Parker But this morning Joe says they were just sitting there with the doors open. Joe Next thing I know two police officers get on the subway. B.A. Parker They walked up to the very front of the car where there is this little door-- Joe -to the motorman's compartment. B.A. Parker That is where the driver is and the two officers they go in there. Joe Which I thought was weird but whatever. It is New York. Who the hell knows? Finally the doors closed. We start moving but we are crawling as if a single person was behind the entire subway and pushing it. It was that slow. Which again was a little weird but it was only going to get weirder. B.A. Parker Because it was right then Joe noticed that there was this man in mid-20s six feet tall- Joe He was a little dirty. B.A. Parker -standing a few feet away from Joe. This guy went over to the door where the officers and the driver were. Joe He starts banging on the door. B.A. Parker Starts yelling. Joe Let me in. B.A. Parker One of the officers shouts back. Joe Who are you? He says I am the police. B.A. Parker The officer shouts back No you are not. We are the police. Joe With that the man walks back without incident. B.A. Parker But then Joe looks across the train and notices this other guy. Joe Scared to death like he was going to shit his pants. B.A. Parker A passenger. This guy had clearly seen the first guy and he was alarmed. He goes up to the same door starts knocking on it. Joe But with a bit of subtlety as to not draw attention waving the cops to come out. B.A. Parker He keeps knocking on this door. Joe Looking over his shoulder-- B.A. Parker Back at the first guy who is now standing a foot away from Joe. Joe I look up at him-- B.A. Parker He says to Joe You are going to die. Then he reaches into his jacket pulls out an eight-inch knife and stabs Joe right in his face. Jad Oh my God. Joe Under my left eye. B.A. Parker Joe said-- Joe You do not have time to think about it. B.A. Parker -he lunged at this guy's legs. Joe I ended up wrapping my arms around his waist. While I was taking him down-- B.A. Parker This guy was able to stab show once twice three times in his head. Joe But I was able to get him down. B.A. Parker Joe landed on him with all of his weight. Joe But even with that he still had the knife in his hand. Now all of a sudden he is flailing up with the knife. B.A. Parker Joe got his hands out. Joe Trying to catch his wrist. B.A. Parker This guy slashes at Joe hits his hand. Slashes again slices his arm. Then the third time Joe grabs this guy's wrist slams into the ground. Joe The knife came out. B.A. Parker According to Joe it is then- Joe Only then-- B.A. Parker -that one of the police officers who was behind that little door rushes over grabs the guy. Joe Says You can get up now we got him. B.A. Parker At this point- Joe I have lost it a lot of blood. B.A. Parker -Joe was laying there bleeding from his face and his back and his hands. The cops are wrestling the madman other passengers are fleeing. At one point a man rushes up to Joe and starts pressing napkins to his wounds. Eventually the train gets to the next station. Joe The paramedics are waiting there. B.A. Parker They rushed into the train. Joe Lift me up off of the subway seat to put me on the stretcher. As they lift me up I pass out. It is kind of like when you start nodding off while you are watching television where you are nodding off but you could still hear what is going on in the background. B.A. Parker Joe heard one of the officers who was on the train with him-- Joe Calling me likely. Jad Likely what does that mean? B.A. Parker He was not sure. Eventually they get him to a hospital. Joe Bring me in this room and now all of a sudden is when the pain kicks in. It is the worst pain I have ever had. Like someone doused my head in gasoline and lit it on fire. Pain you cannot even imagine. B.A. Parker They get him on morphine. Joe Jacked me up pretty good. B.A. Parker He ends up with like 80 staples in his body. Jad Wow. Joe Fast forward a little bit more. My day gets a lot better. My family's there all of a sudden my wife and my kids get there. B.A. Parker In the midst of all this at some point a police officer shows up in Joe's room introduces himself. Joe He holds up a mugshot of the guy. He says Is this the guy that did this to you? I said Yes. He says Oh you are a hero. He killed four people last night. B.A. Parker Turns out his name was Maksim Gelman who AKA after the fact is called the Butcher of Brighton Beach. But what was pretty astonishing about this and Joe did not know this at the time but the police had been searching for this guy for the past 24 hours. There was a citywide manhunt for him. That morning Joe was attacked the police had gotten a tip that Gelman was in the subway. They sent hundreds of officers down there looking for him. Jad Wait so the police on the train knew- B.A. Parker Knew. Jad -but they say stayed behind the door? B.A. Parker Yes. Jad Oh wow. News clip Take down Maksim Gelman-- B.A. Parker A few days later-- Joe I am doing all these interviews. Newscaster Joe thanks for joining us. We really appreciate it. My pleasure. B.A. Parker He is got a black eye gnarly scars all over his head. Newscaster Wow oh boy. B.A. Parker In all these interviews-- Joe They are calling me a hero. Newscaster A hero tonight-- Joe I am saying Well I am not a hero. Newscaster He still does not believe he is a hero. Joe Because I am just a regular guy. Newscaster You are a hero. Joe I do not think I am a hero. Newscaster No I hear you. You are a normal guy. That is cool. B.A. Parker Instead Joe's like-- Joe The police are the heroes. The police are heroes. Like I said I am just grateful for the police and EMTs were down there to save me or else like I said I would not be here right now. Those are the heroes I am not a hero. B.A. Parker Then a few things happened. After the news media moves on after the two police officers on the train are praised by the mayor and the chief of police. After Joe testifies at Gelman's grand jury and gets him indicted. One day Joe is walking down the street and he notices he is being followed. Joe I turned around quickly and I am like Can I help you? B.A. Parker The man told Joe Listen I was part of the grand jury and I have got to tell you something. When those police officers testified one of them told us while you were there rolling around on the floor with Gelman-- Joe He said I started to come out but I thought he had a gun so I closed the door and stayed inside. After we heard that we got furious. He goes The whole group of us we all looked at each other like Did he actually just admit to not coming out to do his job and leave the subway full of people with a spree killer? He said After that he goes I had to tell you. I am sitting here going holy shit. They left a spree killer a known spree killer a spree killing fugitive on a subway with probably 20 25 people. B.A. Parker When Joe heard this he thought back to this moment when he was in the hospital recovering when his sister came by. She is a cop. He told her that he heard one of the officers on the train say that he was likely. Joe I said What does the likely mean? She goes They called you likely? I go Yes. She turned white. I go What? She goes likely means likely to die. B.A. Parker  We reached out to the police officers who were on the train through their precinct but never heard back. Anyway make a long story short after meeting that guy on the street after thinking back to what really happened that day-- Joe That was when we decided to pursue legal action.  B.A. Parker Joe decides to sue the police department. Problem is he could not get a lawyer to actually take his case to trial. He decides to represent himself. Joe I got this gigantic box of legal documents. B.A. Parker Starting pouring through his case. Joe If I had time before work I was doing this before work. If I had time after work I was doing this after work. B.A. Parker Eventually Joe gets his day in court. Tells his whole story and says the cops failed him failed everybody on that train and they should have to pay. The judge says Mr. Lozito's version of the story sounds highly credible and his version of events rings true. Joe Basically says You are telling the truth. Then goes on to say But based on blah blah blah I have to dismiss this case. Jad Wait what is the blah blah blah blah? Why? B.A. Parker Well here's what the judge said No direct promises or protection were made to Mr. Lozito nor were there direct actions taken to protect Mr. Lozito prior to the attack. Therefore a special duty did not exist. Jad What? I am confused. What does that mean? B.A. Parker Well she basically says the cops had no duty to protect Joe in that situation. Jad What? B.A. Parker Yes. This is where you get to my earlier question what are the police for? Despite what you think legally it turns out protecting you is not their job. Jad Protecting me is not their job. How is that even possibly true? That is not true. Is that true? How is that true? B.A. Parker Well it turns out it has to do with some legal precedents. Joe Castle Rock versusGonzales was the big one. B.A. Parker To tell that story I am actually going to bring in some help. I will come back. For now here's producer Sarah Qari. Sarah Qari Yes. Hi. Okay. I talked to this woman Kris McDaniel-Miccio. Kris McDaniel-Miccio An attorney and a law professor. Sarah In upstate New York. Where were you in life or in the world when you first got to know Jessica Lenahan? Kris I was the professor of law at the University of Denver Sturm College of Law and I was teaching law classes and one of them was a seminar on domestic violence. Sarah One day she comes across this one case. Kris I was thunderstruck completely shocked. Sarah It was a domestic violence case from Castle Rock Colorado. Kris I am reading this and I am thinking I need to get involved. Sarah She asked around ended up finding the number of the woman who is at the center of the case. Kris I met her we became friends. Sarah The woman's name is Jessica Lenahan. Kris She lived in the town of Castle Rock. She had three little girls. Sarah Who are 10 9 and 7 years old. Kris Who she adored. Sarah Back then this is June 1999 she would gotten divorced from her husband- Kris Simon Gonzales. Sarah -and had even taken out a restraining order against him. Kris That protected her and the children both. Sarah In this restraining order there was this condition-- Kris That he had to give a notice if he wanted to see the children. Sarah If he were to violate that order the police would have to arrest him. A few weeks after shed taken this restraining order- Kris June 22nd 1999. The kids were playing outside from what she told me. Sarah -Jessica was in the house. Kris Do you know how kids are? They do not talk they scream. Theyre screaming at each other and they are playing and all of a sudden is very quiet. She looks out the window no kids. She knew immediately Simon had taken them. Sarah Because has this history of being abusive- Kris She was beyond anxious. Sarah -she calls the police. Kris Repeatedly. She calls the police. Sarah At 50 PM. Kris At 30 PM. Sarah 30 PM. Kris 00 PM. Sarah She even later that night-- Kris She goes in person to the Castle Rock police station at 40 AM on June 23rd. Sarah The thing was Jessica worked at the police station as a custodian. Kris We are not talking about a police department the size of the Bronx or the New York City Police Department. We are talking about a relatively small environment. People knew who she was. People knew that Simon was violent. Sarah Basically the police told her- Kris Wait wait wait he will bring the kids back. Do not worry. He will bring the kids back. Sarah -the kids are with their dad. It is not a big deal. Kris She was beside herself. Who else was she going to call? What was she going to do? Jessica Lenahan The police basically ignored the restraining order. I called and met with a Castle Rock police nine times over a 10-hour period. Sarah This is testimony from Jessica herself a few years later. Jessica I begged them to find my daughters to bring them to safety and arrest Simon. My cries for help fell on deaf ears. The police went to dinner look for a lost dog and had three officers tending to a routine traffic stop. Sarah What happens is finally at 00 AM that night-- Kris Simon drove up to the Castle Rock police station. Sarah Got out of his truck. Kris He had a Glock and he just started firing at the precinct. Sarah Oh wow. Kris Why would anybody do that? Why would anybody do that? You know the reaction you are going to get. Sarah He wanted a confrontation. Kris He wanted to die. He knew that if you fired on a precinct they were going to come out and they were going to start firing at him. Sarah The police come outside open fire on Simon. He dies at the scene. Once the shooting stops the police approached Simon's truck and opened the door. Kris At that point they saw three dead little girls. Jad Oh Christ. Jesus. Sarah Yes. Basically the understanding is that Simon has killed them before arriving. Jad Wow. Sarah When Jessica arrived at the police station she was taken into an interrogation room. Kris She was informed. She did not get to see her children. They would not let her see her children. She did not get to see her children until they were laid out for the funeral. Sarah Eventually after all this Jessica decided to sue the Castle Rock police department as Joe Losito would with the NYPD over a decade later. The argument that her lawyers were making is that the police by not enacting this restraining order by not seeking to arrest this man and protect Jessica and her children by failing to do those things they violated Jessica's 14th amendment right. Jad The 14th again is--? Sarah The 14th amendment is The state shall not deprive any person of life liberty or property without due process of law. Jessica I turned to the United States Courts to seek justice to hold police accountable for illegally ignoring and demeaning me and my children in our time of need. Kris She files a petition in the federal district court. Sarah Which got kicked up to the 10th Circuit Court. Kris Then it went up to the Supremes. Archival clip Supreme Court We will hear argument now number 042-78 the town of Castle Rock versus Jessica Gonzales. Sarah In 2005 Jessica's cases went before the Supreme Court. Archival clip Supreme Court Mr. Chief Justice may it please the court. Sarah Very quickly in this case the justices started asking these questions that were-- Archival clip Supreme Court Mr. Rankle how would you describe the property? Sarah They are just very technical. Archival clip Supreme Court What is the property your client has been deprived of? Sarah There is questions about property and if the restraining order is property. Archival clip Supreme Court That would be a property if he had a private contract. Sarah There was a lot of discussion about- Archival clip Supreme Court The word shall enforce. Sarah What the word shall means. Archival clip Supreme Court Sometimes shall does mean shall. Fine. Sarah But eventually. Archival clip  If you compare it to-- Sarah Ruth Bader Ginsburg zeroes in on the big question that we have been asking about the police's job which is like if we have restraining orders. Archival clip  Do not he police have an obligation to enforce them? Archival clip Supreme Court To my knowledge we have never held that the police have an actionable obligation to enforce them. Archival clip  What does the restraining order do then? Archival clip Supreme Court It does two main things. First of all it gives her rights against her husband which are enforceable through contempt and are enforceable by asking the police to enforce them. That is the interest of the restraining order gives her. Archival clip  But only to ask the police and they are not obliged to respond. Archival clip Supreme Court That is correct. She has the ability to ask the police to enforce the order but the police have discretion under our reading of the statute. Sarah Then Justice John Paul Stevens just asks point-blank. Archival clip  Do the police have any duty at all in your view? Archival clip Supreme Court I do not believe that the police have any sort of actionable duty. I think that what the statute-- Sarah What you start to hear is this argument that is come up again and again at the court. That if you look at the 14th amendment or the US Constitution as a whole there is nothing in there that says the police have to protect you from other people. In fact that is not what the Constitution is for. Kris The Constitution is a negative rights constitution. Meaning our Constitution is keep your laws off my body. Sarah The Constitution is there only to protect you from the state. Kris There is no affirmative duty on the part of the state to protect you. Jad It protects you from the police theoretically but it does not demand that the police protect you from your abusive spouse. Sarah Right. Exactly. Which is why in Jessica's case when John Stevens asked- Archival clip  Do the police have any duty at all in your view? Sarah The lawyer for the police was like-- Archival clip Supreme Court The police-- Sarah No. Archival clip Supreme Court I do not believe that the police have any-- Kris They did not have to do anything. They did not have to do a damn thing. Archival clip Supreme Court The case is submitted. Kris To be brutally frank I knew we were going to lose. I knew it but I did not think we would lose as badly as we did. Sarah In the 7-2 decision the Supreme Court decided that the Castle Rock police had no duty to enforce the restraining order against Jessica's ex-husband. The two dissenting judges were John Paul Stevens and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. We reached out to the Castle Rock police department to interview them about Jessica Gonzales's case but they declined. Jessica In 2005 the United States Supreme Court threw out my case. The court also sent a message to police officers all over the country that they can ignore their responsibilities to enforce restraining orders and that they can get away with it. Kris When she lost it was as if her children had been murdered again. Jessica I went from being victimized by Simon to being victimized by Colorado and Castle Rock. Kris It was as if she experienced it all over again. Jessica I felt so deceived. I have grown up thinking that my government was bound by the laws and then it was just and fair. But all of a sudden when I needed you the most you turned you back on me and my family. Obviously the years after my tragedy have been hell. It is really paralyzing. Sometimes the pain overwhelms me and I have to step away from my own life just to cope. Kris They were three beautiful little girl who did not deserve this. No child deserves this. No woman deserves this. Jessica Our system is broken and I have paid the price for its flaws. B.A. Parker I have to say talking to other lawyers about this case- Jad Again this is B.A. Parker. B.A. Parker -first of all all these lawyers talk about this case in really quiet somber tones. Jad Like it is a dark day for them. B.A. Parker It is a really dark day but it was also an I get it. Jad What do you mean? B.A. Parker They understand. They do not agree with the policy but they understand why the Supreme Court made that decision. Because they say if the Constitution says the police must protect you well suddenly that is going to incentivize the police to be a lot more heavy-handed. Then we would have to arrest for jaywalking we would have to arrest for an open container we would have to arrest for everything. You would have essentially a police state. Jad Is what you mean that they see Jessica Gonzales as in a utilitarian sense she is the cost you pay to preserve our safety from over-policing? B.A. Parker Yes. Jad Yes. Now that I think about that-- Are you convinced by that argument that there is that slippery slope that they seem to be worried about? B.A. Parker I mean his idea that we either get discretion meaning police make all their own subjective decisions and how to enforce the law. Hello racial bias. Or we get a world in which they have an obligation to enforce every law across the board but you get a police state. I do not understand why those have to be the two choices. That just seems bananas to me. I feel there is some medium and I do not understand why the law cannot figure that out. Jad Well is there some kind of middle path that says the police can have discretion but they do have to protect us in certain cases? B.A. Parker Well sort of. There is literally this special path. Jad That is coming up right after the break.  Jad Jad. Radiolab. We are back with B.A. Parker and Sarah Qari. We just heard two different stories from two different people where the police failed to protect either of them and we learned that according to the Constitution police do not have to. They have no constitutional duty to either of them. Sarah Right and you were wondering if there is some middle path to the police having to protect us. Jad Yes. Sarah In that Supreme Court case Scalia in his opinion hints at that. He references these cases in the lower courts that talk about this idea of a special relationship. John Goldberg Hello. Sarah Hello. Hi. How are you? John I am good. How are you? Sarah I do not know. When I first encountered this term special relationship I was like What the heck? What does that mean? I called this guy John Goldberg. John Professor at Harvard Law School. My main area of interest and expertise is tort law. Sarah Real quick tort law is the universe of law that governs what happens when one person hurts another person. In tort law- John We have a general rule which says people are not obliged to help you. It is your problem. It is not theirs. Sarah The classic example is if you are walking down the street and- John You see somebody in need of rescue and you could easily and safely rescue them but you do not. Sarah Legally that is totally fine. You do not have to do anything for them. Jad What? That is horrible. John Right. Morally you have probably done something horribly wrong but legally you are not subject to liability. Jad See okay here's where I find myself thinking all about the limitations of the law. Sarah Yes totally. John The idea here is we may think it is virtuous and heroic even for someone to step in and rescue another person from some danger but do we really think that if they do not do that they should be paying thousands or millions of dollars to the victim because they chose not to? Sarah I do not know man I do not get it either. There is an exception to that in the law. John What the courts have said is if there is the right kind of special relationship between the person who is at risk and the person who could rescue them there might be a legal duty to protect or rescue. Sarah If two people are in a special relationship then one of them has to protect the other. John A classic example would be if you are a hotel and you invite people to come and stay in your hotel as all hotels do you need working locks on the door to make sure nobody breaks in in the middle of the night. You have to have a well-lit parking lot or maybe even a security guard and that is all premised on the idea that a hotel or a motel or an inn owes it to its guests by virtue of their relationship. Sarah John says you will also see this special relationship status in transit industries. Jad Airlines taxi cabs things like that. Sarah Or you will see it in these relationships between a guardian and another person. Jad Between prisoner parents and minor children. Surely police officer-citizen has got to be the right kind of special relationship. But along come the courts and say No actually not. Sarah However the courts have said that there are times when the police do have a special relationship. If certain conditions are present then maybe yes the police do have an obligation to protect you. Jad What are the boxes you need to check in order to have a special relationship with the police so that they can protect you? Alexandra Lahav Well most states have a rule that is similar to the one that you are seeing in New York. Sarah This is Alexandra Lahav. Alexandra Professor of law at the University of Connecticut. Sarah She told me that in a lot of different places around the US it comes down to the very same criteria that Joe Lozito was being held to. Alexandra The rule in New York-- Sarah It is this four point test. The first of which is that there has to be direct contact between the person and the police. John Someone goes to the police and says You got to help me. Sarah The second thing is the police then have to respond to you and say- John Okay we are on it. Alexandra Some kind of promise to this individual I will protect you. Then- Sarah Number three- Alexandra You need knowledge on the part of the officers that not acting could lead to harm. Sarah The police also have to be aware that if they do not do anything that the person will suffer. Jad That seems getting into the head of the police. Sarah Yes how could know that kind of thing? Alexandra Now you are seeing why this test is so hard to meet. Then you need an addition. Sarah The fourth thing is the most mind boggling which is the person asking for protection. Alexandra They believe justifiably that the police will protect them. Sarah They have to prove that they relied on the police's protection. John They have acted differently exactly. They changed their behavior because they were like Oh phew. Now I know I am safe. I can go out but I would not have gone out otherwise. Sarah The way the courts look at these four criteria is all four of them have to be checked off. John Now we have got the right kind of special relationship. Sarah In Joe Lozito's case he just did not check those boxes. John Well very few people do. Jad Wow. God what a minefield. Sarah If you think about it in order for Joe Lozito to have checked those boxes he would have had to one walk up to the police and say Police I need your help I am about to get stabbed. Then two the police would have needed to say Yes we will help you because three We know that to not help you would definitely result in harm to your face and your back and your hands. Then four Joe would have then had to say Great I will now relax myself and act differently in the knowledge that you will help me. Jad That is insane. That is insane. It brings me back to Parker's original question which is if protecting people on the streets is so damn hard to make legally binding because it is not their job then what is their job? Barry Friedman Now you come to the fundamental problem. Sarah This is Professor Barry Friedman. Barry Law professor at New York University School of Law and I am the Faculty Director of the policing project there. Sarah Is there anywhere in the country that has really clear laws for what the local or state police is supposed to be doing or what they are not supposed to be doing. Barry No. It is remarkable. I was interested in policing for years and years and this is a light bulb that went off in my head finally and then I started to see it everywhere that I looked. What you get is you might get a drone statute in one state and you will get a statute about chokeholds in another state and you will get a statute about license plate readers in another state but it is all totally pinprick. What you will never ever ever find is a comprehensive code of police conduct. Does not exist. Sarah That is so strange. Not even in I do not know state constitutions or something? Maybe that is a far cry. Barry Listening to is making me so happy because you are listening and the veil is coming off of your eyes and it happened to me. No this is a question that we oddly do not ask much about the police but ask in most other areas of government. If you think about it whether it is the FDA or your local zoning board we do not usually think of government getting to do things without some formal permission a statute or a constitutional authorization. Sarah Wait so we have just collectively as a society being like Hey you are a cop and they are like Oh okay. What does that mean? I do not know. Just do what you got to do. They are like Oh all right. Then that is it? Jad Now this is Jad in the present. To be fair we called up a bunch of active duty officers-  Officers Hello. Jad -from all over the country. From South Carolina. Terry Cherry Recruiter for the city of Charleston police department. Jeremiah Johnson Sworn police officer in the state of Connecticut. Jad From Illinois Florida. Luke Bonkiewicz Police officer with the Lincoln police department in Nebraska. Jad When we asked them like what do they think their job is? They said Well to protect people. Luke Certainly. That is part of it intervening and protecting. Jad Again and again. They said Yes. Jeremiah Helping people as clich as that sounds. Jad Our job is to protect and serve. Chase Wetherington We want to protect people's stuff. We want to protect people against burglaries. Luke Trying to protect women from abusers. Jeremiah We have a natural duty to protect. Aaron Landers What most police officers want to be doing is standing between the general public and violence. Terry You want to do your best to help other people and keep them out of harm's way. Aaron That is why we are doing this. Jad In talking to them about where that idea actually comes from- Jeremiah Sure. When you talk about duties. Jad -where is it written down? Jeremiah That gets into the code of ethics for policing or mottos. Jad It is ethics guidelines it is mottos like protect and serve. It is city charters that created police forces in those cities charters that say things like Protect the peace maintain order enforce the law. This is something that came up in Sarah Qari's conversation with Barry Friedman that the actual mandates for what police are supposed to be doing are internal to the police departments themselves. Barry The problem is there is a lack of democratic control. We do not use the ordinary ways that we do everything else in government with regard to the police. We do not pass statutes. We do not pass regulations. We do not then because we have those statutes do sufficient auditing to make sure that they are being followed. The reason it is hard to hold people responsible today is because we are missing clear rules on the front to tell them what we expect them to do. Sarah I guess in that void it seems like what happens is it leaves the courts to debate over what those rules are and how to draw lines I guess? Barry Yes and they are terrible at it. Again if you think about it the Constitution is kind of a weird way to run anything in government. It is a framework for government but all it is is the framework. Then the framework gets filled in with statutes. We have environmental protection statutes and we have workplace safety statutes but we do not have policing statutes. Basically the courts are left to try to hold people accountable or not under the vaguest of terms. That is why it is hard to hold people accountable and why people get frustrated. The odd thing is they keep doubling down on that by creating more mechanisms on the back end to try to hold people responsible and do not notice that the whole problem is the vacuum as you described it on the front end. You have puzzled through it Sarah in a very logical way and everywhere you turn looking for logic you find a twist. That is problematic. What bothers me about the moment we are in there many bosses of some things about the moment we are in but people are walking around very much with a bad apples view of the problem when the truth of the matter is that the orchard just is not regulated. Jad Well let me ask you a bigger question. I am going to ask this to Parker. If it is not legally the police's job to protect us then whose job is it? B.A. Parker I do not know. Jad This sounds so sad. B.A. Parker It is. There is this one part of the story I have not told you yet that gives me a little hope. If you think back to Joe Lozito the guy got stabbed in the subway. It was not just Joe the cops and the stabber round the train that day. This was rush hour. There were a bunch of other people on the train. When the stabber lunged out at Joe they got out of the way. They were like Absolutely not. I want no part of this we are going to the next car. Took a step back just like the cops did. There was one guy on the train who did not step back. He took a step forward. Alfred Douglas My name is Alfred Douglas and I was originally born in Jamaica. I came here at 26 years old and I have been living in New York ever since. B.A. Parker What was it like to witness something like that to see someone get attacked? Alfred Miss I could tell you that I am 58 years old. I have never seen somebody so viciously slashed before. B.A. Parker Alfred was on the 3 train with Joe. Alfred I was just standing there. B.A. Parker As the train started moving- Alfred This guy came from the back of the train. Once he walked in my eyes was fixed on him because he did not look right. When he went and sit beside this woman the woman get up and then he move and went on across from Joe. B.A. Parker All of a sudden- Alfred -He just lunged forward jump on to Joe and then start attacking Joe. Joe is all covered in blood all the passenger that was up the front they start running to the back of the car. While the tussle was going on the police that was in the motorman's cabin he opened the door and looked out and then they went back in and-- B.A. Parker Hid. Just hid in there as Joe was getting stabbed. Alfred After Joe Lozito took him down and they were on the ground the police came up the motorman car and grab him. Maksim Gelman fighting the cop. By the time Joe could not see. His head was covered in blood. You understand me? He was just crying for his wife his kids and whatever. I said to myself We got to help him. I kneeled in his stomach and tried to get control of his arm because the officer have his gun in one hand and trying to control him with one hand. I see that he needed help. I went there and I kneeled down on him. After he cuff him up now the train line come to a stop. When I look at Joe I have never seen a slash like that before. The back of his neck it was just jumping like pump blood just pumping out of him. It seemed like eternity because Joe he thought he was going to bleed out. I thought he was going to bleed out too. I asked if anybody have a tissue or a napkin but before I got a tissue and a napkin I was applying pressure to his neck and then somebody came with a piece of napkin and I use the napkin to apply the pressure. That is just me. I was raised by my grandmother I was taught to help when you see a need for help. I just did what I thought that was right at the time. B.A. Parker Had you heard that Joe sued the city? Alfred No I have not heard anything about that. How did that go? B.A. Parker The judge threw the case out citing that the police has no special duty to protect him. Alfred Yes? The transit cop that walk the beat down there did not have no duty to protect the consumers? B.A. Parker Essentially yes. Alfred Damn. That is news to me. Why do they have the police in New York then if they as not got no duty to protect us? B.A. Parker That is what I am trying to figure out. Alfred We are paying our taxes. That is what I thought they were employed for. This is new to me I did not know the police does not have a duty to protect the citizens of a country or a state. I do not. I got to process this. I did not know something like this exists. If this is the case they should free up the gun laws in New York. Everybody could have that protection. I was living all my life all this time thinking that the police are there to serve and to protect. If they see something unlawful happening it is their duty to be the judge and the jury on the spot. I cannot see how they could say that it was not their job to protect the citizens. I do not know. It is a strange world man. I got to process this and I got to let my kids know. Whoever will listen to me I got to let them know about this because this is news to me. B.A. Parker It takes two a badly wounded guy and a guy with some napkins to defeat a serial killer. I say this fully aware that if I were in a situation like that I do not know if I would jump in. Jad Oh yes. Hell no. B.A. Parker The kindest thing I have done on the subway was in February I saw a girl crying and I gave her a tissue and now that COVID's happened I know that I will not do that anymore.  Jad You just give her an empathetic frown face across the way? B.A. Parker Like I am sorry madam. Jad I am sorry. I am going to leave the Kleenex right over here and you can come and get it. Special thanks to April Hayes and Katia Maguire for their documentary Home Truth about Jessica Lanahan To cracked.com for sending us down this rabbit hole Caroline Bettinger-Lpez Jeff Grimwood Kristie Lopez Anthony Herron Mike Wells Keith Taylor and to the officers that we spoke to for this piece Chase Wetherington Terry Cherry Luke Bonkiewicz Jeremiah Johnson and Aaron Landers. I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.   Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.