 Hey wait you are listening ... .   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening to Radio Lab.   Radio lab.   From ...   WNYC.  Jad Abumrad Jad Abumrad Radiolab ...  Robert Are these all 24 amendments you have songs?  Jad Abumrad Oh my friend. Did you say 24 amendments?  Robert What are there 26? I do not know how many there are.  Jad Abumrad There are 27.  Robert There are 27 okay.  Jad Abumrad You of all people I thought would know that.  Robert . I know they- they add one every so often.  Jad Abumrad So okay let me explain this- let me explain this project for you.  Robert Okay.  Jad Abumrad Okay so uh More Perfect Now is entering its third season.  Robert Right.  Jad Abumrad The first two seasons what were they? They were- they were extended investigative uh highly reported and researched and elaborated stories about the Supreme Court cases in front of the Supreme Court. But the idea was- of More Perfect was always broader than just the Court. I mean the idea was to look at the argument that just so happens to happen at the Court. And- and the process of America sort of trying to- trying to claw its way out of the muck to get its higher ideals.  Jad Abumrad Now those ideals of course are outlined in the Constitution.  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad Which has been amended 27 times in ways that are crucially important especially right now. And uh most Americans cannot name more than one or two of them. I was one of those people before More Perfect. And so uh when I was on my break I had this idea crazy idea which was could we make an album could we make a School House Rock for the 21st century? That reanimated these amendments.  Robert Oh modest aspiration.  Jad Abumrad Okay? Oh well they say you gotta go big right?  Robert That is a very didactic thing. Like that- in those songs you actually are told exactly how to feel about the concept.  Jad Abumrad Yes but the idea was could we take the spirit of it but not like didactic in the way the old stuff was. But like taking these things that we have been covering for two seasons the amendments to the Constitution.  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad The bill of rights 1-10. The other ones from 11-27. Uh taking them and- and- and because they are so stodgy and musty like the language-  Robert Well some of them are really opaque.  Jad Abumrad Yeah I mean- and so the idea was could we take these stuffy stodgy sometimes opaque but deeply important uh words and bring them to life? So we reached out to a ton of different musicians and asked them like would you interpret these amendments? Uh you can talk explicitly about the amendments if you want or you can turn it into something very personal to you.  Robert But could they do it though? Like just-  Jad Abumrad Well yeah. Let me- I do not know let me just play you a couple. Let me see what should I play one?  Robert Should I choose one?  Jad Abumrad Choose one yeah.  Robert Okay. I am gonna choose women's suffrage. Which one is that? That is uh 19-  Jad Abumrad 19 yeah. Oh you can- chose a good one. You chose a good one my friend.  Robert Who- who am I gonna get musically first of all?  Jad Abumrad Okay you are going to get drum roll please Dolly Parton.  Robert Dolly Parton?  Jad Abumrad Dolly Parton.  Robert Come on.  Jad Abumrad Dolly Parton.  Robert Doll E. Parton or Dolly Parton? .  Jad Abumrad The Dolly Parton.  Robert You know what I mean if you had somebody an attorney or something.  Jad Abumrad This Doll- Doll hyphen E?  Robert No no I was thinking maybe her middle name like Robert E Lee. His first cousin Doll E Parton.  Jad Abumrad Doll E Lee. .  Robert No I- you got Dolly Parton.  Jad Abumrad No the Dolly Parton!  Robert Really?  Jad Abumrad Yes. I will play you a little bit of her song.   August 18 1920. Women's suffrage amendment ratified.  Dolly Parton Women have been fighting for the legal right to vote since the 1840s. In 1890 the National American Women's Suffrage Association tablished with Susan B. Anthony its leading force. But women have been fighting for their rights since the very beginning of time.  Jad Abumrad It is so good! If you- there is so many great turns of phrases in that song.  Robert Wow.  Jad Abumrad Do you want to hear another one?  Robert I mean I am really curious about like an amendment like a technical amendment like the 25th. Like what could you possibly ...  Jad Abumrad Oh let me play you the 25th. You want to hear that one?  Robert Oh 25th is the- is the-  Jad Abumrad It is the impeachment one.  Robert ... Is the impeachment one. Oh that is very interesting.  Jad Abumrad It is- it is- technically the s- succession one. The 25th is the amendment that- that establishes an order of succession if the President cannot do his job.  Robert Right.  Jad Abumrad So Devendra Banhart is a um is a sort of a freak folk musician. He does like sort of psychedelic folk. Uh-  Robert Psychedelic folk.  Jad Abumrad It is- it is a whole genre.  Devendra Banhar Hello. My name is Devendra Banhart and I chose the 25th amendment which is about succession.  Jad Abumrad He is a- an amazing songwriter and he wrote a- a really funny song that takes you through the line of succession.  Robert So what he is doing is he is knocking off every person who becomes President and then you find- then you meet the next one in the line.  Jad Abumrad And I think- I think that sort of the- the whole conceit is that everybody dies and it also- and it ends up with him being President.  Robert Wow. So- so m- so musicians really went to law books and just looked very carefully-  Jad Abumrad It some cases yeah.  Robert ... it sounds like.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert You know what try one where- where- where we just get somebody took the idea of the amendment and with a feeling rather than with the legal matter.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. First amendment is good.  Robert The first amendment.  Jad Abumrad Number one.  Robert Yep.  Jad Abumrad The big one.  Robert Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad Let me play you that one after the break.   Hi this is Robby calling from Brooklyn New York. Radio Lab is supported in part by the Alfred P Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Ilya Marritz Hello it is Ilya Marritz co-host of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent President to not release his tax returns. The only President you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.   He did not care what records was. He tore up memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like Look you cannot do that.  Ilya Marritz Trump Inc an open investigation into the business of Trump from ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab I am Jad Abumrad here with Robert Krulwich. Uh offering up a preview of an experiment that we are doing for the new season of More Perfect uh where we are releasing an album. Uh it is called  The Most Perfect Album. You can find it on iTunes and Spotify. You can also find all the songs at themostperfectalbum.org. Now on the podcast uh we are not just putting out music we are- we are telling stories. We are telling these sort of funny quirky poetic sometimes sad sometimes hilarious uh sort of explainer stories about each of the 27 amendments. I think of them as sort of like audio liner notes for the songs. Uh let me play you uh the- the story that we tell in conjunction with the first amendment-  Robert Okay.  Jad Abumrad ... in the podcast. Sarah Qari producer at More Perfect created this little story. I am gonna drop into the middle of it where she is talking with a guy named Bert Newborn who is a law professor and he- to him the first amendment is like a poem. So let us drop into that one. You will hear uh reporter Sarah Qari uh actor Jeffrey Wright reading the amendments and Professor Bert Newborn talking about them.  Sarah Qari First amendment.  Jeffrey Wright Freedom of religion speech press assembly and petition.  Bert Newborn It consists of six ideas.  Jeffrey Wright Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.  Sarah Qari One.  Jeffrey Wright Or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.  Sarah Qari Two.  Jeffrey Wright Or abridging the freedom of speech.  Sarah Qari Three.  Jeffrey Wright Or of the press.  Sarah Qari Four.  Jeffrey Wright Or the right of the people peaceably to assemble.  Sarah Qari Five.  Jeffrey Wright And to petition the government for a redress of grievances.  Sarah Qari Six.  Bert Newborn It is only 45 words long. Could have been written on the back of an envelope.  Sarah Qari These days the first amendment is wrapped up in all kinds of thorny stuff like kneeling at football games and hate speech and money and politics. But if you just step back from all of that and you read the text of the first amendment and you really try to think about what the words are trying to say you find that the logic behind it is kind of beautiful.  Bert Newborn The order of the words in the first amendment is the life cycle of a Democratic idea.  Sarah Qari Here's what he means.  Bert Newborn So those first two clauses ...  Jeffrey Wright Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.  Bert Newborn ... create a free space inside your mind to think and believe as you wish.  Sarah Qari That is the founders saying that space inside your head where you think your thoughts that is sacred. The government cannot touch that.  Bert Newborn Without that free space there can be no self-government.  Sarah Qari So that is the first idea. The freedom of your thoughts.  Bert Newborn Once you have believed and thought something then- then it is natural for you to want to say it.  Sarah Qari Which brings us to the next clause.  Jeffrey Wright Or abridging the freedom of speech.  Bert Newborn The speech clause says if you have got an idea formed in the freedom of your mind by all means go ahead and share it.  Sarah Qari So you have the freedom to think a thought the freedom to speak that thought.  Bert Newborn But that is not enough. If you really want to make a real uh dent in a society ... So you need some way to be able to speak to a mass of people. To speak in a very loud voice.  Sarah Qari Which brings you to the fourth clause.  Jeffrey Wright Or of the press.  Sarah Qari Which is speech amplified.  Bert Newborn Then once you have gotten your message out to a large number of people when people have listened to these and moved by them it is natural for those people to want to do something about it. To move together um to organize.  Jeffrey Wright For the right of the people peaceably to assemble.  Sarah Qari So you can think a thought you can speak that thought you can create a movement.  Bert Newborn But that is not enough. Finally the petition clause which is the sixth idea. The petition clause says once you have assembled once you have organized ...   We demand the protection of our first amendment rights! We have served we have served ...  Bert Newborn Then you have a right to take your argument to the government.  Jeffrey Wright And to petition the government for a redress of grievances.   We speak for this country and we demand reform now!  Bert Newborn And force the government into confronting and either accepting it or rejecting it. And then that government if it says no is subject to being voted out of office.  Bert Newborn Um so that- that- this is Madison giving us the blueprint for Democracy. The big bang um when Democracy begins.  Sarah Qari The- the way I am hearing it is like- like concentric circles like starting in- inside the mind of one person and then like reverberating out.  Bert Newborn Yeah exactly. The first amendment is uh a series of concentric circles beginning within your mind and then moving to your close a- acquaintances.  Sarah Qari Mm-hmm .  Bert Newborn Then to the society at large.  Sarah Qari Yeah.  Bert Newborn And then finally uh to the entire polity to the entire people. And that- that by the way is the only time in human history that those six ideas have ever been united in a single text. Only time. I went back and looked at every single rights-bearing document in our tradition all the way from the Magna Carta through the English Bills of Rights through the Colonial charters through the state constitutions.  Sarah Qari Oh wow.  Bert Newborn Um through the French declaration of the Rights of Man. It is never been done before to put the six building blocks of Democracy together in a single coherent text.  Bert Newborn The first amendment is the ideal city on the hill. It is the ideal community that the founders were trying to establish. And remember establish for the first time in human history.  Robert Wow. I have never thought of it that way. It is a little bit like some kind of uh very thoughtful relay race where each- as the baton is passed it is- it is the next logical step to turning what is inside you into powerful statements outside of you.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. So that is uh the first amendment liner notes.  Robert Well actually the other thing about the- about ... Now that you have got me thinking about it. The way that guy described the first amendment as this progression of ideas. I mean it is- it is- it just comes almost like- just in about a couple of centuries after people like Shakespeare and Cervantes and ... Begin creating interiority. Like this- this-  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Robert ... Like there were not any- there really was not any place to go to hear someone talking to herself or himself.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert And not even a couple of centuries pass and then you jet a government that- that takes that idea that people have an interior and that interior is distinct and needs protection from the government and then comes this- this six point flow. Wow.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Robert I never really thought of that.  Jad Abumrad Yeah it is a cool idea. Um but interestingly the song that that is paired with I- um on the album ... I mean actually we got a couple of different submissions for the first amendment but one of them came from uh a guy named Joey Stylez. He is a native Canadian uh First Nation Metis um hip-hop artist and uh he made a song which sort of argues with the spirit of Bert Newborn's take. Um he sort of looked at sort of all the people that have been left out of that city on the hill.  Joey Stylez On my track Ghost Dance part two I was dealing with the freedom of religion. From 1870 up until 1934 it was illegal for Native Americans to practice our ceremonies. I had in mind specifically the ghost dance as in 1890 at Wounded Knee 150 to 300 mostly women and children were massacred for ghost dancing. And to me that shows they were scared. They were scared of us having our culture and ceremonies because they empower us. I truly hope the warrior spirit shines on this track and our natural side of being wild and free sets the tone. I hope.  Robert This is really- I mean the- the lyrics and the musical traces are all- not- they are ... They really challenge your sense of the amendment a little bit so that these songs the way they are written and the words that have been chosen and the rhythms they strike are all either arguments of tempo or arguments of spirit-  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm .  Robert Or arguments of history.  Jad Abumrad Yeah I would say 80 of the songs on the record um are arguments with the amendments.  Robert Oh.  Jad Abumrad Rather than just celebrations or explanations of them. Uh it is- it is- yeah.  Robert Well this is very interesting.  Jad Abumrad It is cool right?  Robert Yeah. It is a very different way to do it.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Um so that- this was just a preview. If you are interested to hear more uh go to wherever you get podcasts search for More Perfect. Um sign up Radiolab.orgMorePerfect. We will take you there. Um if you want to hear the record ... It is a great record I am so proud of it. Uh go to iTunes Spotify wherever search for  The Most Perfect Album and you can hear all the songs in their entirety at themostperfectalbum.org.  Jad Abumrad Okay I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert And I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 