Male Wait wait you are listening ...  Female You are listening-  Male Listening.  Female ... to Radiolab.  Male Radiolab.  Female From ...  Male WNY ...  Male C!  Female C?  Male Yeah.  Female NPR.  Male Maybe all of us can sit on the couch.  Female We can.  Male I can pull that chair over.  Jad Abumrad We are going to start with a story from our producer Pat Walters about a couple.  Janet Oh my word!  Jad Abumrad That is the lady.  Janet I am Janet.  Jad Abumrad This is the guy.  Pat Walters I do not need you to introduce yourself. That is usually the thing we do but we are not telling people who you are.  Jad Abumrad We are going to call him Kevin.  Kevin Kevin yeah yeah. That is my name. Not suspicious at all.  Jad Abumrad That is not his real name. It will make sense why we are not using his real name in a sec.  Pat Walters This one starts a few summers ago. It was July 2006. Jan and Kevin were at home.  Pat Walters Some people you do not know show up. Maybe I will start with you.  Janet When they show up at the door? We were getting ready to go down the shore. It was a Friday. We are in the kitchen and they come to the backdoor.  Kevin I thought that they were fundraising. I thought they might have been firemen by the blue shirt and then realized that they were law enforcement.  Janet Two women and I think two men.  Kevin More came up from around the side of the house.  Janet They show us their badges.  Pat Walters Were they cops?  Janet They were Homeland Security.  Kevin They took me outside.  Janet They asked me to stay in the kitchen. They had a woman with me. I did not know what was going on. Nobody said anything to me.  Pat Walters What are they saying to you on the porch meanwhile?  Kevin When they showed up I got to the door they said You know why we are here? I said Yeah I do. I was expecting you. I showed them where everything was.  Robert Krulwich This story about Kevin and his wife Janet inspired us to do the entire hour.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm  because one of the most basic things that we do as people is we judge. We judge one another.  Robert Krulwich We judge what is right.  Jad Abumrad We judge what is wrong.  Robert Krulwich This story and the two that follow ...  Jad Abumrad They will make you judge how you judge or at least they had that effect on us.  Robert Krulwich We are calling our show Blame.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich and we will go back to Pat.  Jad Abumrad Before we do you should know that this show contains some graphic difficult descriptions in a few spots. If you are not in the mood or if you have kids around you might want to sit this one out.  Pat Walters What happened in that first scene and what happens next only makes sense if we go back a little first about 15 years. It is just an ordinary day. Kevin's going home from work.  Kevin I was driving home going about 65 70 in the fast lane when suddenly there was a thump in my chest then heat just a heat burning.  Pat Walters After that he said suddenly he had this thickness.  Kevin In my tongue in my throat.  Pat Walters Then a foul taste in his mouth.  Kevin Then my hearing faded out.  Pat Walters He thought  it is back.  Kevin When I finally did come to-  Pat Walters He sees his car smashed into the side of an apartment building.  Kevin I do recall the officers telling me You have been in an accident.  Pat Walters He remembers one of them-  Kevin Insisted that he smelled alcohol. I was talking through clenched teeth because I had bitten my tongue and my cheeks. I was saying over and over again I had a seizure. I had a seizure.  Pat Walters Kevin's got epilepsy. He is had it since he was a teenager. Two years before this all happened he would had surgery to remove the part of his brain that was causing the seizures and it seemed to have worked. He was doing great essentially was not having seizures anymore until suddenly he was.  Pat Walters Lost your license?  Kevin I lost my license for a year.  Pat Walters Things had taken a nosedive. Here he is he is 35 years old.  Kevin I am living with my brother. I am divorced. I have to call my daddy and ask him now to drive me to and from work.  Pat Walters You think and you did do something this is not sustainable?  Kevin No no do not need that. I walked into the office.  Pat Walters Asked the HR person where he works for a list of all the employees.  Kevin Give me a list of everybody and where they are from. She pulled it up. I go down to the list and I get to Janet Woodruff Bloomfield only one that is really close to me five minutes away. I walk to her cue knocked on the wall and introduced myself.  Pat Walters Like Hey my name's Kevin. I also work here. I have got this thing though. It is kind of awkward. I cannot drive and I was wondering if you would give me a ride.  Kevin She said yes.  Janet I really passed by his street on the way to work so it was-  Pat Walters Right on his street.  Janet Pretty much. I made it clear I will do it when I can.  Pat Walters As they drove together they ...  Janet Started talking finding out a little bit more about each other.  Pat Walters Noticed pretty quickly.  Kevin We liked the same music.  Janet That was unique because I liked music that was probably more in his era.  Pat Walters Kevin was seven years older than Jan. What kind of music were you listening?  Janet Jackson Brown mostly. A lot of Jackson Brown James Taylor Bonnie Raitt Elton John.  Pat Walters They found themselves singing along to the lyrics.  Kevin You cannot sing with somebody day in and day out and not have something happen.  Janet We wound up as the spring came it is getting nice out so now it is like Let us not go home. Let us go out for a beer after work.  Kevin We are becoming good friends.  Janet We liked each other.  Pat Walters For Kevin it was a little more serious than that.  Kevin I am thinking about her and I am starting to wake up at night.  Pat Walters One day in May as Janet is dropping him off Kevin turns to her and he says.  Kevin Hey I really appreciate what you have done for me. Let me take you to dinner just as friends. Just as friends.  Pat Walters Jan says Sure. May 30th 1992.  Kevin Highlawn Pavilion.  Pat Walters Nicest restaurant in town.  Janet Your friend takes you to a four-star restaurant you are thinking right away-  Pat Walters He thinks this is a date.  Kevin I am going on a date come on.  Janet Now I am panic stricken.  Kevin We have our dinner we leave.  Janet We had a wonderful time.  Kevin She drops me off and I handed her the poem.  Pat Walters What did the poem say? You still have it?  Kevin Yeah I do. This is A Little Slower Each time we sing on the way home I pray that traffic backs up so we can sing together just a little longer and the harmony can go on forever and each time we reach my door I feel robbed because we are always in mid-song or mid-thought.  Pat Walters He gets out and goes inside and probably thinks Awesome I gave her the poem. She is going to be so smitten with me. You go home and what?  Janet Want to throw up. I just thought Oh god.  Pat Walters Next day.  Janet I just looked at him and said Listen we got to clarify. This is clearly just going to be a friendship. He was seven years older than me. He had brain surgery. He has epilepsy. He is divorced. He has two children.  Kevin Are you catching the compassion here? Are you catching the compassion here?  Pat Walters I am trying.  Janet He is just like I am not asking you to marry me. I am asking you to go out on a few dates.  Kevin Exactly to go out with me four times in the next six months. I am ahead of the game.  Janet He just handled it. I do not think it was long at all I cannot even remember but it was not long at all before we were a couple.  Pat Walters Kevin?  Kevin I am dopey. Dopey in love.  Pat Walters He is doing romantic things for her all the time.  Janet Flowers poems.  Pat Walters Paintings.  Kevin Illustration of the Jackson Brown cover.  Pat Walters Within a year ...  Janet We were engaged.  Pat Walters All the while Kevin is having seizures. Since the car accident more and more.  Kevin There was a point where we were obviously dating.  Pat Walters She is helping him make his bed. He says she pulled off the pillowcase.  Kevin It was covered with blood stains one two three four five six seven. You could count the number of seizures that I had and bit through my tongue and bled.  Janet I knew nothing about epilepsy. I had never seen anybody have a seizure. In my past those would have been big red flags and I would have just walked away but I just went with it.  Pat Walters They both went with it for a few years until finally Kevin and Jan decide this was enough.  Kevin I wanted to be done with it. I just needed to be done with it.  Pat Walters They scheduled a brain surgery which sounds like a big deal and obviously it is but they had every reason to think that this would not change him.  Janet I honestly thought that he was going to come out of it fine better.  Pat Walters Because that is what happened the first time. Kevin had actually gone through a brain surgery much like this one once before and he would come out pretty much the same guy.  Janet He was still himself.  Pat Walters In fact he made sure of it.  Kevin I was awake for the surgery.  Pat Walters That is crazy.  Kevin It was. I had to be awake. I had to do it with music.  Pat Walters Kevin is a musician. The doctors told him ...  Kevin They said that if I lost anything I was going to lose my appreciation for music that it would be like music would be white noise. I said No. For me music is part of my personality. It was how I coped with my darkest moments in dealing with epilepsy and seizures. At 18 years old I would have a seizure I would take my harmonica and I would find a place with decent reverb somewhere and be right where I needed to be. I did not want to lose that part of me.  Pat Walters As the doctors were doing the brain surgery they had his head open they asked him to sing.  Pat Walters Do you remember what you sang?  Kevin End of the Innocence some James Taylor.  Pat Walters While he sang they would tickle different parts of his brain. If they ever touched a part that made him stop singing they would say Okay that is a part we cannot take out.  Robert Krulwich Wow.  Pat Walters In the end ...  Kevin I think they ended up taking out four and a half centimeters a little bigger than a golf ball.  Pat Walters Wow.  Pat Walters Afterwards as he was recovering ...  Kevin I had my keyboard in the room. I tried playing right away.  It worked.  Pat Walters The part of him that he really cared about was still there.  Kevin Exactly.  Janet He was the man I fell in love with after the first surgery so I thought Well.  Pat Walters Now that they have got to do a second surgery ...  Janet He is already been down this road. We are fine.  Pat Walters After that second surgery he did seem fine.  Kevin Janet did have her brother sneak my keyboard up to the room again.  Janet He was very very adamant that he wanted that keyboard.  Kevin I played a little. Just noodled a couple of notes played a couple of things and it was like Okay I am there.  Pat Walters Still me.  Kevin I was ready to go.  Pat Walters You go home and it seems to have worked?  Janet Yeah. As far as seizures go we thought Okay this is it. We are home free. I was just happy to have some normalcy.  Pat Walters Then in the winter ...  Kevin By beginning the middle of January ...  Pat Walters Kevin noticed he wanted to eat ...  Kevin My physical appetite ...  Pat Walters ... a lot more than usual.  Kevin ... got insane.  Janet This is a guy who did not eat breakfast he had minimal lunch and he would have a sensible dinner maybe a snack that was it.  Kevin Now I could eat the couch.  Janet It just was odd. It was not him normally but you are like Okay.  Pat Walters She thought maybe it is just a side effect from the medications but then ...  Janet The piano. He would play the piano for hours.  Pat Walters Same songs they used to sing in the car together.  Janet He got stuck on a piece. He would play it for hours.  Pat Walters How many hours?  Janet Eight nine.  Pat Walters Then there was sex.  Janet We were a happy healthy couple.  Pat Walters Kevin's nodding.  Janet It was fine but what was abnormal was it was anywhere. Clearly it was not like Oh we are in the supermarket let us have sex here. It was not like that but it was like I could just walk in the kitchen from work and he would be like Oh let us go here.  Pat Walters Which struck her as weird but then again ...  Janet We were thinking Let us try to have a family.  Pat Walters The timing made things confusing. More than that it was not like any of this stuff was out of character exactly. In fact it was all stuff that she liked about him except now it was all turned up to 11.  Janet All the things that were wonderful became chores.  Pat Walters That is pretty much where things were at when those federal agents showed up in July of 2006.  Janet I was just completely blindsided.  Kevin He said You know why we are here? I said Yeah I do I was expecting you.  Pat Walters Kevin took the agents upstairs.  Kevin I took them right into here where my computer was.  Pat Walters They arrested him for what was on that computer.  Kevin I gave it up to them right away.  Jad Abumrad Warning this next passage contains some graphic imagery.  Pat Walters I think I had just let child porn be this vague thing that meant someone younger than 18 but then I read some of the court documents and they were toddlers. They were videos of two three and four-year-olds.  Kevin These sites had the most despicable disgusting things you can imagine infants on through preteen and adolescents.  Pat Walters You bought these things and put them on your computer?  Kevin Yeah. It bothers me. It bothers me. Like I said initially it was just your basic heterosexual Playboy-like Penthouse-like sites and then windows would just start to open up.  Pat Walters Pretty soon he says he was going everywhere.  Kevin There was gay sex. There was bondage. There was defecation sex. There was animal sex xeno sex. I went everywhere that a button came up to push.  Pat Walters Wow.  Kevin I still do not understand it. I still do not understand it.  Pat Walters You say it disturbed you and you feel terrible. I just wonder do you tell yourself That was not me. How do you explain it to yourself so that you can I do not know not feel like you are as bad as the person who goes there without a brain injury is?  Kevin Say that again. Ask that one more time.  Pat Walters I guess I am just wondering I do not know knowing that that is a thing that you did and it sounds like obviously you know that it was a wrong thing and a terrible thing but it was you who did it or was it not? I do not know.  Kevin No it was me who did it but it was me with a complete lack of neurological control. I know who I am. I did idiotic things that I could not stop myself from doing. I did not want to do it. There would be nights where it would be four or five six hours of going through the same site and downloading one or two files and then deleting them going back a minute later downloading the same files deleting them. I would download those files a dozen times and delete them a dozen times because I did not want to be there knew I should not be there and could not help myself from going back. I am not an idiot. I am a smart guy. I am not an idiot but I know I had no control.  Pat Walters That is what he would argue in court. Kevin would plead guilty but at the sentencing hearing he asked the judge to be lenient arguing essentially that the person who did all those things in some sense was not him. It was some other part of his brain that he could not control. At the hearing he called one witness.  Orrin Devinsky Orrin Devinsky. I am a neurologist and epilepsy specialist at NYU Medical Center.  Pat Walters He is been treating Kevin for decades.  Orrin Devinsky 20-some-odd years.  Pat Walters He says as soon as he found out what Kevin had been doing ...  Orrin Devinsky Had a terrible sense of responsibility.  Pat Walters This is because of the brain surgery the surgery Orrin recommended he have. He argued in court that this was not Kevin's fault.  Orrin Devinsky I remember looking at those agents right in their face and saying to them and to the judge This could be anybody. This could be those agents' judge. This could be you. This could be me. This could be anybody. We would have no control over what we did.  Pat Walters He explained to the court ...  Orrin Devinsky What the biology was.  Pat Walters That the way the brain is organized that there are parts of our brain that are way deep down that control base desires.  Orrin Devinsky Like hunger sex.  Pat Walters Keeps us alive but it is teeming with the nastiest thoughts.  Orrin Devinsky We all have these crazy thoughts in our head.  Pat Walters In most of us those thoughts are kept in check because there are other parts of our brain that sit on top and act like a lid but in Kevin's case the brain surgeon who did that surgery removed part of that filter and suddenly ...  Orrin Devinsky The cork was off. It was just no lid on his sexual desires.  Pat Walters He said scientists have known about this condition for a long time. They first saw it in monkeys.  Orrin Devinsky In rhesus monkeys.  Pat Walters When the monkeys would lose roughly the same part of the brain that Kevin lost ...  Orrin Devinsky They became very hypersexual. Males that would only previously be sexually involved with females now were 10 times more sexually active with both males and females.  Pat Walters It feels to me like it would be a brighter line before kids.  Orrin Devinsky I think there is a line for quote unquote normal individuals but in a brain disorder case those lines get blurred.  Pat Walters He told the court that is what happened here.  Orrin Devinsky It was black and white.  Pat Walters Kevin was sick and his behavior was out of his control.  Lee Vartan That is not what the facts showed in this case.  Pat Walters This is Lee Vartan who was the prosecutor.  Lee Vartan We saw no evidence of impulsivity.  Pat Walters He says if you are claiming that he had no control that his brain made him do it then how come he had all this child porn on his home computer ...  Lee Vartan I believe it was 52 videos and 125 images.  Pat Walters ... and yet on his work computer ...  Lee Vartan There were zero images zero videos of child pornography on his work computer.  Pat Walters He worked a lot.  Lee Vartan He held down a job. He was working every day. If he truly lacked impulse control I would think you would see child pornography on both computers.  Pat Walters What he argued back was what was the lid on at work and off at home?  Lee Vartan Seems to me to be an easy out.  Orrin Devinsky The answer is that this is common with neurologic disease. They tend not to be 247.  Pat Walters He says take something like Tourette's. Some people ...  Orrin Devinsky When they are engaged in playing sports they tend not to have tics.  Pat Walters Whereas when they are sitting around bored or stressed they do tend to have tics.  Orrin Devinsky You could say Tourette's clearly is not a neurological disorder but no Tourette's is a neurologic disorder. We understand some of the brain things that go on in Tourette's.  Pat Walters The prosecution did not buy it.  Orrin Devinsky They just thought it was hogwash.  Lee Vartan What was hogwash was his level of certainty.  Pat Walters The prosecution asked that Kevin be sent to prison for five years because in paying for child porn he was supporting an industry that does terrible things to kids. Kevin hoped he would avoid jail time all together and instead be placed on house arrest. Now as for Janet right after the arrest ...  Pat Walters I have to imagine that you were in shock a little.  Janet Yeah.  Pat Walters She had gone to see a lawyer.  Janet One of the questions he asked was Is this marriage going to survive this? I said I do not know. At that point understand I did not even know the level of pictures.  Pat Walters She says the moment she heard Orrin say that this was a brain disorder with a name it is called Kluver Bucy Syndrome.  Janet Once I was able to get that for me it clicked.  Pat Walters She could not blame him.  Janet We have these experts saying that it was a disease. I kept thinking They will understand.  Pat Walters Not to mention that after Kevin was arrested and got out on bail Orrin gave him some medication and Janet says it was like flipping a switch.  Janet That is exactly what it was. It was like getting out and back.  Kevin I was able to sit and watch a movie with her.  Janet Normal.  Pat Walters Janet actually says in a lot of ways those few months between the arrest and the sentencing hearing they would been the best months of their marriage.  Janet He now was just so much easier calmer. We would just talk.  Pat Walters The hearing took about three hours. When it was over the judge took a recess went into her chambers. When she came back she delivered her decision. She actually would not talk to me for this story but I have the transcript from the hearing. If you remember the prosecutor Lee Vartan was asking for five years.  Lee Vartan 63 months.  Pat Walters Orrin Kevin and Janet were hoping for ...  Janet House arrest.  Pat Walters Meaning no jail time.  Janet There is no way they are going to put him in jail. This is clearcut.  Pat Walters Here's what the judge does. She says I do agree with Orrin.  Orrin Devinsky It is a neurological disorder.  Pat Walters No question so he cannot be held fully responsible for his behavior.  Orrin Devinsky She was getting it.  Pat Walters On the other hand she said the prosecution did have a point.  Lee Vartan That he was very much in control of his impulse.  Pat Walters At least some of the time and so the question for the judge was how does a legal system assign blame when a person is sometimes themselves and in control and sometimes not. This was a crime she said A crime which ultimately leads to children being harmed and considering that you did have moments where you were in control then in those moments you had a responsibility. You could have done something. You could have asked for help. You could have told the people around you what you were doing so even if you could not have stopped yourself they could have stopped you.  Kevin She made it very clear that we had to do something here.  Pat Walters His sentence ...  Kevin 26 months at a federal prison and 25 months of house arrest. I believe that she was fair. I believe she was compassionate.  Pat Walters About a week before Christmas in 2008 Janet drove him to prison.  Robert Krulwich How long was he in jail for?  Pat Walters About two years.  Robert Krulwich Even though the judge said he is responsible did that change her attitude toward him at all?  Pat Walters No. They totally stuck together. She visited him pretty much every weekend the whole time.  Janet I knew the route. I had my own little routine down.  Pat Walters In between visits she would send him notes.  Janet I will never forget he could send me mail. They had a store where he could get some cards.  Pat Walters Super Hallmarky.  Janet He would alter them. I remember the very first card I got it was supposed to be beautiful but it was like If you need anything anything at all just let me know and then he writes Of course if it is pressing you might want to ask someone else unless it can wait 24 months. I remember getting that and just laughing. Then that became our thing like Listen this is a horrible situation but we are going to make the best of it.  Pat Walters Tell me a little bit about where things are at now.  Janet I think things are almost normal.  Kevin I am still on probation.  Janet He is home. He is working. Life is going on. We have our normal routines.  Pat Walters Kevin still takes those medicines that keep the other part of him in check.  Kevin I have no libido at all but I know who I am I know what I am. I am disturbed by that portion of my life but I am trying to move on.  Jad Abumrad Producer Pat Walters. Thanks also to neurologist Orrin Devinsky for connecting us to Kevin and Janet. Stay with us. We will be exploring these questions of blame and responsibility even more deeply the next segment.  Robert Krulwich Even yell about it a little. Coming up.  Nick Hi I am Nick and I am from Minneapolis. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Today on Radiolab Blame.  Robert Krulwich In the story we just heard we were wrestling with a very difficult question. When somebody has a brain injury and commits a crime just how much do we blame them and how much do we blame the brain?  Jad Abumrad As it turns out this question ...  Nita Farahany Hi.  Jad Abumrad Hi this is Jad.  Nita Farahany Hi Jad. It is Nita.  Jad Abumrad That question is popping up more and more in court cases where increasingly you will find defendants like Kevin arguing.  Nita Farahany Okay you have convicted me of a crime but you should go easier on me because I have these neurological problems.  Jad Abumrad This is Nita Farahany.  Nita Farahany Professor of law and philosophy and professor of genome sciences and policy at Duke University.  Jad Abumrad She is been following this whole emerging field of neuro law for quite a while. Back in 2006 it occurred to her ...  Nita Farahany Lots of people are interested in this field but nobody has any good data. I started counting cases to try to see ...  Jad Abumrad To try to see how many times does brain science come up in court. Now the only data that she could get her hands on were written opinions which turns out does not happen that often. Really only happens in 1 of court cases but ...  Nita Farahany In that 1 of cases ...  Jad Abumrad She saw ...  Nita Farahany A steady increase and relatively dramatic. You have a couple of years 2005 and '06 at about 100 cases 2007 '08 '09 200-some cases and then '11 '12 you are in the 300s.  Jad Abumrad All told ...  Nita Farahany Between 2005 and 2012 it is about 1600 cases.  Jad Abumrad That is 1600 cases that are kind of like the Kevin case where someone maybe argues Look it is not entirely my fault. My brain made me do it.  Robert Krulwich At least a little bit.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. By the way that number was just in the 1 she had access to.  Nita Farahany The other 99 of cases may actually have ...  Jad Abumrad A whole lot more.  Robert Krulwich Wait a second is this a new development?  Jad Abumrad What do you mean?  Robert Krulwich In West Side Story there is this character named Officer Krupke and he goes and these juvenile delinquents this is back in the '50s and they are saying everything is someone else's fault. They have bad parents and they have poverty and they have passion and they have youth and they plead all these things. If you just added to the list tumor that is pretty much the same thing.  Nita Farahany No. There seems to be something more compelling for both judges and juries when you are able to have actual brain scans.  Jad Abumrad Our EEG or whatever because now you can say to Officer Krupke Look I know this might sound like an excuse but check out this spot right here.  Nita Farahany Here's the proof.  Jad Abumrad I do not have a normal brain. I did not choose not to have a normal brain so how can it be completely my fault?  Robert Krulwich Does not that sound a little too easy?  Jad Abumrad Maybe. I guess it depends on the specific case. Just in the abstract let me give you the best version that I have ever heard of this argument. This is one that made me really stop and think. It comes from a psychologist Kevin Dutton. He was interviewed on the Scientific American podcast and he gave this hypothetical.  Kevin Dutton Imagine if you have got a deaf person and you have got a child in a burning building and you have got that child screaming out but the deaf person cannot hear the screams. You would not necessarily blame you would not hold that deaf person culpable for that child's death if the child died.  Jad Abumrad You agree so far?  Robert Krulwich Yes.  Kevin Dutton By the same token if you are emotionally deaf if you can physically hear the screams but emotionally you just do not have that kind of neural kick up the backside to go in and save that child is not that the same thing? When you start thinking about that there is a whole kind of moral conundrum that starts coming out of that because damage to the ear is damage to a physical structure damage to the brain is also damage to a physical structure.  Jad Abumrad Here's the moral conundrum I think he is referring to. If we go along with this idea that we can use brain abnormalities to defend ourselves in court that is going to lead us into some pretty weird places. As a society things may get very very complicated.  Robert Krulwich As we learned. We got into a little tussle with this guy.  Jad Abumrad You put this on.  David Eagleman It is a little chilly in here.  Jad Abumrad This is David Eagleman.  David Eagleman I am a neuroscientist.  Jad Abumrad He is a regular on a show.  David Eagleman Is that what I was supposed to say or no?  Robert Krulwich A spirited regular.  David Eagleman Here's one of the most interesting parts.  Jad Abumrad Here's his argument. Think about it technologically. At the moment ...  David Eagleman Our best technologies in neuroscience are very crude. We can see when someone has a tumor or damage from traumatic brain injury or neurodegenerative disease but it is quite crude still.  Jad Abumrad The way he puts it looking for those brain abnormalities now is sort of like being up in space and looking down at the earth. You cannot really see what is going on down there but you can see the big shapes and the colors and every so often you notice something that is not supposed to be there like Whoa what is that crater over there? If you see something that is big enough to see you take a picture you are back in court you show it to the judge and maybe she gives the guy a break. Then say you are up there and ...  Male Mission control. Everything looks normal from up here.  Jad Abumrad You do not see anything. Then back in court the judge is going to take a look at your apparently normal brain and say Sorry.  David Eagleman That is your fault. It is not a biological problem so we are just going to say you are blameworthy.  Jad Abumrad That is where we are now. We draw the line at what we can see and what we can see is only the big stuff. He says imagine forward.  David Eagleman We will have new technologies. We will have xMRI instead of fMRI.  Jad Abumrad Suddenly it is going to be like Google Maps where instead of being up in space you can zoom in and now you can see everything.  David Eagleman We will have new names for disorders of the micro circuitry and so on. We will certainly never get all the way to the end.  Jad Abumrad One day we may be able to say See that little bit of mangled wiring right over there? That is because his mom did not love him enough maybe he got bullied. We will be able to see all that stuff almost as well as we can see brain tumors now.  David Eagleman Because there is nothing special about brain tumors except for their visibility.  Jad Abumrad Really what he is saying when you get down to it his core belief is that ...  David Eagleman You are your biology.  Jad Abumrad Which is on some level kind of like whatever duh but he takes it much farther. He says almost everything that you go through in your life ...  David Eagleman All of your experiences.  Jad Abumrad ... your culture your history your neighborhood all of it is etched into the tissue of your brain. There is nothing separate.  David Eagleman Nothing. Descartes famously suggested you have got the body the physical stuff and then you have got this extra bit the soul the ghost in the machine. The inside word on that in neuroscience is that eh no no no.  Jad Abumrad It is all the same thing. Now that we are beginning to see that he says actually see it we are on a slippery slope because if you start letting people off the hook when you see a tumor then you are going to have to keep letting them off the hook when you see something smaller.  Robert Krulwich Or smaller.  Jad Abumrad Or smaller still.  David Eagleman The point is it cannot be a just legal system that in one decade says you are blameworthy ...  Jad Abumrad Because for the moment we cannot see anything in your brain.  David Eagleman ... and then the next decade says Oh you have Schmedley's disease.  Jad Abumrad Hey we can see it now.  David Eagleman We did not realize that so now we are lumping you over here with the people with the brain tumors.  Robert Krulwich What does that mean that we have to let everybody off the hook?  David Eagleman No no. Blameworthiness is the wrong question for a legal system to ask. That is the point is that this whole notion about blameworthiness and saying okay if we have a biological mitigator then we will bring that up in court and we will say It is not exactly his fault and if we do not have a biological mitigator we will say it is his fault the reason none of this makes sense nowadays is because saying was it the person's fault or was it something about his biology does not make sense as a question. They are inseparable.  Robert Krulwich I have a version of that question. How about everybody should know that his brain is not completely normal in this regard and now the question is proportion. How much do you want to put on the brain and how much do you want to put on his-  David Eagleman On what else is there.  Robert Krulwich ... behavior-  David Eagleman Which comes from where?  Robert Krulwich ... and his ability to choose from the brain his choosey part of his brain as opposed to his unchoosey part. That is okay that is where you are forcing me.  David Eagleman I am glad you are phrasing it this way because that is exactly the problem with our intuitions. We have this intuition that yeah your brain might look like this you have these genes you have these experiences that makes your biology like this oh but in the end that does not matter because you have got this other thing that is independent of the biology but we do not. You are your brain.  Robert Krulwich Your brain however nevertheless helps you decide things. Brains help you choose. The question I am asking-  David Eagleman Who is the you that they are helping?  Robert Krulwich Who is the you that you are helping? The owner of the brain.  David Eagleman That is separate from the brain?  Robert Krulwich Oh god.  David Eagleman Do you own your brain?  Robert Krulwich Why do you keep doing this to me? I know that if I have a Tootsie Roll in front of me and MM I can choose the MM so I assume my brain is doing something. The question I want to answer how much am I choosing and how much am I really outside of choosing because something irregular in my brain is choosing for me. That seems to me to be a way to do it.  David Eagleman This is fascinating because the way you are phrasing it suggests that there is you and then there is your brain and there is things in your brain that might be telling you what you do not want to do but it is all one system is the thing. When you are faced with the Tootsie Roll versus the whatever else-  Robert Krulwich MM.  David Eagleman ... MM everything in your life leading up that moment from your genetic history written on invisibly small strands of nucleic acids all the way up to every experience you have ever had leads to that choice. What would it even mean to make a choice completely independent of your brain? I would like to-  Robert Krulwich I just need . What about the Ten Commandments? Those are-  Jad Abumrad I am just going to jump in for a second. At this point things kind of slid off the rails. We ended up talking about the Ten Commandments debating the question of free will.  David Eagleman If free will exists at all it is a really small part of the system.  Robert Krulwich No.  Jad Abumrad We went back and forth about whether you can overcome your upbringing which obviously you can.  David Eagleman Oh gosh no you cannot.  Jad Abumrad Sure you can.  David Eagleman No you cannot.  Jad Abumrad I can go to the library and I can read a-  David Eagleman That is only if you are that type of person.  Jad Abumrad Anyhow after an hour we finally got back around to David's main point which is that the legal system would be a hell of a lot better off he says if we forgot about blame all together forget if it is someone's fault. That is a dead end he would say. The better way to do it he thinks is to focus on this.  David Eagleman Probability of future recidivism.  Jad Abumrad You mean like will they do it again?  David Eagleman That is right. That is exactly it.  Jad Abumrad How would you ever know?  David Eagleman Here's how. You crunch the numbers. This has already happened in the world of sex offenders where there have been long-term studies following out ...  Jad Abumrad Here's the way it already works he says which he thinks is model. When a sex offender comes up for parole someone at the corrections office will grab their record and ask a bunch of questions.  David Eagleman What was the victim choice? Was it somebody they knew or was it somebody outside of their family? Was it a minor?  Jad Abumrad Was the victim male or female?  David Eagleman Was it somebody their age? What was the crime type?  Jad Abumrad All these different questions. Then the evaluator will take some of the answers and give them points.  Amy Phoenix Three zero two one.  Jad Abumrad That is psychologist Amy Phoenix. She says researchers developed this point system based on years of studies of criminal behavior massive amounts of data. Once you have all these points ...  Amy Phoenix You can add up a total score.  Jad Abumrad That score is supposed to tell you is this guy likely to do it again or no. Here's the bottom line. Amy says if you were to ask a parole officer with decades of experience to just use their gut no numbers ...  Amy Phoenix We call that unguided clinical judgment.  Jad Abumrad If you were to ask them for their unguided but expert clinical judgment ...  David Eagleman Fred here recidivate or not what is your prediction?  Jad Abumrad According to studies those experts are correct ...  Amy Phoenix About 50 of the time. You may as well flip a coin.  Jad Abumrad On the other hand she says if you have people just use the point system no gut involved ...  Amy Phoenix The predictive accuracy would be about 70.  Robert Krulwich Wow 70 no humans involved.  Jad Abumrad Here's the thing that gives me pause. In order to get that accurate you kind of have to turn people into data into types.  David Eagleman I know it seems like where is the humanity in that but the question we have to ask is compared to what? The way it currently goes ugly people get much longer sentences than attractive people in courts. This is a well-known bias from juries. Is that somehow better than having a scientifically informed legal system?  Jad Abumrad I have no response to that. Dammit.  David Eagleman Robert will.  Jad Abumrad Krulwich?  David Eagleman Robert?  Robert Krulwich Yes it is okay that pretty people get better sentences than ugly people.  Jad Abumrad Wait what?  Robert Krulwich I do not know I am going out on a limb to see what happens when I finish the sentence.  Jad Abumrad All right go.  Robert Krulwich Because what we are describing here is humans judging humans not tables judging humans not data judging humans but humans judging humans. Humans do that with a certain amount of humanness. Maybe it is not very rational and maybe sometimes it is strong-headed or unfair but if you take the judgment away from the humans and you give it to a table then you invite a different set of problems which is the chance for mercy which is a very big part of justice is off the table because statistics do not have mercy they just have statistics.  David Eagleman Amen. That was nicely done. Robert's pleased with that but let me look and see-  Jad Abumrad I thought that was a beautiful question.  David Eagleman That is a beautiful question. The notion of we should be merciful and so on of course that is all true but the question is are we good at it. Are we good at knowing who is the right person to be merciful with? It ends up usually being the attractive person and the person who is ugly and is missing teeth we are usually not as merciful for. I wish this were not ...  Jad Abumrad Let me just throw in one more objection to this. Obviously he has a point.  Robert Krulwich I guess so.  Jad Abumrad This whole thing that he is advocating for he is not the only one of throwing out blame focusing instead on what someone might do is that a world you would want to really live in? Nita Farahany the law professor put it this way. Imagine you do something small.  Nita Farahany If I forge a check ...  Jad Abumrad Minor offense.  Nita Farahany ... and in the process of arresting me and convicting me ...  Jad Abumrad Maybe the courts do a brain scan.  Robert Krulwich Or they do that number crunching thing with the question.  Jad Abumrad Exactly and they determine actually she has a predilection for far more serious crimes than check forging. She has not done any of those things yet but she could rob a bank she could commit a violent crime. That is what the data shows. If all you are worried about is what she might do ...  Nita Farahany Then you can keep me in prison forever because what you have discovered is that I pose a real and future danger to society.  Jad Abumrad You could basically convict someone of a crime that ...  Robert Krulwich Has not happened yet.  Jad Abumrad Exactly. Not only that if you think about this whole thing from a slightly higher altitude according to Nita when you blame somebody for something there is a power to that act that goes beyond that one individual.  Nita Farahany There is value to society holding people morally accountable for wrongdoing.  Jad Abumrad You are upholding this code that is important to all of us. It is what we have lived by and clung to for thousands of years. You could argue that the act of assigning blame is like reinforcing the scaffolding of society.  Nita Farahany It creates norms for people to follow.  Robert Krulwich That makes perfect sense to me.  Jad Abumrad Otherwise we would be ... I do not know what we would be.  Robert Krulwich Hey so you are coming out for the Ten Commandments at the end of the day. Woo!  Jad Abumrad Wait wait wait. Hold on.  Robert Krulwich No sh.  Jad Abumrad Hold up.  Robert Krulwich Let us just say he went there and he cannot take it back.  Jad Abumrad Do not draft me on to that team.  Julia This is Julia calling from Washington D.C. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Jad Abumrad Three two one. Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Today on Radiolab Blame.  Andy Mills Tell me your name again.  Bianca Giaever Bianca.  Andy Mills Bianca?  Bianca Giaever Yeah.  Andy Mills That is a pretty name.  Bianca Giaever Thank you.  Jad Abumrad This is taped. It was sent to us by a radio producer named Bianca Giaever. At the time she was in college just starting out biking across the country.  Bianca Giaever We just got this grant to bicycle around this summer and-  Andy Mills No kidding?  Bianca Giaever ... talk to people. It is called Davis Projects For Peace.  Andy Mills Great.  Jad Abumrad She was riding through this part of Tennessee and ended up on this farm type place where she met this guy Hector.  Hector Black My name is Hector Black. I am 86 almost 86 and a half. When you get as old as I am you add the halves again like you did when you were three.  Jad Abumrad Hector ended up telling Bianca a story that in many ways turns everything we have learned in this hour on its head. Where would be the best place to start?  Bianca Giaever I think the story starts when he decided to move to Atlanta because that is where Patricia was his daughter. He had fought in the war.  Hector Black As a combat engineer.  Bianca Giaever World War II.  Hector Black I was not a good soldier.  Bianca Giaever Went to Harvard got a degree met his wife Suzie and then ...  Hector Black I did join the civil rights work in the '60s.  Bianca Giaever I think when Hector heard about the Civil Rights Movement he actually packed up his bags moved to the neighborhood where Martin Luther King lived ...  Hector Black We rented a house.  Bianca Giaever ... and said What can I do to help?  Hector Black I thought I would not really understand what was going on unless I lived there.  Bianca Giaever That is when he meets Patricia girl in the neighborhood who came over all the time just like a lot of kids but she stuck around longer than anyone else. At 11 years old she asked them Will you adopt me?  Bianca Giaever Why do not you explain? Did you adopt Patricia? What happened? How did you get to know her? How did you hear?  Hector Black Her mom was an alcoholic. Sometimes she drank up the rent money and the kids were out on the street with their mom. There was no dad. We took them in. She was very shy. She had impetigo sores on her legs nappy-headed. Her mama never braided her hair. She was just really a neglected child. She just blossomed.  Bianca Giaever She got into reading sewing painting.  Hector Black She made all her own clothes. She was making bridal gowns as a second source of income.  Bianca Giaever Then she went off to college. She came back and started teaching kids to read. She even took in a few kids just like he had done.  Jad Abumrad Adopted a couple kids?  Bianca Giaever Yeah.  Hector Black She is a wonderful child.  Bianca Giaever Unfortunately the whole story changes now in November of 2000 because that is when Patricia ...  Hector Black Oh god.  Bianca Giaever ... was murdered.  Hector Black Ivan Simpson is the name of the man who killed her.  Bianca Giaever He had broken into her house looking for money.  Hector Black He strangled her.  Bianca Giaever Later the autopsy showed he sexually assaulted her too.  Hector Black At first I yelled out Kill the bastard. I thought What kind of a monster would do a thing like this?  Bianca Giaever He said for almost a year he could not stop imagining ...  Hector Black What he had done to her. These visions they would come at me out of the blue just hit me again and again. I just had no control of it. It was like he had control over me pushing my face in the mud.  Bianca Giaever After Ivan had confessed and this was right after the murder Hector said part of him did want Ivan to get the death penalty.  Hector Black I was furious.  Bianca Giaever Then this other part of him was like No. This is a test. This was a test of his principles of his beliefs. He decided he would not pursue the death penalty.  Hector Black At the trial where he was sentenced ...  Bianca Giaever He refused to look at Ivan.  Hector Black Patricia's cousin got up first. She was just in tears and just said how much she hated him. I thought Oh lord here I am going to go say something it is probably going to hurt her feelings.  Bianca Giaever When it came his turn ...  Hector Black I had a written statement because I was not sure how steady my voice was going to be. I was saying how much we loved Patricia how much she went to us and how wounded we were by what had happened. I said I do not know if I have forgiven you Ivan Simpson but I do not hate you. I hate with all my soul what you did to my daughter.  Bianca Giaever Then he worked up the nerve to turn around.  Hector Black To face him to say the last thing I had written that I wish for all of us who had been so wounded by this crime I wish that we might find God's peace and I wish that also for you Ivan Simpson.  Bianca Giaever He says when he looked up ...  Hector Black Tears were streaming down his cheeks. That is the first time I looked into his eyes and it was like a soul in hell. It was just indescribable looking.  Bianca Giaever In the end Ivan ended up getting life in prison without parole.  Jad Abumrad What happens next was so surprising and troubling to us frankly that we sent Bianca and our producer Andy Mills back down to Tennessee to talk to Hector again.  Bianca Giaever It is the night after the trial. Hector is laying in bed.  Hector Black In the motel. I could not sleep that night.  Bianca Giaever He kept thinking about that moment in the courtroom.  Hector Black I would never had a look like that my whole life. Never before or since.  Bianca Giaever Over and over and over. Finally he just gets up he grabs a pen and paper and he starts writing.  Hector Black Dear Ivan Christopher Simpson I am writing because I wanted you to know how I feel after the court hearing Monday. When I turned around while I was reading my statement and looked at you it was a very powerful moment for me. When you raised your tear-stained face to look at me ... Ever since this happened I have been trying to find something good in all the horror and pain. I have tried to be a better person.  Bianca Giaever Then he writes this line maybe as a way to push himself to be that better person but he writes I forgive you.  Hector Black For what you did to our beloved daughter. I do not know if this will be of any comfort to you but I wanted to tell you we will both have to live our lives with the pain of this deed always there. Patricia tried to make the world a better place. We should also try.  Andy Mills Did you think he would write you back after that?  Hector Black I did not know.  Bianca Giaever About four weeks later a letter shows up.  Hector Black This is it. Dear Mr. Hector Black and family I first want to say God bless you all in all things. Second I have to go straight to the point. I know God has forgiven me you have forgiven me but I cannot forgive myself not yet anyway. I have so much anger at myself right now it is unbelievable. This hardness I have against myself ... I will always be remorseful. I used to hear God speak to me all the time but I guess after what I did He took away His touch from me. Right now I miss His voice. I do not know the level of love Miss Patricia had but if it is anything like your example of it it is great. God comfort you all in everything. Feel free to ask me anything you would like. If I can I will try to answer it.  Hector Black Dear Ivan I was very glad to have your letter. I think it is important that we be as honest as possible with one another and so I have to tell you that it is hard for me to write to you.  Hector Black I wanted to know who he was.  Hector Black I would really like to hear about your life about the people who loved you the people who hurt you.  Hector Black Because I wanted to know what had happened to him that could make it possible for him to do a thing like this.  Hector Black Ivan writes Dear Hector I was adopted when I was two days old.  Hector Black His mother was schizophrenic.  Hector Black Mrs. Simpson the one I call mom now took me in.  Hector Black He was raised by his grandmother's sister.  Hector Black She is 82 now. I used to have to stay over there with my natural mom while Marie my mom now had to work. My natural mom used to beat me blurt out 'I am glad I got rid of you.'  Hector Black When he was a little boy maybe about 11 or so she took him and his younger brother and his little sister to a swimming pool and she tried to drown all three. One sister died. He stood there while she drowned his little sister in front of him. Just the most horrible stuff.  Bianca Giaever We asked him having heard all this from Ivan did he still blame Ivan or did he blame his mom or society or something else?  Hector Black I do blame him. He made the choices. He made the choices. There is no doubt about that.  Bianca Giaever He says knowing this also made him want to write back ...  Hector Black Dear Ivan.  Bianca Giaever ... and tell Ivan about his life ...  Hector Black I grew up in New York City.  Bianca Giaever ... his family ...  Hector Black Two brothers. My parents argued and fought a lot.  Bianca Giaever ... basically his whole life story.  Hector Black I have always loved working with plants and after we left Vine City and moved back to the country ...   Bianca Giaever Ivan wrote back.  Hector Black Dear Hector I was raised in the church but after starting drugs and alcohol I changed.  Bianca Giaever Hector responded.  Hector Black Dear Ivan I do not think God has abandoned you.  Hector Black Dear Hector you are the only one writing to me now.  Hector Black We exchanged many many letters.  Bianca Giaever At some point in this back and forth this almost incomprehensible thing happens.  Hector Black Dear Hector.  Bianca Giaever Their letters ...  Hector Black First of all thank you for the pictures. I never knew plum trees blossom early.  Bianca Giaever ... just become casual.  Hector Black My favorite bloom is the waterlily blossom.  Bianca Giaever They talk about flowers ...  Hector Black It is beautiful.  Bianca Giaever ... things they would read ...  Hector Black Dear Ivan thanks for your letters. I am enclosing a story someone sent to me because I thought you would enjoy it.  Bianca Giaever ... and sometimes ...  Hector Black Dear Hector.  Bianca Giaever ... just the most mundane details of their day.  Hector Black Just sitting around this Saturday evening. Been singing hymns to myself.  Bianca Giaever Basically they became friends.  Hector Black You know Hector you are right. I do sense a bond developing. Unusual because of the circumstances.  Hector Black It is not at all what I expected to happen. It is just so absolutely crazy. Oh gosh. We started to send him Christmas packages. When we would see this box on the floor I would think to myself You crazy old man. You are sending Christmas packages to the man who murdered your daughter. What the hell is up with you? Just so cross so totally out of ... I was out of orbit or something and I guess I was because people do not do that. Maybe I am trying to exact meaning from it I do not know because I struggled so hard with why why.  Bianca Giaever Eventually after years of writing letters Hector decided to ask that why question in its most essential form What happened that night?  Andy Mills This one I just want you to know if you do not want to read this we do not want to make you read this if you are not ready.  Hector Black I do not think it is ...  Jad Abumrad This might be a good time to say that this next part is disturbing. If you have kids or you are just not in the mood now's a good time to duck out for a few minutes.  Hector Black Dear Hector I was not going to tell you all what happened until you asked. I am also glad you are relieving me of details also. God bless you. I went into the house around 30 p.m. I am used to breaking into place in the past so I figured the house was total dark so I broke out a whole window and climbed in. I took the VCR and TV and clock. I figured that was enough went and got 80 worth of drugs. I am a heavy user so it went in about one hour.  Bianca Giaever He made his way back to Trish's house.  Hector Black It was still dark so I went back in.  Bianca Giaever He found his way into the bedroom.  Hector Black Saw a computer and stereo so I said I would take it and that should last for the night but I got trapped when I saw a car so I hid until I could get back out the way I came. I saw a lady walk to the room. I tried to be quiet so I could escape when she opened the door to a closet I was hiding. As she stepped back she fell. I told her I was going to tie her up so I would have time to get away. She said 'Okay sir.' Her glasses fell off and at no time she saw my face so I told her I was going to take the car so I could load it up. She gave me the keys so I told her after I found out her name I said 'Patricia I know you are scared but I will be out of here in about 15 minutes.' Then she said 'You should get help with your drug problem.' I told her I would tried in the past but I restarted.  Hector Black That is Trish. She had no compunctions about telling people off when they were in the wrong.  Hector Black Then I said 'I am sorry for this. I am going to leave your car in the shopping center up the street next to the Chinese restaurant' because all I need the car for was to transport the items I had.  Bianca Giaever Even though Trish was tied up around her hands she went into the kitchen and warmed up some chicken and rolls for Ivan.  Hector Black Then I said 'I am sorry' and I left again. I got rid of the things got about 200 well 100 drugs and 100 cash. Then I said 'Well.' I just parked the car at the end of their driveway. Then I could not wait. I pulled over and smoked some of the crack cocaine.  Bianca Giaever At this point he is really high. He explained that when he gets this high he sometimes hears a male voice in his head and as he was walking away the voice said to him ...  Hector Black He said 'Well go get you some sex.' I told him 'Leave me alone' but next thing I know I am walking back to her house. No police had come.  Bianca Giaever He burst through the door ran to where Patricia was tied up and said ...  Hector Black 'Hey do you have any money cash?' She said 'Look in my purse.'  Bianca Giaever Then Ivan said that the voice in his head became his own voice and he said to her ...  Hector Black 'I want some sex.' She said 'Sir you have been so nice. Why? Do not do that.' She said 'Only way you going to do this if I am dead.' 'Okay then' and it happened.  Bianca Giaever He strangled her sexually assaulted her then he ran away.  Hector Black Around 00 a.m. I ran out of drugs.  Bianca Giaever He said that after he finished getting high he started to wonder if he had dreamed it all up so he made one last trip back to Patricia's house.  Hector Black I looked up at the house no police and gates still open. When I peeped through the door she was still laying there so I said 'Patricia. Patricia.'  Bianca Giaever Then the voice in his head told him to go back in one more time. He sexually assaulted her.  Hector Black I could not believe what happened so I went to my mom.  Bianca Giaever His adopted mother.  Hector Black I said 'Mama it is something wrong. Mama something wrong.' She said 'Child tell me what you are talking about.' I could not tell her.  Hector Black I was really hoping they would kill me in the electric chair because I should not be able to live with myself and God after what I had done. I just do not know why I had to do it. Was it because of the items and the money? No. Getting caught later on in life? No. Control or power? No. Car? No. Because she saw my face? No. She did not see me at no time. Fingerprints left on something? No. I just do not understand why I did it.  Hector Black While I feel the pressure has left me for telling you first what happened my mom does not even know. I have been keeping all this inside and it hurts so. I am truly sorrowful for what happened. May God bless you all. Sincerely Ivan.  Andy Mills Did it help in any way to know?  Hector Black Yes. That sounded exactly like Trish. She was really fearless. I cannot imagine what a horrible ... Oh god. I was just amazed that she could be so strong just amazed because when you love somebody very much you want to know about their last hours. He just wrote it in a way that I found very kind. Kind is a weird word to put there but ...  Bianca Giaever That is the word he chose. Kind.  Jad Abumrad After that letter they still write?  Bianca Giaever Yeah they still write. They have been writing for 10 years now and Hector has just folders and stacks of these papers in his basement. It is the only room in his house that he keeps locked.  Jad Abumrad Producer Bianca Giaever. Thanks also to our own Andy Mills. Thanks to you for listening.  David Eagleman Hi it is David Eagleman.  Bianca Giaever This is Bianca Giaever.  Amy Phoenix This is Dr. Amy Phoenix.  Hector Black This is Hector Black calling reading out that text. Here's the text that you sent me.  David Eagleman Radiolab is produced by ...  Bianca Giaever By Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Ellen Horne.  Hector Black Soren Wheeler.  Amy Phoenix Pat Walters Jim Howard.  David Eagleman Brenna Farrell Molly Webster.  Bianca Giaever Malissa O'Donnell Dylan Keefe.  Male Lynn Levy.  Hector Black Andy Mills.  Amy Phoenix With help from .  Bianca Giaever Derrick Clements and .  Hector Black Shruvi .  David Eagleman Special thanks to Steve .  Bianca Giaever May Allison.  David Eagleman Michael May.  Hector Black Jessie Barry. I guess that is it. Bye.  Machine End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.