Jad Abumrad Oh wait wait you are listening to-   Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.   Okay.  Jad Abumrad Alright.   You are  Jad Abumrad listening   to radiolab.   Radiolab.   Radiolab   From   WNY   C?   C   That incredibly talented young boy was soon a talented young man composing symphonies con   David Quammen Hello hello.  Robert Krulwich Hello  David Quammen Robert hi  Robert Krulwich Hi let me just  Jad Abumrad Wow what was that?  Robert Krulwich That wa- that was the um mist of classical music that is public radio being suddenly interrupted by science journalist and author David Quammen.  David Quammen Hey are we all here now?  Robert Krulwich Now we are all here.  Robert Krulwich And you are Jas Abu mrad  Jad Abumrad Yes I am  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Kruller this is Radiolab.  David Quammen Yeah yeah.  Robert Krulwich And actually what happened here is I I called David because he has just published a book which contains an idea that I found so surprising I I had not known of this. It is kind of a a smack in the face to Charles Darwin's theory of evolution.  David Quammen Yes. There have been a number of ????? that have been added to Darwin's theory over the 150 years or so since he published it but this is this is more than that this is a big fricking asterisk.  Robert Krulwich   Robert Krulwich And to explain what that means David told me a story about a moth.  David Quammen Yes uh the peppered moth. It lives in forests of central England among other places and during the 19th century this moth was white with little flecks of black on it and um these moths sometimes roost on the on the trunks of trees and the trunks of trees surrounding Manchester England were kind of light colored. So when these moths roosted on the trees they were pretty well camouflaged a light slightly peppered moth on a light slightly peppered tree trunk. So they were protected against predation by birds. And then the tree trunks changed. Why did the tree trunks change? Because of the industrial revolution because of smoke stacks of Manchester were turning out a lot of coal smoke they were burying coal for all their industrial processes. And there was this soot this coal soot that was coming out and it was blanketing the trees in the nearby forest so the tree trunks turned black. And the moths were no longer camouflaged. 'ecause the moths were white.  Robert Krulwich You would not wanna be a white moth sitting against a coal black tree because then you are you are   David Quammen No no.  Robert Krulwich bird would know exactly where you are.  David Quammen Right. What happened? The moths turned black.  Jad Abumrad Oh yeah sure this is the this is the classic sort of evolution story.  Robert Krulwich Exactly. That story was told it was it because a textbook example of Darwinian evolutionary change in in real time and the way that happens were we are told is that once the trees turned dark the moths-  David Quammen Changed by incremental mutation.  Robert Krulwich Like you know thanks to some tiny little mistake in some moth gene-  David Quammen The- the black speckling got bigger on certain moths and those were a little bit more protected and then the speckling got a little bit bigger the moths got a little grayer   Robert Krulwich And then very very slowly over generation after generation after generation of moths they get a little bit darker and then darker still 'til you end up eventually with a population of moth that turns completely black.  David Quammen That is the classic story.  Robert Krulwich Except-  David Quammen Except that we now know that is wrong.  Robert Krulwich It turns out it was not slow. It did not take generations and generations.  David Quammen Sequencing of the moth genome has revealed a stretch of DNA 22000 letters of the DNA code that suddenly jumped into these moths from somewhere and in a flash the moths changed from white to black.  Robert Krulwich Pretty much in one day really a white peppered moth mom all of a sudden produces an all black baby.  Jad Abumrad Wait so how did that how did that happen they said a whole packet of genes just got shoved into this new from where did it comes from?  Robert Krulwich Well David says it probably jumped from one part of the moth genome to a completely new part different part. But what that means of course is that living things it turns out can change way faster than we thought and therefore evolution can happen much faster than we thought. And on top of that David says scientists have now discovered this even stranger kind of super fast change that takes things that we- about parents and offspring individual species things we have counted on for years and just throws the whole mix into the air.  David Quammen Yes. Infected heredity.  Jad Abumrad Infective heredity. What is what is that?  Robert Krulwich Oddly enough to explain this to you i have to go back-  Jad Abumrad Hello I am Jas Abu mrad.  Robert Krulwich And I am Robert Kruller.  Jad Abumrad And this is radiolab   Robert Krulwich To an earlier version of us because it was 11 years ago I think that we made a show called uh  Life.  Jad Abumrad Life not as we know it.  Jad Abumrad Oh God that show  Robert Krulwich And in that show we dealt with an early sort of more primitive version of this very question. So I am jut gonna play you a few minutes of that of that earlier show.  Robert Krulwich Let us talk about life you and I   Robert Krulwich And we will come right back.  Robert Krulwich  when you look around at the world at living things and I say look cat there is a cat and next to that is a dog and that is a tree and you notice that those things of course are different.  Jad Abumrad Yes  Robert Krulwich And then later when we go to school we learn about phylums and categories like kingdoms and stuff so we learn about the nature of those differences and then you are taught about struggle and competition-  Jad Abumrad Darwin survival and fitness   Robert Krulwich Darwin and species and all that. There is a new theory that is being talked about that turns all of that on its head. I heard it first from this guy.  Steve Strogatz Um I am Steve Astrogate. I am an applied mathematician at Cornell and   Robert Krulwich And story he told me which is based on analysis of DNA in very tiny organisms-  Steve Strogatz Microbes.  Robert Krulwich Is that once upon a time he says life began with a very primitive very simple collection of cells and these cells said Steve-  Office   Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich These cells like to share.  Steve Strogatz It appears that as you when you go back far enough there is a kind of rampant sharing of molecules. It is a kind of orgy in which there are no well defined species or organisms and I can give you my genes and you can pass- we are a we are a commune.  Office   Office   Jad Abumrad I totally remember recording that.  Soren Wheeler The kumbaya singing?  Robert Krulwich That is Siren Wheeler who was there at the start. He produced this piece years ago.  Jad Abumrad Yes.  Soren Wheeler I think it was just us around the office humming.  Jad Abumrad Yeah  Office   Office   Robert Krulwich It was a commune.  Jad Abumrad What does what does that mean i-it was a commune?  Robert Krulwich What do you mean what does it mean. It means   Jad Abumrad Well I I mean I know what it means in the '60s free love sense but what does it really mean?  Robert Krulwich What are- what cells are exchanging is chemicals. Chemicals that give them talents and traits genes. Here's what happens I did this with Steve. In our ancient puddle I mean Darwin thought that life might have begun in a warm puddle.  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm   Robert Krulwich lets say that you and I are both cells.  Steve Strogatz Okay  Robert Krulwich So once upon a time there was you in a puddle and I am in the same puddle as you.  Steve Strogatz Mm-hmm   Robert Krulwich And it it gets a little colder in the puddle so we should all get sick but you do not get sick. You have some kind of accidental talent you can handle cold water. I am shivering describe again what happens at this point?  Steve Strogatz   Robert Krulwich In the glorious old days.  Steve Strogatz Well my membrane that is I-I am a cell I have got a membrane I have got my outer layer may be a little bit porous and maybe- whoops- some of my genes just leaked out  Robert Krulwich   Steve Strogatz Okay we are not talking sophisticated organisms.  Robert Krulwich Right  Steve Strogatz And maybe you are porous too and oh wow you have just absorbed some of those genes.  Robert Krulwich So now we both have this.  Steve Strogatz We both got it.  Robert Krulwich We both got it. And if I have got this gene now I can survive cold water because it is part of me and if I bump into you - now it is part of you. So now the Steve gene has become a Robert gene which has them become a Jas gene and we are doing this over and over and over and we are getting really um communal.  Office   Jad Abumrad It sounds so friendly.  Steve Strogatz No no a-actually it it-  Robert Krulwich Do not think of cells like people.  Robert Krulwich Shut Up.  Robert Krulwich All these exchanges this gene swapping was not intentional.  Nigel Goldenfel It is not purposeful sharing.  Robert Krulwich That is Nigel Goldeneye.  Nigel Goldenfel I am a theoretical physicist at the University of Illinois.  Robert Krulwich And he and his colleague Carl Worse did the science that led to some of these kinda goofy ideas.  Nigel Goldenfel It is not me sort of saying Hey I am gonna just help out my buddy over there here's a couple of genes I think you will find handy. It is not something like that.  Jad Abumrad Even still if we are swapping genes so much and you know you are giving me yours and I am giving you mine  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad What does it actually mean to be me?  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad If so much of me is spread around.  Robert Krulwich Well it would be very weird. Imagine a world in which for a while I have your nose. God forbid.  Robert Krulwich   Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich And then I get my nose back you have Steve's hair then uh Steve would get my ear then he would get your nose.  Steve Strogatz Once you start having a lot of exchange-  Jad Abumrad I will take your chin.  Robert Krulwich Okay you can have my um allergies.  Nigel Goldenfel Then you start even asking what does it mean um to be a species.  Jad Abumrad You can have my um love affair with doubt.  Robert Krulwich   Nigel Goldenfel Uh you may not even be able to talk about individuals  Robert Krulwich Yeah. If the mixing is good enough we are all kind of indistinguishable so identity would be very strange in this ancient world.  Steve Strogatz A lot of the concepts that we take for granted in in biology become more and more nebulous as you get further and further back to the root of the origin of life.  Robert Krulwich Take for instance Charles Darwin. What Nigel's really saying is for the first billion years of life-  Jad Abumrad With a b.  Robert Krulwich With a b. Everything that Darwin teaches all that stuff has not happened there is no borders no individuals there is no species.  Steve Strogatz That is Darwinism evolution as we now understand it that is an interlude. In the real story of life. It is only what is happening now.  Robert Krulwich What you got back at the very beginning was a whole bunch of cells swapping genes swapping advantages swapping disadvantages. It is kind of a wild time.  Steve Strogatz A tremendous explosion of diversity in a way that life has not seen since then.  Robert Krulwich Until...  Robert Krulwich One dark and terrible day-  Jad Abumrad   Robert Krulwich -three billion years ago as interpreted by Freeman Dyson famous physicist.  Jad Abumrad Freeman Dyson.  Robert Krulwich And delivered here now by our friend the mathematician Steve Astrogate. Here's Steve.  Steve Strogatz One evil day a bacterium anticipating Bill Gates by three billion years refused to share.  Steve Strogatz Refused to share.  Robert Krulwich Ooh.  Steve Strogatz The first bad guy is this cellular Bill Gates who- who decides that I have- I have got an innovation that I do not feel like sharing or possibly if I have found a way to keep my membrane from leaking. That is I am not going to be a sharing soul any more.  Jad Abumrad And why? I mean what made that one little cell decide to stop sharing?  Steve Strogatz That is a good question. WE do not really know.  Robert Krulwich But what we do know.  Steve Strogatz This is was maybe the most dramatic moment in the history of life on earth.  Steve Strogatz This transition from the age of if you want to call it the age of sharing to the age of selfishness.  Robert Krulwich And gradually once one creature stopped sharing pretty soon the others followed and then more and more did the same thing and now for the first time in the history of life finally we get Darwin. No we get get species. Now we see differences.  Steve Strogatz Yes it is the age of identity of individualism. It is also the age of of stasis.  Robert Krulwich Things change but they change much more slowly.  Steve Strogatz And any great thing you know like you are a bat and you figured out sonar. I I do not have sonar. I cannot get sonar.  Robert Krulwich   Steve Strogatz It would be nice to have sonar. Or you are like you a little electric fish that lives in the muddy water of the Amazon. You do not care its totally dark you can see because you can see with electricity. I cannot see with electricity. If I am in the dark I am bumping my head.  Jad Abumrad Did we really use Bill Gates as a stand in for like selfishness??  Soren Wheeler Yeah well I mean at the time he was the ultimate corporate-  Jad Abumrad That is ho-  Jad Abumrad Oh that is horrible that we did that.   Soren Wheeler  Gates Foundation.  Soren Wheeler   Robert Krulwich That is right he is actually gone over to the light side instead of the dark side.  Steve Strogatz Yeah right. Exactly.  Soren Wheeler That is uh Steve Astrogate. I ended up calling him up just to chat him through some of this stuff and he told me that he actually heard this whole idea from a lecture by physicist Freeman Dyson.  Steve Strogatz Dyson is just a great writer and a great speaker and he had this memorable line in there at least memorable to me when he started talking about I mean he phrased the whole thing in terms of sharing which may be why in that previous episode we had that kumbaya singing.  Steve Strogatz   Soren Wheeler That was not my doing by the way.  Steve Strogatz No no that was that was us.  Steve Strogatz But anyway so then he said one evil day some privative bacterium anticipating Bill Gates by 3 billion years refused to share its DNA.  Soren Wheeler Oh so that was  Robert Krulwich That was Freeman Dyson's-  Steve Strogatz That is his yeah that was his joke.  Steve Strogatz So anyway I was sitting there in this lecture and he started mentioning a certain biologist Carl Worse. And he talked about him in such glowing terms as one of the great microbiologists of our time. And um  Jad Abumrad So you- so you had not heard of Carl Worse before that?  Steve Strogatz No I had not.  Jad Abumrad So I the reason I was asking is that-  Robert Krulwich I think in the show we actually mentioned Carl as as I remember it.  Soren Wheeler You know I do not know if you guys know this or not but that was 11 years ago right I was actually an intern at the time. I would just showed up and I was tasked with tracking down Carl Worse who is the guy who we mentioned as sort of like the grandfather of this idea and he was like a huge huge deal in science um he discovered this whole other branch on the tree of life the archaea  Jad Abumrad Oh he is Mr. Archaea?  Robert Krulwich It is pretty big one its a whole a whole nother kingdom of life.  Soren Wheeler Yeah. It got him on the front page of the New York times and I I had to track him down and it turns out he was like the just most classic curmudgeonly scientist.  Soren Wheeler   Soren Wheeler It took me 20 emails to get him to even like just let us talk to his collaborator Nigel Goldeneye who we talked to in the show but whatever he was a very strange he was a very curmudgeonly man. But you know like he came to like me and I actually spent some time with him in his office and we I can do the curmudgeonly thing if I need to you know we-  Soren Wheeler   Jad Abumrad You have got those skills.  Soren Wheeler Yeah I could we passed some curmudgeonly jokes back and forth and uh anyway uh after he heard the piece he wrote me the most seething scathing email.  Jad Abumrad Oh no  Soren Wheeler About- And nothing there was nothing in it about like you got this wrong. It was just like you made a cartoon of my work. Which honestly now listening back I agree with him a little more than I did at the time.  Jad Abumrad Yeah yeah.  Soren Wheeler But he was like I am a serious person and you have made this into like. a dog and pony show. And I was like I was brand new.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Soren Wheeler And it hurt I mean like I was I felt like really really bad. And he is like you have disrespected Nigel and so I wrote I wrote I called up Steve maybe and said Oh man you know this happened. And Steve was like hey listen forget them.  Soren Wheeler   Soren Wheeler Do not worry about it.  Jad Abumrad I love Steve.  Steve Strogatz Yeah I do not know I I it sounds like something I might have said.  Soren Wheeler Do you remember having that conversation?  Steve Strogatz I honestly do not remember having that conversation.  Soren Wheeler And then I was like I needed that so bad at the moment in my career for someone like with Steve's stature to like balance it out in that way.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Steve Strogatz Um yeah I think I mean it is a little bit funny that he would to me a little surprising that he would not have gotten what you were trying to do-  Soren Wheeler Yeah.  Steve Strogatz -or what we were trying to do. I think our playfulness in an attempt to be clear and to communicate and to attract people who may not otherwise not listen to a story about something called horizontal gene transfer. He should have gotten that because he himself in his writing was very playful.  Soren Wheeler Mm-hmm   Steve Strogatz He was very fun to talk to I mean he was absolutely Carl was very playful and harrassable and grouchy and charming-  Soren Wheeler Yeah  Steve Strogatz -but he would certain tell you what he thought.  David Quammen Yeah yeah this guy is a great character.  Jad Abumrad And David it turns out in his new book talks a lot a lot a lot about Carl Worse and this revolution in our thinking about the evolution of life.  David Quammen Towards the end of his life he started to think he was more important and um more profound than Darwin. He got a very negative attitude toward towards Charles Darwin.  Robert Krulwich And on Darwin's birthday he said he send he sent out a note that everybody should that this should be a day of rage  David Quammen That is right. Yes he did that.  Robert Krulwich but what I am wondering is now that you have spent a book's attention on him do you feel that he has some right to say that the picture we have of how life changes needs serious amending or is he just barking because he is a barker?  David Quammen No he um he was entitled not to think that he was greater than Darwin but to think that what he discovered was very very damn important to understanding the full history of evolution on earth. What has happened all throughout the history life on the planet for a billion years and is still happening today. This is where we are now.  Robert Krulwich The crazy details coming up right after the break.   This is Yong Yun calling from Astoria New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.slone.org.   Great podcasts deserve a great platform. That is why Pocket Casts delivers a beautifully designed simple but powerful experience that offers more control. It is the premium app for podcast listening search and discovery. And it is now free. Download Pocket Casts at pocketcasts.com or find us in the Apple App or Google Play stores.  Jad Abumrad Jas.  Robert Krulwich Robert.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab  Robert Krulwich And we are back with David Quamman and this new new to us way of changing life.  David Quammen Infective heredity. These leaping genes these transfers of DNA that create new genetic possibilities in a blink.  Robert Krulwich Turns out David told us that the swapping of genes that we talked about in the early history of life that is still happening today.  David Quammen Correct. Yes.  Robert Krulwich Bacteria all around us.  David Quammen Those bugs are trading genes. Genes are jumping sideways from one kind of bacterium to another. Even in our bellies even in our guts.  Robert Krulwich So let us say that you go to France on a vacation and you touch something there. And then you lick your finger. I do not know why or or you eat something. Now new bacteria from that European food is going into you stomach and now not only do you have some new bugs in you but they can start trading their genes with bugs that are already in you.  David Quammen Yes  Jad Abumrad What would that mean like physically like would it look like out the cell wall and then...?  David Quammen Well they have found that there are several different mechanisms for this. Two bacteria would create a little pipe a little sort of penis like thing between them and genes would be transferred. But genes were moving sideways under other circumstances too. From dead busted open bacteria into live bacteria-  Robert Krulwich Has it acquired this new trait at once?  David Quammen Immediately.  Robert Krulwich Immediately.  David Quammen So in an instant a new population even a new species of bacteria can possess all of those gradually laboriously acquired adaptations that um another strain of bacteria evolved.  Robert Krulwich These bugs they do not have to wait around for generation after generation to pick up random mutations. Our bacteria inside us can pick up whole new abilities and new tricks all at once from their new neighbors.  David Quammen So for instance one kind of bacteria could pass genes for antibiotic resistance to another completely different kind of bacteria.  Robert Krulwich So say you have got somebody sitting in a hospital with a uh staphylococcus infection. Some of the bugs inside her figured out how to resist penicillin.  David Quammen When that bug then comes out of that human and it gets left on a table in a hospital and someone else gets infected by it then they will also have an infection that is resistant to penicillin.  Robert Krulwich But if say they happen to be in the hospital sick with something totally different they have a different kind of harmful bacteria doing trouble giving them trouble then those old bacteria in them can learn in a flash from the new bacteria. Now everybody's penicillin resistant.  David Quammen And that is why th-that is why antibiotic resistance is spreading around the world so lickety-split. That is really important that is a that is a global health crisis and the World Health Organization among others have called that a global health crisis. Tens and tens and tens of thousands of people are dying from that so that is really important and urgent. But the most important part of this whole subject is not practical it is a matter of understanding understanding the history of life understanding who we are  Robert Krulwich Quite literally because according to David the way we are we humans are has been affectd by visits from other creatures' genes.  David Quammen Yes 8 of the human genome is viral DNA.  Robert Krulwich 8 of the human-  David Quammen That DNA has come into humans or into our mammal ancestors sideways.  Robert Krulwich So here's how that goes. Like you are siting around and a virus gets into your blood stream and it travels into one of your cells. And when it is in there it drops some of its DNA into your DNA and if it gets into an ovary cell or a sperm well then it will be passed along.  David Quammen So 8 8 of our genome has come to us that way from these viruses. Some of that is just gobbledygook in our genome and some of it is instructions in other words genes that are still performing functions. And one of those creates a boundary layer between the human placenta and the fetus an absolutely necessary essential boundary layer.  Robert Krulwich Now this is came as a total shock to me because after all the thing that is really special about mammals is that-  David Quammen Female mammals uh or at least placental mammals um carry young around inside the body   Robert Krulwich In the history of life this was a completely new development. I mean you you think about fish you think about reptiles like the dinosaurs you think about the birds. What do they do when they have kids? They lay eggs. But now we get a creature that comes along and figures out how to keep the baby growing inside it. Of course if it does that it has to make sure it its immune system does not attack that baby and the baby has to be able to poop and stuff like that and get things out so there has to be some kind of boundary.  David Quammen And how did we get that good idea? We got that good idea from a virus.  Robert Krulwich Long long ago some ancient mammal ancestor got a virus got infected by a virus and that virus introduced a new gene.  David Quammen In the original virus it created an envelope a wrapping around the virus but it is been adapted to create a different kind of wrapping the wrapping that goes around the fetus and inside the placenta so it carries nutrients in it protects the fetus from the mother's immune system and it is allowing waste products from the fetus to be carried away and disposed of by the mother.  Jad Abumrad I mean is this potentially the origin of mammals and would this being the without which if we had not gotten this talent from viruses we would not have gotten the kinds of mammals that we have now?  David Quammen That that layer could not exist and does not function without this viral gene telling it what to do.  Robert Krulwich Without this little bit of of virus DNA-  David Quammen You cannot be a mammal. You cannot be a m-mother mammal and you cannot be a child.  David Quammen In light of this stuff and and for me in light of five years of studying it and and following it and interviewing people about it the categories that we apply to the world categories like individual and species now appear more blurry. The edges are fuzzy. Is there such a thing as a human individual? Or is a human a composite of other forms of life and what does that says is that we are composites we are mosaics. It is it is humbling and it is and it is fascinating to think of yourself that way. Like for me David. So it turns out that David is not just the descendent of a Norwegian father and a German-Irish mother but he is also viral and bacterial and who knows what else. and I find that um I find that thrilling. Uh I am I am grateful to all those other limbs on the tree of life for the things that they have given us.  Robert Krulwich Thanks of course to Steven Astrogate of Cornell University um who is always willing to jump back into the pond which he long since had left and thought he would got dried off from. David Quamman's new book is called The tangled Tree and it is a gorgeous book. So thanks to them.  Jad Abumrad And thanks to all of you for listening. I am Jas Abu mrad  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Kruller  Jad Abumrad We will see you next time.  Office   Jad Abumrad Wait a second. Is that Kumbaya?  Robert Krulwich Well- that is a sly ruse  Kumbaya.  Jad Abumrad You snuck it in you Trojan horsed it.  Robert Krulwich    My name is  calling from Mexico City. Radiolab was created by Jas Abu mrad and is produced Siren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria Matasar-Padilla is our managing director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Kruller Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 