   The word hit us. Like you are hit with a -- with a bullet. And we are like That cannot be our -- that cannot be our son.   I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab. And our story today begins with a boy.   And that boy is going to vanish. Not into thin air but to a place that we know very very little about.   And if you are the parent of that boy what do you do if your child is falling away from everything you know?   How do you find him?   How do you get him back?   So part of this tale we got from Ron Suskind's new wonderful book Life Animated. And some of you may have heard it some not.   Let us start where -- where Ron started. For him it began around 1993.   And -- and it was an exciting time.   Well we are going into Owen's room for what is his last night in the crib.   I still cannot -- I still cannot watch.   You still cannot watch it? Can you tell us about your crib Owen? Do you like your crib?   Yeah.   Yeah.   Do you know where you are sleeping tomorrow? What kind of bed are you and Walter going to sleep in?   In 1993 the Suskind family decided to make a big move. Ron and his wife Cornelia ...   Cornelia Suskind.   And their two sons Walt and Owen.   Walter is about five and Owen is about two-and-a-half.   They decide to relocate from Boston to Washington DC.   You know I had this senior National Affairs job at the Journal.   Good night.   Say nighty-night.   Night-night.   Kind of a dream job.   I love you.   Lots of excitement.   Have a nice last night in your cribby.   So they make the move. And as soon as they arrived in Washington ...   We start sort of noticing something's amiss.   Their youngest son Owen who to that point had been a totally normal chatty almost three-year-old ...   He is hitting all of his markers.   Suddenly goes sideways.   Maybe the very first thing that happened was he stopped sleeping. He stopped sleeping he stopped eating. He was very fussy.   Initially they figured well it is got to be the move.   And then we start losing eye contact. Then he starts losing motor skills. He cannot hold his cup. It is slipping out of his hand. His gait became very odd and he was sort of looked like a drunken sailor walking around the house. And then he stopped speaking bit by bit by bit.   And this is all compressed into ...   A few months.   A few months. Really?   Yeah.   What could have occurred? Could he have banged his head? Ingested something toxic? You know first you hit the regular pediatrician and he is going Um. And he sent us to a center. And there was a woman there.   Who sits them down.   And she says the word autism.   What did the word mean to you at that moment?   It meant Rain Man.   Dustin Hoffman. I am a very good driver. Until we saw. And we are like That cannot be our -- that cannot be our son.   You know it was just terrifying.   Now in reporting the story we ended up going off in a variety of different directions. But we did visit one place where we got a glimpse just a hint of -- of what parents like Ron and Cornelia must have felt back then. We visited a school here in Manhattan called the Rebecca School. It is a really unique school for children with autism other developmental delays. There is little kids in there age four all the way up to I think even 21. Every kid that you meet in the school is different. Autism is a many many flavored thing. But the overwhelming sense you get walking the halls there is that each of these kids is kind of locked away a little bit. Just -- they do not know how to be with. Like Kelsey Padgett and I we got there during lunch and in one of the rooms -- I do not know. Maybe you should describe this.   Yeah there was this -- we went to this one classroom where there was this one boy who really stood out. He was about six years old and he had this -- this big mop of black hair. And he was just standing there at the table holding an apple. And just sobbing.   You do not want to eat the apple?   And the director of the school Tina McCourt she was there. And she just stayed with the boy and really like tried to be there with him but there was nothing she could do.   There goes the apple! You do not want to sing with him? No?   It was hard to watch because you do not know how to help him.   So that is the challenge right? There is a kid who actually cannot tell you what is upsetting to him right?   That is Gil Tippy the school's Clinical Director.   Could be that he physically -- he actually does not know where he is in space maybe. It is as if we were being thrown out of an airplane right? You are just tumbling you do not know where your body is. It is a thunderstorm so you only see things in flashes right? So now the world is totally frightening. It is totally overwhelming.   I mean I do remember the drive home from that -- from that terrible day.   I do not -- I have blocked that out. What did ...?   Well just -- I mean I just remember you know you and I driving home in silence with Owen in the back. And I just felt like you know there was no -- there is no hope.   Like they had no idea if the Owen they knew was in there or if he was just kind of lost to them. Like gone. Now keep in mind this was 1994. We knew even less about autism than we know now. We still have no idea what causes autism. But then the prevailing wisdom seemed to be that kids with autism they could not feel emotion they had no capacity to empathize with other people. This was way before the neurodiversity movement. Like actually right around the moment when autism was becoming a spectrum for the first time.   That is just happening in 1994. Just starting.   Barely starting.   Yeah at that point ...   Owen was about four.   Was he active or was he ...?   Yeah he was very -- he was hyperactive. A lot of self-stimulatory behavior you know hand flapping running around.   And Cornelia and Ron say that when they would call him it was as if he did not even hear them.   We are hoping he is hearing you know? But he is not really responding.   Well when you needed him to come to the table or -- would he come ...?   You would basically have to go and lead him by the hand and -- or pick him up and bring him over.   Huh.   And he was down to one word which was juice. So the only thing he was doing was drinking juice for about a year.   And also you know there was the Disney movies.   So he would sit for -- he would sit for -- for television entertainment of some ...   He would not sit for the whole movie for sure but he would -- that would be the one thing that he would sit for quietly for periods.     Because he did not sleep. So at night I was usually up with him all night thrashing around.   And as Owen watched one Disney movie after another after another not sleeping at all that word juice it seemed to expand just a little bit. He began to repeat the word ...   Juicervose juicervose juicervose.   Wait what was he saying? Juicervose?   Juicevose.   Juicervose.   But you do not know at first what that is.   No.   No.   No we think it is juice. Cornelia's like -- I said Does he seem to want more juice? And she is like No. I gave him more juice he did not seem to want it.   And Ron says he would say that word over and over for weeks and they had no idea what it meant. Until ...   It is about a year and a month after the symptoms have started.   One night all four of them are together in the living room.   And we are watching The Little Mermaid.     And a certain point Owen who is got the remote he starts rewinding the movie back a little bit to re-watch a scene.   It is typical. So Owen knows how to work the remote. Walt kind of showed him how to do it and he took to that. And he is rewinding the part where Ariel ...     Our protagonist.     Wants to become human to get her man Eric.     And the Sea Witch Ursula says It will -- it will cost you.     And the price is ...     Your voice.       And all of a sudden Ariel and Ursula are having it out.     And this part gets rewound again.     Again.     And Walt's like Owen stop rewinding. Just play the movie.     But after the third rewind ...     Cornelia says Ah! It is not juice. It is not 'juice' it is 'just.'   Oh!   I said What? Just your voice.     At which point I am like -- I grab Owen by the shoulders and I am like Just your voice! Just your voice! And he starts going Juicervose! Juicervose! Juicervose! And Walter starts jumping in the bed crying and laughing and jumping.   Did you feel like he chose that phrase for a reason?   Oh that is what we -- that is of course immediately what we thought.   He is trying to tell us something.   That like he has things to say but he -- he just cannot say it. It is his voice. In other words ...   He is in there.   He is in there because he is trying to talk to us.   So we run to the doctor a very trusted guy and he is like you know Sit down. Let us talk. And he says it is something called echolalia. It is echoing sounds. That their auditory processing their ability to process sound speech ...   Language.   ... goes haywire. And so they just repeat the sound. And we are saying So he does not know what it means? And he is like Probably not. Echolalia. It is what it sounds like 'echo' -- what it sounds like 'echo.' I said Like a parrot. They are like Yeah. Yeah a parrot. So we go from Helen Keller to the pet store parrot.   Life goes on and years go by ...   Where he is murmuring a lot of gibberish we might be able to decipher from some movie maybe. By six he is got you know three-word sentences. I want juice. Just you know one-and-a-half-year-old speech. Corn's there full-time 247.   Ron's working around the clock.   In a kind of frenzy to pay for all the therapists. And we are fighting it out basically.   They see tiny tiny bits of progress but no more breakthroughs.   Until ...   Owen's about six-and-a-half and Walt is 9. And Walter gets a little emotional on his ninth birthday.   I am not sure. Maybe the anxiety of the moment of the attention of it.   This is Walt Suskind.   And how old are you now?   I am 25.   Your voice is so much deeper than I imagined it would be.   People usually after like 10 minutes if it is their first time meeting me ask if I am faking my voice. And I have to assure them this is not an affect. This is how I sound.   In any case Walt has his ninth birthday and his friends come over.   And then after the party he is out in the hammock in the yard and he is kind of crying a little bit. And ...   Birthdays was -- I do not know they were just kind of strange days for me. Like sensory overload in a way.   Well Owen walks in after Walter is emotional. And we are in the kitchen and he seems to kind of look back and forth between the two of us in like there is something he wants to say.   To this point Owen had only said three word sentences but in this moment according to Ron ...   He looks at us and says Walter does not want to grow up like Mowgli or a Peter Pan.   He said full sentences.   Full thing. Whole thing.   Wow!   I mean literally it was like a thunderbolt a lightning bolt went through the kitchen. And Owen goes -- runs off in some you know reverie whatever. And we look at each other and like the -- what was that? You know this is his first complex sentence or thought that is been expressed and it is a subtle one actually.   Because he is taking three different characters two from a movie one from real life and he is putting them together. So Ron is like I gotta follow this. So he goes up to Owen's room ...   And I see Owen on the bed looking at a Disney book. And I see on the carpet are some of his puppets and -- and one of them is Iago from -- from Aladdin. The plush toy you know which is the 98 one that goes up to your elbow. And I grab it and I put it on -- on my arm right up to the elbow and I crawl along on the rug and I throw the bedspread kind of over my head and just edge up to the edge of the bed. And I push the puppet up through the crease in the bedspread. And so now they are face-to-face Owen and Iago. And I am looking up through the crease sort of up my arm and I talk to him as Iago. Now this was an easy voice. It is Gilbert Gottfried's voice. I mean anyone can do this. I say So Owen Owen Owen how -- how does it feel to be you? And he turns to the puppet like he is bumping into an old friend.   Hmm.   And he says Not good. I am lonely. And it was his voice.   Wow!   And so I say So when did -- when did you and I become such good friends? And he says When I watched Aladdin and you made me laugh. And we go back and forth like this for four or five more exchanges. And then I hear Owen clear his throat. Like  like that. And then all of a sudden I hear him say back I love the way your foul little mind works.   He said what?     That is Jafar the villain. Iago's the villainous sidekick to Jafar the villain of Aladdin.   Oh!   That is the next line from Jafar.   But you would slipped into a script.   You are in the movie.   You are -- you are inside.   Yeah he is asking for me to respond as Iago.   Did you know the next line?   I did not know the next line. At that point I just jumped out from under the bedspread and said Owen what is going on?   So now they felt like okay he -- he is -- he is in there. I mean despite everything that they had been told about autism Owen was in there and somehow these Disney characters were in there with him.   It does not take us long that you know we start what we called the basement sessions where we would say Well let us see how far this can go.   A couple times a week ...   We would go down in the basement and start playing out scenes. And we would do it. The first time we do it with the Jungle Book which is a movie he was into at that point.   And then ...   101 Dalmatians.   Beauty and The Beast.   Peter Pan. Sword in the Stone.   We -- we kind of ran the gamut. I mean pretty much we would watch any and every Disney movie there was.   What -- describe to these guys what was it like when Mom and I started doing voices and Walter?   Felt amazed. Felt amazed.   Who was amazed? You were amazed or they were amazed?   I was amazed.   This is Owen Suskind. He is 23 now.   Why were you amazed?   I was so surprised by my family. I could hear them respond better.   You are saying that when -- when everybody was acting out the Disney movies suddenly you could hear them better?   Right.   Huh.   So when people would talk to you not in the Disney movies do you -- what do you remember about how they sounded?   A little weird.   Yeah?   Gibberish and rubbish.   Huh. Do you remember how you felt?   A little worried.   You told Mom once that you were scared.   I was scared.   Why did it feel good to watch them over and over again that you kept wanting to watch them over and over again? How did that feel to you?   It felt comforting.   Comforting?   It felt comforting.   Why?   Because it would help me with reducing my autism.   How does a movie help a boy in Owen's condition? Stay tuned and we will -- we will attempt some explanations.   This is Candice currently calling from her bicycle. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thank you.     Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab. And today a story about a kid named Owen and a condition that no one can quite pin down. Now we just heard that Owen when he watches Disney movies he feels comforted and that somehow the movie seems to dial down his autism. We were like why would that be? How could a Disney movie -- or any movie really -- make that much difference?   Can you hear me okay?   I can hear you pretty well. I am just ...   We ended up taking the question to this guy.   Simon Baron-Cohen.   He is a leading researcher in autism.   And yes he is the cousin of this guy.     And I am the director of the Autism Research Centre at Cambridge University.   And Simon told us a couple of different things. First of all he says that in the last few decades our whole notion of what is happening in the mind of a child with autism has totally changed. We have sort of tossed out the Rain Man idea.   The idea that people with autism lack some inner life. I think that is completely false.   It is not necessarily that they cannot feel emotion or empathy he says. Not at all. It is often a decoding problem. Like they have trouble decoding all of the information that is coming in. I mean some studies have found that a lot of kids with autism literally have too many synapses in their brain. So it might be that the world is just coming in too loud.   I think often people with autism feel very lost and confused. There is so little predictability in the social world. You know people come and go. They -- no two days are the same. People say things unexpectedly they do things unexpectedly. And people with autism seem to need a lot of predictability.   We spoke to Temple Grandin the well-known author and autism advocate. And here's how she put it.   When I was a little kid I wanted to feel the nice feeling of being held but there was just too much overwhelming stimulation. You know loud sounds hurt my ears like the volume control on touch and hearing was way way way turned on. And one of the reasons why I withdrew into things like dribbling sand through my hands is I could then shut out the hurtful sound.   As Temple Grandin explained it to us a kid with autism gravitating to something like bus schedules or knowing every single fact about every dinosaur that ever lived that is just a way to slow things down and make the world predictable. So that it happens the same way every time. And as Simon Baron-Cohen puts it in Owen's case he had these Disney movies that he could play over and over and over and over.   And then the fact that it is you know it is -- it is not just repetition but it is repetition about human action.     You know that creates a kind of structure to be able to look at human behavior. You know in the real world there is no opportunity to rewind the movie. Whereas in the world of movies you can watch the same Disney cartoon a hundred times or a thousand times and you could almost go frame by frame. Like a literary critic or a film critic you could really analyze the action to understand okay that is what happened. And that is -- that is what caused him to do what he did.   Add to that ...   The element of music.   We spoke with a professor -- Geraldine Dawson -- a neuroscience professor at Duke who guessed that maybe it is not just the repetition that made the difference but the repetition with music.   One of the things that we have learned from neuroscience is that music activates emotional centers in our brain. And in fact it is pretty reliable that certain kinds of music make us feel frightened make us feel happy make us feel worried and so forth.   Now she says when scientists have done brain scans of kids with autism they found ...   That during kind of normal interactions people with autism do not necessarily activate those emotional centers of the brain. Areas like the amygdala. But during the experience of music the -- those areas of the brain did become activated in a way that was very much like a typical person.   So it might be that while Owen was sort of forensically examining these moments of Disney movies it was the Disney music that was binding those moments to feelings so we could know like Oh when a person looks like that that is when they are happy. When a person looks like that that is when they are sad. However it works Simon Baron-Cohen thinks it is at least plausible.   That he is using the movie as a scaffold to make sense of the much greater complexity of natural life.   And that is what got to Ron Suskind.   Like wow this is a whole new planet here!   That maybe this Disney-ish therapy that they use with Owen might be a whole new approach to treating kids with autism.   Instead of the one-size-fits-all model of sit in the class and hear the things you are supposed to know to be a working member of society instead it is like go with their passion. Follow them in there. It is -- it is a pathway. The brain finding a way to get to what people need which is interaction and emotional wholeness.   Here. I want you to sing the song for them.      Over the years sometimes down in the basement with the family or sometimes even in doctor's offices Owen started to improvise. He would -- he would go off script and use the characters he knew so well to explain how he was feeling.    Under the sea!   And as we were thinking about all this and asking ourselves you know well if this works with Disney movies which are very emotional and clear what do you -- how do you do this with paper clips or bus schedules? And as the questions kept coming we ran into inevitably a counter-reaction to Ron's story. And this we did not expect.   The story is great. It is a wonderful story. But the fact is most -- I mean the danger with a book -- with any book including Life Animated is that it is going to give the impression to a lot of people that this is the answer. You know it is kind of like ...   That is psychologist and journalist David Royko. And he warned us that like ...   ... with autism ...   We still do not really know much and we do not have yet a body of established science. And all the anecdotes you are hearing? They are just anecdotes.   If you have known one person with autism you have known one person with autism.   That he says is really all you can say. And to take one person's experience and generalize on it? It is a mistake. A case in point his son Ben.   Ben is turning 21 years old today.   Oh my God! Happy birthday to him.   Thanks. And you know Ben is never going to be able to live independently. He is never going to have what anyone considered -- would consider a full and normal life.   Ben has severe autism and is now living in an assisted living facility. He was diagnosed around the same age as Owen. Same basic symptoms.   Lack of eye contact.   Sudden loss of speech.   Fascination with spinning wheels with ceiling fans the whole -- the whole package.   Dave says he and his wife tried every therapy they could afford and a whole lot they could not. But Ben never had any of those big breakthroughs. Instead even as a teenager ...   He would hit and he would scratch and he would bite and he would punch and he would kick. Honestly I was always afraid when Karen and I would end up having to go to the emergency room for some reason that you know if they saw her arms that they would arrest me because they would think I was some horribly abusive person. Because her arms were nothing -- they were covered with -- with scabs and scars and scars on scars and on top of that you know there would be the crap.   Like -- like ?   Like  in his pants. Yeah I mean he is -- he was not -- well you know I hate to say it but here we are on his 21st birthday and he is still not 100 reliable when it comes to toileting.   And honestly the reason we ended up calling Dave is because he wrote a review of Ron's book where he said basically it is a great book but it is just one more story of a triumphant happy ending. And that is not the norm.   For many many people who experience autism you do not have happy endings. I mean that is -- that is the sad facts for many of these families. And we are not expecting in our life a happy ending for Ben.   People seem to believe that -- that it is dangerous for parents to have too much hope because what if they really think it is possible for their child to progress a huge amount or recover and then their child does not? We have the other concern.   That is Raun Kaufman of the Autism Treatment Center of America.   We find that we are not afraid of so-called false hope. We are more concerned about false pessimism.     And here's why he says that. In 1981 Raun's dad Barry Kaufman he sits down on a local TV show with a very young Oprah Winfrey and he describes his experience.   Okay we had a child who was diagnosed as incurably ill or hopelessly ill something called autism.   He tells how at a really young age a year-and-a-half old his son began to regress and began to flap hands lose eye contact rock back and forth. And then one day he his wife decided You know what? We are going to just sit down on the bathroom floor right next to him and we are going to rock back and forth just like him. And he explains that they did this over and over and over hour after hour until one day his son turned his head ...   ... and he actually looked at us. It took 900 hours before he ever gave us eye contact on his own. When he looked at us we cheered. We cried. 'ecause that was really big for us. And so somebody else might look at us and say You are crazy. But we are not. We just got this little boy. It took us 900 friggin' hours but he just looked at us for three seconds. My God!     And that little boy is Raun.   For me it just felt like my mother was loving me and enjoying me and playing with me.   Nowadays in interviews Raun seems to say that maybe his parents cured him of autism.   I -- I actually have never used the word cure. I do not use that in my lectures YouTube videos. No one's ever actually heard me say that. What I do say is full recovery which is essentially the same thing.   Whatever you call it armed with his heroic story Raun and his dad Barry now run an autism treatment program that they call Sonrise. S-O-N-rise.   People come here from all around the world and they will say My child is severely autistic. And I will smile and I will put out my hand and I will shake their hand and I will say I am so excited for you! Wow you are so blessed! And you know what they will start to do? They will cry. And I will say Why are you crying? No one ever said that to me.   You really say that to parents with a severely like -- severely autistic kids? Severely.   I say it all over the world.    You know last year there was a woman named Kelly Stapleton who was a fairly prominent autism blogger. And I got to know Kelly a bit.   She has a daughter with autism. And one day when her daughter was 14 ...   She locked herself in a van with a couple charcoal burners and -- and tried to commit suicide with her autistic daughter. You see that in the world of autism more than -- I cannot think of any other place you see it.   Dave believes that one of the reasons you see so many suicides in this community. And by the way there is a huge debate about this on the web. But he believes that one of the reasons you see it so much is that all these success stories seem to say to parents like him that as hard as it can be -- and it can be really really hard -- you are not trying hard enough.   It is depressing. You know a new bumper sticker you know that is shown up that autism is awesome. And awesome's spelled like a-u-s-ome like similar to autism. No autism it destroys lives is what it does in our definition of it.   And that is one of the things that makes it very very confusing for people outside the community to describe what is going on. Because you now have this situation where obviously autism is a spectrum and so you have all of these different kids described by the same word. Making things even more confusing ...   Do you take a child one when they are two or three ...   That is Temple Grandin again.   You can have two kids that look real severe. And I looked real severe when I was -- when I was three. Real real severe. And then you work on these kids. Lots of one-on-one therapy. And one kid you kind of pull them out of it and the other one you are not able to pull them out of it and they both look the same at age three.   So if a lot of these kids start out with the same set of symptoms but they end up in vastly different places no one knows why then as a parent you really have no idea what is going to happen. Or how much you can dare to hope.   Notions of what could be up the road or what should be now if they pop into my head which is rare. I dismiss them. I have absolutely no idea because we have been down so many roads that were disappointing.   And that is next.   Hey guys this is Nathan Sanchez calling from Santa Clara California. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thanks guys.   I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab. And to continue with the story. After Owen's Disney basement sessions had really taken off and the Disney therapy as it were seemed to be working and Owen was getting better and better and better.   Things took a turn and -- and not for the good.   Remind me how old he is at this point?   14?   14 okay.   15?   14 yeah.   Ninth grade. It was 10th grade.   Oh right.   10th grade.   Oh was it?   Yeah.   That is right. That is right.   And what -- what happened?   We did not know what was happening. You know we just saw over the months that Owen was really out of sorts.   He got quiet kind of withdrawn. Basically stopped doing Disney. Over this period he is losing a lot of weight.   He is not sleeping.   The three of us were scratching our heads saying what is going on with Owen? He is really moving into a bad place. I mean I was actually worried that he was becoming schizophrenic.   Oh yeah. I still think about that whole scenario all the time. 'ecause we knew something was wrong with Owen and we could not get it out of him.   This is Owen's older brother Walt again. And he says when he would pick up Owen from school ...   He was just a shell of himself. You would talk to him -- I would pick him up and he would talk to himself in the car and he would be No! Or you know It is not true! Or something under his breath.   And then ...   At one point I overhear him in a kind of conversation with Phil the sidekick of Hercules in that movie Hercules. Danny DeVito does the voice. And Phil is you know Listen kid you can take him. You know you gotta stand up for yourself! That kind of thing that Owen was saying. And I did not -- I did not know where to fit it in.   Ron says it seemed like Owen was trying to psych himself up for something so he sat down with Owen on the couch and he grilled him for an hour until eventually Owen told him about his music class at school.   There are two kids in this class who are ED kids emotionally disturbed kids so they are not -- they are not on the autistic spectrum and socially they are very on target. And they basically torment and terrorize him for six months of that school year unbeknownst to us and unbeknownst to the school.   What did they do?   They sat on either side of him and basically said you know We are gonna kill you. We are gonna kill your parents.   And those two bullies lied and bullied me badly.   I mean right then you were in a very bad spot and you could not tell me or mom or anyone.   Right.   Because what happened? The bullies said what?   Burn your house down.   If what?   If you tell.   Right.   And Owen was so literal as are so many autistic kids he believed that they literally meant they were gonna come and burn his house down.   Then there is an extraordinary moment in the middle of this where Walter picks him up and Owen starts to think -- go through a calculus. The bullies said if you tell your parents about what we said we will burn your house down but they said nothing about your brother.   Oh!   And so he is -- he sees like an opening.   Yeah.   And so did you tell him?   No I did not. No I did not. I ...   Why -- why not?   Because I am afraid he would beat them up. I did not want that.   Walt at this point you know is a football player. And you know he looks like Hercules to Owen. And Owen later describes to us this thinking that if he tells Walter that Walter will hurt the kid and maybe kill the kid. And in Disney none of the heroes actually kill any of the villains.   No.   Walter was the hero. You were afraid he was going to do what?   Kill. But it is wrong.   Did you ever talk to Walt about it?   A little bit later after it happened.   I just remember finding out and it was like a combination of like rage and helplessness. That in a -- I literally just thought of what I would have done to that kid if I would -- if Owen had told me. I really wanted to kill that kid. I mean I am you know I am his protector.   In a way you are -- you were kind of -- Walter was worried about protecting you in that time.   Yeah.   In a way it was ...   Me.   That was doing what?   Protecting myself.   And who else?   And my brother.   Right. And Walt.   And Walt.   You were protecting Walter.   Yeah.   So here you had this moment where it looked like Owen was sliding backwards. But according to Ron it might have actually been his greatest leap forward his most profound moment of empathy.   These days Owen is 23. Just turned 23 a few months ago.   And are you in love right now?   Yes I am. With the girl of my dreams Emily. She and I graduated from Riverview last month.   This has been a three-year program called Getting Ready for the Outside World.   GROW. Yeah.   And so he will be graduating from the -- from the entire program?   Yep yep. And off on his own.   And now me her and our other two friends John and Julie who also go to school are all going to move and live at LIFE in Hyannis.   LIFE in Hyannis.   And what is LIFE?   Living Independently Forever.   And what is it? What kind -- describe it.   An adult independent living program.   As we were talking it was hard not to wonder how independent will Owen be. Because that is the question that is in front of the Suskind's now especially Walt.   I think what scares me sometimes is kind of just having to go it alone in a lot of ways and at the same time just being there for -- sorry. There is some daunting things ahead and I am you know I will just have to be ready to take these things on kind of.   No wonder you do not like birthdays.   That makes sense. Makes perfect sense.   Well it is a tough one. I mean Walter's like -- you know he said to me at one point he is like Is it always gonna be Disney? I mean forever? And I am like I do not know Walt.   But we talk -- we talked to him about you know about everything. About you know our will and who will be Owen's -- you know how he figures into everything.   All the efforts of what we are trying to do and have been doing for all this time is to -- one of our favorite movies is the Jungle Book because Mowgli's -- it is his quest with his animal sidekicks to get him to the man village. What we have been doing all this time and what we are still doing and we do every day is to bring Owen closer and closer to that man village that we all inhabit. There is so much hope in that and as he progresses you feel so good about it. But at the same time that is not to say he will ever totally get there.   As hard as we might try we -- we may not get him there. But that does not mean you -- you leave him on the path. You stay with him on the path. Even if it is a never-ending path.   Thanks to Ron Suskind Cornelia Suskind Walt Suskind Owen Suskind the whole Suskind family. And Mr. Suskind's book -- Ron's book is called Life Animated.   Thanks also to Jonathan Freeman Elaine Hall Steve Silverman Pamela Deedelvore and Kelsey Padgett.   And sincere thanks also to Gil Tippy and Tina McCourt at the Rebecca School and to the whole staff at that school. They are all heroes in my mind here. So there you go.   There you go. I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   Thanks for listening.   