 Wait wait. You are the ...   Okay?   All right.  Alina Simone Okay?   All right.   You are listening-   Listening-   To Radiolab. Lab ... Lab ... Lab   Radio Lab.   From.   WNY-   C!   C?   Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Hey. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab and today-  Robert Krulwich Well today we are going to tell you a story which we hope does not become your future but it raises a simple question. We all have computers. We love computers. We depend upon computers. But what if the cost of using your computer becomes more than you are willing to pay? Two stories today which suggest that we might be at the very beginning of a nightmare.  Jad Abumrad The first comes from a journalist Alina Simone and her mother Inna.  Alina Simone I mean do you want to start with my mom? Because it really happened to her? She only got in touch with me maybe on day six.  Inna Are you talking to me or her?  Alina Simone Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Okay. So what ... Yeah day one. What was the first first thing that happened?  Inna On day one what happened that I called Tufts University IT services because my husband works at Tufts complaining that my computer is unbearably unbearably slow.  Jad Abumrad She tells IT I do not know what is going on. Every time I try and open a window it is like 'click ... oop ... click.. oop-'  Inna Practically stopped working.  Jad Abumrad What do I do?  Inna They checked whatever. Said Probably nothing. Rebooted. So did nothing basically. Then-  Jad Abumrad She went away for the weekend.  Inna And when I came back I turned the computer on and like it was doing something ... and I saw many many windows-  Jad Abumrad Covering her screen. Boop boop boop boop boop boop!  Inna And those windows multiplied.  Jad Abumrad Doop doop doop.  Inna I cannot open any of them and I could not figure but it was very late at night. So-  Jad Abumrad She went to bed got up the next day-  Inna Called the Tufts again asking for help.  Jad Abumrad They had no idea what was going on.  Inna No.  Jad Abumrad But she says at this point whatever the computer had been doing-  Inna It was done. All the windows disappeared.  Jad Abumrad Except now anytime she tried to click any of her files-  Inna The pictures videos I cannot open any of them.  Jad Abumrad Instead every time this message would pop up.  Inna And the message says ...   What happened to your files?  Inna All my files-   All of your files have been protected with a strong encryption- .  Inna ... encrypted-   ... Using CryptoWall. This means that the structure and data within your files have been irrevocably changed- .  Inna And in order to get them back-   To unlock files you must pay 500 US dollars. If you really value your data then we suggest that you do not waste valuable time searching for the solutions because they do not exist.  Robert Krulwich You are saying that somebody went into your computer and locked up all of your things?  Inna Yeah. They gave me the exact count.   5726 files encrypted.  Robert Krulwich When you say they did you have any image in your head of who ... ?  Inna My first thought was Russia or Ukraine which is even better.  Robert Krulwich Why?  Jad Abumrad Why?  Inna Because you know everybody talks about excellent fantastic education there. Special in math. I am from there I know.  Alina Simone You know she is right. They have surpassed the US in educating their kids when it comes to math and science and they have got a severe underemployment problem especially outside of the major cities which is where these viruses often trace down to. Not Moscow and St. Petersburg. What we are talking about you know backwater.  Inna I was so positive that it comes from that part of the world that I wrote them in Russian.  Jad Abumrad Apparently the criminals had provided her a link to a website where she could send them a message. You know customer support.  Inna I wrote them . I do not know how to translate it in English more accurately. Something like I wish you all die or Drop dead. .  Robert Krulwich Wish you all die?  Inna But in Russian language there is a word 'to die' for humans or another word for animals.  Robert Krulwich Oh!  You used the animal one.  Inna Yes. Not a curse but ... they got the message.  Jad Abumrad Now Inna says she thought about just wiping the computer clean. So that she would not have to pay.  But then it occurred to her that her husband had all these files on there-  Inna Which he needed.  Jad Abumrad You know like business receipts that he had not filed yet.  Inna Which he is lazy to do so he asked me to help.  Alina Simone And she is right that like you know she has this tax information this reimbursement information. Ultimately it is worth more than 500 dollars.  Inna My husband did not want to pay I overruled him.  Jad Abumrad So Inna decides-  Inna To follow the instructions basically.   One. Download and install Tor browser.  Jad Abumrad So she goes and installs this browser called Tor which apparently-  Inna Is not traceable.   Two. Run the browser and wait for initialization.  Jad Abumrad She does that.   Three. Type in the address bar K-PI-7-Y-C-R-7-J-A-X-Q- .  Jad Abumrad Then she is directed to a site where it basically tells her Look if you do not trust us-  Inna We can decrypt one of your files for free as a sample that when you pay us you would know that you could really get all your files back.  Jad Abumrad Huh.  Inna And I was curious I decided that I will try it.  Jad Abumrad So she clicked the button that said yes and ...  Inna I got one file back but as soon as I did ... the clock start ticking-  Jad Abumrad Literally she says a little clock appeared at the top of the browser.  Inna They gave me exactly seven days.   167 hours 59 minutes 59 seconds.  Jad Abumrad So you decrypt the thing and then suddenly it is a countdown?  Inna Yes! They say If you will not pay by this date then the fine will be doubled and if you will not pay in one more week then you will lose your files forever and you will never get it back.  Jad Abumrad Now in the message it had told Inna that she had to pay that 500 dollar fine not in dollars but in Bitcoin.  Inna You know this was first time in my life ever I heard the term 'Bitcoins.' So I found this website-  Jad Abumrad Called Coin Cafe.  Inna Where you can buy Bitcoins. And to buy these Bitcoins is a nightmare. It is a torture.  Jad Abumrad What she needed to do was exchange 500 bucks for the requisite amount of Bitcoins. And at the time 500 bucks equaled 1.37 Bitcoins. But before she could even make that exchange she had to fill out all these forms with all these questions.  Inna What happened? What is the reason to buy Bitcoin? And reasons were listed. One of them was ransom. So then you-  Robert Krulwich That is a category?!  Inna Yes. It was the first reason to pay a ransom to the criminals.  Jad Abumrad Next she says after you fill out all the forms-  Inna You have to make a picture and send them a photograph through the internet. Okay? I did not have a camera because-  Jad Abumrad She says your camera happened to be in the shop.  Inna ... Oh! More than that I have to make a picture of my husband holding a driver's license. Send them this picture back so they would-  Robert Krulwich Is this the bank or the criminals?  Inna No!  This is the people who sell you Bitcoins-  Robert Krulwich Oh my god!  Inna ... in exchange for your money. I told you that it is a torture. It is unbelievable.  Jad Abumrad But eventually she was able to find a neighbor borrow the camera take the picture she needed to take. Then she had to get the money she wanted to exchange to Coin Cafe and it turns out the preferred way to do it the most secure way to do it is not online but through a money order.  Inna This was the day right before the Thanksgiving ... Wednesday.  Jad Abumrad She still had about six days before the deadline so she thought All right I will just pop down to the post office get a money order.  Inna But-  Newscaster  Live from Boston WVT-  Inna Lexington and the whole Massachusetts had a terrible terrible snow storms.  Newcaster  For a lot of us this could be the biggest storm so far this Winter. .  Inna Undriveable road-  Newcaster  And significant snow a wet snow at that .  Inna But I had to go to the post office.  Jad Abumrad So she plows through the snow almost kills herself but gets there gets everything together sends it off ... And it is like All right.  Inna So finally I send everything out. The post office assured me that they will get it on Friday which is the first working day after the Thanksgiving. Okay so on Friday-  Jad Abumrad She called Coin Cafe.  Inna They did not get it. On Saturday they did not get it. On Monday in the morning nothing was delivered and I was desperate because my deadline was Tuesday something like 12 oclock. And I start calling the post office whatever. Nobody knows anything. They said Yes two days but there is no guarantee.  Jad Abumrad Finally-  Inna 4 oclock in the afternoon on Monday-  Jad Abumrad But 24 hours before the deadline-  Inna They got it-  Jad Abumrad Phew!  Robert Krulwich Yes!  Inna And they send me Bitcoins in exchange because they got my money.  Jad Abumrad But she says when she went online to check her Bitcoin account-  Inna I am 13 dollars short.  Opera Singer .  Inna Because of the exchange-  Robert Krulwich So you get only 400 and-  Inna And I start calling them- .  Jad Abumrad Basically the exchange rate changed on her. She had bought it at 500 now it was worth 487.  Inna I asked them how often do you change the exchange rate and they said Every minute. But it is not a joke every minute. I said Are you crazy? I was a double victim. I was victim or victim. You see what I mean?  Inna Because driving was terrible. I have to stand on my head to get a camera and then I was struggling to send them.  Robert Krulwich That is the problem with this crime. Like the criminals need a better way to get money from the victim.  Inna But everything else is traceable.  Jad Abumrad I am on the edge of my seat here. So you are 13 dollars short ...  Inna I am calling ... They said There is one more way ... one more way.  Inna And what does it?  Inna We have a ATM machine.  Inna I said What?  Inna Yeah we can have an ATM machine. Only one.  Inna And I said Where is it?  Inna It is in Brooklyn.  Robert Krulwich Brooklyn New York?!  Inna Yeah.  Robert Krulwich Oh no!  Jad Abumrad 200 miles away.  Robert Krulwich Wait a second I do not understand this. There is one ATM that is in the borough of Brooklyn where you do not live?  Inna Exactly.  Robert Krulwich Ah!  Jad Abumrad But luckily her daughter Alina lives in Brooklyn.  Inna You asked me how my daughter got involved that is how.  Jad Abumrad So she calls Alina.  Alina Simone Yeah. My mom called me the night before the ransom was due so I-  Robert Krulwich Were you aware of any of this up to this point?  Alina Simone No no. I remember you know it was at night. I had the TV on and I have a toddler you know is all these things going on. I was probably on my laptop too. I was doing like 12 things and my mom called and she was like upset with a capital U. She started ranting about criminals and ransom and I literally thought she was like talking in air quotes.  Alina Simone I am like Oh yeah I know when I go to  and like yeah there is extortion! And my mom was like No! Like no! There is really a ransom! No they are really criminals!  Jad Abumrad Her mom told her Google 'CryptoWall.'  Alina Simone And I was like Holy  this is really a thing! Plus I started Googling as she suggested I do and found out that police departments had paid this. That a Sheriff's department in Dickson Tennessee had just paid it to unlock like you know 70 plus thousand case files. And I was like Yeah a lot-  Robert Krulwich Oh so these crooks go after police departments?  Alina Simone They have gone after governments universities corporations- .  Robert Krulwich Oh my god!  Alina Simone ... police departments.  Robert Krulwich And did the question ever come up in your mind like Why my mom?  Alina Simone No not at all. Because like a million people in the US have been infected with criminal- .  Jad Abumrad With this very thing?  Alina Simone Yes.  Jad Abumrad Anyhow. Next day less than six hours left Inna says to Alina Please go to this ATM so we can just be done with this whole thing.  Inna You can cut it later but I can tell you that in the morning she said I have a date for my granddaughter date. To play date.  Alina Simone Play date.  Inna I will not be able to do it until 12 oclock And I called again. I said Are you crazy? I do not have time.  Alina Simone So I go out to Greenpoint to this ATM. And you know I just want to add that- .  Inna But you had your play date.  Alina Simone Well I canceled my ... .  Inna No you did not. I called you. You shorten it. You might get a little bit ...  Alina Simone Right. Okay so I cut my play date short. Sorry. Forget that crucial detail. And I go out to Greenpoint and they have an ATM and I am-  Robert Krulwich I am just worried that there is going to be 57 people all lined up at this single ATM that you are-  Alina Simone There were totally not 57 people. I mean most people do take care of this remotely. Like there was no one at this ATM. I mean what was funny about the ATM is like I am expecting like Yeah I have been to an ATM like I have a Capital One account. I know what an ATM is. You know but this was on like the second floor of a work share space in Brooklyn.  Alina Simone It was like in the hallway. There was like a bike hanging from a wall kind of blocking it. And there was like a paper sign taped to the wall that just had a printout from the computer that just said 'bitcoin atm' all lower case letters and an arrow to this phone booth!  Alina Simone It looked very Soviet like if you have seen photos of those phones with no buttons and there is just a receiver? And it is totally scary. .  Jad Abumrad Like direct line?  Alina Simone Yeah yeah. Like you just pick it up and like somebody is always on the other line or something. It was like that. It was just this box with a screen and no buttons and a camera eye.  Jad Abumrad Oh my god!  Alina Simone And what you do is you hold up your QVC code. Is that what they are called? QVC? What are they called?   QRC.  Alina Simone QRC? QRC?   Yeah.  Jad Abumrad The barcode thingy?  Alina Simone Yeah. Yeah it is like a barcode. So there is this QRC code and my mom had emailed it to me and was like You need to print this out and this is ... this essentially gives you access to my account to top it off you know? And so I put this QRC code up to the camera eye it kind of went Bloop! And then it was like We are accessing your account.  Alina Simone And then I got a spiny wheel.  Jad Abumrad You got the wheel of death?  Alina Simone Yes!  Jad Abumrad No!  Alina Simone Ugh spiny wheel!  Jad Abumrad Alina starts frantically dialing her mom the guys at Coin Cafe.  Alina Simone I called you know. I left like three phone messages-  Inna And I left five.  Alina Simone So finally they called me back like 20 minutes later. Said Okay we are sending a technician over to fix the machine which was very cool. I did not think that would happen. And so you know the technician was there and he fixed the machine and he helps me deposit these 25 dollars.  Alina Simone And then ... we started talking and he was like Yeah you know ... He knew my mom because you know he would been talking to her on the phone he is like I feel so bad for your mom. We have been getting so many of these cases. And I am like Why are you why-   Jad Abumrad You are getting a lot of these cases?  Alina Simone Yeah. I was like Why are you guys getting so ... Why is everyone coming to you? And he is like Oh I know why. Because in the ransom note that they give a list of preferred vendors and we are number one-  Jad Abumrad Or two.  Mike Hoats What  the introduction. What a bad introduction to Bitcoin. Like We are going to hold you ransom for all your information until you use this new currency to pay us off. I mean that is terrible.  Jad Abumrad This is Mike Hoats and John Ha. They are the co-owners of Coin Cafe.  John Ha I had a few weeks back a grandmother who was in tears. She was going to lose all of her family photos because the deadline was coming up. You know crying on the phone to me and it ... God! It felt horrible.   Jad Abumrad Now clearly people who sell Bitcoin just believe that there should be a digital currency that is decentralized. It does not rely on the banks. But unfortunately it has become the currency of choice for ransom and so ... they are in this weird position.  Will Wheeler So it is a tricky thing because like I cannot sell Bitcoin to someone who I know is going to do something illegal with it. Right?  Jad Abumrad That is Will Wheeler who runs a Bitcoin exchange called expresscoin and he says he and the other exchangers are really worried right now that if they keep helping the little guys pay the ransom in order to get their files back they are in effect making themselves accessories to a crime.  Will Wheeler I finally got a call back from a FinCEN which is the federal authority for Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. They said that we could perceive paying a ransom as unlawful activity and so they might choose to use that against the company who helps out. Right? And likely until we get a straight answer from FinCEN we will take the overly cautious approach and start declining these transactions.  Robert Krulwich Even though in your heart you want to help?  Will Wheeler Well yeah. I mean do I want to risk being indicted for helping you get your travel receipts reimbursed from your company? And I mean to me the answer is no.  Jad Abumrad In any case ... after Alina deposits the extra 25 bucks in her mom's Bitcoin account Inna the mom goes online.  Inna Then I clicked and it was gone. But then ...  Jad Abumrad About an hour later.  Inna I went to my computer and there was another message. That You are late.  Jad Abumrad No!  Inna It turns out that I was two and a half hours late. You have to pay 1300 dollars roughly.  Inna I did not have anybody to turn to.  Jad Abumrad So she went to that same website where you can write them a message.  Inna I wrote them that I was late but I mentioned the snow storm the Thanksgiving which they probably were not aware of. And of course the wonderful US Mail service. I said that I tried and I was only two hours late.  Inna And then all of a sudden I am getting the message You paid in full without any explanation. Nothing. You paid. That is it. And I got all my files back.  Robert Krulwich ... That they took pity on her?  Jad Abumrad Maybe.  Inna I felt that it is over. Finally it is really over.  Robert Krulwich It does make you wonder like who these people are?  Jad Abumrad We have a story about that up next.  Michelle Hello this is Michelle from Kaka'ako Hawaii. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Michelle Mahalo!  I am Clemmie Burton-Hill and I am here to tell you about The Open Ears Project the new podcast from WNYC Studios and WQXR in which people share stories about the classical music that gets them through that lives. People like director Sam Mendes musicians John Batiste and Wynton Marsalis Call Your Girlfriend's Aminatou Sow and our very own Alec Baldwin. It is part mix tape part sonic love letter kind of like a daily musical journey into other human lives. Listen for free wherever you get your podcast and sign up at openearsproject.org  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab.  Robert Krulwich So here's the next obvious question who did this to ...? Like do we know anything about them?  Jad Abumrad When we put that question to Joseph Menn investigative reporter for Reuters he is done a ton of work in this area and his hunch was that Inna's right.  Joseph Menn We are talking people ... Russian-speaking folks by and large.  Jad Abumrad He wrote a book called Fatal System Error which is sort of a deep dive into the Russian hacking scene. And much of it as as you would expect you know young guys-  Joseph Menn Early twenties.  Jad Abumrad Kind of grubby-  Joseph Menn By and large they do not live a lavish lifestyle. There are guys at the top of these criminal organizations that are very flashy.  Joseph Menn They are like sort of pop icons some of them in the same way that rap stars are in the US. There is a hacker magazine which has guys with their sports cars and the supermodels and whatever. You know buying bottle service at discos at three in the morning.  Robert Krulwich Those are the guys who will hire the 20 year olds.  Joseph Menn They hire the 20 year olds or they are franchises.  Jad Abumrad And he says the 20 year old grunts work at office parks.  Joseph Menn Yeah. It is like a call center type of atmosphere.  Kelsey Padgett Is there like you know ...  Jad Abumrad That is producer Kelsey Padgett.  Kelsey Padgett Ivan in a cubicle at his computer board. He has a meeting later with Judy in HR and he is mad about it. Is that the kind of like environment that these people are in?  Joseph Menn For the most part I think so yes.  Jad Abumrad The larger point is that it is not just like your lone-wolf pimply faced hacker anymore. Cyber-crime is now super organized. It is often corporate. It is big business. And the whole sort of economy seems to revolve around these secret sites where people come together to buy and sell things like that ransomware from our last story.  Joseph Menn They are these underground web forums and there is a variety. Some are available ... You can reach you on the open internet. The more impressive ones are password-protected. You know you have to know somebody to get in. The really really fancy ones you have to have a couple of people vouch for you.  D.Temple-Raston You actually have to apply with your resume your hacker's resume. Here are the things I can bring. These are the kinds of hacking exploits that I have had and therefore I should be part of your exclusive club.  Jad Abumrad That is Dina Temple-Raston NPR cyber-crime correspondent. She is been tracking the government's attempts to shut down some of these sites which she describes as-  D.Temple-Raston Sort of a hacker's black market bazaar. So let us say someone is looking for a bunch of credit card numbers that have been stolen. You can get it there.  Joseph Menn There is at one price if they are MasterCard Gold and another price for a higher-level credit whatever.  D.Temple-Raston Let us say you wanted to know about a boss or an employee or a girlfriend-  Jad Abumrad You can get this piece of software that allows you to turn on their phone at any time.  D.Temple-Raston You could basically ease drop on them because you are in their pocket. And for 300 dollars a month you would actually get customer service.  Joseph Menn And the prices actually keep coming down. It is a very very evolved fluid marketplace. There is feedback and there is escrow.  Robert Krulwich There are feedback forums? Come on! .  Joseph Menn Absolutely.  Robert Krulwich That thief was not really ... There was like ... Did not do the thief ... the robbery right?  Joseph Menn Absolutely. Particularly for something ... You will see it a lot for freshness of credit cards because it is easy to say Here are 10000 credit card numbers but if they are credit card numbers had been out for awhile and get declined to everybody you have just wasted your money. And these people are called 'Rippers' as in 'they are ripping you off.' And they will get banned from the forum.  Jad Abumrad Wow. So it is reputational just like everywhere else?  Joseph Menn Yeah. And it is as good as eBay. If you feel safe doing business on eBay there is no reason you should not feel safe doing business with the criminals.  Jad Abumrad Now all of this to me frankly felt like just a sexy hacker talk  until a couple of months ago Dina started telling us about this one particular site. Actually the biggest of these kinds of sites that is out there. It is called Darkode.  D.Temple-Raston Yeah. The way it has been described by law enforcement is sort of an amazon.com for hackers.  Jad Abumrad Actually here's specifically how US Attorney David Hickton described it to her in an interview.  David Hickton Darkode is the largest English-speaking criminal cyber-crime forum in the world.  D.Temple-Raston And one of the .. I think most people know Silk Road and they know for example you could get a contract hit from Silk Road and drugs and guns and everything else. So would it be right for me to say that this was sort of a Silk Road for hackers?  David Hickton Yeah I would not want to draw that direct comparison. I think it is probably accurate. I would say that all measure of cyber crime that you see and watch around the world was in some form or fashion connected through it.  Jad Abumrad So we got really interested in this world of this site Darkode and the people in it. And so with Dina we started calling around trying to find anyone that would talk. And after weeks of searching and calling and lawyering we found a guy who agreed to go on the record.  Daniel Placek My name is Daniel Placek and I am a reformed hacker.  Jad Abumrad As far as we know Dan has never talked about this publicly.  D.Temple-Raston So how did you get involved with Darkode?  Daniel Placek Well I was one of the people who created it.  Daniel Placek A very long time ago.  Jad Abumrad Daniel's story begins not in Russia but in Milwaukee.  Daniel Placek Sure. Well let me ... Let me start with a little bit of context-   Jad Abumrad Small middle-class suburb right outside of Milwaukee.  Robert Krulwich Do you have brothers and sisters?  Daniel Placek Two younger brothers and two younger sisters. Big family.  Robert Krulwich Did you have to share rooms with them or were you in your own little kingdom?  Daniel Placek I shared a room with both my brothers for a lot of years.  Jad Abumrad In fact that sort of plays into the story because he says what he would do to sort of escape is go to the basement and play video games.  Daniel Placek So yes the stereotypical hacker in his parents' basement. I know I know. It is quite hilarious.  Jad Abumrad Dan says his hacking began innocently enough when he would monkey with games like Age of Empires.  Daniel Placek I had changed the graphics changed the artificial intelligence in the game the way it plays. Rework it create new maps that type of thing. It was something I enjoyed. And slowly throughout my teenage years that developed into something more.  Daniel Placek I did not get along well with a lot of my peers in grade and middle school. So I spent a lot more time you know on the computer and by myself than I did socially at least at that age.  Jad Abumrad And he says one day he was in a chat room an internet chat room.  Daniel Placek It was called Game Search.  Jad Abumrad Talking with a bunch of other people about video games.  Daniel Placek And at some point along the way-  Jad Abumrad He meets this guy.  Daniel Placek You know this particular guy was into botnets.  Robert Krulwich Oh yes botnets! We all cry. Yeah. Just remind us of what is going on there.  Daniel Placek Botnets are malware viruses installed on computers. And botnets you know are the way to centrally control a whole lot of infected computers.  Jad Abumrad Just to put this in context for second because I think this is totally fascinating.  Jad Abumrad Joseph Menn says that this whole botnet situation-  Joseph Menn It started with spam. One of the easiest ways to make money on the internet back pre-2000 was spam.  Robert Krulwich Spam as in penis extensions-  Joseph Menn All that stuff. What happened was that the ... in the olden days most servers mail servers acted as open relays.  Jad Abumrad Meaning the mail people would not really pay attention to who was sending what. So the spammers would spam with abandon.  Joseph Menn And then spam got to be enough of a problem that the techies of the world-  Jad Abumrad Decided That is it. They started to block people. Like if they found a guy who they thought was sending too many product emails or whatever they would block his IP address so that he could not send any more mail.  Joseph Menn So what the spammers and their contractors then needed to do was to have a bunch of clean IP addresses.  Joseph Menn And send spam from that. .  Jad Abumrad So what they did which is totally genius totally evil is they hired a bunch of programmers to create a bunch of viruses. Disseminated those viruses across the internet. People would accidentally click or open something get them onto their computer and then suddenly the spammers could now remote control our computers at a distance whatever they wanted for maybe just an hour or two a night to send out their spam. Because these were clean IP addresses.  Joseph Menn Of course what happened is that once the spammers had these botnets-  Jad Abumrad They started thinking-  Joseph Menn Hey I could do something else with this. And the next thing that came along was denial of service attacks. You can have all of them try to contact ebay.com at the same time and knock over eBay.  Daniel Placek This first gentleman that I ran into he had a botnets of well over a thousand computers which at the time was amazing to me. You know by today's standards a thousand for a botnet is nothing.  Jad Abumrad Now they can get up into the millions.  Daniel Placek But back then it was quite incredible to me and- .  Jad Abumrad Because he says he was in this chat room this guy was there and this guy would get into fights with people. And anytime he did he would point his 1000 computer drone army at that enemy and-  Daniel Placek F you man I am going to knock your internet offline and there is nothing you can do about it. You know if it was something in a game he could knock the game server that they were playing on offline. You know stop their game things like that.  Robert Krulwich It is like he can take away your his ball back in 1935.  Jad Abumrad Yes!  Daniel Placek That is exactly it. Taking away someone else's ball over the internet.  Robert Krulwich So this for some reason intrigued you?  Daniel Placek Yes. It was amazing to me. I am like You have control of a thousand computers? Wow!  Daniel Placek You know How did you do this? You know at the time I had never heard of botnets. I did not know about any of this stuff. Like How did you get the software to do this? How did you get it onto all these computers?  D.Temple-Raston And he was quite happy to tell you all that?  Daniel Placek Oh he certainly was. This particular gentleman had a very large ego.  D.Temple-Raston And did you see him as a bad guy?  Daniel Placek To be honest I think at that age I did not really think about it that deeply. It is the internet. It is a lot harder to kind of quantify right and wrong there. I mean now I mean it is easy to look back at that and say Yeah this is wrong. But it is not like going up to someone and punching them in the face. There is no human connection there. You do not see these people or feel these people.  Jad Abumrad He says at the time it was just sheer curiosity.  Jad Abumrad So he says he asks this Pied Piper guy to send him some of the bot software that made the botnet go.  Daniel Placek And that really intrigued me. You know digging through the source code trying to understand what does this thing doing how does it work how does it tick?  Jad Abumrad This guy was he a good coder?  Robert Krulwich Like is he good at it?  Daniel Placek Was he good at it? No no. I would ... You know in hindsight now you know he is what I would classify as a script kitty. You know someone who-  Robert Krulwich Yeah!  D.Temple-Raston Script kitty!  Robert Krulwich I do not know what that is but it is a whole new curse word. .  Daniel Placek Script kitty. So a script kitty is someone who has just enough technical ability to kind of take some tools and software that other people have created and just use them.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. To fast forward ... As Dan went the opposite direction of the script kitties and got better and better and started making these botnets that could literally spy on people as they were using their computers.  Daniel Placek Interesting to see all the porn that people are watching that type of thing.  Jad Abumrad He says he found himself in another chat room.  Daniel Placek That was called .  Jad Abumrad It is the kind of place where hackers swap tips brag.  Daniel Placek Like Hey look what I did. I defaced this website take a look  Jad Abumrad And he says one day he was talking with a coder friend of his guy named .  Daniel Placek We were talking and Why do not we set up a community where we can really filter who gets to join and do not let all these script kittys and idiots in. I actually chose the name. I came up with that a nice lame name.  D.Temple-Raston I actually think it is pretty good.  Robert Krulwich What is the name again?  Daniel Placek Darkode.  Robert Krulwich Darkode.  Jad Abumrad It is like D-A-R-K-O-D-E I think. Right?  Daniel Placek It seemed cooler with the K. Yeah so we chose the name and started getting the site set up.  Jad Abumrad The rules were it would be invite-only.  Daniel Placek So you had to have an invite.  Jad Abumrad And each new person would be required to demonstrate their skill.  Daniel Placek You know Here's a piece of software that I created.  Jad Abumrad Or Here's a video of my botnet in action.  Daniel Placek And at some points not too long after it was created it was decided for one reason or another that you know Hey we got all these programmers on here that is great. But you know they also want to be able to sell some of the stuff they are making. So let us invite some people who would be willing to buy some of this stuff.  Robert Krulwich This now begins to sound like a fair. You say Oh I have a burglar's tool. Do you have a door you want a burgle? And then you are like I will rent you my tool.  Daniel Placek That is a simplification but yeah.  Daniel Placek People would post and say I am looking to buy X or Here's this piece of software I created. Here's all the things it does here's some screenshots of it in action. And here's the price. Could be a certain type of botnet software. It could be buying a botnet itself. You know if you do not want to build one yourself you want to buy one that somebody else already created and has going.  Robert Krulwich You mean I can get you onto 200000 or 20000 computers. Just give me a check?  Daniel Placek Yeah. What they called them were 'installs.'  Jad Abumrad Installs.  Daniel Placek You know Hey guys I have got installs and they are 10 dollars per 1000 something like that.  Robert Krulwich Wow.  Jad Abumrad Now this is something that is sort of surprising to us that when it comes to botnets that there is this whole rental market that is frighteningly affordable.  KJacksonHiggins Yeah it is bargain basement.  Jad Abumrad In fact we were talking with one reporter Kelly Jackson Higgins who is the executive editor of darkreading.com which is a cyber security new site. And she told us-  KJacksonHiggins You know you can actually rent a botnet if you really wanted to. You could rent a botnet for one hour for about 38 dollars a month-  Jad Abumrad What?!  KJacksonHiggins And in some cases as low as 20 ... Yes. As low as 20 dollars a month. So it-  Jad Abumrad I can rent a botnet for 20 bucks a month?  KJacksonHiggins You could. It is like renting space Here you want to use this to go do damage somewhere or you want to make a statement or you have some plan for it. Do you want to send some spam? Here you go.  Daniel Placek You could go online right now and probably find somewhere out there on the net somebody who will sell you access to computers for cents a piece.  Jad Abumrad And these are like people's computers like your computer my computer. And Dan says as Darkode got bigger and bigger he began to see more of this kind of activity on the site. Like some guy would have a botnet of 5000 computers. Another guy would have some software like the ransomware. Software guy would then rent the botnet from guy one install his ransomware ransom these poor people then move on.  Daniel Placek You know some of the people were doing some pretty unpleasant things. You know moving more into the kind of financial crimes territory which is something that I really never had a desire to be involved in.  Jad Abumrad And it was largely because of that he says that in 2009 he decided to get out.  Jad Abumrad But unfortunately the next year ...  Daniel Placek I got a lovely visit from the FBI. They promptly ...  Jad Abumrad Was it like 'kicked down in your door' type situation?  Daniel Placek They knocked they knocked. So it was ...  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Jad Abumrad What was that like?  Daniel Placek Pretty terrifying you know. What is going to happen to me? What is going to happen next?  Jad Abumrad And what did happen next?  Daniel Placek I do not know how much of that I can talk about but I did cooperate with the government and I have cooperated with them for the last you know five plus years now. It was a kick in the butts. You know my parents kind of kicked me out. Not 'kicked me out' but 'assisted me with a rapid move out.'  Daniel Placek And I have been living on my own since then and became gainfully employed. Had a few jobs became a little bit more serious with my then-girlfriend who is now my wife. So you know it is given me an opportunity over the last five years to really make some serious changes to my life.  Jad Abumrad Meanwhile over the same five years Darkode grew into this massive cyber criminal swap meet where tens of thousands of stolen Social Security numbers were bought and sold. Huge databases of personal information and emails were bought and sold. Malware and software of various kinds are bought and sold. And this continued according to Dina Temple-Raston right up into July 15th of this year. July 15th 2015  David Hickton Today marks a milestone in our efforts to bring to justice some of the most significant cyber criminals in the world.  D.Temple-Raston What ended up happening on July 15th is that the FBI had actually got into Darkode with a number of intelligence services from around the world. And they had an 18 month investigation in which they took down in the end 28 people.  David Hickton The FBI has effectively smashed the hornets' nest and we are in the process of rounding up and charging the hornets.  D.Temple-Raston But here's what is amazing right? So they take down more than two dozen people. Two weeks later ... Darkode is up again.  Jad Abumrad It just popped back up?  D.Temple-Raston Just popped back up.  Robert Krulwich Our deep gratitude to NPRs Dina Temple-Raston who is reporting really got us going on this whole project.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Props to Kelsey Padgett who produced our first segment.  Robert Krulwich Andy Mills who produced our second segment.  Jad Abumrad And who can from memory give you the extended family tree of Darkode. Just right off his head. Right out of his head.  Robert Krulwich You got original music this hour from Dubmood and  .  Jad Abumrad Yeah wow. Thanks also to Andrew Zolli Michael .  Robert Krulwich Gunther  .  Jad Abumrad Little Libby.  Robert Krulwich Kathy Rotter-  Jad Abumrad Also Cathy too.  Robert Krulwich Do not forget attorney David .  Jad Abumrad And the whole crew at the Microsoft Cyber Crimes Unit. And to you Robert thank you to you.  Robert Krulwich Why me?  Jad Abumrad Because you are part of my botnet.  Robert Krulwich Because ...  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich And I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.   Message 21. New.  D.Temple-Raston Hey this is Dina Temple-Raston and I am reading the credits. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad.   Our staff includes Brenna Farrell David Gebel.  D.Temple-Raston Dylan Keefe Matt Kielty Andy Mills.   Latif Nasser Kelsey Padgett Arianne Wack.  D.Temple-Raston Molly Webster Soren Wheeler and Jamie York.   With help from Simon Adler Alexandra Guillon Abigail Kiel and Alexandra Brennan. Our fact-checkers are Eva  and Michelle Harris.   End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.