          Oh wait you are list-             Okay.            All right.            Okay.            All right.            You are list-            Listening-            To Radiolab.            Radiolab.            From-            WNY-            C. C?            Yeah            C .  Soren              Ooh... I mean I I do not have a real good game plan for for how we start the show. But in the in the in the spirit of the show maybe we should just drop into the that Radiolab staff meeting that we had.  Robert Krulwich    Yeah sure.  Jad                Yeah. I I remember it. It was a very uh it was a people would be like Um what...            James Could you put this next to the speaker?  Jad                Okay to set it up recently we came up with this-  Soren              Challenge.  Jad                Challenge yeah for the Radiolab staff. Uh we got everyone together.   Soren              In an inappropriately stodgy conference room.  Jad                There is Soren dialing in.  Robert Krulwich    From Wisconsin.  Soren              All right. We are good to go?            Yeah.  Soren              The big reveal. Everybody take a deep breath.  Soren              I had warned them ahead of time that something big was coming.  Soren              And it is nothing uh it is nothing bad obviously. Um-            Is it obvious?   Soren              Anyway after uh we got over that little um bump in the road uh I just I basically outlined this this challenge.  Soren              We came up with a little uh a little plan to... Which basically boils down to this. On September 27th...  Soren              I hope.   Soren              We are going to release a story or a set of stories really. Um and between today and that date you will have to pitch report record produce said story. You will have that much time to do it and we will be putting it up no matter what.  Soren              In other words we are giving them like a week to pitch this story and then a week to make it.  Soren              And you will have to do a story either about breaking news so something that just happened. Or you can do a story about bears.  So I am calling the new thing uh Bad News Bears.  Jad                 I just-  Robert Krulwich    Because you had bears sort of in the in the room. So long-  Jad                Yes and and you know I remember the I remember the I... in my memory Soren tell me if I am right. This happened over text.  Soren              It was a text yeah.  Jad                This is this is one of those like you know how you talk about Princess and the Pea. Like there is a pea 14 mattresses down.  Robert Krulwich    Yeah.  Jad                That just bothers you. Like one of the peas that is been bothering me is um the length of time it takes us to make these stories. Sometimes that can take too burdensome and we wanted to just uh do an experiment where we shortcut the hell out of that.  Robert Krulwich    This story it was just the strange juxtaposition All right I want you guys to go out now and find something that is hot new sudden and just breaking like a real reporter or bears.   Jad                Right.  Robert Krulwich    It is such a weird uh-  Jad                That is exactly it.  Robert Krulwich    It is like and how are you gonna cook that dish?  Soren              Here's uh here let me explain how it is going to go then. So you are going to get paired up. I will give you those pairings in a second. The story has to be under 10 minutes. The story must at some point in it include audio from the movie Bad News Bears the original. The story must include at some point a recording from outside the office. Uh any interrogation has to be done in conversation and has to be staring at somebody across the glass. You can not go in and track solo lines. Uh before I do your teams your pairings are there any questions?  Pat                How are we how are we defining breaking news?  Soren              Pat has a reasonable question.  Soren              Uh I would give you a little bit like I would maybe be willing to accept something from last week. Otherwise today forward.  Pat                Wow.  Matt Kielty        Yeah um why are we doing this?   Jad                Matt Kielty.  Soren              It is going to be fun. It is going to be fun!            All right we probably have to clear out of this room.  Soren              All right!            Okay thanks guys.   Jad                I am Jad.  Robert Krulwich    I am Robert.  Jad                Soren.  Robert Krulwich    Soren.  Soren              Uh I am I am Soren.  Jad                 Okay. This is Radiolab. Today uh we are breaking bad news bears. Okay so everybody went out from that meeting. And again the task was uh to reiterate the um-  Robert Krulwich    Breaking news story.  Jad                Breaking news story.  Robert Krulwich    Or bears.  Jad                Or bears.  Robert Krulwich    Week one week to do everything.  Jad                Yeah you gotta go out you gotta get the tape. You gotta come back put it in the computer cut it up.  Soren              Add the music.  Jad                Write the things.  Robert Krulwich    And we have eight producers so that-  Jad                And fact check. Fact check.  Robert Krulwich    Oh fact check.  Jad                You gotta fact check.  Robert Krulwich    Eight producers means four teams so that means we end up in the grand total of four stories.  Soren              Yes.  Robert Krulwich    Starting-  Jad                Who are we starting with?  Soren              Uh how about Molly Webster and Simon Adler?  Robert Krulwich    Ooh.  Jad                Ooh.  Simon Adler        Well I will say that we have checked both boxes here. We have a story that is both about bears and breaking news.  Robert Krulwich    You are kidding.  Molly Webster       Ding ding ding. Extra points.  Robert Krulwich    Well that... You do get extra points.  Simon Adler        So all right... You there Matt?  Matt Montanye      I am.  Simon Adler        Great. Last week we gave this guy a call.  Matt Montanye      Uh my name is Matt Montanye and I am the director of public works for the city of New Bern.  Simon Adler        And you have got quite the task ahead of you huh?  Matt Montanye      Uh yeah.           Yeah it is big. That could do some destruction.           Hurricane Florence is making landfall with devastating flooding and damaging winds.  Matt Montanye      We had hurricane um Hurricane Florence come through last week.           One of the uh hardest hit areas is New Bern.           In New Bern.           New Bern North Carolina. This is a live look at New Bern as the water has really overtaken this.           There is relentless rain and wind. It is brought down trees.  Simon Adler        If you have been watching the news at all over the past couple weeks you have probably seen New Bern on TV.  Molly Webster      As you just heard it was one of the towns that was hardest hit by Hurricane Florence. Homes were destroyed. Tens of millions of dollars of destruction. Trees were knocked down.           And with those trees have come power lines. With the power lines down the lights go out. Thousands of people are in the dark around here.  Matt Montanye      Yeah we talk about the flooding of New Bern and we have got historic houses that were built in the 17-1800s that were pushed off their foundation.  Molly Webster      Oh wow. And as director of public works it is Matt's job.  Matt Montanye      Our department is uh in charge of the cleanup you know not only leaf and limb debris the trees and the shrubs but also the you know the construction debris from the houses that are being gutted. I am actually at the disposal sight right now looking at there is a line of about 30 tractor trailer trucks that are lined up getting ready to roll out to start doing debris cleanup.  Simon Adler        But uh what we called Matt about was the uh the cleanup of something far smaller.           Trust me this bear is not supposed to be here.  Simon Adler        Far less vital.           Right now but I am sure they will get them back where they need to be soon.  Molly Webster      But maybe just as important.  Matt Montanye      Let me let me step back here and I will give you a quick little history.  Simon Adler        Great.  Matt Montanye      Uh the city of New Bern um was found in 1710.  Buddy              Our our downtown is a really beautiful six maybe eight square blocks. Where you see the beautiful porches.  Simon Adler        This is local restaurant owner.  Buddy              Buddy Bengel. And our town was settled from Swiss settlers.  Matt Montanye      And if you look up the meaning of bern in Switzerland bern means bear.  Simon Adler        And so over the next 300 years they really ran with this.           Let us go bears!  Molly Webster      The high school mascot's the bear.  Simon Adler        They have a city flag that has a little black bear on it.  Molly Webster      It is like a nod to their past right where they came from.  Simon Adler        But it is also they have got all these bears in the woods surrounding them.  Molly Webster      Simon found out a lot of bears in the woods.  Robert Krulwich    Okay.  Simon Adler        Largest black bear ever recorded from Craven County North Carolina.  Molly Webster      And the way this bear sort of obsession one of the ways its taken hold is that they have bear statues all over town.  Matt Montanye      They either stand up on their hind legs and are about six foot tall or they are down on all fours and they are about three foot tall. Uh and we are somewhere between 60 or 80 of them around town.           Go let us go!  Matt Montanye      So that being said you know bears are everywhere.  Simon Adler        Including the morning of September 14th 2018.  Matt Montanye      You know Hurricane um Hurricane Florence came in and-  Buddy              By about mid-day water started to seriously start rising.  Molly Webster      Again Buddy Bengel.  Buddy              We were up to seven feet by Thursday night. I mean and and it it it happened in some places just extremely quick.  Molly Webster      And so Buddy and a few other locals-  Buddy              Took it upon ourselves that we needed to go out and help people.  Molly Webster      And they would go to areas outside of the downtown and they were just banging on doors.  Buddy              Say Look guys. In the next six to eight hours this water is going to be over your head and flood your apartment. You need to get out now and get to a shelter.  Simon Adler        Meanwhile back in the downtown with with the waters continuing to rise...  Matt Montanye      As close as we are to the river we received about eight to ten feet in our downtown area.  Simon Adler        This strange thing started to happen. Those giant bear statues that had for years just been looking out over the town. The the rising flood water actually managed to pick them up.  Matt Montanye      You know they all sit on concrete slabs but you know with the amount of water we received uh a lot of them floated.  Simon Adler        Many of them were lifted cement and all and and were just floating there standing upright bobbing gently along.  Matt Montanye      Yeah. A lot of them a lot of them in that flooded area they just they they moved.  Simon Adler        Down the downtown through the alleyways.  Matt Montanye      Um some of them floated just down the street.  Simon Adler        Others floated on for blocks.  Robert Krulwich    Oh my god. Just close your eyes and hear the hurricane see the water and then astonishingly watch the bears go by.  Simon Adler        And then as the water recedes they are gently set down and left there in the still slightly flooded waters of the downtown.           Wow. That is a whole new view for him.  Molly Webster      Photos of these bears started showing up sort of virally.           That bear over there... He decided to travel all the way-  Molly Webster      Local residents started posting to social media and then...  Buddy              So it was-  Molly Webster      Saturday morning.  Buddy              You know it was the first day that the winds had really subsided and I was getting up to assess the damage of everything that was outside.  Molly Webster      Buddy's at home. He wakes up in the morning. He goes down the door of his apartment building. He opens it up and it is just like...  Buddy              My god this town has just been destroyed. I got branches everywhere.  Simon Adler        The rain is still lashing.  Buddy              And there was a lot of debris flying and-  Molly Webster      When he looks just right in front of him right outside the doorway right there.  Buddy              On its side in kind of a little bit of a puddle of water is a bear.  Molly Webster      One of those floating bear statues had ended up at his apartment.  Jad                Whoa.  Molly Webster      And he immediately recognizes it as the city hall bear.  Buddy              So you have on there a lot of the colors and scenes from the city of New Bern. You have on there obviously-  Molly Webster      The back of the bear is painted yellow like the New Bern flag. The middle of the bear is painted with the North Carolina state flag and then the shoulders and head of the bear are red white and blue.  Buddy              And that bear represents our entire city.  Molly Webster      And there it was.  Buddy              Right in front of my door step. And a gentleman happened to just be walking by in the street uh who was living about a block block and a half away from me. So he helped me pick the bear up...  Simon Adler        He grabs the back legs. The other guy grabs the front legs. Front back whichever they grab. They march it across this I presume to be probably still six inches of water sort of washing through the street.  Molly Webster      And and Florence is like not done right? Because it sat over the coast for a while so the winds have gone down. But like the rains were still torrential and there was like I mean flood watches a week out.  Buddy              You know we were trying to figure out what to do with it and there was a bush right behind city hall with a little bit of an alley way in between the bush and the building. So we put the bear in between there because we knew it would be hidden enough.  Matt Montanye      Yeah Buddy Bengels he took the bear back across city hall and put it behind some bushes. And then uh-  Molly Webster      A few days later they are actually getting ready for um President Trump was going. And so Matt Montanye-  Matt Montanye      I was the director-  Molly Webster      The head of public works um goes down to city hall to like prepare it.  Matt Montanye      I was asked to go down there and make sure we had a flag at city hall make sure it was flying high. And while we were down there we took a couple extra-  Simon Adler        He and his team they spot the bear go over to it.  Matt Montanye      So two of us go and pick it up very easily.  Simon Adler        They pick up the bear. They march it to the platform.  Matt Montanye      Uh set it back on the concrete pedestal like it was and then uh bolt or screw one side of it into the bear's foot and then put the other side into the concrete slab. And we actually did that on all four of the legs.  Simon Adler        And they step back and take a take a breath for a moment.  Molly Webster      And then they raise a new American flag and they move on.  Robert Krulwich    Wow.  Molly Webster      Is that you wiping a tear away?  Robert Krulwich    No I just have an itchy eye. But I could. No it is nice when you when you have something that represents your heart as odd as it may be. It could be a painted plasticine bear image but still that is called . We are not over or to quote Frances Scott Key You are still there.  Matt Montanye      When you look at the grand scheme of it the bears you know it it is not that important but you know it kind of symbolizes that we are putting New Bern back together. We need you need a symbol to get behind and our symbol in this city are the bears.  Robert Krulwich    Huh.           Well that is one bird down and eleven to go.  Jad                Wow all right so what is-  Robert Krulwich    No bears.  Soren              Bears.  Jad                Bears. So what is what is uh that was number one.  Soren              Uh-huh .  Robert Krulwich    Story number one.  Jad                So who is next? What is next.  Soren              Uh yeah well... Who is Pat Walters and Bethel Habte. And uh well remain remains to be seen.  Robert Krulwich    Let me let me do this.  Soren              Sure.  Pat                Should we should we talk about this thing?  Robert Krulwich    Yes talk about the thing.  Pat                Okay yeah. So this is a story about...  Pat                Right park right here right behind his Bobcat.  Bethel Habte       His Bobcat.  Pat                This guy named Rob.  Pat                Hi.  Rob Dubbin         Hello.  Bethel Habte       Hi really nice to meet you.  Pat                Nice to meet you.  Bethel Habte       I am Bethel.  Pat                I am Pat.  Rob Dubbin         Hey Pat I am Rob. Uh-  Robert Krulwich    And Rob is... who exactly?  Bethel Habte       Uh Rob Devon he is a comedy writer. He worked in the city for a really long time. Like 10 years plus. Working for the Colbert Report.  Jad                Oh wow.  Bethel Habte       Just basically like a high-rise living city guy.  Pat                Yeah but about a year and a half ago he and his spouse-  Bethel Habte       Sandy.  Pat                Moved upstate.  Pat                Yeah this is great.  Rob Dubbin         Oh thank you its been raining the last couple days but uh stuff is happening.  Pat                Yeah.  Bethel Habte       They would bought a little white house with a big yard and this beautiful mountain ridge in the distance.  Rob Dubbin         But when it gets really rainy then it gets super foggy. And then it sort of disappears.  Bethel Habte       Yeah.  Rob Dubbin         The way that sometimes like a building would in Manhattan.  Bethel Habte       You are relating things to buildings still?  Rob Dubbin         That is all I got   Pat                And pretty quickly after they get there they realize there is all this food growing in their yard. They have apple trees and then they find a pear tree.  Bethel Habte       Squash and kale and pumpkins.  Pat                And pumpkins and hops.  Jad                Wow it is like Garden of Eden.  Bethel Habte       Yeah.  Pat                Had you ever had trees that grew fruit or food before?  Rob Dubbin         No no.  Bethel Habte       And right in the center of this yard is the peach tree.  Rob Dubbin         And we had so many peaches I think we pulled like 200 off this tree. We made jam and pie and... Sandy's an amazing pie baker. And so we had a ton of pie crumble-  Bethel Habte       And so the next the next year rolls around and and Rob is like rubbing his hands together like Yes it is peach time.  Rob Dubbin         You know that they are ready because they come off when you gently tug at them. And if they are not coming off yet they are not ready yet. So it was in the part where we were like waiting and ready for it to start to happen.  Pat                When he hears Sandy yell from the back of the house Ah it is a bear. So he jumps up goes to the back window and and sees-  Rob Dubbin         It was a bear. It was a it was a I mean I hm you cannot mistake it.  Bethel Habte       Just sitting there.  Rob Dubbin         Sitting like Winnie the Pooh on its butt and it was just reaching up and all lazy to the tree and it was pulling off a peach. And it would like look at it and it would put it in its mouth then it would drop a pit and it would reach up for another one. It was just having the time of its life. And I love that it is sitting. Not only was it sitting its back was to me which I found also very upsetting in ways that I could not totally articulate at the time. I was like You need to be more aware of the fact that you have come to someone's house taking their food.  Bethel Habte       And so he jumps up he grabs this tambourine that he uses to punish his cat.  Rob Dubbin         So I grabbed it and I ran outside. And I started shaking it.  Pat                One one of them took a video of it.  Bethel Habte       And then Sandy his spouse is like by the house woofing like a dog.  Sandy              Woof woof woof woof woof.  Rob Dubbin         Ah! Ah!  Bethel Habte       And like-  Rob Dubbin         The bear immediately was like Oh no.  Pat                The bear totally freaks out.  Rob Dubbin         Then it booked it back into the woods that way.  Bethel Habte       So you walk up to the peach tree and...  Pat                Peach tree has been like massacred.  Rob Dubbin         The parts of this tree that are six feet or below were pretty much stripped of peaches.  Bethel Habte       And there is just all these peach pits and like half eaten peaches scattered around and every one of those is like a peach that they are not going to have. Like a pie crumble that they are going to have.  Pat                What was the feeling that you had?  Rob Dubbin         Just loss and and and determination. I was like No. I cannot I do not want this to keep happening. At this point I see the peaches that are left and I would like them to be ours. I think the bear has had its fill. And this has to stop now.  Bethel Habte       So they go back inside and Rob immediately googles like how to deter bears.  Pat                And then at some point they come across a website that says one thing that bears are very afraid of is human voices.  Rob Dubbin         Yeah so I was like I think that what I need to do is make a giant playlist of podcasts and play it.  Jad                A podcast?  Bethel Habte       Yeah and so he takes this old iPhone with a broken screen and he-  Pat                Then begins to build this bear deterring podcast device.  Rob Dubbin         I have a telescope it has a mechanical mount. And then I have one of those little power banks that you can get to charge your phone when you travel and stuff. And I have a Bluetooth speaker that I connected directly to the phone.  Bethel Habte       And he covers that whole thing with a recycling bin on top of these logs. So he hooks the whole thing up and he loads it with the entire catalog of Reply All.  PJ Vogt            From Gimlet this is Reply All. I am PJ Vogt.  Alex Goldman       And I am Alex Goldman.  Robert Krulwich    Reply All. This is uh a show about the internet.  Bethel Habte       Yes.  Jad                Oh my goodness it is like the two most citified Brooklyn kids.  Bethel Habte       Yeah so Reply All is this podcast by these two guys PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman.  Jad                And a whole bunch of amazing producers.  Bethel Habte       Absolutely an entire team of incredible people who produce the show. But anyway yeah Rob just happens to like Reply All.  Rob Dubbin         It was it was something that we were comfortable with.  PJ Vogt            So Alex...  Alex Goldman       Yes?  PJ Vogt            You have been mostly out sick this week.  Jad                I love imagining PJ and Alex just talking to no one in the garden.  Pat                So uh mainly I am just curious what you thought about your podcast being used a scarecrow.  PJ Vogt            How do you feel about that Alex?  Alex Goldman       I think I thought it was great. Like I thought the only I thought that there were very limited ranges of application for this show. I would like for our shows to be like the duct tape of podcasts. You can do all kinds of stuff with it.  PJ Vogt            Yeah.  Alex Goldman       So far we have only figured out the two listen to it and scare bears.  Pat                But he also thought like there is there is one aspect of Reply All that um might be particular effective at scaring away a bear.  PJ Vogt              Jad                It is the laugh?  Pat                It is the laugh. PJ's laugh.  Rob Dubbin         I am just imagining a bear that is like Mm I do not think it is people I am going to walk a little closer I am going to approach this tree. And then its like  that might be a little extra pop.  Alex Goldman       Yes.  PJ Vogt              PJ Vogt            I do have the like I do mostly feel like I feel like I am supposed to feel bad about it but I mostly feel good about it. Like I mostly feel good that it is just like useful even if its useful in a very stupid way.  Alex Goldman       Right I would for-  Robert Krulwich    Well the terrible irony is here's this city boy who escapes the city learns to love the peace and quiet and then has his peace and quiet invaded and turns it back into a city.  Pat                Yeah I mean they are they are they are its like Brooklyn kind of followed him up there.  Robert Krulwich    Some guy with a with a radio going on too loud in his convertible.  Bethel Habte       I am sure though it it kind of felt reassuring to have that like going in the background. You know that your bear deterring machine is doing its job.  Rob Dubbin         It was an instinctual choice that I felt like continually revealed itself to be the right one.  Pat                Yeah so he goes out he checks that first morning the peaches are all safe. Goes out in the evening Reply All's continuing to play.  PJ Vogt            Hey Gene.  Alex Goldman       Hey Gene.  PJ Vogt            Gene how are you?  Bethel Habte       Next day he goes out and there is no sign of any bears and he gets like ten peaches off the tree. And then the next day no bears again.  Alex Goldman       I can explain this tweet but I do not feel the tweet in my bones the way you you you might.  Bethel Habte       PJ and Alex are still talking about the internet and there is like 20 peaches off the tree.  Robert Krulwich    So over the days how many peaches did he capture from the bear?  Bethel Habte       Well-  Pat                He had counted that the bear had eaten about 40 peaches.  Bethel Habte       Based on the the pits yeah yeah yeah.  Pat                Yeah yeah so they have kind of counted in his rage you know as he was cleaning up this the mess. How many peaches that the bear had taken from him.  Rob Dubbin         The way it shook out I got we got about as many peaches as the bear did.  Bethel Habte       He thinks that he and Sandy got 40 peaches too. So like by the end of peach season he is thinking I win. Or at least I did not lose. We we tied. And so anyway he he ends up writing this entire story on Twitter.  Rob Dubbin         Put it up on Twitter and I was like this is a story about what is happening in my yard right now. And it it got a big response. And I was a little surprised I think at the number of people who took the bear's side  but it was like What is the problem why cannot the bear have some? Not enough peaches for you? Like...  PJ Vogt            Really? There is bear apologists?  Pat                Yeah.  Alex Goldman       Do they understand that there are other food sources than the one peach tree in Rob Dubbin's yard? Like-  Pat                Clearly not no.  PJ Vogt              Alex Goldman       The way I see it is like if Rob had domesticated the bear raised it to only understand that food came from that tree and then sent it out into the woods they would be justified. But other than that that is ridiculous.  PJ Vogt            I am not taking the bear's side.  Alex Goldman       No no.  PJ Vogt            I would not even its not even about like the morality of it. Its just the bear like Reply All Rob does like Reply All. That is like very straight forward for me. Rob gets the peaches.  Pat                Do you think on any level the bear like got something out of listening to the show?  Alex Goldman       No.  PJ Vogt            No  I do not know we just do not design it with bears in mind.  Alex Goldman       What would a show with bears in mind sound like?  PJ Vogt            Mm Radiolab .  Jad                Oh my god it is our next spinoff. Radiolab presents-  Robert Krulwich    Radiolab for bears.  Jad                For bears.  Robert Krulwich    Yes we have been under sort of estimating the size of our bear audience.  Jad                Listen real talk here okay the we we like bears. We like-  Robert Krulwich    We do.  Jad                We could do many more episodes about bears.  Soren              No in particular we have run across so many and and they our staff has run across so many things about bears that we have got we have got uh a whole bear season worth of-  Jad                We could do a whole season.  Robert Krulwich    Or we could leave-  Jad                Honestly we could do that. We could just decide that right now.  Robert Krulwich    We we could.  Jad                We could make-  Robert Krulwich    Or we could try again see if there is anybody in the house who is going to do a non-bear story.  Soren              Yes we are still we have two more. And and so next up um is Matt Kielty and Rachael Cusick.  Jad                With breaking news I hope.  Robert Krulwich    We will see.  Matt Kielty        All right you just want us to go barrel in into this or something?  Soren              Mm-hmm  yeah yeah and go.  Matt Kielty        Okay well if we start all the way at the tiptop. We drove out to um Oak Ridge New Jersey.  Rachael Cusick     Yep.  Matt Kielty        Which is about an hour and a half west of the city here.  Pat                Okay.  Matt Kielty        Drove out for a story about a a bear.  Rachael Cusick     Surprisingly.  Matt Kielty        Who would have thunk it?  Matt Kielty        I have definitely heard dogs barking in the video. Oh that is a dog.  Matt Kielty        But not just any bear a famous bear.  Rachael Cusick     The most famous bear you could say.  Matt Kielty        Yeah.  Matt Kielty        Hi hey how is it going? My name's Matt.  Rachael Cusick     I am Rachael.  Matt Kielty        Uh we are reporters uh-  Matt Kielty        So we um we showed up totally unannounced to this house uh a woman answers the door uh a little suspicious we explain who we are.  Marissa            Hi Matt I am Marissa. Hi Rachael I am Marissa.  Matt Kielty        Eventually we get her name its uh Marissa Marissa McGowen.  Marissa            Hi.  Matt Kielty        We meet her husband Greg who had just gotten home from work.  Greg               Rachael?  Rachael Cusick     Yes hi nice to meet you.  Greg               Matt?  Matt Kielty        Matt.  Greg               Nice to meet you as well.  Matt Kielty        Nice to meet you.  Matt Kielty        So Greg walked us around to the back yard.  Rachael Cusick     This is really beautiful.  Matt Kielty        Where there is this huge forest.  Matt Kielty        Yeah this is gorgeous.  Matt Kielty        And then-  Greg               All right we can try this the kids are playing here.  Matt Kielty        Thanks so much.  Matt Kielty        Let us into his basement.  Greg               Let us go in there. Well shut the door and try to   Rachael Cusick     Oh this sounds great.  Greg               They will start screaming in two minutes.  Matt Kielty        Um yeah I guess uh we were just curious like I mean Marissa was telling us a little bit about the first time she saw the bear. Like when when did you did she tell you about that? When did you first-  Greg               Yeah my wife saw him the first time. Uh I caught a just a glimpse of him. But uh the time I videotaped was actually the third time I saw him.  Rachael Cusick     So it is the summer of 2014.  Greg               It was uh it was a weekday. It was the nighttime. It was about 6 oclock at night or so. And I was hanging out on my deck.  Rachael Cusick     When he sees this bear.  Greg               Coming from the woods up towards the street.  Rachael Cusick     A black bear.  Greg               So I ran out I grab my cell phone and just started videotaping with an old uh Samsung Note 3.  Matt Kielty        It is like a shaky video. Right sort of just like panning the the phone all over the place.  Greg               To try to find it with the phone.  Matt Kielty        Marissa's outside.  Marissa            Greg?  Greg               Yeah.  Marissa            It went to the front.  Greg               She gets another video.  Matt Kielty        Oh so she is taking the video too?  Greg               She is got a video of me taking a video of the bear.  Greg               I do not see it.  Marissa            Just keep your eye on it   Matt Kielty        So he starts walking up his front yard. He is going down his driveway and he is looking he is still looking for this bear. And really like you just see a little picturesque like slice of suburban America. Its just like some you see some trees uh uh a road.  Rachael Cusick     Green grass everywhere.  Matt Kielty        And then-  Greg               There it is. There it is.  Matt Kielty        All of a sudden Greg zooms in on this like blurry blob that is moving across uh his neighbor's driveway.  Rachael Cusick     And and its grainy. But what you see is this black bear.  Greg               That is a bipedal bear.  Rachael Cusick     Walking on its hind legs.  Greg               Walking across the street.  Rachael Cusick     Like a human.  Jad                Oh my god. Wait that is the bear?  Matt Kielty        That is the bear.  Jad                So the bear is just straight up walking on two feet. It could totally be like a kid in a bear suit like its like-  Rachael Cusick     Yeah yeah actually the first time I saw it I was like that is what my dad looks like when he stumbles out of the hallway in the middle of the night without his glasses on but still motoring.  Jad                Yeah its motoring and also sort of puttering.  Rachael Cusick     Mm-hmm   Jad                But puttering with purpose.  Matt Kielty        Okay so Greg  Oh yeah okay so Greg's filming this whole thing.  Greg               Yeah I am over in the front yard of my house.  Matt Kielty        Watching this walking bear.  Greg               That is when I see him walk up my neighbors driveway into the street.  Greg               Walking towards me I am walking backwards.  Matt Kielty        Then the bear so the bear ends up crossing the street over into another neighbor's front yard.  Greg               He is walking through the front yard right now.  Marissa            Oh I see it.  Matt Kielty        And um somewhere off-camera  you hear their neighbor-  Marissa            Does she know that is a bear?  Greg               You know that is a bear right?  Marissa            Bear lady.           I know.  Marissa            Okay. Just look out man.           He is walking through my house on his hind legs.  Marissa            Through your house?           Through the yard.  Marissa            Oh okay. Just look out. Do not get hurt.           I am fine. He is just hysterical he is walking like a person.  Rachael Cusick     The the video lasts for about three minutes and then-  Greg               Yep.  Rachael Cusick     Greg stops recording.  Greg               So we got the video we watch it go through the woods and stuff. I go inside I start giving the kids baths and stuff. And I just take it and I want to share it with some people so I throw it on YouTube. You know and a half hour later after it uploads I go and send out a couple emails.  Matt Kielty        To like some friends and family just be like hey I saw this weird wild bear walking um like check it out.  Greg               And that is it. Go to bed and then the next day...  Rachael Cusick     Greg checks his phone.  Greg               And I start seeing my emails popping up again and again and again and again. And its people from viral media companies its family members. Somebody put it on Facebook and it was spreading on Facebook. And I was blown away.  Rachael Cusick     But then all these other people start putting up videos. Because this bear is being spotted all over town.  Matt Kielty        Some of the videos are like of the bear-  Greg               Awesome.  Matt Kielty        Coming out at like nighttime or like dinnertime. Uh like walking in or out of the woods.  Greg               Think he walks better than you Don.  Matt Kielty        But there is also videos of this bear just like strolling down neighborhood streets.  Rachael Cusick     Popping his head into garbage cans.  Matt Kielty        Going through people's backyards.           It was like-  Matt Kielty        Underneath this woman's deck.           It was amazing. He would come like right there. You know right there and-  Matt Kielty        The two of them were like 20 feet away.           He looked up at me.  Matt Kielty        They made eye contact. Then the bear kept strolling.           Um there is a pear tree over there.  Rachael Cusick     Showed up across the street from this woman's house.           And we saw him one time there getting the pears out of the tree. It was great to see him you know because he is so famous.           This bear is amazing everyone he walks on two legs.  Rachael Cusick     Eventually folks in town give him the name Pedals.           Pedals from the word bipedal.  Rachael Cusick     He hit like Good Morning America.           Finally today walking tall-  Rachael Cusick     And like all the national news.           A black bear walking on it is hind legs           He walks on his hind legs           With the agility and ease of any human.           Completely upright like a human.  Matt Kielty        Everybody's just kind of like Oh my gosh what a fun cute adorable animal doing something that looks like a human that is so fun!  Rachael Cusick     Well sort of everyone.  Matt Kielty        Which is...  Rachael Cusick     Where we get to Lisa.  Rachael Cusick     Hi I am Rachel.   Rachael Cusick     So basically we heard about Lisa she was like a big player with this whole love affair with Pedals. So we go inside and we sit down at her dining room table. Okay.  Matt Kielty        Where when did you first learn of the bear?  Lisa               Um I do not remember the exact date. And I am even having a hard time with years. I think it was in 2014 that-  Rachael Cusick     She was on Facebook.  Lisa               I saw a post about this bear in a video walking by. And I was like Oh my God this is so sad.  Rachael Cusick     You did not think the video was funny?  Lisa               No I thought it was sad  Soren              Why does the video make her sad?  Matt Kielty        Well so Lisa actually works in animal rescue and she explained that you know rather than being like-  Lisa               Just in awe of it like wow.  Matt Kielty        For her when she watched the video what she saw was a bear that was injured.  Lisa               Yeah.  Rachael Cusick     So the thing is that if you look at some screen shots of Pedals close up you will see  Lisa               He really has no hands. One was like amputated  Rachael Cusick     It was like a stub it was like pretty much missing.  Lisa               And the other one was just broken.  Rachael Cusick     Mangled.  Matt Kielty        And Lisa said that is why-  Lisa               He walked on his hind legs. I mean I am sure he ate whatever berries whatever he could get.  Matt Kielty        But Lisa said that because he could not use his paws is why he was walking around these neighborhoods.  Lisa               Because he was starving and he could not feed himself.  Matt Kielty        And so her first thought was.  Lisa               We have to help this bear.  Rachael Cusick     So she gets in touch with a couple women they start a GoFundMe campaign.  Matt Kielty        Help save Pedals  Lisa               Raised 25000 in like four days.  Rachael Cusick     To basically guard him transport him and house him at this place called the Wildlife Orphanage.  Lisa               There is a couple other wild bears there a couple of team like retired circus bears there if you will.  Rachael Cusick     There is a pond a lot of trees.  Lisa               And it is private you know it is not a zoo.  Matt Kielty        So the very last thing they had to do was petition the state of New Jersey to just you know like do it.  Lisa               Because that is against the law for us just dart a bear and put him in a trunk and take him.  Matt Kielty        So they get this petition going and it ends up going like around the world.  Lisa               Like 400000 signatures.  Matt Kielty        400000?  Lisa               Yeah.  Matt Kielty        They send it off to the state.  Lisa               We are all ready to go everything was in place.  Matt Kielty        And the state says...  Lisa               No.  Matt Kielty        We are not doing that.  Jad                Really?  Matt Kielty        Mm-hmm .  Jad                Why?  Rachael Cusick     Well so I got in touch with the press people at was like the environmental department of New Jersey. And basically they said We have no interest in commenting on this.  Jad                Wait why would they not even comment?  Rachael Cusick     Well I think you can understand that if you know the rest of the story of Pedals.  Matt Kielty        Yeah there is a lot more to this story that you do not know.  Jad                All right let us hear the rest then.  Jon Mooallem       Um okay well what you basically have is the collision of two ideas about black bears and what they are and what they need.  Rachael Cusick     Okay so that is Jon Mooallem.  Jon Mooallem       I am a writer at large with the New York Times Magazine.  Rachael Cusick     Long time Pedals fan.  Jon Mooallem       Yeah more I knew more about his earlier work like before he got famous.  Rachael Cusick     He is written a lot about animals including Pedals and and Jon explained to us that what you had was this divide where on the one side you had people like Lisa who when they looked at the bear they thought-  Jon Mooallem       That the bear needed help.  Rachael Cusick     It is injured  Jon Mooallem       Seems to be struggling  Rachael Cusick     We gotta get it out of there but on the other side you had the state of New Jersey.  Jon Mooallem       And they came at it from a completely different view point where they uh you know were just as interested in helping the bear and making sure the bear could you know uh live it is I do not know best life I suppose you would say. And uh but they wanted to go about in a very different way. As far as they were concerned it was not it was a wild animal uh and you you do not take a wild animal out of the wild unless absolutely necessary.  Rachael Cusick     And the fact that you saw this bear walking on two legs.  Jon Mooallem       They basically saw the bipedal bear is a real survivor.  Rachael Cusick     This is a feat of evolution like this bear evolved to survive we should just let him do his thing.  Jon Mooallem       It was still out there being a bear.  Matt Kielty        So we are going to leave the bear there.  Rachael Cusick     It is the right thing to do.  Matt Kielty        So this is uh this is the part of the story about Pedals that we we have not told you yet. Um so Pedals was first found in 2014 first showed up.  Rachael Cusick     Yeah showed up again the next summer. And then-  Matt Kielty        Showed up in 2016  Rachael Cusick     Yeah even early 2016 there were videos of Pedals and then nothing. And then-           A bear that had become a national sensation is dead.           The bear known as Pedals-  Rachael Cusick     So in October of 2016 news broke that Pedals had been killed.           Was killed during a bear hunt on Monday we told you about this-  Rachael Cusick     In the annual bear hunt that takes place in New Jersey.  Matt Kielty        And pretty quick a familiar story played out.           Growing outrageous this morning over the apparent killing of the famed black bear-  Matt Kielty        There was anger protests...           Death threats against whoever may have killed the bear.           This fucking hick piece of shit.  Matt Kielty        Death threats against an innocent hunter.           Against himself his family people have actually threatened to burn down his business-  Matt Kielty        People posted photos of his home.  Rachael Cusick     His wife's name.  Matt Kielty        And in the midst of all this.           I think everybody out there should be going after the state of New Jersey.  Matt Kielty        People were angry at the state.           The state of New Jersey did nothing about the bear.           Where was the DEP when the people reported this bear being injured for years?  Rachael Cusick     That this was their fault.           Where were they then?  Lisa               Phew that was so rough. Yeah I have had my moment you know but people have sent me bear things. You know like I have I have like the little... See the bear on top of the radio. And Sabrina got me a picture that looks just like Pedals from a beautiful um artist that does not even know Pedals but made this picture of a bear that looks just like him. It is just cool so she just me one of those you know it is just nice. People thought you know they saw how hard we fought. Yeah but the book is the best it really is and what is the writer's name?  Matt Kielty        Jon Mooallem.  Lisa               Yeah I talked to him he was nice.  Matt Kielty        He is a really nice guy  Lisa               I remember being like You wanna what?  Matt Kielty        So Jon actually wrote an obituary of Pedals.  Rachael Cusick     Do you have a copy of the the magazine? That was cool.  Lisa               Let us just look really quick and then you guys can-.  Matt Kielty        For the New York Times Magazine's annual Lives They Lived issue.  Rachael Cusick     You got it?  Jon Mooallem       I just thought you know the way I have always you know I have always thought of The Lives They Lived-  Matt Kielty        There is the Bowie picture...  Jon Mooallem       You know it is about these people's lives.  Lisa               So many people.  Jon Mooallem       But it is a lot just another interesting way to talk about the world we live in.  Matt Kielty        Janet Reno  Lisa               Pedals the Bear  Matt Kielty        There is Pedals  Jon Mooallem       One reason why I find conversations about animals so interesting is because the animals always have no comment right? That they are you basically have groups of human beings-  Matt Kielty        Oh it is  Pedals.  Jon Mooallem       Standing around this-  Rachael Cusick     It is like a little screenshot.  Jon Mooallem       Object-  Rachael Cusick     Of Pedals standing.  Matt Kielty        Yeah.  Jon Mooallem       Uh trying to uh figure out what to do with it.  Matt Kielty        Walking towards the mailbox just fetching the mail.  Lisa               Yeah and this is actually the picture that I used on his our version of like rest in peace Pedals.  Matt Kielty        For like a memorial page?  Lisa               Yeah.  Jon Mooallem       Um yeah. Do you do you wanna I felt like do you want me to just to read the end of the piece? But-  Matt Kielty        Yeah yeah yeah that would be great.  Jon Mooallem       Okay. It was impossible to know the circumstances whether the hunter knew the bears' identity before he or she fired whether Pedals who did spend some time on all fours had been distinguishable from an ordinary bear whether he had been standing upright in the wilderness looking preposterous and conspicuous and conspicuously like himself. That is the bears' posture the very proof of his resilience might have marked him for death. It was never clear what we owed Pedals exactly. You could argue that allowing Pedals to live in the woods and be hunted like any other bear was act of respect. A validation of his wildness. You could also argue that it was a gruesome lapse of human compassion. Pedals stood for something. We may never agree what it was.  Soren              So wait do you guys even have did you... there was not a clip in there there was not a clip from the movie?  Jon Mooallem       Well a matter of fact we do.  Matt Kielty        Uh yeah we have got a clip in there. Where does this where did you send that thing again?  Jon Mooallem       It is the .  Matt Kielty        Oh okay fine. Uh we um We call uh-           Bullshit.  Matt Kielty        On your stupid rules. You want to play it again?           Bullshit  Jad                And yet in doing so you followed it.  Rachael Cusick     That is right that is the beauty of it.  Soren              Yeah all right you know what we are gonna do? We are gonna take a little break and we are gonna clear the air we are gonna come back with a couple of producers who uh who have a little bit more respect for the rules. More in a moment.  Jason              Hi this is Jason Stutstill calling in from Seattle Washington. Radiolab is recorded in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Ilya               Hello it is Ilya Marritz co-host of Trump Inc. Donald Trump is the only recent president to not release his tax returns. The only president you can pay directly by booking a room at his hotel. He shreds rules sometimes literally.           He does not care about what records was. He tore up memos or things and just threw them in the trash. So it took somebody from the White House staff to tell him like Look you cannot do that.  Ilya               Trump Inc an open investigation into the business of Trump from ProPublica and WNYC. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.  Jad                Jad.  Robert Krulwich    Robert.  Jad                Radiolab.  Soren              Breaking Bad News Bears and uh we have got three bear stories so far and maybe I you know maybe this is the moment I should admit that everybody broke for bears.  Jad                Yeah that was I could see that coming.  Robert Krulwich    If you had a choice you know and you woke up in the morning filled with vim vigor and excitement would you do the hard news or would right away go-  Soren              And these days would you do that bad news?  What I was hoping actually and uh was that I mean admittedly Molly and Simon's had a little bit of like the hurricane that just come in. But what I was really hoping was that somebody was gonna get a solid rock solid breaking news about bears kind of thing.  Soren              And I actually had one in my sights that I was just sitting on waiting to see if anybody got it so uh something that the Trump administration did though most people do not know actually the seeds that were planted during the Obama administration was that the grizzly bear came off the endangered species... they were delisted.  Soren              And in the wake of that there was about to be for the first time in almost fifty years a hunt around Yellowstone. Because the grizzlies have gone from like you know whatever was 100 left now around 700. They have also started encroaching on hikers campers hunters and ranchers and so the idea is that once you delist them which should be a success hey they came back we can delist them now. But also at the same time that means that we can start-  Robert Krulwich    Cull them or shoot them.  Soren              Yeah so the ranchers are geared up to get their licenses and head out there and have this hunt. And at the last moment uh there was a court case and a judge said No no not time to do the hunt. And that happened a couple weeks ago and then that-  Robert Krulwich    That was just at hunting season.  Soren              It was days before the hunt or whatever it was.  Jad                What was the reason from the judge?  Soren              Uh I mean I think uh clearly some activist had come to them and said They are not yet ready this will damage the population. And so yeah the judge had kind of like that maybe that the administration had not shown enough recovery to warrant hunting. And but that was just two days ago that that ruling got sort of like either confirmed or upheld or whatever it is. And now that functionally means that the grizzly is not delisted.  Soren              That it is still on the endangered species list and there is even some among bear concerned folk that you talk to they are not quite sure what to think. Because if you are going to have an endangered species list you need to occasionally have an animal come off of it.  Jad                You need a win.  Soren              You need a win otherwise you just lose the political will to even-  Robert Krulwich    Right.  Jad                Yeah totally.  Soren              Do it. Or or you just show that doing it is pointless and you are going to lose them eventually.  Robert Krulwich    And that once you get on it you never get off of it.  Soren              No you need someone to get off. And I guess you know you could probably go back and forth for a lot about whether it is time for the Yellowstone grizzlies to be off or not.  Soren              So nobody got to that but um but still we have one more um story. And it comes from Annie McEwen and Latif Nasser. Of course it is about bears.  Latif Nasser       I think in some ways both.  Annie McEwen       Both.  Jad                Really? This is another-  Annie McEwen       Yes Soren.  Latif Nasser       It is not breaking news in the sense that it is recent but it is breaking news in that we are saying stuff that is true about the world that has not been reported before.  Jad                Oh so it is breaking news about bears.  Latif Nasser       Yeah  Annie McEwen       I think so.  Jad                Okay where where do you start?  Latif Nasser       We start in the far north in the Arctic islands in Canada the coldest wintriest place you can imagine. With an Inuit hunter  David Kotana       All right.  Latif Nasser       Named David Kotana.  David Kotana       I was born in  in igloo in April 13th '59. And I live in a small community of 400 and something people and everybody knows and everyone pretty all related.  Latif Nasser       Anyway he told us this story of a hunt that he was on that was unlike any hunt he had ever been on before where he caught a bear that was unlike any bear he had ever seen before.  Jad                Wow what happened?  David Kotana       Well-  Annie McEwen       April uh 2010.  David Kotana       Me and my wife go hunting it was a nice morning. Soft snow on top nice weather.  Annie McEwen       He and his wife set out on their Ski-doos um into-  Jad                What is Ski-doo?  Annie McEwen       Ski-doo is a snow mobile it is just what they are called up there yeah just sort of like the snow machines that you can-  Jad                This is a mechanical device.  Annie McEwen       Yeah um they hop on their Ski-doos out across the sea ice um and and they are heading towards this island that they are planing on camping in this empty cabin.  David Kotana       And we got to that cabin and we were going to camp there but the cabin was damaged by some bears.  Jad                Wow they knew that immediately.  Annie McEwen       Yeah and then they decide let us go back to another cabin.  David Kotana       After we had tea and filled up and everything we start heading back about 4 oclock in the afternoon. And as we were following the coast getting close to our cabin there was a hill and you could see some tracks coming down down to the cabins.  Annie McEwen       Fresh bear tracks around this cabin.  David Kotana       They were not there before when we were going forward and when we are were coming back they were there.  Annie McEwen       And as they approach it they see that this cabin has been ransacked. The bear has gone in-  David Kotana       Pulled out the mattress it broke the window.  Annie McEwen       Okay well we will continue on.  David Kotana       And we run into another cabin.  Annie McEwen       So this is a third cabin they pass.  Jad                Wow.  David Kotana       Broke the door open made a mess inside.  Annie McEwen       Is it normal for a polar bear to go into cabins and throw mattresses out?  David Kotana       No no polar bear does not really do that. So we started tracking it again we could see the tracks all the way.  Annie McEwen       And this point they started getting a little worried cause these tracks-  David Kotana       They was coming towards the community to . So we started going faster.  Annie McEwen       A fourth cabin ransacked. And a fifth.  Jad                Jesus.  Annie McEwen       Also been through. And right next to the fifth there was a sixth cabin  David Kotana       I had noticed it was not opened so I better not get too close to this cabin.  Jad                Oh so this is presumably the next destination for the bear.  Annie McEwen       Right.  David Kotana       So I went a little further and started going around it. And sure enough this bear was hiding behind the cabin. He had his head sticked out he shooked his body and started running.  David Kotana       So I started chasing it. I got kind of close to it I stopped my Ski-doo  on the sleds. Back of my hair was literally just standing up you know.  Annie McEwen       And why were why were you afraid?  David Kotana       I do not know. I just never ran into that kind of bear before.  Annie McEwen       He was used to polar bears but this bear... He just had this feeling that it was different. Something was off.  David Kotana       Then I take a shot at it. I hit it.  Jad                He kills the bear?  Annie McEwen       He does.  Jad                Okay.  David Kotana       And then we run to it.  Annie McEwen       They approach it on their Ski-doos they get off this bear looks strange.  Jad                Hmm.  David Kotana       It is a a blonde bear. I just thought it was just an ordinary grizzly bear because I never once caught a grizzly bear before and that was my first time. And the legs are dark just like it got boots on or got socks on or whatever.  Annie McEwen       It also had dark circles around its eyes.  Jad                Wow interesting.  Latif Nasser       So he takes in back to town and he checks in with this government officer. And this guy takes a look at it he is like-  David Kotana       David I think this might not be a polar bear it might not be a grizzly bear. It might be a hybrid bear.  Jad                A hybrid bear?  Latif Nasser       Yeah.  Jad                Like a little bit of both?  Latif Nasser       A little bit of both. And David had never even heard of that before.  Jad                I never actually heard that.  Latif Nasser       It is not a common thing that happens but a few years before David's bear-           An extremely rare creature shot and killed in the Canadian Arctic.  Latif Nasser       The first one ever was caught in the wild.           You ever heard of a grolar a grizzly polar bear hybrid?  Latif Nasser       And the media-  David Attenboro    Grizzly bears.  Latif Nasser       David Attenborough included.  David Attenboro    The result of polar bears and brown bears interbreeding-  Latif Nasser       Got really excited about it. So we have known for a while that it is happening out there.  Jad                Wow.  Latif Nasser       And even David has encountered a few more out there in the wild.  David Kotana       I ran into a mother polar bear with 2 little teddy bear cubs that are hybrid so cute.  Jad                So this is some kind of cross-breeding between these two species.  Latif Nasser       But the crazy twist was when when this guy David Kotana uh shot this thing uh this particular pizzly bear he sent it off for genetic testing.  David Kotana       They told me it is called the first second generation bear. The mother was half polar bear half grizzly and the father was a fully grizzly.  Annie McEwen       This bear that David shot is the first indication that these bears are fertile.  Jad                No way.  Annie McEwen       Which is something that you would not think if a horse and donkey say would would breed together and make a mule. Those mules cannot then have offspring.  Jad                Wait wait I thought that two different species 'ecause you have different species right?  Latif Nasser       These are different species they branch off evolutionarily like hundreds of thousands of years ago.  Annie McEwen       Pretty much the same time we that we broke off from the neanderthals and so it would be like us meeting a neanderthal at the Crown Heights bar or something going home with that person and creating creating an offspring.  Latif Nasser       That is very specific it sounds like you have had  Annie McEwen       Franklin Ave April 10th call me! Just kidding.  Jad                Wow that is... So they branched the polars and the grizzlies branched at the same time as us and the neanderthals?  Latif Nasser       Around of ball park I mean all all these are ranges.  Annie McEwen       That just goes to show how far apart they actually are.  Jad                Wow so okay so well I thought that that is not that does not work.  Latif Nasser       Well it kinda should not work. But wildlife Marsha Branigan says It sort of does.  Marsha Branigan    That is kind against the biological terminology that we use for species.  Annie McEwen       Oh they are breaking the rules.  Marsha Branigan    Yeah they are breaking the rules but the rules we made right?           The number of polar bear and grizzly bear hybrids has been growing over the last few years.           It is evolution in action we are seeing take place before our eyes.           The polar bear may not be considered a rare creature for too long.  Annie McEwen       And the sort of general idea about this whole new species is that it is linked to the changing climate.  Latif Nasser       Because now these two species are overlapping.           Hotter temperatures are moving Alaska and Canada's grizzly bears North while polar bears are losing much of their ice and spending more time on land.  Latif Nasser       So for instance polar bears have hair covering the bottom of their feet grizzly bears do not.  Jad                They have pads.  Latif Nasser       They they have pads yeah. But then the grolar bears have partial hair covering. So like maybe you get the best of both worlds. You can grip or whatever but also uh you are warm.  Robert Krulwich    Oh so it is a good thing to be one of these half-  Latif Nasser       Yeah right hybrid vigor best of both worlds kind of thing.  Robert Krulwich    This is the new bear in town.  Latif Nasser       Yeah.  David Attenboro    So Pizzly bears are not the bizarre Frankenstein-like creatures. They are valuable new hybrids. They may become increasingly common.  Latif Nasser       So that is kind of like and that is the story we got interested in and that is the story that is being reported but then last year this paper came out and it kind of completely changes the story.  Jad                Are we at the place where the um the bears become breaking news?  Latif Nasser       Yup.  Annie McEwen       Yes this is it.  Latif Nasser       I actually think it it is even more interesting than that first story.  Annie McEwen       It is way way weirder.  Latif Nasser       It could more dramatically play out on like an HBO mini series.  Annie McEwen       Yes.  Jad                Okay lay it on me.  Latif Nasser       So last year a paper came out.  Annie McEwen       And that scientist we talked to Marsha Branigan-  Marsha Branigan    Yup.  Annie McEwen       Is one of its co-authors.  Latif Nasser       And what they did is they basically just made a big giant list of every sighting of a hybrid bear and of all the genetic analysis of like every time we have seen this happen in the wild. And all of the information we could possibly gleam from that. And what she found was that every single one of these hybrids can be traced back to-  Marsha Branigan    One female polar bear.  Latif Nasser       One single bear.  Robert Krulwich    Really?  Latif Nasser       Named bear 10960.  Jad                Only a scientist would name a bear that.  Latif Nasser       She is she is literally mother of all hybrid bears in the wild.  Jad                Wow.  Robert Krulwich    So there is something about this polar bear that seems to attract grizzly gentleman?  Annie McEwen       Or she was just interested in grizzly gentleman.  Robert Krulwich    Whoa.  Annie McEwen       We mostly just have kind of guesses of how it went down since there were no witnesses.  Latif Nasser       This is Alisa McCall she is staff scientist for Polar Bears International.  Alisa McCall       But what we think could have happened is that there was this female polar bear and maybe she did have some you know interesting personal preference for brown bears or maybe it was simply that she was in estrus and-  Annie McEwen       That means she was in heat or something?  Alisa McCall       Yeah she was basically I heat so she was giving off a scent that she wants to mate.  Annie McEwen       Okay.  Alisa McCall       They leave these stinky foot trails and so males will follow them on the ice.  Annie McEwen       What do those smell like?  Alisa McCall       Oh my gosh you know I have never smelled them but I know to a male polar bear they smell good.  Annie McEwen       Really?  Alisa McCall       That is all I know um but as the female puts down these smelly footprints the males are like Oh yeah. And they will follow her for you know days and its cute they will actually put their feet in the footprints as they follow her.  Annie McEwen       Oh no way.  Alisa McCall       Yeah so maybe there was this just this really aggressive grizzly bear brown bear male who-  Latif Nasser       Followed the female tracks and-  Alisa McCall       Could have fought off other polar bear males.  Jad                Maybe this is a case of of like non-consensual-  Latif Nasser       But if you look at sort of at like the genetic analysis it looks like-  Marsha Branigan    She mated with two different grizzly bears.  Latif Nasser       She had babies with two different grizzly bears and with one of them she had babies years apart.  Jad                Oh so she is had three litters with different-  Latif Nasser       With two different grizzly bears.  Jad                Interesting.  Marsha Branigan    And all the offspring are from those three non-hybrid bears.  Annie McEwen       So this is narrowing in scope really quickly.  Jad                Interesting.  Latif Nasser       Yeah it is not like oh this is this yeah this like species-wide you know new adaptation. It is just like here's this one lady who has this one kink.  Alisa McCall       Has a strange taste in men I guess that is-  Latif Nasser       Also there is a possibility those were just the only dudes around.  Annie McEwen       But I was thinking like Oh my god maybe this bear is a genius. And she is seeing like this ice change around her and she is saying like I need to save my DNA and the best way to do it is do it with a grizzly cause they are doing better than I am.  Alisa McCall       That is hilarious. I I mean yeah imagine that there is bears though that way that would be pretty good. Unfortunately the hybrids were kind of a mess to be honest.  Annie McEwen       Really?  Alisa McCall       They were not really well suited for land or for ice they were such an in-between bear um that they really just were not that fit.  Annie McEwen       Really?  Alisa McCall       Grizzly bears are so well adapted to life on land and finding food. They have got the big hump they have got the big wide head they have got these long claws for digging-  Annie McEwen       Right.  Alisa McCall       They do not have fur on the pads of their feet because they do not need it.  Annie McEwen       Right.  Alisa McCall       Polar bears are so well adapted for the ice they have got a much smoother sleeker head that helps them get in and out of seal holes-  Annie McEwen       Oh.  Alisa McCall       They have got thicker sharper claws to grab seals and help them walk on the ice-  Annie McEwen       Okay.  Alisa McCall       Their fur is hollow which helps trap warm air against their bodies. And the hybrid they are like this weird in-between. So their head is kind of like not really sleek but not really boxy kind of this weird in-between. They do not really blend in that well with the ice or with the land because they are kind of this creamy color.  Annie McEwen       Right.  Alisa McCall       And then their fur itself is depending on where the fur is on the body is like a mix of hollow but not hollow-  Annie McEwen       Oh.  Alisa McCall       Like so yeah like it backfired on her if that was her thought but I like that idea.  Annie McEwen       So these pizzly bears are just probably not the new horizon of the bear that will be uh and actually on top of that.  Latif Nasser       So so okay so imagine a family tree right? So there is a mama polar bear uh with these two grizzly bears at different times right?  Jad                Okay.  Latif Nasser       So there is the dad and the step dad one of the kids a daughter and she is the only one whose had kids herself so the third generation came from her. But it turns out that all this third generation bears including the bear that David Kotana shot um that bear the the daughter bear-  Marsha Branigan    She mated with her father.  Annie McEwen       Right there is some sort of inset part to this?  Marsha Branigan    Yeah.  Annie McEwen       That is so weird.  Marsha Branigan    I know  she also mated with the other bear that-  Latif Nasser       Kind of like dated the stepdad sort of thing?  Marsha Branigan    Yeah sort of.  Annie McEwen       She slept with the same two dudes that her mom did.  Robert Krulwich    Oh my gosh.  Jad                Whoa now it we are going from like HBO to like Shakespeare.  Annie McEwen       Yeah or like Greek tragedy or something.  Jad                Yeah that is a weird family tree.  Latif Nasser       So now all of a sudden it looks less like a species-wide movement for life will find a way and looks a little more like this is one crazy interbred family.  Annie McEwen       Mm-hmm   Jad                Wow.  Robert Krulwich    So what do you make of that?  Annie McEwen       Maybe this one like crazy inbred family is the first you know quite awkward attempt at what may become like you know might be like evolution striving forward making shaky step after shaky step.  Latif Nasser       Cause nature is raunchy it is not like pretty the way you expect it. It is raunchy because like sex like like animals try things. It is like this could maybe this is gonna keep going but but only time will tell. There is no way for us to know.  Annie McEwen       And one last thing uh which is kind of an after thought but but maybe not uh because while it is not clear whether our polar bear family is is an awkward evolutionary step forward or just plain freaky. What we do know is that nature is not exactly shy when it comes to being sexually creative. Is this 7th Ave?           Yes.  Annie McEwen       So it turns out at the Museum of Sex they have this exhibit called the Sex Lives of Animals. And my brother was coming into town.           People are not shy with the horns.  Latif Nasser       And we thought incest was on theme so let us send both of them.  Jad                I am glad you went there cause my mind went there and I was like Whoa.  Annie McEwen       I sort of organized this before I learned about the incest thing but just so you know it just made it that more uncomfortable.  Annie McEwen       But okay let us go in.  Latif Nasser       He also did know about any of this going in so poor guy.           Why are we here? I mean really.  Annie McEwen       But we we got into that room and a very nice woman named Stephanie Spicer showed us around and we learned just like nature is trying some crazy stuff.  Jad                Give me give me like uh like a listicle.  Annie McEwen       Uh dolphins have sex through their blowholes.  Jad                Whoa!           I guess why not?  Annie McEwen       Tortoises have a crazy tongue penis. That come out of nowhere.           That looks like something from Alien.  Annie McEwen       Um ducks have sex with each other when they are dead somehow.  Jad                Oh wow.  Annie McEwen       Deer have threesomes um there is all kind of butt stuff.           What is that? Is that-  Annie McEwen       I do not know. Actually at one point we were sort of surrounded by clitorises and other things.           I am starting to feel like I have been in here a while and I am feeling a little queasy.  Annie McEwen       And then we were like They need like an abstinence room for brother sisters. Like we just need a minute can we just have a minute? Where is the celibate space? And then we got free passes to the booby bouncy castle and I was like Jim we have gotta do it. And so we did it and he is like Okay. And I just sent pictures to my parents and they were just like What is happening?  Jad                Come back to Canada right away.  Annie McEwen       Yeah like this is too much.  Jad                That is wonderful.  Soren              That is how you end a bear show right there. Every bear show ends in a sex museum I think.  Jad                I uh I did not expect that coming. Annie McEwen Latif Nasser and Annie's brother Jim? Is it Jim?  Robert Krulwich    Yes.  Jad                Jim.  Soren              Real quick special thanks um thanks to Wendy Carr.  Jad                And thanks also to composer Anthony Cloag and the Fourth Movement from his Fantasy Movements entitled Very Fast and Manic performed by the Euphonics Tuba Euphonium Quartet after off their album titled Nuclear Breakfast available from Potenza Music.  Soren              And Stephanie Spicer at the Museum of Sex and also of course bear 10960.  Robert Krulwich    And thank you Soren for this whole idea into the opera and come with the with what we came out with. It was kind of crazy.  Jad                Yeah.  Robert Krulwich    We should go.  Soren              Yeah I am going to go hibernate.  Robert Krulwich    You go hibernate and we will say goodbye.  Jad                I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich    I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad                Soren?  Soren              Uh and I am Soren Wheeler.  Jad                Thanks for listening.  Soren              To play the message press 2. Start of message. End of message.Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.