 Balaji welcome back sir. It is good to see you. Last we spoke it was Q1 2021. It is now Q4 2021 late October. And I would like to ask you where should we begin?  I thought we might begin with some premises. Some of which were sort of predictions in the last pod. One in particular was I think I had mentioned that COVID-19 I thought of it as a military defeat for the US. The reason I thought of it as such is because literally billions of dollars had been allocated for biodefense over a span of about 20 years since the anthrax episode in 2001 and during SARS and Ebola all of these sort of scares happened. The US in 2018 they announced they had a national biodefense policy that was supposed to combat manmade and national threats. And so there is an expectation of the WMDs nuclear biological and chemical that the US military would have some trick up its sleeve just like out of the movies where hard men would come in in America's time of need and step in with some magic thing. That totally did not happen. When that did not happen  that is why I said COVID-19 was a military defeat. Even if it was not being presented that way to the American public a big piece of the military-industrial complex or the military whatever you want to call it was like cardboard. It was like Potemkin village kind of just fell over with a push. People kind of argued with me about this. They said No no no. It was right on the border of what you would think of as military or not. Since most of the folks who had been talked about publicly where the CDC and the FDA and the civilian agencies but certainly billions had been allocated for biodefense and it was borderline. You could argue it was not military. I was off base there the military was actually highly competent but then one thing that happened six month-ish later after our podcast was the whole Afghanistan thing. Now you had something where the US military had 20 years and 2 trillion and total air superiority and total surveillance and the local government that they had set up and a military that they had trained local military that they had trained and hand-picked and equipped even a timeline that they had negotiated with the Taliban which for the most part adhered to in terms of its terms it had not like fired on American troops during that process. I think it had adhered to its side of it. Those are advantages that you normally do not get in a military conflict. Folks with that level of advantage  it is like a huge handicap in golf. There is that saying with military things amateurs talk tactics professionals talk logistics and the withdrawal showed that this military is no longer really that amazing at logistics. Also the President and the Secretary of State Blinken  said something like The collapse will not happen from a Friday to a Monday. And it basically did. It was like a Monday to a Wednesday or something like that I forget the exact days but it happened just over a few days. And Biden says There is not going to be a scene that is like the helicopter evacuation in Vietnam. And there was. And the thing is that there is no way that  it is not a political comment really it is basically about the decline of state capacity over the last 20 or 30 years. In many ways in 1991 the US was the hyper power after the collapse of the Soviet Union. It was a hyper power as the French put it that could win everywhere without fighting. In many ways the combination of administrations over the last 30-ish years have blown maybe the biggest lead in human history. Now rather than winning everywhere without fighting it fights everywhere without winning. And so the Afghanistan thing I think was sort of I hate to call it a vindication because it is a very unfortunate thing especially for the Afghans who are now subject to this medieval regime. But I think that that is something which also has important ripple effects kind of flips over a card and you kind of think there is something that is 70 percent probability and then it goes to a hundred percent probability and then you think about what the consequences of that are. So that is like one I think quote prediction or something that came true or piece of a world model that was vindicated. Let me pause there and get your thoughts.  I have no thoughts to share. Please continue.  Okay all right. I will just kind of download content and then pause and then you jump in okay?  And you will be met mostly with silence or I am not familiar. If my last performance is any indication but I appreciate the pauses. Yes. Also since we are on video I can raise my hand like a student and then request pause but yes please proceed.   invite pauses certainly  enumerate my premises and sort of open source my thinking so that people can understand where I am coming from. And if I open source my premises and my logic comes from those premises then you can at least isolate if you think I am off base I am either wrong in the premises or the logic but at least you start to decouple the two. So how do I build my worldview? How do I build my model? So how do I build my model? Well what is rising? What is up? Technology which is drones and biomedicine and robotics and AI and so on. And particularly cryptocurrency which is kind of the new backend of all of software it is what this will come to. So technology cryptocurrency China and India. Basically tech and Asia are up and to the right on many different kinds of graphs. Those are words but that captures the phenomenon of literally billions of people every day moving up into the right. Whether it is global trade or it is number of smartphones or it is the number of like people doing cryptocurrencies or the progress of that all that is up and to the right. And then what is falling is the West as a percent of GDP. Like if you make a graph of the US and the EU's percent of global GDP that is been dropping basically for the last 40 years. Whereas India and China's share in particular has been rising. Actually as of 2019 McKinsey had a report on this but Asia was more than 50 percent of GDP I believe by 2019 on certainly PPP terms. And I think it is going to pass or it is already passed soon. So Asia's not really the presence   PPP is what? Pricing Power Parity   Purchase Power Parity. It is basically like   Purchase Power Parity.  That is what I believe it is. It is sort of like what can the dollar buy there? What can your renminbi buy there? In terms of number of Big Macs right? They have an adjustment for that because some of the production costs are less 10000 goes a longer way in some of these countries. So Asia is not really the future it is present. So what' the West's percentage of GDP. There is a graph by visual capitalists the US' share of the world economy that shows it in sort of absolute terms. And then you can kind of calculate the zero to a hundred percent terms right? So West's percentage of GDP US military strength as we just discussed. And that is kind of a very important topic to discuss further. Internal US cohesion and also just the European percentage of the world it was much higher in the early 1900s and now it is like on the order of 10 percent. And so just a percentage of the world. And so if the West is declining a percentage of GDP in terms of its relative military strength in terms of its internal cohesion and in terms of just raw percentage of the world yet all of these institutions that were set up years ago kind of assume Western predominance. For example like the United Nations is the US the UK France Russia and China. And that is like I know it is only four out of five so it is a small count but that is like 80 percent Western or at least European if you think of Russia as a European country you can argue that. Whereas there is no India there is no Brazil there is no Japan. And you can argue whether that actually reflects the world as it is. Certainly probably India should be there rather than France right? You might say India should be there rather than the UK. And the EU should be there rather than France or something like that right?  I raised my hand for those who cannot see me. I like this approach this is a good approach. Professor Balaji I have a question sir.  Please.  And that is related to the up and to the right with respect to technology. And let us just take China as an example but we can grab both China and India because we discussed India last time as a dark horse of sorts.  Yes.  And a lot has happened with respect to cryptocurrency in China since we last recorded also. And I am wondering how that factors in in your mind to the up and to the right with respect to technology and Bitcoin or cryptocurrency or blockchain more broadly speaking within China and say India? Does it mean that the best entrepreneurs or many of the best entrepreneurs simply get scattered to the wind to places like Singapore and elsewhere from China? What are the implications and what are your thoughts overall?  So a lot has happened this year in Chinese American and Indian crypto. So just to discuss that when we were talking a Chinese interference with the Bitcoin network was something that was TBD. It had not actually happened yet. With Chinese crypto what we would discussed was that the Chinese state might for example block at the firewall level but allow mining to continue which would mean sort of a peekaboo problem where the Chinese chain gets extended but so is the rest of the world and so on and that would be bad. But what I also said was in some ways the worst case scenario it is actually better and perhaps more probable that they would just ban mining entirely or go after that. And they are the one state in the world that is ruthless enough and has a low enough disregard for civil liberties and contract law and all of that type of stuff for them to just be able to do that. And that is what they did. Meaning they just said Get out of China. And so if you go to blockchain.comchartshash-rate and go to the all-time chart and look at kind of the period from May to July-ish of 2021 you will see it drop from about 180 terahashes per second to about 80 to 90 terahashes per second. And what is a terahash? That is 10 to the 12th hashes per second. Meaning 10 to 12th attempts to solve the inequality that allows you to mine a new block of Bitcoin. It is kind of a measure of the computational speed of the Bitcoin network. And the higher that is the more secure the network because the harder it is to falsify history.  Quick interjection. Why did China do this? And there may be a headline press release equivalent and then there may be some degree of speculation or informed opinion. I would just like to know kind of both.  I think the fundamental thing is we can drill into this China is the exception to the sovereign individual thesis. India by the way might be the partial exception. But China is the exception to the sovereign individual thesis where they want root over everything. If it is not made in China they look at it with suspicion. And it is funny made in China that is sort of a play on words right? If it is not they look at it with suspicion. And that is why actually they were very early on things like the great firewall or social media bans many years before politicians were getting deplatformed from Twitter. Xi Jinping denied Facebook's attempt to come into China and instead basically they set up parallel social networks that could operate within China but which the Chinese state had root access to. And so fundamentally their premise  they have articulated this actually explicitly. It is an interesting concept and I think at least they have got some philosophical basis for it which is the doctrine of internet sovereignty. That is to say if a nation state is allowed to intra-dite the physical packets crossing its border then it should be able to intra-dite any internet packets crossing its border. And they are doing like customs for that. That is how they justify the great firewall. By the way there is actually an article that is sort of making the rounds that folks who are listening to this probably should read on Wang Huning. Did you see this article?  I did not. How do you spell that name?  Yeah. So it is W-A-N-G H-U-N-I-N-G. So The Triumph and Terror of Wang Huning at palladiummag.com and this whole site is actually really good but what is great about this article is  first of all reading this you are like okay the depth of this is just much more. Like the IQ level is frankly much higher than what you are accustomed to seeing in mainstream media because it just does not come from the same set of trite premises and rehashed things that we usually see. So I think it is informative and the whole site is actually really good but basically what this article is about is a guy Wang Huning who is been there over three Chinese administrations. I think Jiang's  Hu's  and Xi's which is unusual. It is sort of like being I do not know secretary   He is worked in the government?  In the government the most senior levels the seven-man standing committee. And at least what the article says is he is China's top ideological theorist and to be consistent across those three administrations it is sort of like being  rough analogy would be like Robert Gates who is Sec Def under I believe both  was he under both Bush  and Obama ? I think so. Yes he was appointed under both Bush and Obama which is unusual. Usually political appointees get fired by the  they are appointed by the Republican they are fired by the Democrat   The new regime.  Exactly and vice versa right? So sort of like that. And he is been there for a while. The reason I just bring this article up is you can sort of get a sense of how much they have been conscious about the need for state control. Because they saw the fall of the USSR they saw the US move in after that they saw that Russia actually did not do that well they saw the loss of control. So they have always been about control. And what is interesting is there is been a tension between total state control and of course capitalism which is decentralization of control right? And one thing that is true that I think is a constant across these sort of three eras of China so the Mao  era was revolutionary communism then Deng  Jiang and Hu was internationalist capitalism. And now I think it is fair to say under Xi Jinping it is now pretty clear that it is sort of a nationalist socialism militarism and economics is no longer first. It is there but they are reasserting kind of root control but from sort of the nationalist right rather than the communist left in some ways. And so the reason I think that is important is it is a genuine change. In the same way that you can argue the US had a genuine change in culture over the last seven or eight years call it like The Great Awokening which is what Matt Yglesias article at Vox kind of dubbed the whole thing and you can sort of see this religious fervor taking over the country all these graphs up into the right of various words. In kind of the same way China for a long time had this keep your head down sort of policy where they did not like a lot of the things that the West was telling them but they sort of gritted their teeth and they manned the factories and they tolerated the humiliation of having like their embassy at Belgrade blown up by a stray bomb and the US being like Oh our bad. That type of stuff. They did not have the power to protest on a world stage. They were just like you know what just suck it up and we will just continue trading for a while. But with Xi that is no longer the case. They are have you heard this term Wolf Warrior diplomacy?  Wolf warrior diplomacy? I have not. If I am hearing that correctly.  Yeah. Wolf warrior right? So you know this is   Just the sound of it but maybe I should not. I will wait until you define it for me.  I mean look this is not like deep China analysis or anything like that. And I basically consider myself I think reasonably informed on China but certainly there is folks who speak fluent Chinese. It is like a logarithmic scale. There is folks who know 10X or 100X as much as I know on China. But wolf warrior diplomacy what it refers to is there is a movie called Wolf Warrior 2 which was China's number one movie I think in 2017. It is worth watching. And the reason it is worth watching is it is sort of surreal. It is American filmmaking techniques of the Rambo Rocky variety of the mid-'80s applied to a masculine Chinese-speaking hero where the Chinese are basically cast in the role of the USA and the USA is cast in the role of the USSR.  Yep.  So it is kind of like a rotation where you realize what aspects of filmmaking are constant and what are highly variable. Do you know what the number one movie in the world is right now as of our time speaking?  I do not. I learn so much when we have our conversations. I appreciate that   No. It is fine. Yeah. So it is   Frozen five. No?  No. So that is thing it is The Battle at Lake Changjin. Chinese language movie. Here's the thing it tells you a few things. First is China's in-person movie market is massive and it is able to do number one in the world. And I think it just crossed like a billion dollars in box office. Number two what the movie depicts is basically the defeat of the US military in the Korean War by the Chinese military.  Yeah.  So that is where their head is at. They are making massive blockbuster epics with all the Hollywood techniques about the Chinese military winning and the Americans losing. And moreover what you can get canceled for in China is insufficient nationalism. As somebody once said in like the West today for an ambitious young person they would articulate a desire to quote change the world. But in China it is like serve the motherland.  Yeah. It is different. May I interject for just a second?  Of course.  I just want to say that lest listeners get too judgmental about what they are hearing the US has done what we are describing or I should say US entertainment certainly has done what we are describing for a very very long time. So this is not unique to China. It just I think indicates it is what is to come right? It is a harbinger and it is also a gauge of public sentiment and the public sentiment meaning Chinese sentiment on a certain level.  Yes.  And I find that deeply interesting. Also what I find interesting from an entertainment media perspective is as an example I just went to see the new Bond . It was my first time in a real movie theater seeing a film since COVID and there were many different trailers. Most of the movies had at least one Chinese lead actor or actress. And that is very deliberate because they need Chinese eyes. They need that. And so that is another chess piece on the table. It is more like backgammon than chess probably because it is not a game of complete information but you get the idea. So I just wanted to just note that because I do think these are trends that are going to become more intensified over time.  This is a startup analogy but Microsoft made I believe  million investment in Facebook in 2007 as part of a way to kind of keep it from Google. And they did so the super high valuation basically playing Game of Thrones when Facebook was still a startup. That was actually maybe Ballmer's  best decision in some ways. But what that did was that thing grew and grew and grew until Facebook is now  it is not like extremely hostile to Microsoft but it is certainly a peer to Microsoft. It is up there. It has grown into a Redwood tree of its own. It is also like roughly a trillion dollar company. It is the youngest of the big five Google Apple Amazon Microsoft Facebook. And in sort of the same way what the US did was it made a startup investment in China when Nixon  went to China because the USSR was the number one rival at that time. And they have just executed phenomenally well over the last 35 to 40 years. And now they have the market size the internal market size to be the number one movie market in the world. And they dictate terms now. And so it is winners write history winners film history. And they are writing history where they are the winners and they are the good guys. And the thing is the airbrushing is super obvious when it is somebody else's propaganda. For example in this movie which is worth watching by the way it is hard to kind of see you have to get like a streamer out of China or something like that. And by the way   This is Wolf Warrior or the other?  Well Wolf Warrior I think you can just download on iTunes but The Battle at Lake Changjin is not that easy to see right now. And one of the things about it is this itself is a change where China used to be super freewheeling on IP. The new Xi Jinping regime is not freewheeling on IP. It is hard to get that. It is basically almost as hard as it is to get like an American movie on the internet. You have to kind of like actually try. It is not just like widely accessible DVD on the street kind of thing. And some people think that this is similar to the whole Shang Yang school. Are you familiar with that? Like legalism?  No.  Oh okay. Again I am not like a student of Chinese philosophy and so on. I know some but basically there is a philosopher named Shang Yang who is well known as an expert of legalism. And legalism we would call it like a super harsh  like one of his sayings if I roughly paraphrase if I am getting this right is If there are harsh punishments there will be no punishments. Meaning if you articulate what the law is and you ruthlessly enforce it then people will not actually go near the border and so on. And there is like another thing after one year people would not pick up items left lying in the street nor would they take anything that was not their property. The army had grown strong and the feudal lords lived in fear.  What is the source of that?  Oh that is like from Shang Yang's biography. And so the point being like Xi Jinping used working and all this stuff since the beginning but the tipping point only came near the end of his first term sort of like how the great awokening was also happening in the US and kind of went exponential in 2020 and 2021. China has changed. It is now a different thing than what you and I grew up with which was the internationalist capitalism of the Deng Jiang and Hu era. Like Hide your strength and bide your time I think was like the official philosophy and make plastics serve for the West have them call us uncreative have them depict us as emasculated on TV say just assemble iPhones grit our teeth tolerate the pollution breathe the bad air blah blah blah and then work our way up. That is kind of the mentality. And now they are standing up right?  Yeah. May I just add one thing to that which is when I was in Beijing I lived in Beijing in 1996 I went to two universities there and the most popular book at the time and this is very understandable for a lot of reasons so this is not to fault anyone but the most popular book at the time which was stacked. It was widely counterfeited but also bought legitimately. stacked everywhere. You could see it in the streets in front of stores. It was called China Can Say No.  Hmm.  I think it was  and it was China Can Say No. There was this deep sense of I think warranted deep sense of being disrespected on a lot of levels from a geopolitical perspective.  Yes.  And that is not new. That is not new. And it is just taken a while for them to play the game so well that they are now in a position to execute extremely well on multiple fronts.  That is right. Now the thing that is interesting is if I recall that was modeled on The Japan That Can Say No right? But there is a difference. And some people will basically say Oh people talked about the rise of Japan in the 1980s and why will not the rise of China turn out the same way? There is a huge difference by the way between China and Japan which is that Japan is literally occupied by the US military.  Yeah huge difference.  Huge difference. The US basically wrote Japan's operating system and constitution after World War II. And they have literally a military base there. And I think in a real sense they are an independently operated US subsidiary. The purpose of NATO was to keep the Americans in the Germans down and the Russians out.  I have not but I can imagine. May I also just pull us back to an initial query for those people who are wondering what some of the punchlines are. So with respect and then we can come back to all of this.  Sure yup.  So just bookmark for a sec.  Of course.  When we look at the Chinese government's decisions with respect to Bitcoin mining and perhaps cryptocurrency more broadly speaking what are the first order second order third order effects of that? Some of which may have already been seen but what has happened and what do you expect will happen as a result of that? And we could look at what that means within China and outside of China. Or however you want to approach it.  I think what they have done is setting up the decade and maybe the century. I do not think people realize how important some of this stuff is. But think about for example their social media ban. How important is that today versus how important was it seen to be at the time?  Yeah huge.  Huge right? That was a branch in history. So basically China wants to maintain root. And because they want to maintain root I think they are going to have significant short and perhaps even medium-term advantages but in the very long run like 20 30 40 years I think the century lines up as centralized China versus a decentralized world. Or a centralized China versus a decentralized West. And I actually think India may be actually a big component of that. And that is where I think things land up by 20 40ish or so but it is really hard to say because time compresses in the internet era. And just to drill into that let me give a sci-fi scenario here. This is a sci-fi scenario all right? When you do a simulation and it is like okay all the molecules move in this path but they can move in other paths. So I do not assign super high probability to this but let us call it a scenario. I do not assign zero probability to it. So Chinese control American anarchy Indian intermediate. So basically coming back to the thing that we kicked it off with which is the US military basically just got defeated by COVID and in Afghanistan.  will they lose versus China? And in particular will they lose first? What will happen with Taiwan? Now there is the first order response which is oh Taiwan and Afghanistan are totally different. Taiwan is obviously a first world country and it is an independent nation and it has its own judiciary military and a long history of operating independently and civil society and blah blah blah. Whereas Afghanistan obviously that was a fixer upper at best and has a long history of civil war and it was very difficult. So of course they are totally different. But they are not because there're certain things that are the same. And one of the things that is very much shared between the two is America's willingness to fight. Because the withdrawal from Afghanistan was based on a reluctance to pursue forever wars right? And a thing where the American consensus on the right is isolationists like why are we helping these folks out by fighting their wars for them? And on the left is also isolationists which is why are we harming these folks by bombing them we should pull back. And while the stance is perhaps different and actually I can see reasonable things on both though without litigating the percentage on each. The sum forces withdrawal. And so it is from Taiwan's view questionable as to whether the US would fight. And here's the problem wars get fought when things are questionable. Shang Yang said if the punishments are certain there will be no punishments right? Wars happen when there is a miscalculation. For example I believe Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1991 because he thought he had gotten the go ahead from April Glaspie at that time who was the US ambassador. And basically in 1991 the Soviet Union was falling and so on New World Order let me settle scores. And I think that basically there is different transcripts. One of them was like We have no opinion on your Arab conflicts issue disputes with Kuwait. The Kuwait issue is not a situation with America. Secretary Baker  has directed me to emphasize this. But the thing about this is that Glaspie  I am not a scholar of this particular issue and she may have gotten a bum rap on this but people thought that she had given unclear instructions to Saddam. Now first of all what is interesting is the US were basically greenlighting an invasion is interesting in its own right? That it could happen versus not. But that is what being leviathan means. If you are the guarantor of order  the Soviets allowed the North Koreans to go and invade the South the North Koreans were looking for the nod the go ahead from their patron to be able to do that right? And similarly the US had actually been working with Iraq during the Iraq-Iran war because they were against Iran and they thought Iraq was a good way to put a thumb in the eye of the Iranians who had done the hostage crisis. You have seen the whole video with Saddam shaking hands with Rumsfeld  right? From many years ago right? So anyway coming back.  How does this tie into China?  How does this tie into China? So the thing is that that kind of uncertainty is what causes wars.  Or provides fertile ground for wars depending on how it is planned right?  Yeah. Because it is not invincible US military solid commitment to Taiwan. All right we are not going to start a fight. It is will they will not they? You are now decision treeing it out. It is uncertain for everybody involved. It is uncertain for Taiwan it is uncertain for China. You have many scenarios. One scenario which I think is underestimated is that China speaks the language they have lots of people across the border. They have total focus on this Xi Jingping wants it. So one possibility is they try to force a gun to the head referendum where they try to get KMT the Pan-Blue party to just vote for reunification with China. And that is something where there would be an obvious gun to the head but it would be like a peaceful Anschluss like Germany and Austria right? They vote for it. Another possibility of course is an actual military conflict where maybe the US just does not even intervene. Maybe it does and then there is a shooting war and we do not know what happens after that. But I think it is quite likely that the US loses. Now why do I think it is likely the US loses? So a couple of books I will recommend there is The Kill Chain by Christian Brose who was formally very senior on the Senate armed services committee. Saw the entire 700 billion defense budget including the classified parts. And he has a quote in there  Over the past decade in US war games against China the United States has a nearly perfect record. We have lost almost every single time. And he says this is well known in the Department of Defense but the American public does not know this and Congress does not know this. And he actually goes on in the first chapter to outline a scenario where China basically pursues an asymmetric strategy against the US. It uses area denial weapons forced the US Navy to be way offshore while it is invading Taiwan. And it cannot get the reinforcements over there over this huge ocean they are all blown up or forced back. And basically he thinks China would win. So that is a non-fiction book. There is also another book that came out this year called 2034. The Kill Chain I think came out last year. 2034 which is co-authored by a former US Marine who is on the ground this guy Elliot Ackerman and another guy James Stavridis who I believe was the former NATO commander. And that also essentially talks about a serious Chinese effort or conflict with China rather in the South China Sea where the US does not definitively win. In fact they almost portray the US as this old battleship that is getting its butt kicked by the Chinese and it goes to nuclear very quickly okay? That is in their scenario. And I do not want to spoil it but India intervenes at the end to kind of play mediator in a sense.  If we have hypothetically centralized China decentralized world and India is some type of intermediary   Yeah.   or very large and compelling nation state at the very least. Let us just so we are on parity with the China discussion on some level what has happened in India since we last spoke with respect to crypto and where do you think it is going?  The good news is and I may have actually influenced this on the margins India had been floating or there is folks in India rather who would been floating like a crypto ban in January thereabouts. I wrote three articles on this and the Indian crypto community the Web3 community really got out there and now Nirmala Sitharaman who is the Finance Minister of India like the equivalent of the Treasury Secretary. Is actually quite smart and has made good comments on this in public and moreover with the deliberation she said This is not going to be a ban. It is going to be regulation of some kind. And over the last nine months Indian crypto has just absolutely exploded. There is CoinSwitch Kuber and there is a bunch of these exchanges. I will not remember all of them but they have all just gone vertical with the rise of cryptocurrency this year. And there is multiple India crypto unicorns and Indians are a huge part of the global crypto community. And in the meantime China has basically forced mining outside and it is basically done with their new bill. It is almost like pushing a guy until he is just almost off the cliff. In 2017 they pushed pretty hard to stop much retail trading activity happening within China and so hence Binance kind of left the country and Huobi and OKCoin were sort of forced overseas. But OTC was allowed or kind of winked at. Now they are kind of going after OTC they are going after mining.  What does OTC mean in this context? Over the counter but what does that mean in this context?  One version of trading cryptocurrency is you go to a website you click a button you buy cryptocurrency there is a user interface and so on. An OTC trade is like a big block trade where you call somebody on the phone and you are like I want to buy a million dollars of Bitcoin. And the thing is them as a seller and you as a buyer actually have an incentive. See if they try and sell a million bucks of Bitcoin they might move the price. You try to buy a million bucks of Bitcoin you might move the price up. And so you both settle on a mid-market price and then you do the trade real quick because you do not know if it will go up or down okay? So that was kind of allowed but they are cracking down on that too. Now what they have not done and you can read this bill it is posted on their website. It is a long thing not bill it is like an announcement rather. What they have not done is they have not criminalized holding.  They have that in English?  It is in Chinese.  Chinese is a little rusty.  I heard you say something in Chinese just now. So I thought I was like   I guess you could probably use Google Translate possibly to translate the page.  Yeah that is what I did. Basically the People's Bank of China statement on cryptocurrencies it is posted on the website it is at  okay this is a super long URL. But if you   We could put in the show notes.  Yeah. It is like notice on further preventing and disposing of the risk of hype in virtual currency trading. That is the English translation via Google translate. And I have a tweet on this but basically they have kind of done everything up to criminalizing holding. So they have not criminalized holding. You can still hold.   Let me ask you a dumb question. Where do you purchase your holdings or is it just preexisting holders of crypto who are now legacies in somehow? How does it work?  It is kind of like that it is unclear. One of the things about China a friend of mine over there said is in the US there is rule of law right? Where you have written laws and that is supposed to constrain the state and you can operate with those. Whereas there it is often more like guidelines in a negotiation which is actually more like interacting with the regulatory state in the US where it is like a moving boundary and they will basically do what they want. And it is not something where the laws are meant to be binding on the government in the same way. And so we do not know exactly how it is going to be enforced but it definitely signals a step up. And the way you can see that is actions speak louder than words and that drop in the hash rate is actually a remarkable drop. Now importantly by the way it came all the way. I should not say all the way back up but it came back up to like 150 terahashes. So even the Chinese government going after Bitcoin mining it slowed down transactions a little bit for a few weeks but not really all of it. However   How much of that do you attribute to new mining operations elsewhere? Places where you can get cheap energy where they would expect friendlier regulation or lack of regulation versus just the vertical climb of popularity in   The rest of the world?  Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. Yep that is right. What do you attribute that regaining of hash rate?  So I do not know the exact breakdown. One could say there is folks who are looking at this every day which I have not been doing for a while. But Bitcoin mining is now actually understood to be something which is a component of the energy grid. Because in a sense just like when you say a document it is both a paper document and it is a digital thing. We use the term interchangeably now. In a sense Bitcoin mining is now like a money battery because on the power grid you cannot store power that easily. You have to instantaneously generate it as being consumed. And every flick of a light switch and so on is sort of in this model of this Gaussian where all these small events you cannot predict whether you are going to flick the light switch on or not. But you can have sort of demand prediction and it kind of goes up and down. You generate the power in proportion to that. The problem is that if you have got source of power that are themselves variable like renewables for example Is the sun shining or not? Is the wind blowing or not? Now you have got volatility on both sides and it is hard to match that up. And Bitcoin mining actually comes in there because it is a load that you can put basically in any location and dial it all the way up. And rather than trying to store that energy in a battery you store it as money by mining Bitcoin. And depending on the economics it may be better to do that. And then with that BTC buy energy later than to actually store it in a conventional battery.  So that is super interesting super interesting.  So this is an important thing that is happening now. Actually Ted Cruz of all people actually gave a talk on this. So it is starting to filter out into politicians and I think   Wait Ted Cruz gave a talk on this subject?  Yes just a few weeks ago.  Wow. That is unexpected. All right.  So that is the thing this is becoming a big thing within natural gas and so on because the flaring problem of having this  it looks like this dystopian blast of flame into the air. When you have stranded gas that gets addressed with this.  So was he speaking within the confines of the state of Texas or was it more broadly applied?  So it is much more broadly applied right? This is something which I am not an expert in this area. But Google like Bitcoin mining oil and gas and you will be able to read about this right? But it is also something it is not just oil and gas it is also renewables. Essentially your renewable energy your renewable energy source Bitcoin mining increases the profitability of it because there is always demand for the renewable energy you are generating okay?  Say that one more time please.  Maybe I will be more precise. So your renewable energy source especially if it is volatile like solar power or wind now there is always a way to make money from it. Even if there is not demand on the grid because it is volatile. For example the sun may be shining but nobody's turning on their appliances or the wind may be blowing and nobody's actually consuming the power but you can use that to mine Bitcoin.  That is very interesting.  Right.  I was just saying that is super interesting.  And power is like instantaneous energy over time but go ahead.  So this is going to be a very stochastic conversation by design by the nature of it I think. Let me just come back. We may return to this subject but come back to India for a moment. What would be your  predictions may be too strong a word  but what are some plausible things you see happening or developing in India over the next three to five years with respect to cryptocurrency or Web3 blockchain all of the above?  So what is interesting is that now that China's taken itself out of crypto it has kind of left the door open for others. The US certainly has a big crypto sector. There is a huge fight within the US on crypto regulation and Web3 and what not. And we will see where that pans out. And we will also see where it pans out in India. It might be better it might be worse. We will see. But basically it is  I am cautiously bullish in both the US and India on cryptocurrency and I am cautiously optimistic that both India and China will maintain some degree of stability. And so I am not saying it is a five-year thing but a 15-year-ish kind of thing 10 15 20 years India could be an intermediate between kind of a coming American anarchy and total Chinese control. And let me explain what I mean by this just to go back to that scenario we were talking about. And again it is sci-fi scenario. I am not saying I have put a lot of weight on this but I think it is possible. I had this one-liner which is the US government has lost root control or the system the future of hard power is CCP. And the future of hard money is BTC. This is related to that like NYT CCP BTC triangle that we talked about last time right?  Yeah.  Which is woke capital communist capital crypto capital. And just to recap that communist capital says you must submit. That is a communist party they are strong you are weak. They have power you do not bow to the government. It is very straightforward just down the middle like a fullback. Woke capital says you must sympathize. And that is different. That says it is because you are powerful because you are White or male or straight you are rich or something you have power. And therefore you must sympathize you must apologize. You must bend your eyes down your eyes are downcast. Your head is bent but it ends in the same position of submission as communist capital with a bent head and a dispirited stance. So it is also an ideology of control. It is just a little more subtle rather than saying they are powerful. They say You are powerful. And the trick of it is with the algebra of intersectionality everybody's an oppressor on some axis. So everybody's either White or male or straight or cis or wealthy like Dave Chappelle he is an oppressor on some axis for example. So anybody can be turned into an oppressor in this way. And so everybody kind of lives under threat of having their card yanked and instantly turned into an oppressor because you are an oppressor on some axis. So that is how woke capital works. It is more subtle slightly more subtle. And then crypto capital BTC is the third point on the triangle. And rather than saying you must submit like communist capital or you must sympathize like woke capital it says you must be sovereign. You must hold your head up high. Like jaw out. And you must not just hold your own private keys ideally you are living off grid with a solar panel and you are growing your own food. And you are in a Bitcoin citadel where you are kind of waiting out the Mad Max and so on right? And so all of those are actually extreme old points. You must submit you must sympathize you must be sovereign. And the thing is that while each of them is actually bad if you just go totally to that point but they are also bad if you have the total absence. So for example obviously you do not want to just completely bow your head to this totalitarian state you must submit. But the opposite of that where nobody submits is San Francisco where you can walk in and they have legalized crime. Like anything under 950 or something you can shoplift from Walgreens. You go in help yourself walk out repeat it. And that is why 22 Walgreens are closing in San Francisco. Did you hear about that?  I did not. But it does not surprise me.  Yeah. So they basically have legalized crime and then the city government is denying that this is a real thing. They are like Oh Walgreens published in their SEC filing three years ago that they might shut down some stores. Therefore they are just doing this to make more profit blah blah. And the rate of crime reported crime has dropped in San Francisco. And this is basically like quoting statistics from the Soviet Union at this point because   Nothing to see here move along folks.  Yeah. The crime rate in SF is so high anybody who is there has seen multiple crimes happening as you walk down the street. There is open air drug deals there is public defecation. There is people who will walk into a store and shoplift something. You can just record probably put a camera up there you will see a bunch of crimes. The reporting does not happen because the prosecution does not have it the police  have it. So okay. Point is if you do not submit you get San Francisco. Then if everything is sympathizing nobody is competing to be a victim all the time. And that is kind of where we are in many ways in American society. But the total opposite of that is also bad because the total denial that any victims exist is the denial of charity and many of our good impulses. And that leads you to a society that is like Russia in the '90s. Where for 70 years all compassion and charity and goodwill had been milked out of them because communism had said Share! at gunpoint. And so all of that had been linked out. So all sympathy was kind of leached out and that is kind of what you get there and the total opposite of that. And then sovereignty I mean of course I am sympathetic to this but total sovereignty is actually the opposite of for example division of labor. Which is also like a capitalist virtue. You are trying to do everything yourself. And total sovereignty is also a position of total distrust of everybody else in society and taken to its limit. And unfortunately the thing about the internet is people do take everything to their limit take to its limit it is like one person can do everything by themselves but humans are not just individual animals they are also social animals. Now of course the total opposite of sovereignty is also bad. That is actually the woke capital and communist capital model where they can deplatform you via the corporation or the state at any time since you are speech et cetera right? So this triangle model is kind of useful because each extreme point on the triangle is bad but so is the opposite point. And so that is why I think what we want to do is carve out a decentralized center that has a healthy optimum between these with the recognition that different people will trace out different optima. For example the Netherlands is a functional society but so is Singapore. And so is Dubai in its own way and so on. And these have different trade offs of submission sympathy and sovereignty. So with that kind of like as a political philosophy ish kind of thing for the modern era basically I think one new piece of information for me or last seven eight months is that the woke capital corner of the triangle the NYT corner. The reason I say NYT CCP BTC is in many ways while CCP is in control of China it is a state controlled press. It is something where  nobody in the press is going to go investigate Xi Jinping or whatever. In America there is it saying if China's got a state-controlled press America's a press-controlled state. And when we have seen that is a corporate journalist can get a politician fired but not really vice versa. So the org chart is the other way who can get who fired who is superior? Now the thing is immediate rebuttal is well what do you mean? I can write an article and they may not necessarily get fired. And I would agree it is like a stochastic org chart. And that is what sort of hides the lines of reporting. But let us take the Department of the Interior if the guy from the WSJ and the guy from the Washington Post the guy from the NYT who all have the beat that includes the Department of the Interior just started writing negative article after article on the person in that position they would eventually get capped. Almost like a board meeting where it is like a three to zero vote and they get fired.  I just want to share something that came to mind which has been on my mind for a while. And that is the trends in the US I suppose it is somewhat obvious are very different from the trends collectively in China in one very important respect many respects. But one really jumps out and that is nationalism is unifying on a lot of levels but what we are seeing in the US with as you put at the Great Awokening and this is not to point fingers at any one side necessarily but much like the nature of warfare is changing over time. And it is going to involve more and more cyber attacks nonphysical attacks. Although there will be physical components. I would argue just by watching an audience of say 10 to 20 million people per month over the last several years that we are in the midst of the beginning of a reputational civil war where the weapons are provided by companies that produce tools for social media and so on. And the attacks may not be those that we would see among different ethnic groups in a case of say ethnic cleansing but nonetheless the damage is seen reputationally. And that it is not just the New York Times and a politician. It is like neighbor against neighbor. And I find that absolutely terrifying.  Yes.  But I do think we are in the middle of that. I mean when I look at it the scale and the intensity it is absolutely a reputational civil war.  Absolutely.  And the weapons are technological.  Absolutely.  You can argue that the corporate takeover of the US actually happened in the 1970s when three privately held newspaper corporations the Washington Post which was owned by the Grahams the New York Times owned by the Ochs-Sulzberger family and the Wall Street Journal which was owned by the Bancrofts at the time before their sale to Murdoch. They all went after Nixon with the Post certainly leading the way. And essentially they got the most powerful man in the world fired. Now of course you can argue and I think it is fair to say that Nixon was a crook. He actually did do those things. He has not denied doing Watergate or the Berkeley or anything like that. I am not litigating that part. What I am what I will say is that at the time what he thought was and was certainly talked about was that JFK had done it as well in his race against Nixon in the 1960s. So he just had to do it. And actually there is a book by Seymour Hersh who is a legendary investigative reporter exposed the My Lai Massacre. Won the National Book Critics Award and so he has a book called The Dark Side of Camelot and claims for example that Kennedy stole the 1960 election with help of the mafia and that all this sort of stuff right? Some of the stuff has kind of filtered onto the public that Kennedy had lots of affairs and all this type of stuff. But the election part is I think the material thing where Nixon thought that Kennedy had gotten away with it and stole it fair and square and Nixon decided not to contest it for the good of the country. And then Nixon kind of did it himself. And then he got tagged for it when it was not no scrutiny was applied to Kennedy and so point being though that this concept of journalists holding politicians accountable means that the US is a press-controlled state. It also means by the way how is that accountability doing? If journalists are holding politicians accountable and over the last 30 years the US government has done very poorly who is holding accountable the people who are holding the government accountable right? If they are actually the most senior management like the board of directors vote who comes in an emergency to remove the CEO namely the President via an impeachment or investigation or something. Well ultimately the board of directors is responsible. So the thing is though that the whole thing is set up to exercise power without responsibility because it is a stochastic org chart. No one reporter thinks of themselves as being in control of somebody because it is like throwing a stone and somebody who is being stoned. No one stone necessarily kills them but the fusillade of the hailstorm does right? And of course if you are at the Times or the Journal or the Washington Post back before social media you had pretty big stones that you were tossing. And what is interesting is there is just to be on this topic for a second. There is a whole field called we are in a field there is a concept called impact journalism. Where the whole point is to make an impact like that stone hitting somebody. Like the impact of a government truncheon hitting your head where the idea is that people will brag this article led to a government investigation. This article led to so-and-so reforms. And what those reforms mean is that the state made something that was previously discretionary now mandatory or forbidden. That say a law was passed. Freedom was constrained in the most trivial sense like a 40 mile per hour and 55 mile per hour speed limit put you in a box on the V axis of velocity. You cannot go below that or cannot go above that. Freedom was constrained. You were previously discretionary now you are in a box. You may argue that box is good or bad but as every law is passed you are in a box on more and more and more and more parameters. You can only do you cannot be below this amount. You cannot be above this amount. So it is literally like an ideological box like a constraint right? And so the thing is that when you are able to cause impact in this way you are powerful but because it is stochastic and it is not like you order it and it happens with a hundred percent probability you can deny that that power exists okay. So the whole system has sort of evolved for the deniable exercise of power. In many ways the org chart is actually even embedded in the language. Do you know the concept of Russell Conjugation? Eric Weinstein is big on this. Do you know what that is?  I do not know Russell Conjugation.  Yeah. So Russell Conjugation at first it just seems like a funny curiosity. It is by Bertrand Russell the concept. Also known as emotive conjugation. So it is like I sweat you perspire but she glows. Okay. Like okay.  Got it.  So he doxes she leaks but the New York Times investigates. Okay.  Yeah I gotcha. Right.  And so the thing is   That is actually a great that is a great example actually. That is a really good example.  It is a really it is a very important example.  Very important example.  Yeah. Here's why is when it comes to what journalism is like what is real journalism? Anybody can go and set up a blog to go and re-review movies or restaurants well pre-COVID probably easier but you know review books or whatever all that stuff. Huge portions of a modern newspaper you can just kind of go and do and set up and do yourself. What is the one thing that you cannot do on your own?  I can think of a lot of things I cannot do on my own but continue.  I would argue it is the investigative journalism part because you cannot just go to somebody and start digging through their garbage interrogating their friends. Acting as essentially a for-profit intelligence agency. Because basically what they would do is they will put somebody under surveillance okay. That is literally what being an investigative journalist is. You are putting somebody under surveillance essentially wire tapping them eavesdropping on them and so on and it is actually it is an extremely hostile thing. Because the goal often is to try to get that person fired to cause harm to them. To cause harm to their company and to essentially write up a prosecution and put that in the paper. And that is why they say the court of public opinion. It is basically like an indictment. In fact we sometimes use the same word like a biting indictment appeared in the paper but it is stochastic right? It is out there and it is deniable as to what happens. Hey I just put it out there. You know the old Arthur Sulzberger used to say Our job is to tell the public that the cat is jumping through the window the public will take care of the cat. So it is like a disassembled bomb strategy where you give them all the parts and you emotively conjugate you Russell conjugate the whole article such that the reader who is unaware of this is led to a conclusion but you kind of have no fingerprints on it because you just did it with language okay.  Well it is yeah. It is semantic like word-laundering.  Yeah. It is that is exactly. It is power laundering. Okay. And I will give you some concrete examples of this. Here's a really good one okay. So there is an article in 2012How Punch Protected the Times. You can just Google that and it talks about how dual class stock was the savior of the Times it was something that was really good because they could think about the long term. Then a few years later in I think 2019 you cannot fire Mark Zuckerbergs kids' kids okay. And this is an enunciation of the same thing. Oh we are creating a class of royalty that controls our national dialogue. Without basically it just emotively conjugates itself the other way right? So dual class is good when the Sulzbergers do it and it is bad when Zuckerberg does it.  I would love to if it is okay with you I would love to shift gears just a little bit but it is going to be  it will be tangential.  Yes.  Still related.  Yes.  So we chatted very briefly about I think a pretty justifiable stance that we are already in the midst not in the middle but in the beginning of what we might call widespread reputational civil war in the US which is just going to intensify. And it is going to get a lot worse once we have AI driving additional misinformation and so on it is going to be a hell of a thing. Which is not that far off I do not think. But where do you see the US going in the next say three to five years if we can constrain a little bit? Because I know it may be easier to go to say 15 directionally but if you had to make some educated guesses or wild ass speculations just based on your reading of the kind of gestalt next three to five years what do you think plausibly happens in the US?  So let me give a scenario and I am certainly not saying this is desirable. I think this is possible.  Chinese controlAmerican anarchy. So basically a Chinese victory of some kind in the South China Sea over Taiwan whether it is a referendum or military victory or something like that. Especially if the US prints money only to lose okay. Because you print a lot of money in a war. Foreign military defeat of that kind would show that the US is no longer a hyper power. And with that would potentially result in  you know that saying fiat currency is backed by men with guns?  Yes. Finally a saying I recognize! Yes.  All right. Yeah. So that is actually  Krugman himself said that in an interview to Joe Weisenthal several years ago Fiat money is backed by men with guns. So what happens when those men with guns lose and not in a sort of deniable way to COVID or Afghanistan like we did not really try or it was not a military thing but to a pure competitor. Well there is potentially an economic markdown that happens. I mean Russia's outcome in World War I. Sean McMeekin has a book that argues that the Russian Revolution  it is called A New History of the Russian Revolution argues that very good book  that Russia's most important thing was it was that war during 1917. And that is what allowed Lenin  and others to take power. That it was a wartime thing. It was not just some random proletarian revolution. It was the chaos of war that led to that. And so foreign military defeat or even foreign conflict is the kind of thing where it turns things molten. Things that were bubbling now things can flow and move around right? And here's a bad scenario. The bad scenario is an attempt to repeat Executive Order 6102 like the gold seizure okay. Do you know what that is?  Well I can kind of read it between the lines but why do not you tell me what it is?  So during the rise of the centralized government of the US and I will come back to this the concept of peak centralization but or ping me on it. But basically one of the things that FDR did was Executive Order 6102 which seized all the gold in the US and basically forced it to be kind of exchanged in at a certain price and whatnot. Now right now we are seeing insane levels of money printing. And it is certainly possible that at some point in the future they try something like an Executive Order 6102. And in fact there is this guy on Twitter who has moderate following who basically is starting to advocate for this type of thing okay. Because he had been predicting Bitcoin it was going to go to zero. It is like Facebook is a fad it is a bubble. Oh oh no it is terribly powerful it must be stopped. It is a flip from this thing is nothing it is going to go to zero to we must drive it to zero right? Or we must seize it. So if they try something like that and the reason that might be possible is you print a lot of money to finance this war and now you have got an executive order 6102 like thing and an attempted Bitcoin seizure. That is the type of thing that could kick off serious civil unrest. It is possible. The reason is if you are trying to seize BTC in a time of rampant inflation that is no longer something that can be portrayed as being for the good of the population because inflation touches I mean inflation's already pretty high but it touches everybody touches White people Black people Latina people Asian people. It is economics. It is very hard to portray it as some grand historical conflict or something like that. It really is the state versus the people. And it is not like the people were printing dollars or managing the economy. That was supposed to be the FED and the treasury and whatnot. So if inflation is rampant any try to seize the BTC that I think could be the match for the next kind of wave of conflict.  Just a quick logistics question.  Yeah.   additional instruments and abstractions are created ETFs futures et cetera in a seizure scenario would that be limited to a certain form of BTC or would it apply across all of these different instruments?  I do not know but I think that basically there is a huge difference between you having   Physical gold and ETF.  Yeah. Yeah exactly. That is right. And custodial Bitcoin which is like or let us put it as user custodial Bitcoin versus holding coins on an exchange. If you have your coins on your laptop or your device  Not your keys not your coins. That is something where there'ill have to be a serious legal process or even a SWAT team to try to get them from you. Whereas if they are on an exchange or by the way I advise complying with the law at all times you know blah blah blah. But this would be something where it would be easier to enforce that law on a giant exchange that has all their coins there.  You just log in and you get a notification.  Yeah that is right. So there is a graph that I posted November 17th 18th 2020 Bitcoin is moving off exchanges prices moving up ecosystem's going to be building out having this constrained supply at the all-time high. May be just the beginning which turned out to be true. That was almost exactly a year ago. And there is a graph from Glassnode   balance on exchanges  all exchanges which seems to show that coins have been moving off exchanges. And there is another graph from Thalamu T H A L A M U also showing that BTC held on spot exchanges may be falling. Now I have not dug into this okay. So you needed a pro subscription to Glassnode and so on and so forth. But that is an important metric to monitor because coins on exchanges are easier to seize than coins off exchanges.  And to come back to something you said is that because do you think the main driver there is because people can stake their coins or stake their I suppose yeah coins and get a higher return on decentralized platforms. Is that why you think they are coming off?  Interest is a massively scalable application right? Just park your money and get money back. And DeFi offers insane interest at very high risk.  And just for people who do not know.  decentralized finance. Yep.  Decentralized finance offers an absolutely insane level of interest. I would not even quote the numbers because any number I quote you can find a higher one if you can take on more risk basically. And what does that risk mean? It means possibly loss of principal like the smart contract could be hacked possibly other kinds of things. But you can put in a million bucks and get like a hundred thousand dollars a year or more in interest. The thing is that you could also try and put a million bucks and try to make 10 million. Because some of these coins will 10X. So it is absolutely like the upside of crypto. By contrast in banks they are at like zero interest rates or like nothing.  Just to play the other side nowhere can you make more money and also lose more money if you make poor decisions.  Exactly.  it is like the Unix of money. You can RM -RF your entire fortune or move millions with a keystroke. Do you know what RM -RF is?  I do not but I love that. I almost want you not to explain it because five people in my audience will find that amazing and the rest will not get it. But I mean I can sort of intuit what that means but why do not you spell it out for me.  RM -RF is it is like a Unix command which means remove everything dash recursive dash force. So you do it at the top of your directory hierarchy. -R means to send it to everything. -Force means do not ask me any questions. And you know people are used to doing this when they want to just nuke a directory. But if you do it in the wrong spot you are like Oh my God I deleted my entire files or whatever.  Oops.  Yeah. Now modern systems will kind of detect what node you are in and you know may not actually allow you to do that right? But that is what being a quote power user means the computer will do what you tell it to do not necessarily what you actually wanted it to do. That is what a bug is. You have instructed the computer to do something. There is an error in your logic. You did not think through a scenario you did not think through an input. And it does what you told it to do but not what you wanted to do. By the way this is like a super important thing in terms of cryptocurrency because it solves the principal-agent problem and replaces it with your ability to debug. Do you know what I mean by that? Should I talk about that for a second? Yeah.  You said the principal Asian?  Principal-agent problem.  I am kidding. Just kidding.  Sure. So   I wanted to know who this principal Asian is! Principal-agent problem. No I do not know what that means. Please continue.  Okay. So this was back in 2013 when I understood the full scope of this I was like holy cow. And the reason is whenever you have a principal and an agent for example you have a venture capitalist as a principal and they fund a CEO who is their agent. Or you are the principal and you hire a plumber who is your agent to fix something right? Or you hire a banker to go and sell something for you. The problem is that in the two by two matrix of you win you lose. They win they lose all four outcomes are possible. In particular it is possible for you to lose and them to win. For example they take commission without delivering you returns on your portfolio okay. And in fact the principal-agent problem is a fundamental thing of every single relationship on an org chart manager engineer right? CEO manager VC CEO every single edge there has a two by two matrix of who can win and who can lose okay. Now the key is to try to diagonalize this as much as possible such that the winwin and loselose are you both win the most together and you both lose the most together. Such that there is not any temptation for one party to defect off diagonal and win at the other guy's expense okay.  Yeah. Yeah. Read your terms and conditions carefully. Yeah.  That is right. And the thing is that this becomes more complicated when you have just two people. It is a two by two. When you have three people it is a two by two by two because there is eight outcomes winlose times winlose times winlose. It is a Cartesian product okay? When you have N people it is two by two by two to the Nth power. It is like this hypercube it as it gets very complicated. So it starts to happen in large organizations is that some subset of people picks the strategy where they win and everybody else loses. They try for example 51 percent can vote themselves the money of the other 49 percent. That is a straight winlose zero sum kind of dynamic okay. Now the way that startups avoid this is with equity. If you have heard the term aligning incentives it actually comes from math where it is a diagonal alignment pointing through this hypercube of incentives okay? Where the key thing to do is especially to start up 51 percent could vote themselves the other 49 percent money in theory if everybody is a shareholder vote and everybody's equal but there is not any money to distribute. All the money comes in the exit. So internal politics are limited because internal resources are limited in a small company. And so what you do there is rather than encourage people to compute every possible strategy in this giant two by two by two by two hypercube. Instead you say the win win win win win win win quadrant. Were all N of us win together in an exit an acquisition or an IPO. Well you do not have to do out the math that pays off the most and every other off agonal thing where some coalition wins while the other group loses is suboptimal. Now here' the principal-agent problem comes from the fact that when you have got two human beings their interests never fully coincide. There is a situation where one can die and the other can live or vice versa. Trolley problem type things. Push hard enough and there is often a divergence in incentives right? Not so for robots not so for programs not so for intelligent agents.  And you are going to tie this into crypto or blockchain. Yes?  Yes. Because with cryptocurrency a program can now trade on your behalf. You can rather than hiring a banker to go and trade for you you can write a program that will trade for you while you sleep on cryptocurrency exchanges and especially decentralized exchanges worldwide. That program that you write to trade especially the reason I say decentralized exchanges worldwide is that is truly just packet to packet that is full internet. There may not even be a signup process okay. That is fully on chain and so that is something where see just like you go from a telephone number to an IP address. Telephone number is a human associated thing but an IP address is a machine associated thing. Any machine can call any other machine via an IP address. That is what an IP address really is right? You go from a human bank account to a cryptocurrency address and you remove the human association and now a program can hold money make money lose money fully autonomously. And so now rather than hiring the banker you write the program. There is no more principal-agent problem because the program has no mind of its own. It is only the mind that you give it okay. Now this is super important because as trust in society decreases it is harder and harder to maintain a scaled organization of human beings because there is more and more divergence. It is an individual era. Everybody is going in this direction. Why are you the boss? I should be the boss. In fact both equality and freedom while in some ways they are often made antipodal to each other where if they are actually also similar in another respect. Which is if we are all equal totally equal. If you as not the boss of me I have total freedom then there is zero hierarchy right? It is all flattened out right? It is basically anarchic right? And in that situation everybody feels that everybody's interests have diverged. So every man for themselves okay. Now in that situation it is hard to maintain a civilized society. So I think that the answer is going to be robotics cryptocurrency. How do those things relate? Well when you give a robot instructions to go and unpack a box it just does it. There is no divergence between the capitalist and the worker. The capitalist is the worker because management becomes automation. There is a great book Factory Physics.You ever heard of this book?  I have not.  So if you ever like it is way harder to build an assembly line than to work on an assembly line okay? Factory Physics  a good book. Also Eliyahu Goldratts book The Goal is quite good. He kind of managed to wrap a it is kind of funny. It is almost like a fictional story around operations research type stuff. And it is executed better than it sounds okay. You might like it.  It is like Who Moved My Cheese?  Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.  Operations research finance.  That is right. That is right. So both of these are good books Factory Physics it is like a textbook that takes a very quantitative approach to cycle times and other parameters within a factory setting. But the main thing that you take away from that is I designed a robotic genome sequencing assembly line like 10 years ago as part of my first company. And this is something where you realize whoa it is actually way harder to build an assembly line than to run it. It is like the difference between writing a program and running a program because every box there it is actually very similar to architecting a data analysis pipeline which more of your viewers will have done because something has to flow out from this and into something else. It has to be the right format. It has to process only this many units at a given time you need to use buffers and queues to get rid of it and so on. And in many ways by the way that data analysis pipeline thing now integrates with the offline physical stuff where you will do some physical processing to wait for a computation online and then the physical process kicks off right? So 10 years ago I was kind of merging robotics and AI and cues and all this type of stuff and it seemed to me like tech people you will mess around with a Palm Pilot years before people are using an iPhone right? Or you will be in World of Warcraft before people are doing VR or everybody's on Twitter before other people are on Twitter right? So I kind of saw this firsthand. And one of the biggest things was what you want to do from any process like that is eliminate as much human error as possible. And eliminating as much human error as possible means eliminating as many humans from the process as possible. It is an error to have humans. If you want to eliminate human error. And if you can reduce it to just bugs in your code that is way better because you can see that on screen it is super consistent at least. The error is made in the same way every time. Just to give you an example if somebody rotates a so-called 96 well plate okay. An eight by 12 plate if they just rotate it wrong if they are cranking through high volume and just rotate it wrong which is easy to do I mean they have got kind of markers on it but you know people are people they can screw up. There is 96 samples that are off 96 patients get the wrong report.  96 patients of what type? What does the plate have to do with patients?  So visualize a plastic tray with indentations in it to contain liquid okay. And so those indentations are like really small basically eyedropper scale indentations. If you Google 96 well plate you will see you know go to Google images you will see a visual of this right?  Okay. Got it.  So each cell there is often like a patient sample okay. So you might have 96 samples for 96 different patients in this plate. And then you are putting various reagents in there and putting it through this process and if you rotate it wrong everybody gets the wrong result. like 23andMe   Oh I see what you are saying. I understand what you are saying. That they are matched incorrectly. Is that what you mean?  Yeah exactly right. So they had a sample swap error back in 2010 where a bunch of people got the wrong ancestry results they thought they were this ancestry they were another ancestry they thought Oh my God am I an illegitimate child? Or something like that. So the downstream consequences of this like very human error are something that the error was to include a human. And so what is going to happen is cryptocurrency means that you do not have to hire a banker you can write an intelligent agent to trade for you robotics means you do not have to hire a worker you can program a robot. Management literally becomes automation so rather than writing out instructions and setting up the assembly line and positioning workers there and calculating cycle times and so on and so forth you as the manager for many people by the way management is not tangible and that is why they devalue it. The way the labor theory of values is talked about the Marxist theory of value it starts with the visual of the factory floor you have these workers who are working and it is like Oh we oh we oh. And you have this evil fat cat boss with a cigar who is got his feet up on the desk and is just like basically cracking the whip on these poor workers. And of course scenes like this did exist in late 1800s America and I am not arguing that unethical bosses did not exist but the fundamental premise of this is Oh the workers are doing all the work and this fat cat is just sitting there and contributing nothing and so on and so forth. And part of that is because capital and management are kind of intangible and it is often denied that they create any value. But now what is actually possible is a totally different model where it does not start at the factory floor but instead you start let us say in an academic lecture hall let us say it is physics right? What percentage of people are able to comprehend the material and what percentage of people could write the textbook? And then what percentage of people could rewrite the textbook? And it is on that small minority of people that we depend for refrigeration and flight and fiber optics and so on. It is the opposite rather than like this small set of fat cats who exploits this giant pyramid with all these workers at the bottom it is like an inverse pyramid theory where the vast majority of people depend upon this small group of technologists to create all the stuff that they do not understand how to operate that maintains modern civilization. The funny thing is that your engineering grad student often has both of these mental models in their head at the same time and it just depends on whether they are thinking of themselves as a poor exploited worker or a sophisticated engineering kind of character. And what I would argue is that in the 20th century the reason that the labor theory of value preponderated is that there was leverage to large groups of workers they could do a strike because of mass production you needed workers to operate a factory so there was leverage there. And of course what happened was in the Soviet Union they pushed everybody into a lose-lose scenario where there was a strike but it was not a win-lose scenario where the workers win and the bosses lose it was a lose-lose scenario where after enough strikes you got communism where nobody could strike. You had the White Sea labor canal you had the Gulag you had basically communism as this giant slave labor country this prison state where you could not escape they would shoot you if you tried to get over the Berlin Wall for example right? So the leverage existed between workers and capitalists in a certain way. Now it is a different kind of thing. Now with the dock worker shortages with the truck driver shortages there is a huge incentive for automation and for robotics. And people are just doing if you have heard this thing the great resignation it is happening across many different social classes.  Yeah.  With labor shortages of a different kind it is not a strike it is a resignation. Okay well I cannot get somebody at this price fine let me figure out how to automate this with robots. And here' it is not intangible anymore. Management is not intangible it is not just instructions that the boss is giving to the workers and he puts his feet up on a desk it is literally code and GitHub. It is lines of code that say Move this arm here and position it here calculate the degrees of freedom here. It is math it is computer science it is now tangible because it is code. And now you are not giving instructions to a worker you are giving instructions to a robot a computer an agent.  All right so this is actually a perfect segue to what I was going to lead into. And I am just going to talk for a little bit to set the stage. Beginning probably just before our last conversation in Q1 of this year and certainly with increasing depth over the last six months I have been spending a lot of my time in what we might consider Web3 more immersed in blockchain and cryptocurrencies NFTs et cetera. So many of the things that I had read about have become less theoretical for me. And there are things that I have been able to explore and thankfully not experience in some of the negative cases that have led me to all sorts of realizations. So for instance one is if you just read crypto Twitter at least some of the people on crypto Twitter which I would suggest no one do if that is your sole source of information but some interesting discussions nonetheless there are some sort of techno idealists or techno optimists who sort of paint this decentralized future that is just utopian in almost every respect. But there are risks in bad code right? Smart contract risk and there are insurance companies Nexus Mutual and many others of different types that try to provide ways for people to protect themselves against the downside of certain types of smart contract risk. We talked about the pseudonymous economy last time whereby people would use alter egos of different types that did not change constantly but rather accrued some type of reputational value. This is another thing that I have seen most acutely for myself within DeFi and NFTs specifically within NFTs people who are collecting high value or what are currently high value JPGs in essence right? But pieces of artwork that are non-fungible and people now have hundreds of millions of dollars worth of these pieces of artwork in some instances and very few people if anyone knows their real names right? So I have had this experience for the first time where I have even met some of these people in person and tried to make small talk we chatted about this before we started recording and I am like Oh hey where are you flying in from? And they are like Nah I am not going to answer that. And I was like Oh wow okay this is a different conversation than I am accustomed to. But there is also some degree of counterparty risk when you are dealing with pseudonymous identities let us just say where you do not yet have established some reliability score outside of a verified account and check mark on Twitter which can also be faked. I mean that can also be sort of hacked in some respects. So here's my sort of overarching question and I am going to lead into it. So I am sure you have heard this line Trusted third parties are security holes right?  Yeah.  So on paper I am like That makes sense. But when you start to really weigh into say NFTs is just as an example and people say You need to be your own bank. There is a lot of responsibility and logistics that goes into being your own bank in the same way that if you for instance want to or imagine living in this kind of utopian decentralized world where there is a degree I am not saying this is you but a degree of anarchy and we saw this during riots in the last year or two in places like Portland in many cities around the world you quickly end up in a state that is not unlike what we saw during Hurricane Katrina where these atrocities being committed left and right because there is no law enforcement. So then that leads to questions of do you want to be your own law enforcement? And I have seen how much fraud there is and sophisticated sort of social engineering goes into some shadowy corners of the world of NFTs say with people posing as customer support and discords and then taking snapshots of people's QR codes and so on. I mean there is a level of kind of sophistication that I had not personally been exposed to because I am shielded by my  now you could I am sure pick this apart but I am shielded on some level from certain trusted third parties right? I do not have the obligation to act as my own bouncer and security guard and banker. So I am wondering if you would like to kind of comment on any of this because I have realized that for me personally being Jason Bourne in my physical and digital life on every level is a scale and scope of responsibility that I do not really want even though I have firearms training I have some technical ability I have an incredibly good network I could actually organize my life around some of those sort of pillars of self-sufficiency but I am not convinced I totally want to. And I will tie this in also you were talking about Singapore before we started recording and you said For centralized it delivers right? So I am just wondering for muggles who might be listening. And I would include myself in that group where we are like You know what? I am not ready to be the lone ranger on the frontier of complete decentralization for all of the perceived risks that at least I see once you start to weigh into it. Where is the Goldilocks point and how do you decide that for yourself?  Excellent question I have thought about this a lot from many different angles and let me at least give you my thinking on it and shoot it or agree as you want. So this kind of relates to the thing I was talking about earlier with communist capital will capital crypto capital submission sympathy You must submit you must sympathize you must be sovereign. And that last point of the triangle you must be sovereign as you are discovering is actually not  that is why I said it is an extreme point. It is too hard for pretty much anybody to not just hold their own currency but grow their own food and get their own water and so on and so forth. Humans are individuals but they are also social animals and you make some compromises. Now the stuff I had just discussed on robotics actually reduces the necessary skill of societies. In theory you could have and this is where I think we end up in 2050 or 2040 maybe even sooner you could go back to the future and have robotic farms robotic autarkic farms where if you are looking at the automation of agriculture it is getting there it is really improving dramatically AI for picking things and so on and you kind of give your instructions to your robotic field hands. And you might actually because then you go truly full stack you are off the grid but you have maybe a modern life. Now of course you need enough land you are still going to have trade you are not going to be able to grow every crop there but you might be able to do okay. So I do think that there is an eventual thing I do not know what the minimum scale society is but I think it is smaller than 300 million it might be smaller than a million it might be even a few thousand people could operate something decent. But there is actually to make that more explicit you know the project Open Source Ecology?  I do not I recognize the words I can imagine but why do not you describe it?  Yeah so it is a little different than what people think when they hear the word ecology. It is basically a kit of like 30 open source machines that if you build them from scratch you could rebuild civilization the global village construction set. So it is like How do I get running water? And how do I get this? It is all the things that civilization depends on but it is machines that you can build yourself. And there is also a couple of other books like this there is a book called The Knowledge by I think Lewis Dartnell which I think is really good and  kind of the post-apocalyptic thing.  That is what The Knowledge is about?  Yeah  . And then there is another book  A Survival Guide from the Stranded Time Traveler . And those books I think are quite good those two as well as like Open Source Ecology because it addresses some of what you are talking about which is how would somebody start from scratch and do this? We do not know how to do it. And in some ways what is happening is there is a cycle of centralization and decentralization that just happens. For example in China it is like there is the warring states period and then the whole thing is unified and then it breaks up again and it is unified. And we see this in the computer industry in a totally different context which is you have mainframes then you have personal computers and then you have cloud and then you have cryptocurrency and smartphones. And it kind of goes back and forth like this. And the thing about this is when a system is centralized people chafe at the control and they want sovereignty they want power they push on it then they manage to break it up and then it is all decentralized and it is chaos. And now what is scarce is leadership they are like Oh let us put it back together and so on. And seeing it from one vantage point this just looks like a cycle you just keep coming back where you came from you go from anarchy back to tyranny to anarchy to tyranny right? But seeing it from another standpoint it is like a helix it is a cycle in the X Y plane but we are making progress in sort of this ascending kind of cycle over many generations. Now I will put an asterisk on that too which is I do not believe that progress is necessarily guaranteed. In fact there is a couple of good podcasts or shows like the Fall of Civilizations Podcast  or Samo Burja actually has some good stuff on this where he talks about Gobekli Tepe which is like the oldest human civilization. It appears looking at some of the civilizational records that humans may have gotten pretty advanced and then just kind of totally collapsed and we have done that a few times in human history.  So you are saying you believe in Atlantis?  Well if not Atlantis   I am kidding.  So like Gobekli Tepe for example it is this site that is kind of like Stonehenge except way older than Stonehenge found in what is today modern Turkey that pushed way back our dates of when civilization started.  Mm-hmm .  So it might be like playing a video game where you get to level 15 and then you die you get to level 27 and then you die. And this just might be the most advanced human civilization we have built to date but it could just collapse and we might come back I mean it happened to the dinosaurs they got hit by a meteor.  Yeah I mean there is some pretty bizarre archeological records and really interesting carbon dating done in South America also that would point to advanced civilizational collapse of different types.  That is right and so the thing is that when you say progress is possible but it is not guaranteed I mean for example think about Christianity and the Roman Empire Christianity in some sense was no offense to your listeners I have nothing against it but it was like the original communism at the time of the Roman empire it tore down the Roman Empire it said that slaves are good and sooner a rich man go through the eye of a needle than get to Heaven. And basically it delegitimated the Roman Empire and eventually it fell at least the Western Roman Empire. And that was something you got the Dark Ages for a while until this sort of fusion emerged on the other side you had the Germanization of Christianity for example why do you have Saint Nicholas and Santa Claus and snow next to a scene of Bethlehem and the manger in the desert? Those are two totally different cultures thousands of miles apart but what is happened is it is like copy pasting one story next to another like horizontal gene transfer in organisms the meme replicates even if the substance is changed quite a bit. And so what happened was eventually after the Dark Ages you got a thing that was a contradiction in terms or oxymoron before the Christian king not the Roman Empire or the Holy Roman Empire of course it was not continuous with the thing but conceptually and you kind of had that rapprochement but there was a Dark Ages like a collapse of civilization in between. And so bad ideas or let us call it certain ideas can collapse civilization. That has happened okay?  Yeah.  And we have recovered but it is not necessarily a guarantee if we have collapsed there is a guarantee that we will fully recover. The dinosaurs did not and of course there was an external force   Well some ideas are even generated or myths to collapse civilizations right?  Yeah right so this gets to something which I think of as a very important part of the future political axis which is you can say it is like Democrat Republican you can say it is centralization decentralization but I think and even more important access in the medium to long-term is going to be transhumanism versus anarcho-primitivism and we kind of talked about some of this before I think did we?  Yeah let us reiterate it and then I just want to make sure I bookmark that I want to come back to how do you find this sweet spot on the spectrum?  Yes.  Because one concern I have is that the decentralized tools given the literacy required and the precautionary measures and tech savvy required will forever remain or for a long time maybe not forever but for a long time remain the tools of half a percent of a given population or maybe a few percent of a given population. But unless there are kind of UIs slapped on top which will extensively just create again trusted third parties so it seems sort of antithetical I do not want you to lose your train of thought but I want to make sure that we come back to that.  Let me quickly do anarcho-primitivism and transhumanism and then come back to your point. So the quick thing on that is anarcho-primitivism says We are not living in nature we are far away from it we are having all these plastics we are having all of this pollution. There is a right of center version of that which is like Our testosterone count is down. Which it is actually that is not like a conspiracy theory it is actually like a scientific fact it is way lower than it used to be for adult men. All that is down and so there is some aspect where this is now like neutral we are diabetic we are eating all these grains it is all bad instead we need to kind of reject modern civilization in part or full like the Unabomber  thesis and just go back to the land right? And of course the problem with this is I think that is a romanticized version of what going back to the land is. I do not care if some people want to go and do like an Amish thing and live on their own or snapshot some point in time they want to like tear down industrial civilization. Conversely the transhumanist thing is the opposite which says What makes us human is technology. You know Richard Wranghams book How Cooking Made Us Human? You ever heard of that?  I have yeah. Finally one book I have heard of.  So Wrangham's book is interesting   I have also read Horton Hears a Who! Just to establish just my level of reading.  Your Chinese is way better than mine and we have a  but what I learned from Tools of Titans was amazing.  Thank you.  But Cooking Made Us Human essentially says that technology is actually part of humanity in the sense that we sort of outsource our metabolism to cooking and therefore could evolve in a different way right?  100 percent agree.  And that is true for clothes and other things there is this book The Naked Ape  which is kind of also about that. And the idea is that we are a technological species technology is not some anti-human thing it is humanity there is a difference between us versus animals and so our destiny is to get to the stars let us do this right? Let us become transcendent beings one with the machine brain-machine interface. This vessel is just who we are today but our ancestors' ancestors if we really want to make our ancestors proud they were single cell organisms or non-human creatures so whatever is in front will be to us as we are to them. And so that is like the transhumanism thing and what is funny is both of these in their extreme form are like off-putting to some people right? They are like Why cannot we just stick where we are? But the nature of things is that those people who have ideological zeal will start pulling the train in one direction versus another it is very hard to kind of keep something just stable in one state you know?  Yeah.  You would have to end technology and communication etc. right? Okay so now coming back to your point basically what do you do when all of these institutions collapse? I will slightly rephrase it. What do you do when all these institutions collapse? Because most people cannot be that sovereign because it is like an overnight plunge into refounding everything. It is not simply Be your own bank it is maybe Be your own food supply and there is certain things that are sitting on your desk that cost you 10 bucks but you would never be able to build them or it is very expensive to build them from scratch. Like I do not know like a USB cable.  Well how am I going to build this? I am holding up a ballpoint pen.  Yeah of course that is a famous saying No one can build a pencil right? The first unit rolling off the assembly line is wildly expensive then the one millionth or billionth unit is super cheap but getting to that point of technology from just a grass field and sand is super hard.  Yeah it is going to be hard to do from your intentional community in the jungles of Costa Rica.  That is right but all the supply chain stuff is going to start forcing a greater degree of autarky. If we are lucky it is just a gradual ramping up. If unlucky it is too fast and you do not have time to adapt. It is like the difference between like working out gradually versus like go put up 300 and break your elbow or whatever right? And so the point is what I think happens is unbundling and rebundling. So one of Marc Andreessens collaborators a long time ago had this throw off line which I love because it is so funny but it is also true is The only ways to make money in business are bundling and unbundling.  And this goes back to the spiral thing I was talking about. For example you take the songs off of a CD and you unbundle them into MP3s then you rebundle them into Spotify playlists or you take articles out of a newspaper and you put them into individual URLs and then you rebundle them into Twitter feeds.  Yeah or a subscription right?  Or a subscription that is right and you take the countries that we have today that the people no longer feel a loyalty to you are unbundling them into the coming American anarchy and then you are going to rebundle them on the other side into groups that do have something in common and that will be probably a really messy global process when this Pax Americana falls. And one analogy is the 30 Years' War right? In some ways by the way that is actually quite analogous to what we are going through do you know about what happened then?  I do not! I would love to know. Tell me sir.  The printing press  I have this tweet actually on this. Printing press plus Martin Luther led to the Reformation led to the Counter-Reformation led to the religious wars the 30 Years' War led to eventually the Peace of Westphalia and the nation state. And the internet plus Satoshi Nakamoto led to the decentralization  by analogy the Reformation  led to the counter-decentralization led to potentially the coin wars the American anarchy and then question mark question mark and then network states. So let me explain what that means. So basically by the time of Martin Luther the Catholic Church had become this ossified centralized power and had for example this thing called indulgences where you could go and sin and you could just go and pay some money and be like Yeah give it to the church they would be like No biggie okay you have you know a  Hall pass.  Yeah it is a hall pass exactly. You can argue it is similar and this is a little bit of a poke but like a carbon credit go and sin with carbon and then buy a credit. You might argue that is a good thing or a bad thing but it is analogous right?  Yeah got to make those fuckers more expensive got to make it more expensive. Anyway continue.  An even better example is like TSA Pre where like Everybody's a sinner everybody's a potential terrorist but pay this money and you can be in an express lane. Like Huh? It does not strike anybody as right. It is like this weird thing where if the issue is safety why can you pay for it? Or at least let us call it  it arouses question marks right? And so Martin Luther   So two things I was just going to bring us back to your tweet. The other thing I will say for folks is if you want to learn a bit more about Martin Luther and many of the things that followed there is an incredible podcast episode it takes a little while to get warmed up called Prophets of Doom which is on Hardcore History by Dan Carlin. It was the first episode I ever listened to of his which got me hooked but a fascinating listen. So I recommend that to folks and back to our regularly schedule. Apologies sir please continue.  Great also there is a good thing on this called the Bitcoin Reformation with Tuur Demeester T-U-U-R D-E-M-E-E-S-T-E-R and that kind of goes through some similar ideas basically like analogizing Bitcoin to Martin Luther. So maybe look at both of those together and then you know the historical version and some of the parallels. But briefly basically Martin Luther because it was the time of the printing press he did not just nail his 95 Theses to  in I think 1517 basically people were able to copy his arguments and for the first time people had heard these sort of deconstructing arguments that said The Catholic Church is a scam. You should have a personal relationship with God. It does not matter what the Church says et cetera. And so there was a religious argument but it was also an argument over power and who should hold power. And for a long time when I was a kid I did not understand Why are people arguing about the Body of Christ a wafer? It seemed like the weirdest kind of thing to argue about and fight and kill about. I just did not understand this. Now I understand that a lot of those things were sort of proxies for who has power. Does the Church have power or did these new guys have power? And so what happened was the Reformation was like this thing of basically decentralization of power away from the church and the Counter-Reformation took a little while to get underway but this was the Catholic Church saying Not so fast and basically fought. There are some reforms but there is also some combat. And these were the wars of religion. Do you go with the centralized church or the decentralized Protestant movement? Protestant versus Catholic. And eventually after 30 years of war a very bloody war people were like Okay we are going to come up with essentially a live and let live philosophy the Peace of Westfalia where we are within nation states and you have the monopoly of violence within that and a transnational religion does not have influence within this geography. So that is to say The Catholic Church does not have influence here. And it was like Okay we are both pretty bloody let us settle this. And the thing is that is way out of living memory that is many generations ago but sometimes people seem to need  one thing that is funny is a lot of things kind of you can argue they happen on like 70 80-year cycles because things drop out of living memory and then certain aspects repeat. So the thing is people have sort of forgotten how bad war is in some ways so they are kind of LARPing it right? And maybe they will make it into a real thing. Actually Fukuyama  mentioned this his End of History thing actually had a pressing comment that people on some level are wired to struggle and if they do not have struggled they will reinvent struggle they will struggle against order and prosperity to kind of make it harder.  Yeah manufacture struggle absolutely.  Yeah exactly that is right.  And that is Francis Fukuyama?  Yeah. Let me actually  I will find the exact quote. One second.  And while you are looking for that then I want to come back to the Bitcoin or cryptocurrency comparison and the part that I stumbled over when you were reading the tweet initially was the I want to say the great re-centralization or something like that and I just was not sure what that was.  Ah okay. Yes right? So basically centralization de-centralization re-centralization is like entity unbundling rebundling. It is like CDs individual MP3s playlists. It is newspapers individual articles Twitter feeds. It is countries anarchy new countries new cities.  What is that in cryptocurrency the re-centralization?  What is that in cryptocurrency? So it is for example an exchange so it is happening on many different scales but one of them is store your money at a bank okay pull it all out and then you have got Bitcoin on your computer store your money in exchange okay. Pull that out and then put it on a dex partially and each step here actually gives you greater control.  Decentralized exchange.  Decentralized exchange. And there is ways of doing this where you have less risk than on a centralized exchange. For example it is an atomic trade it is on the dex like a flash loan and then you are getting it back in the next transaction. There is various ways of doing this where a centralized exchange improves your control over a bank and a decentralized exchange improves your control over centralized exchange. Even if there is parts of it that seem like you are reinventing the wheel the wheel was reinvented. In fact there is this great graphic that shows like an original stone wheel and then like a chariot wheel and then like a modern Michelin tire. We do need to reinvent the wheel. Okay. And we have reinvented the wheel. We just need to be conscious of when we are doing it. So the way I kind of think about this oh just finish that Reformation analogy by the way. So just like there was the Catholic Church and then there is the Reformation which is a decentralizing event and then there is this huge fight with the Counter-Reformation and then eventually a truce where Protestantism basically won relative to the previous era but Catholicism did not die out it is still a big thing. Similarly I think you can think of the era we are in as the decentralization and now the counter-decentralization. So just like the printing press and Martin Luther kicked off the Reformation the internet and cryptocurrency have kicked off the decentralization. And what does a counter-decentralization look like? It looks like deplatforming from social media platforms. It looks like unbanking it looks like the Chinese surveillance state it looks like basically exercising root control over this it is basically root versus routers. Okay. So do you have root over this computer system and you are exercising root control or do you have this decentralized set of routers that are just routing packets back and forth? And the counter-decentralization I believe is going to succeed in China and fail in the US and what I mean by that is I think China because they have very ruthlessly competent managers. There is actually a good video by Eric X. Li from 2013 which it does not hold up in every aspect today because there is certain claims he makes that for example that Xi Jinping will step down and it is like a multi  that they have figured out political succession. Xi Jinping repealed that or whatever. Those are things where he says that the Mao era is continuous with the Deng era when Deng was really a coup against Mao's successor and it was a total shift in direction. It is not what Mao intended. So those two parts maybe he just has to say that for domestic consumption or what have you. So you have to take it with a grain of salt. But the rest of it is actually very interesting where at least gives a 2013 Chinese vantage point on their system. Why do they actually have these ruthlessly competent managers? Because the way that the CCP works is yes there is not voting. If people want to exercise political power they join the party. Sort of similar to how in the US yes you can vote. But if you really want to be politically powerful you want to run for mayor or something like that that means joining a party. So sort of like that of course not the same but roughly analogous those people who are quite politically ambitious join the Communist party and they might start as running some small really tiny town of a hundred people and then they level up and they go to something of 10000 or a hundred thousand people or a million and then eventually 10 million. Each level becomes more and more competitive and they have surveys they do of the populus and they do 360 reviews where they are looking at your peers who are running other cities and they are looking at your superiors' reports it is like promotion in a corporation. So of course there is patronage and there is connections and so on that go into it but it is like a giant corporation where they are looking very much at metrics and did you build this many toilets? Did you hit your numbers from above? Did you manage the population's discontent? Is this region does it have higher dissatisfaction than other parts of China and so and so forth? So a corporation is not a democracy but it is responsive to its customers in a certain way and the Chinese government was always kind of conscious of losing the mandate of heaven and having too much dissatisfaction. So did all these polls and so on try to keep ahead of public sentiment solve these kinds of problems and so on. Again I am not saying they are good. I am saying that this is how they selected for competent leadership. That is why they have a lot of engineers in their ranks and that is why they built a great firewall and other things because they have guys who are basically selected as capital allocators as managers. So because of that because they have the Great Firewall because they ban social media because they have done other things I think China is going to win the counter-decentralization where people thought that their bands on the internet and their controls on internet would not work they kind of did. They basically just had their wall garden where they have root access and you know Xi Jinping can basically push a button and anybody can be disappeared. There is like super famous actresses that just got disappeared. Now that is as I said ruthlessly coming because that is kind of a scary thing to be under. You do not really have any recourse. There is no civil liberties there is no human rights. And yeah it is true that they over the last 40 years they have delivered a lot of benefits to their population. There is this huge group that is being pulled out of poverty but that level of absolute power can also go south. And so but the point is that I think they will succeed have succeeded arguably in the counter-decentralization by contrast in the US. The US establishment is by turns apathetic. It is either apathy or panic for example on 's not a big deal. For example these tech journalists wrote this article No Handshakes Please trying to make fun of anybody for taking precautions trying to shame taking precautions folks wrote about oh these bubble boys are so concerned about this making fun of this early on in COVID. And then they switched completely to panic later and never acknowledged that they had had all this false reporting misleading reporting. They accused people of being racist for saying Hey maybe we should not have the Chinatown parade after with the Wuhan coronavirus on the loose after Wuhan itself had canceled its own parades. This is like January-February 2020. So what happened was they were at first apathetic Oh this is not going to be a big deal nobody should do anything. And then they are panicking Oh my God. And so that kind of mode is very common. The US establishment is not selected for folks who look ahead it is selected for actors and propagandists. It is not selected for capital allocators. Just a couple of examples like there is Lorena Gonzalez this legislator in California thought that relatively junior guy at Founder's Fund was a billionaire or Brian Williams and a member of the New York Times editorial board thought that if you divide a Bloomberg's fortune by 300 million Americans all of them would get like a ton of money and obviously they would not. So you actually select for folks who are verbally good but enumerate and that is very different from what the Chinese system selects for and that results in folks who are not like VCs or technologists who are not calculating ahead or doing contingency planning or saying neither apathy or panic we can have a technical plan to potentially succeed if we do X Y and Z. So what that results in the US establishment that is always behind the eight ball. Lehman is a surprise. Bear is a surprise. COVID is a surprise. Trump is a surprise. Afghanistan's a surprise. Everything is a surprise. And then they react in this very reactive way. Facebook is a surprise. And why is it a surprise? Because Facebook's a fad Facebook's a bubble. These tech journalists for example in 2013 even there is this article Why Facebook Will Never Make a Significant Profit right or famous article Amazon.bomb. Okay. Or another NYT classic Google's Toughest Search is for a Business Model. And it is something where this goes back so far in some ways basically these guys are they are so used to inheriting something that they could never have built. They sit upon this US establishment that they do not understand what it is to build something and they do not think anybody can build something and so they are dismissive of the stuff until it gets so big that it cannot be denied and then they react in this super panicked way.  Okay.  That is why I think   Let us extend that to current and near term crypto and you could take that in any direction you want. It could be   Sure.   otherwise in the US is there going to be a rash regulatory whiplash because we have already seen cease and desist letters and so on to DeFi companies and there is a lot of scrutiny over lending products. Where do you foresee that going?  Yeah. So by the way I will say one thing which is once you do get in the mode of trying to react to this stuff that is all at 0.00001 percent traction you are thinking like an angel investor because it is like when you start looking at that dashboard and you no longer set your filter at something that is at 50 percent of the population traction or even 10 percent when you go to 0.0001 percent and a tiny percent of the population's using it the number of things you are looking at explodes and you need to have a really good detector for what will be important what will not be and it is going to be erroneous at times and it needs to be quantitative because you put in 50K into this and 50 million to this and so it is hard but that is actually what capital allocation involves especially in the modern era is figuring out what is going to get big in getting ahead of it. So to your question what is going to happen with sort of the regulatory state's collision with crypto. There is various scenarios. Okay. But I think on balance they are going to lose and let me explain what I mean by that.  They meaning the US government?  The federal government is going to lose.  Federal government.  Okay. And why do I say that? Well so the macro  the short version is the US government is losing control over both domestic and international affairs and so states and cities within the US will take positions at variants with the Feds because cryptocurrencies are becoming so valuable to them that they will have the equivalent of sanctuary states and sanctuary cities for crypto. Crypto entrepreneurs will write model legislation that will be adopted by places like Texas and Wyoming and Colorado and Florida and other kinds of things that for example prevent Bitcoin seizures in law before the thing happens this is already there by the way in some ways like Wyoming's DAO law is quite advanced right? Miami has accepted some city coins and Texas is big in Bitcoin minings. This is already happening but the next level of that is doing the same thing that they are already doing versus the Feds which is basically openly define them and saying actually we are doing state nullification and just to give you some recent examples of this the federal government is losing control of events. I just made a little list of this the other day both domestic and international affairs inflation Afghanistan China on Taiwan France on the AUKUS thing El Salvador on Bitcoin. 17 states by the way opposed this idea that the FBI should be sent to school board meetings. So 17 states wrote a letter on education. Texas has taken a different policy on vaccine mandates and abortion. Germany went its own way on Nord Stream 2. Florida is pushing back on this financial surveillance thing saying that they are not going to abide by the federal government's edict on this. So you are seeing significant energy at the state level within empire and then also outside from places like El Salvador or Switzerland that are just taking policies that are at variance with what the US government's position is. Now this is quite different from 10 or 15 or 20 years ago when under Obama for example there was a lot of kicking in doors in Europe like going after Swiss bank accounts or sanctioning everybody on the planet or invading everybody for democracy like under Bush. So abroad there are a lot of muscle is being thrown on and then domestically basically the feds would step in and force states to do something. But over the last few decades what we have seen are sanctuary cities for immigration we have seen states have different gun laws we have seen states have different marijuana laws. We are seeing a larger and larger divergence. States for example had different gay marriage laws than the feds for a long time. We are seeing a larger and larger divergence. States are becoming genuinely differentiated from each other and from the federal government and that is happening within and then countries abroad are also taking a different route. So France for example now they are going hard on nuclear which is definitely not a priority of to my knowledge at least the current admin they are doing things Germany is trading with Russia. That is not something the US government wants them to do. India's trading with Russia on some missile stuff. That is again something the US government threatened sanctions on. So countries are doing things that the US government does not want them to do and states within the US are doing things that federal government does not want them to do. So because they are losing control over world events see the whole Pax Americana is based on basically the repeal of the 10th Amendment at home and regulatory harmonization abroad. So FDR effectively repealed the 10th Amendment where everything that was not officially the federal government's was left to the states but a very broad interpretation of the Interstate Commerce Clause said that everything is interstate commerce. So the states actually do not have any rights. We are going to reinterpret as a federal government having power of everything and therefore you get these alphabet soup of agencies FDA and SEC and all these things kind of rose out of the FDR era and then abroad. Go ahead you laughed.  No. Oh well I just like the alphabet soup mention it shows you my level of humor sophistication but if I could interject for one second.  Of course.  If you had to live in the United States where would you live and why?  Texas or Florida.  Okay. Why?  Probably Florida. Why? Because those are becoming freedom states. I think Wyoming's also good. I think Colorado under Jared Polis is really good. You are basically seeing the pro freedom. Jared Polis is a Democrat by the way. He is a tech founder. He understands what wealth creation is and so on.  That was Blue Mountain way back in the day? Did not he have Blue Mountain the gift card company way back in the early days? I could have sworn that that was   Yeah. That is right. So   Yeah he was a few years ahead of me at Princeton and did very well.  Super smart guy. I think he actually is involved with Techstars and so on. So it is something where in some sort of the Center and South of the country are going to diverge from the West coast and the Northeast I think roughly speaking but that is not straight Democrat Republican. That is more decentralization versus centralization. And so I think that those states and it is literally like a search engine right? I think one thing I have wanted for a long time actually I wrote about this like eight nine years ago but I think that the next political model is what I call a crowd choice where you have a search engine where the rows are jurisdictions and the columns are policies sort of like NomadList.com but it is basically a bunch of attributes and then you just put in your preference and then you sort and filter but then the next step is to group with a bunch of your friends and have you all put in your preference vector and then it finds a jurisdiction that is closest to your collective preferences.  Okay. Let me ask you just before we  I want to not lose that but with Florida and Texas when we are talking about freedom what types of freedom what is your hierarchy of freedoms look like? Because there are also a lot of people listening just to ask to act as a proxy for listeners say well you may have greater say financial freedom because a state might act like a crypto-safe haven of some type but there may be sacrifices that you make and sort of tacitly endorse in for civil liberties   Like reproductive freedom.  Exactly. So how do you think about how to stack rank?  Yeah. So the first thing I would say is as a pragmatist like being in the US and a US citizen means you are sort of de facto funding like all the wars the US wages around the world and so on. So people are implicitly already making moral trade offs of some kind right? They might when you point that out that someone takes the heat down because then because a new thing is different from the things it is already baked. The moral compromise they have already made implicitly. Right? You buy stuff and you do not know where that supply chain comes from. Maybe there is something that you would disagree with ethically. Right? So people make these compromises all the time and fundamentally I think it is a vector right? Policy is not a scaler it is a vector. It is a set of decisions a tax rate of X and a zero one as to whether drones are legal and this is your reproductive freedomabortion policy and this is your this policy. And you know there is an aspect of de gustibus non est disputandum. I cannot   Before you ask I do not know what that means.  Oh.  Sounds like some Latin though if I am not   Yeah. So I probably mispronounced it but De gustibus non est disputandum is in matters of taste there can be no disputes right? So there is aspects of this that are preferences rather than absolutes. I might say Thou shall not kill but I cannot say Thou shall like the color green. That is a preference right?  Uh-huh .  And so some of these things and crucially by the way I think there are multiple optima okay? This by the way I was coming up with sort of a name for how I think about my philosophy or something and   Could you define optima please?  Sure yes. So imagine looking down at a bit of hilly terrain okay? And a local optima is the peak of one of those hills and a global optima is the highest peak of the highest hill okay? So if your goal was to ascend to the highest height you might ascend to the top of one of the hills but really what you want is the global optima in this case which is the top of the highest hill. Right? However it could be the case they could have multiple hills all in the same region that are basically of the same height.  Got it. Okay.  Okay. And if for example you thought of your kind of latitude and launched you there as I do not know let us say your percent of time spent remote and your I do not know your equity compensation versus cash percentage right? In a company culture these are sliders that you could set to like zero and a hundred both of them and if you replace that hill analogy with latitude and longitude with these two zero and a hundred sliders you could imagine different kinds of companies that had different combinations that are both equally successful in market cap on the Z axis but that had different policy combinations.  Okay. Yep. How does that apply to states similarly?  Very similarly. That is right. Because I think right now we sort of think of companies currencies cities countries communities as being different things but they are all going to become the same thing essentially the projection of a social network or rather companies become like apps effectively on the  this will sound like tech babble okay but a blockchain is property rights identity historical records marriage and birth certificates all the type of stuff a society can run a ton of stuff that currently does at city hall on a blockchain. It is property rights. It is who has admission to what building who owns what property what sale occurred at what time who paid who dispute resolution. A lot of that stuff goes on chain and then a lot of companies are butt off from that and use that as an application point. So all of these things basically set around companies currency cities countries communities all settle around chains right? That is like the software stack for running a community and an analogy to this is before the internet books and movies and music and songs television telephone calls those are all different. And then after the internet they go turn into packets and all kind of mixed together and so the normal thing that a macroeconomist will say is he will say something like Governments are not households.  Okay.  Have you heard that before?  Nope I have not.  So there is a quote actually I think it was Tyler Cowen quoted it. I think it was John Lanchester in the London Review of Books. Gosh hold on. Let me find it. Yeah here we are. So January 2013 Richard Feynman was once asked what he would pass on if the whole edifice of modern scientific knowledge had been lost and all he could give to posterity was a single sentence. What axiom would convey the maximum amount of scientific information in the fewest possible words? His candidate was All things are made of atoms.' In a similar spirit if the whole ramshackle structure of contemporary macroeconomics vanished into thin air and the field had to reconstruct from scratch the sentence which packs much of the discipline in the fewest possible words might be quote governments are not households. Now the reason this is really important is this is why people will argue that what I am talking about for companies does not apply to cities or to countries because they are fundamentally different. Governments are not households and there is a whole discipline of macro that that has arisen around this. However I argue that actually in many ways American and Western in macroeconomics is in its own way as pseudo-scientific as Soviet economics was. There is a whole discipline by the way of Soviet economics Marxist economics that had all these equations and so on and there are some aspects of it that are still useful like Kantor's work on  or maybe his name was Kantor or Kantorovich  on linear programming and optimal allocation and some of it is okay but a lot of it was basically essentially just a recapitulation of Marxist premises right? And when they say governments are not households and they say that recapitulates a whole field what they mean is that the government has guns and households do not and therefore the government can seize money and coerce people to do things and households cannot do this. So everything which assumes some ability to do redistribution some ability to print some ability to do this some that that is a hidden assumption. The bullet point at the end of QED is a bullet.  Okay.  And it is basically the assumption is of coercive force as opposed to physics where it is the analogy gives us to physics and atoms the human element is not there. Okay. So once you say governments are not households and you think of it from a different angle of governments have guns. Yes it is true. They are different. But I do think that in the medium term future because of exit because of global ability I mean we have this tension now I talked about exit a lot even before the coronavirus as the most important right? But post Corona post lockdown people prize it way more. When it is taken away you prize it more.  Okay.  You prize free migration you prize ability to leave and we are seeing a great migration in the US. So the great resignation the great migration remote work all this and lockdown all this stuff has made people both more aware of how important the policy is of the state that they are in and were able to move and by the way everybody does not have to move. Only a small percentage of the world moved to the US and look at what a big deal that was. On the margins some degree of mobility can cause massive change. This is also why everybody does not necessarily need to hold their coins. The fact that some people can is enormous leverage on the system. It is just like Steve Ballmer back when this apocryphal story but when an executive left from Microsoft to Google supposedly he threw a chair or shoved a chair or something like that. Everybody did not need to leave Google. Enough people need to leave then he was like okay this is real okay. Google is a real competitor and eventually that led to him stepping down and Satya  taking over. So thing is that the great resignation the great migration remote lockdown all of these things mean much more exit. When there is much more exit when you can hold your coins on your person when you are renting rather than buying when you are basically running a light and your stuff is in NFTs rather than real estate and when all of the stuff when your books are in Kindle when your mail is in Gmail all of that type of stuff right or ideally in some kind of decentralized thing versus centralized service. When you do not have obligate ties to the land then the state has less leverage and so because of that over time it moves for example to a subscription model and because the cost of   When you say it you mean residency in a given place?  Yeah. Like Swiss cantons have something like this where you pay X dollars per year and that satisfies your obligation to them to live there.  Okay.  So I think the future business model of governments is A subscription and B inflation. So what that means is there is a SaaS type service that you subscribe to and that gives you access to all this government stuff like a V zero that is like Singpass in Singapore for example right? Estonia there is something called X-Road. And the thing about this is it actually is not just a revenue model for them it is also actually a crime and punishment model where right now we think of digital deplatforming as completely lawless and policing as forceful and inhumane. But it may turn out that in the future if your punishment is being deplatformed for something but it is written in law beforehand it is not some arbitrary thing that is being made up it is like seven-day suspension in order for doing this   It is like having your driver's license revoked for infractions?  Yeah exactly. And so the thing about this is I am not saying that is good necessarily but it is more humane than jailing somebody arguably right? And again I am not also saying I am not so unrealistic as to think that physical punishment is never necessary or anything like that not at all. But I do think that having levels of steps are valuable where you do not have to escalate it all the way that you can have a deterrent which is a slap like a digital slap or digital suspension versus all the way to the gun. The gun is a really serious thing. So basically when you have these subscription in states you pay and you have effectively access to this service and doors open and literally physically open the key unlocks it. It is basically digital border control in the sense of why do you have access to the state? Because you have paid in you have a subscription you have an identity unifies passport driver's license all of this stuff right? Now immediately people say Oh my God that gives the root operator of the state enormous control. And it does so that is why you have to preserve the right to exit. You have to preserve Bitcoin you have to preserve cryptocurrency. And then there is boundary cases where if you went and killed somebody would you then have the right to exit right after that? Probably not. And so there is some social smart contract that you sign upon physically entering or virtually entering this jurisdiction just like terms of service on a website but it is more serious and you might require a cryptocurrency deposit for example rather than just a click-through of I have read this and so it is almost like posting bail or posting a bond to enter the jurisdiction or posting a deposit with rent right? If you exit without doing it then that is forfeit and that is significant enough for example to deter petty crimes and whatnot. So that is the subscription aspect and the inflation aspect is I think as I said unbundling and bundling okay? Bitcoin is necessary as a corrective to 20th century fiat but there is another way of thinking about fiat which was actually a useful thing for me to conceptualize. You know Chesterton's fence ? You know that concept?  I do not.  So there is a fence sitting out there and someone says I do not know why this fence is here. I am going to tear it down. He is like Well if you know why that fence is there then maybe I will let you tear it down because it might be there for a good reason. There is a second version of this which says often there is a structure that exists and the reasons that people give for its existence are not the actual reasons. For example religious taboos on preparing milk and meat a certain way like tray for Haram. The theory is that it was related to like in a desert environment food would spoil. These taboos would roughly keep people safe even if they were kind of religious as opposed to scientific they sort of help people stay away from impure food. So people thought that you were struck down by God if you violated them but it is really a bacteria or something you had. So the practice kept you safe so even if the active ingredient was not well understood. So one thing about fiat currency that I observed the other day is   But hold on hold on a second. Pause there. So you said they believe something or they believe the justification for something. I think you have but there is sort of an inaccurate assessment of the history of something. So that is true. You take that to be true or untrue what you just said?   It is sometimes true. In that particular like I have not run the study myself to see if these written religious practices actually ended up in food purification. There is certainly things where there is tribes that have had potion preparation processes that include a genuine active ingredient that pharmaceutical companies have then extracted and put into a pill.  Yeah.  So basically there is often an active ingredient in some folk practice that we do not yet know how it works. For example one thing that is sort of interesting is acupuncture and bioelectricity. Bioelectricity is actually like a real thing. It is not really talked about but evidently has implications for wound healing and so on and maybe acupuncture is tapping into that. Right? There is this guy he is got a great TikTok. What is this guy's name?  Are you on TikTok?  No but educational TikTok. What is his name? NASJAQ has a great video on bioelectricity and limb regeneration with citations and visuals and so on. So sometimes there is stuff and it works and we do not know why it works. In fact maybe our reasoning for why it works is wrong. People actually still disagree in some ways on how like lift works for an airplane. Of course with physics there is things like this. So the two business models of states in the future will be I think rather than coercive will be subscription and inflation. Subscription we just described. Inflation the idea is this Bitcoin is short-term volatile but shows immense long-term appreciation. The US dollar is actually the opposite. It is short-term relatively stable. Forget about inflation for now. I will come back to that. It is short-term relatively stable but over the long term you can see it has had a huge drop in purchasing power. Right now this is talked about in a moral way. I understand why because essentially the fiat engineers do not really acknowledge this as a trade-off or even recognize it as such. It gets back to this thing of like the religious taboo. But if you think about it from an engineering mindset most people hold a portfolio. They do not hold a hundred percent BTC and a hundred or a hundred percent. Well some people hold a hundred percent USD but you do not usually hold a hundred percent BTC you hold some BTC and some USD. Why? Because some of this is stable on a daily basis and the rest is appreciating over time. Now here's the concept. What if those are just opposite engineering trade-offs that say the long-term depreciation of fiat provides effectively the funds to stabilize it in the short term. Just to think about that from an equation standpoint if you were to  do you know what an order book is?  Probably not what I have in my imagination. So why do not you tell me?  Okay so this was something actually which I did not know before I got into cryptocurrency and I think I mean the number of people who know this is probably increased by a hundred or a thousand acts over the last 10 years. It is very important because it describes how supply and demand and prices really interact. Prices do not come from stores. They come from this and where does it come from? Okay. So let me explain then I will come all the way back up. So you go to the store and you buy I do not know a gallon of milk. All right. That is going to cost you I do not know how much it is today. Let us say it is 5. Maybe 10 with all the inflation but all right. 5. So fine. You are a price taker. Okay? If instead you go to the store and you say I want all your milk. I want 200 individual one-gallon bottles I will pay 5 per. You can do that. But now if you want to get more milk you need to go to the next store. They are selling they have an inventory of 30-gallon bottles but it is 5.50. Okay? As you start buying out the inventory here word gets around and people start hiking the price because they know you are going to walk in and clear them out of all of this liquidity of milk. That is a difference between having a small enough demand that you do not really affect the price and having a large enough demand that you actually move the market. One way of thinking about it is these are like bids that are placed on either side. One store has placed a sale order of 200 gallons of milk at 5. The next store has placed a sale order of 30 gallons of milk at 5.50. All of these add up to be all of what is for sale. There might be like a ton there might be thousands of gallons if somebody really wants to pay like 20 a gallon there is like thousands of gallons that become profitable to produce at that level at that price. Then conversely demand is sort of lowest at 5 but there would be a ton of demand. There might be lots of people who would buy a gallon of milk for a dollar. So you can visualize this sort of V-shaped thing where the current market-clearing price is 5. But if a lot of people suddenly buy and clear out the supply then the next available unit might be at 8 or 10. Conversely if there is a huge amount of supply and there is not demand then the market-clearing price drops from like 5 to 4 or 3. Okay? With me so far right?  I am.  So that is called an order book. That is actually how prices are born. Prices literally come from the interaction of supply and demand. So all kinds of people are being trained as true capitalists because they are actually seeing the root acts of the system how prices are set between supply and demand. Supply and demand are now computable visible tangible. This has huge implications for lots of things because those order books are going to come to everything. As we cryptify the whole world it is not just BTC USD that has an order book where you are buying units of BTC for blocks of USD or vice versa. It is not just like either USD it is not just every coin versus every coin it is every asset versus every asset. Okay? This is what I call the DeFi matrix. Essentially every financial interaction that we think of. A digital wallet does not just hold Bitcoin. It can eventually hold everything. It can hold fiat currencies Ethereum tokens NFTs whatever. So it is got billions of rows but it does not just hold everything everything trades against everything.  Yeah.  Right.  Well just to interject for a second. I mean a very concrete I feel like NFTs and expensive or not expensive JPGs are sort of the  will be an on ramp. It is like a gateway drug for a lot of people into crypto and Web3 and so on. You can see just for people who want to look for articles on this and certainly you can see it yourself. But if you compare traditional art to say OpenSea and collectibles or an NFT artwork on OpenSea price discovery and the sort of transparency of order book that you are talking about is right there. Then there are analytics being built on top of these marketplaces. Just I wanted to give one example of what is already happening for folks.  Exactly. Essentially order books mean price discovery. All kinds of things suddenly become liquid and priceable. Things we could never price before like a minute of your time like as a JPG like a byte on your hard or megabyte on your hard drive all the type of stuff becomes priceable. Just to relate it I am going to talk about DeFi matrix come back up to the order book come back up to smart fiat then back up to subscription inflation then back up to the rebundling after the American anarchy. What is the DeFi matrix? Digital wallets mean you can hold every asset on your computer. Not just Bitcoin not just Ethereum but fiat currencies like CBDCs when central bank digital currencies come out every stock every bond every NFT every video game potion you have a billion items in your digital wallet those billion items you do not just hold them you trade them against the billion items. You have this gigantic table and every existing exchange today a crypto exchange a stock exchange a foreign exchange foreign currency exchange all of them can be considered sub-matrices of these like a crypto exchange is fiat currencies cryptocurrencies versus each other. A stock exchange is stocks and fiat currencies of foreign exchanges currencies versus currencies. All those are just sub-matrices of this massive DeFi matrix. Some of them are actually exchanges and some of them are so-called automated market makers where you have got some rare piece of art and you have got rather like some infrequently traded token and you have got another infrequently traded token. This will give you some conversion between at some price it might be a high price but you can go directly between them. Okay. The DeFi matrix means everything is just getting re-priced all the time. Every asset competes against every other asset. People do not understand how big a deal this is. It is kind of like once every .  Even for a Luddite like me it is a huge deal. Once you really start to look at it it is huge.  It is the internet of wealth internet of money and it is going to be similar to every newspaper went online and then Google News came online and indexed them and suddenly every newspaper was competing against every other newspaper. So what that meant was that now all the ones that were just reprinting AP stories were no longer competitive. So lots of weak newspapers that were not adding that much value died. Right? So in the same way when every asset is competing against every other asset is extreme capitalism. Okay. There is no geographical advantage anymore.  Not just competing but also you can sort of cross-collateralize and do all sorts of wacky not wacky but new things that are going to upend a lot of our current thinking around how capital flows.  That is right. One of the big ones is it is actually a second attack on fiat currency. The first attack is that Bitcoin appreciates and Bitcoin cannot be seized and so on like all the stuff we have known over the last 10 years. The second attack  what do they call it when you sell a company or you go IPO they call it a liquidity event. Because cash is universal barter and you can exchange it for other things whereas you cannot exchange stock directly. The DeFi matrix changes that. Everything is always liquid all the time. So at some price you can get a quote for something so long as it is not banned by the state. If you can get a quote for something do you need to actually convert it into cash you can just do it instantaneously. You can liquidate it as necessary. In fact you want to hold minimum necessary cash and have everything else because cash does not appreciate. In fact cash depreciates. So now liquidity is itself second whole access where it reduces the amount of wealth held in fiat currencies. The DeFi matrix is this very very big thing. It will be to this decade what the social graph was the previous one. You might say Well why do not countries just ban it? Well the thing is that coercion only works within your borders and large countries can try it but small countries like Switzerland or Singapore or Dubai or Arsenia will see an opportunity here to level up their fiat currencies recognizing that they no longer have a geographical advantage just like local newspapers no longer have the geographical advantage. They were just put into this global competition recognizing no longer a geographical advantage they might add privacy features. Okay. They might add transparent management of reserves. They might add Bitcoin backing. Suddenly currencies are competing with each other in a way they never have before on features and not simply like monetary policy and so on like central bankers become like Vitalik and Zooko. The smart ones at least to the ones who do not just like the newspaper guys that do not. NGMI you have heard that one?  Yes.  Not going to make   I do know NGMI.  Not going to make it. Exactly.  Not going to make it.  That is right. So this is this.  Probably nothing.  Yeah. Probably nothing. Exactly. So this is the same thing that the remote economy has done. It has put Miami in direct competition with San Francisco and poorly managed cities. Right? This was recently reported. I do not know how true it is but the mayor of SF told the mayor of Miami Hey stop taking my people. He is like I love you but no. That is awesome and the reason that is awesome is removing from the tiered two-party system to the wired and city system. From two parties to 20 or 30 or 50 or a hundred cities competing for you means that internal disputes are less and intercity competition is more which is healthier. Arguably you can say that gets bad when it goes to interstate violence. But it is good when it is economic competition because this Marquess of Queensberry Rules and make your city better and make it greener and make it cleaner and make it healthier and have a better life for people and you will attract good residents. So all right coming back up. So the DeFi matrix was every asset against every other asset all assets trade against all other assets in the DeFi economy just like all cities trade against all other cities in the remote economy. By the way those are related because municipal bonds and municipal equity like city coins are like municipal equity the equivalent municipal bonds in a sense or like the next version all of those will also trade. So you will have the price of a city. Every ideology everything will have a price which roughly reflects people's measure of belief in it. Are there more buy orders? Are people long on the cities? Do they think it is going to improve in 10 years? Is the next Shanghai or is it the next Detroit sell right? That is reflected in real estate values currently today but it is kind of opaque that all becomes REITs that are on-chain. So the price of a city goes up and down. In fact that is actually probably going to be the determinant of your reelection. Did you boost the REIT of the city or not? That is actually quantitative and numerical and empirical it cuts through the BS. Did you deliver shared prosperity for your residents or not? Basically did more people want to buy into the city buy a subscription buy a piece of the digital REIT versus not. By the way let me just talk about the REIT for a second. REIT real estate investment trust. One thing I have thought a lot about is there is an interesting way to sort of cut the Gordian Knot of NIMBYYIMBY and one issue.  What the hell is NIMBY-YIMBY? I was like I got Gordian but what in the hell is NIMBY-YIMBY.  s a big. I am a little surprised you have not heard this one because this is a big thing in cities probably in Austin but NIMBY is Not In My BackYard. You cannot build in my backyard and then YIMBY is a more recent movement. That is like Yes In My BackYard we need to build housing. Housing scarcity is bad and essentially this is like this intra-city kind of thing. Now what leads to this dispute is that the NIMBYs have their own houses and their property values go up if they can constrain supply while demand remains constant. Now a lot of the stuff they did in San Francisco restricting housing construction because of shadows and so forth I think is shortsighted because by driving away demand it is like it is something where the long term it is tonifying the city. Tech is leaving not even that long term it is happening now.  Especially with such a limited inventory. I mean especially for a city of that size.  The rebuttal to this is That place sucks it is too crowded and the food sucks. That seems like a contradiction I am butchering that. You know the proverb right? Nobody wants to go there. It is too crowded. But there is a truth to that which is why did Friendster not make it? It could not handle the traffic so people went elsewhere. Nobody goes there anymore. It was too crowded meaning it fell over it could not handle the load. It could not scale and therefore it lost. So the demand goes up and then it crashes down to nothing. So nobody goes there anymore. It is too crowded. It is not always a fallacy. It is sometimes a real thing. It means the thing could not scale. Okay. So the point is that with ar me out because I am going to say something that will sound shocking.  Thank God. This was  the whole conversation was just so timid.  Yeah.  Please continue.  Maybe the problem is actually that direct ownership of non-fungible property leads people to only have an interest in their local house but not a shared interest in the city or community or town as a whole. If you can separate out the utility of living in the house from the value proposition of selling the house and actually Xi of all people was like Houses should be for living in not speculation. The more that people move into the digital realm the more they start thinking about things in terms of investments and so on just like you can split out for example a corporate stock you can split out the voting shares versus the economics and you can sell the vote independently in some context. Can we split out the utility from the appreciation? One model is you buy like a big plot of land like a Burning Man style thing in the middle of nowhere and you set up a REIT on it and basically every square I do not know maybe every square meter or something like that is like a share in the REIT because it is all equal at the beginning right? Now you might say the city center is somewhat more valuable than the outside but when somebody goes and lives there they do not own their home. Instead they own shares in the REIT. So as the city expands if they are asked to literally demolish their home and move to maybe a bigger home but something differently they have an interest in the city as a whole they have an economic interest in the city as a whole not just their individual home. Do you understand what I am saying?  I was thinking I do. I was thinking in addition to the REIT I cannot remember the terminology used but like the municipal bonds the city tokens I am not sure the proper phrasing but if your taxes or your SaaS fee that you paid to a given city or state went into a city or state-based token in sufficient quantity and you would have to figure out what the sufficient quantity is to properly incentivize someone who is the resourced at X level or Y level or Z level that would also sort of align on.  Yeah.  Align interest.  So it is interesting. You could kind of go back to  have you heard of Georgism?  I have not it sounds like it has something to do with George though.  Henry George this was this a concept which is it it is obscure. Now this one is pretty obscure I guess but I think it might come back to the future. So Georgism is the idea that the one thing that governments really do own is land. That is the arbitrary thing and that all revenue should come from that. It is interesting because it is kind of outside of left and right. Basically the premise is everything else is a value added by humans. But land is this thing that was arbitrarily sort of stolen or controlled or whatever by a government. So land is the ledger that states have access to. Right? More generally land plus natural resource rights. Okay. The thing about this is you can imagine people talk about gold-backed currency. You can imagine land-backed city coins where the city is reorganized as a REIT. Or this might have to be done from scratch but by the way because legacy cities might not be able to do this reform. It is basically like land reform under communism in a sense collectivization except its capitalization. Ideally you would be opt-in where you do it with a new   Sounds tricky. This sounds tricky.  So like doing with the legacy city I do not have a good answer for it. But let us say you go and buy land in the middle of nowhere and there is a ton of middle of nowhere by the way America is still a big country. Russia's big Canada's big there is actually lots of wide-open pieces of land. What you do is because it is the internet you do a drone overflight of it you recruit people to crowdfund this territory and they have to buy in and hold the city coin to hold that is like the right to build on this number of shares like square-meters or whatever the territory. They have to commit to some holding period. They cannot just buy and then leave and speculate. So there is a commitment to actually build into it. Then you have something where at the beginning.  That is another thing just a quick side note. That is another thing I learned about since kind of wading into the waters of Web3 is wash trading and all that kind of   Yeah.  Anyway we do not have to go down that rabbit hole but yes. So to prevent people from flipping there is a holding period.  Yeah. It is essentially something where it is again unbundling and re-bundling where in a sense markets say Hey screw loyalty it is an economic transaction. These sort of rediscovered loyalty or patriotism or loyalty cards or frequent flyer miles or holding periods whatever you want to call it loyalty is valuable right? Because loyalty produces collective goods that an individual cannot necessarily have on their own. Other people's loyalty to something is valuable to you because it will be stable and be there when you come back right?  We should take a second just for people. So HODLing H-O-D-L I have read a number of different explanations for this one is Hold On for Dear Life. Another one is hold but it was a typo.  Yeah. That is what it is. Yeah. That is what it was. Basically it was a typo there is a guy who is drunk and he posted I am not smart enough to do the trade. I am just HODLing. I think it is   Off it went.  Have you heard the term bacronym?  I have not heard the term bacronym.  The bacronym is a reverse-engineered acronym. So hold on for dear life is like a reverse-engineered acronym. They often do this.  I like that.  They often just for like a Bill's coming out of DC Like the PATRIOT Act or something something like abbreviation or whatever.  Yeah.  Or the CARES Act. So basically and by the way on the topic of like loyalty and so on this is actually a deep point because if my friend and somebody who I agree with on some things disagree on other things Noah Smith had this tweet about how when the police were basically quasi-abolished in San Francisco you have organized crime looting these stores. Actually the working-class employees at these stores are being victimized by essentially a mafia criminal class because the police have left. It is not like some Jean Valjean going and stealing a loaf of bread. It is a guy who is just like methodically loading stuff into the car and then going and fencing it on Amazon or eBay a very different kind of thing. Right? It is a genuine crime organized people.  You can look back at the Loma Prieta Loma Prieta earthquake. What happened during that period of time in San Francisco? Same story.  I just heard after the Loma Prieta earthquake that happened.  Well after the Loma Prieta earthquake. I think people overestimated the amount of infrastructure mobile infrastructure that is available in a given city. Right? So in San Francisco I did disaster response training with the  it is called rn California Emergency Response Team training with the fire department. I believe the police department was also involved and they just kind of specced out how long you could expect to go without services if certain capacities went down like water or electric and during Loma Prieta which was also called I believe the World Series earthquake because it was caught on camera during the World Series. People were well I should not say people. Criminals were greasing the Hills at Dolores Park and just carjacking car after car which is sort of just a reminder of some of the possible harsh realities that await you if you have no available law enforcement or infrastructure.  Yes. So let us get to decentralized defense in a bit after the American anarchy but basically   I still do not know how inflation fits into.  Yeah. Okay. I am coming. Okay. So the thing about this is like abolish the police abolish the economy or at least the physical economy. Okay? The reason is in the digital world and everything that you can map digital you can protect it with cryptography but the physical world still requires physical violence. It may eventually move to robots like drone enforcement of law or something like that. That would actually mean law is code really is law but at least for a while it is going to be physical police and so on. The thing about that but we were starting to see robocops like robodogs and stuff walking around with the cops and so on in the V1 of this era V0.1. But abolish the police abolish the economy means if you do not have police then people are just going to steal. If they are just going to steal there is no property rights and there is no stores and all the Walgreens leave and whatnot. But it is actually also deeper than that which is unless there is some prestige or praise because the police the military do risk their lives for relatively low pay. Actually I mean I know policemen are sometimes well-paid nowadays but in general and you can argue this point of course there is lots of people who get mad about this. But in general at least for service the risk of death is actually non-trivial and so the price often can offset that. But what does is the patriotism and the feeling of serving your country and serving your collective and whatnot. When that loyalty and patriotism is no longer there when that center does not hold when people do not believe in it it is not like the economics can just continue or at least they cannot continue very easily because the guys who will step up to essentially collectively defend property and going back to the earlier thing it is when there is uncertainty that war happens it is when there is uncertainty that crime happens. If there are strong punishments there will be no punishments right? The Shang Yang concept it is the end. It is like the variable reward the variable punishment that kind of like Should I make a break for it? Should I go for it? If it is certain then people typically will not do it. It is like a very swift and certain deterrent. If it is worth the risk it might be worth the risk. Well what you do not want is people to start calculating whether that kind of crime pays right? Once they start calculating it then it is bad and you get a destabilization because more people do it and that overwhelms even more limited resources and you start moving to a new equilibrium of a mafia state which is like Russia in the '90s which unfortunately I think is similar to what the American anarchy might be. So just talking about this coming back. So the DeFi matrix is all versus all all assets versus all. The order book tells you how prices are determined. When I mentioned that future states will have subscription versus inflation all currencies are going to compete against all other assets. And cities will also be able to issue their currencies alongside states. So issuing a currency will become a new business model. It already has been. The currencies of companies and cities and countries and communities will trade alongside digital currencies in one gigantic thing. In this environment you are constraint   Do currencies almost like tokens become  we have to be careful herewith I mean who knows how it will get resolved but sort of unregulated securities but there they are sort of interchangeable in this hypothetical example.  Yeah. So on that topic by the way I do not believe tokens are securities any more than I believe YouTube is television. The thing is YouTube was not regulated like television you do not need a TV license. You do not need a broadcast license like Skype or telephony to go and place a WhatsApp call. That is not regulated like ATT. Email is not regulated like the post office because we did not take these super old things and apply them to the internet and the same way going citing hundred-year-old statutes from or stuff from like the 1930s in the 2020s or 2030s is simply in aposite. Larry Page had the saying Any law that is more than 50 years old just has to be reexamined probably cannot be right. I mean this is before the internet right? This paraphrases Larry Page. So I think these laws will get reexamined. I think what the Soviets called the correlation of forces is against them. But so far as they are in effect or being interpreted that way of course be compliant et cetera et cetera. With that said not every country is America. In effect actually I RTed something the other day where it is actually more and more common now for crypto projects to ban Americans from buying into them you may have seen some of these things right? They literally IP ban Americans. Right? And the thing is .  Like a lot of Swiss banks.  Yeah exactly.  They are just ID banning instead of IP banning.  That is right. This you should expect more and more of where the US throwing its weight around with sanctions and threats and so on is suddenly starting to realize that okay it is backlashing on them. Because the expectation is Oh so you want the American market? Well you need to comply with us. And now entrepreneurs realize I do not need the US market to win so no thank you very much. I am just going to block Americans.  Yeah.  Okay? This already happened in New York with the BitLicense where it basically meant that any crypto innovation  in a sense it was good because it just ensured that we move the future of finance out of Wall Street.  Could you describe what BitLicense was and then what happened?  Yeah. It is a set of onerous regulations on cryptocurrency companies where  it was just basically passed so that somebody could have a career achievement. It was something where you just have to fill out enormous amounts of paperwork and it was uncertain the timeline and the cost. A startup cannot wait years for a possible license before it operates.  Right.  So what happened was New York overestimated their leverage and they are like We are New York. What are you going to do? We are the center of the world. You can make it here you can make it anywhere. Actually no I can make it elsewhere and New York is last on the list. And so rather than putting them at the front it was too onerous it was too high a form to fill out too high a price imposed for that first customer. Because that is what regulation is. It is the price of your first customer.  Yeah.  Or another way of putting it your first customer is the state that grants you the license to operate and have access to their market. Now as the relative share of that market declines as the rest of the world becomes bigger as the percent of GDP that New York controls or financial GP whatever you want to call it finance market that New York controls drops suddenly its leverage drops off a cliff. But its regulators have not caught up and they still think that they have that leverage when you have just IP banned all New York people and just have them last. And maybe you do that feature three years in. So it ensures New York is at the back of the line for innovation. That is now happening to America.  So startups just move?  Startups just move but they also IP ban. And so this is a new thing because the US is supposed to be at the front of things and whatnot. So   That is happening in Asia-Pacific right? In the sense that entrepreneurs are sort of leaving the gravitational pull of China to have their physical base elsewhere.  Yes absolutely. So both China and the US are driving away their best  actually  NYT CCP and BTC their fundamental weaknesses are they are driving away some of the best. NYT for example is piling up the mid-widths but it is losing Marc Andreessen and Glenn Greenwald. CCP has certainly got a bunch of nationalist-like zombies. Some of them are actually pretty smart but they are losing the next Jack Ma and Meituan CEO and ByteDance CEO and so on. They have decapitated all of their major tech companies and they do not make the pretenses about it. When NYT did that to Uber there is this whole  because it is decentralized because it is stochastic because the press cannot just fire somebody like Xi Jinping can just basically order and fire somebody it had to be like a thousand articles and this whole process to decapitate them and replace Travis  with a guy who I like but who was formerly on the NYT Editorial Board who was acceptable to NYC. So the journalists effectively went and decapitated a tech company. They are trying to do that to Facebook now but because there is still some pretensive rule of law and some pretense of due process and free speech it cannot just be like they do in China where they just chop and gone. But it certainly is doing something where it is alienating many of the best from the NYC corner just as CCP is alienating many of the best from the CCP corner of the triangle. And actually even the BTC corner of the triangle maximalism which is like the extreme version is alienating people like Vitalik or Zooko or the Solana founders or anybody who wants to innovate on so-called L1 they are kind of being pushed away from that corner. So those three corners are kind of pushing what I think of as the decentralized center. It is the folks who no longer believe in NYT the folks who are leaving CCP or the folks who want to do L1 innovation besides BTC. There may be BTC and they may respect BTC and use it and hold it but they are not mononumists. That is to say like there is monotheism. Monotheism is only one God. There is also monoseatism only one government the government can do everything. There is this ad from 10 years ago Government is the  thing we all belong to. Where people replaced G-O-D with G-O-V as the strong man up there rather than the guy with the beard it becomes the US government the US military. It is really strong and it is benevolent. It can kill your enemies and it can redistribute the money and take care of the poor. And then the third version of that is mononuism which is not replacing G-O-D with G-O-V but G-O-V with B-T-C where it is like just like the there is certain people who believe the government can do anything. It is sort of a joke Bitcoin fixes this. And I do believe by the way that Bitcoin fixes a lot of things but it does not fix everything. And when you project so much onto it it actually becomes unrealistic.  Yeah. Right.  And again to be clear relative to most people I am probably down near that corner but it is a log scale. You know?  Yeah. Yeah. Totally.  So the people who are at 10X are a hundred X.  Okay. Oh yeah. No what are we missing from the Matrix? Because I definitely want to ask you some additional questions.  Okay. So I will just kind of come back up those six points. Right? So DeFi Matrix all versus all all currencies trade against all other currencies. The order book is each cell in the DeFi Matrix how that price is determined. How does this relate to the concept of the future business models of governments? So subscription and inflation basically you pay for the subscription to have like this effectively digital passport wallet driver's license currency of the city login property rights marriage certificate birth certificate all this stuff. The inflation comes from the smart version of fiat says Hey. Bitcoin is volatile today but appreciating over time. fiat is flat today but depreciating over time. And the reason it is flat today is we are sort of seizing some of the money a little bit to maintain its price stability against a bunch of goods. And this is where all the pieces link together. So essentially if you were to design not a fiat currency but what I call not not a fiat coin but a flat coin. Where it is not the dollar or the renminbi it is a new digital asset whose property is that unlike the inflating dollar it is flat against the number of chairs or bottles of milk or things like that. If flat coin would try to be as flat as possible in a time of money-driven inflation in order for that to work you need some reserve of that flat coin. And you need to sort of  let us say there is 10 goods that you' the price of flat coin versus chairs the price versus milk the price versus tomatoes whatever. Those are 10 order books with buy and sell demand like we talked about. In order to maintain it to be flat you need to keep the price within that V just not moving too much. And that means some amount of money so you can place buy and sell orders to stabilize it when other people are selling and buying. Now that will deplete that amount of money over time. And where do you replenish it from? It may come from   Let me ask you a dumb question. When you say So you can place buy and sell orders to maintain the flatness of the flat coin. Who is you in this case? Is it   That would be the manager.  Is it just code?  Yeah. Or it is basically the manager of that flat coin. It is the city or the government or the entity.  I see. I see what you are saying.  Right? Basically it is a new central bank.  It is acting like a  right. Exactly. It is like the central bank.  It is like  Greenspan has this concept the Plunge Protection Team. And the thing about it and this is crucial you might say Well wait. Did not we just invent the new boss same as the old boss? So how come you are saying central bankers? Well that is why like I mentioned the helix the spiral unbundling and rebundling just like you go from CDs to MP3s to playlists here you go from unconstrained fiat where you have no alternatives and it is just being printed and seizing everybody's money silently to Bitcoin which checks that. And now to a checked fiat where if they print too much or inflate too much and they are doing too much more than is necessary to achieve short-term monetary stability you exit to BTC. In the same way that with a company if it issues too many shares and dilutes everybody down you are like No thank you very much. And then you liquidate to cash. So Bitcoin then and I mentioned this before Bitcoin at a hundred billion valuation market cap Bitcoin at a hundred billion is an industry. Bitcoin at 1 trillion is a government. Bitcoin at 10 trillion or maybe 100 trillion somewhere in that range is a world government just not the one that anybody imagined. Essentially there is this vision of a world government that was like this sort of communist socialist world government thing that everybody would be brotherhood of man. And this sort of the libertarian thing of F that F the UN we want to decentralize. And then Bitcoin is actually like a libertarian-issued world government which constrains every state in the sense that they cannot spend more than they have because their users will go to the DeFi Matrix and cash out the currency for BTC. Which is like BTC is like the zero zero of the DeFi Matrix. Most people do not think about this but gold is  when people thought Okay Bitcoin would achieve convergence with gold. It has done that by the way. It is around a trillion. It is like the same order of magnitude as gold. And gold is like two and Bitcoin is like one or two. It is like 1.2. So Bitcoin is like 1.2 trill and I think gold last time I looked it was like two trill. So it is the same order of magnitude. Bitcoin has now hit gold. But here's the thing. Gold today is a shadow of what gold was. Gold was the thing that kings wanted. It was the thing that constrained all states. It had its flaws because Spain could mine gold out of the New World and basically cause this huge inflation shock of gold coming back. So it was not like a constant in the same way. But Bitcoin is digital gold as the world economy has re-centered around it. That is not a trillion dollar thing. That is like a hundred trillion dollar thing. That is like the thing that everybody cares about. It is a very very different matter.  Yeah.  So that is how basically a future government  so our subscription and inflation which is roughly similar to a SaaS company is SaaS subscription and it is equity.  subscription and inflation. They are non-coercive because it is not profitable to be coercive. Sending SWAT teams around costs money. And so instead what you want to do is have somebody hit a key and enter your society. Enforcing compliance is costly. Drones and so on may change this. And so that is actually I think a trend for like 2040 late 2030s. I say drones. I do not just mean aerial drones.  walking robots driving robots all that stuff. As we mentioned earlier that solves the principal-agent problem. You do not need to have people fold into you. The robot will do exactly what you say. So an individual can exert much more control if they have got a robot fleet. Okay? But coming back up this is how I see us sort of rebundling eventually after the coming American anarchy. And why do I say American anarchy? If you recall we talked about the decentralization and the counter-decentralization. And why I thought the counter-decentralization would succeed in China because they have highly competent management they are ruthlessly competent but they are selected for capital allocators people who can get ahead of the curve engineers folks who basically set up the Great Firewall and blocked social media before anybody in the West realized how significant that stuff is going to be. They had seen the Arab Spring in China so they knew what it could be. But they acted early. And now today what you have is the same writers who celebrated free speech at that time are now u-turning on it and basically arguing only media corporations should be considered true. And they are trying to jam the jack-in-the box but it is already kind of sprung out because they are very rarely looking. So in the West I think the counter-decentralization will fail because these guys are rearward looking because it got too big because also they are not selected for engineering competence. How many people in Congress can even name what a firewall is? How many of them could define what a private key is? They are selected for being lawyers and actually also actors. And why do I say actors? This is actually a bigger thing that I realized. Hollywood explains more of America than I had realized. Essentially everybody who is an influencer is a celebrity and politicians are reading lines given to them. And when there is less and less and less connection with the real world when it is more and more just rhetoric to win elections and celebrity influencing online they basically become like actors reading scripts. And there is no follow through. There is no follow-up. Of course this trend has been going on for a while. Obviously Reagan was an actor and there have been famous actors on the base of name recognition. But now just the concept of acting  Bruno Maes has also written about this how the current admin is kind of like a and it has been for a while  Trump as well. It is not a partisan thing. It is like a hologram. It is like an order that people are going through the motions and acting but something very different bubbling elsewhere. It is like CCP and BTC and these things that are not part of the movie. And so the thing is that with San Francisco in 2019 I actually had this post that I think holds up fairly well. And I said  this is about six months seven months right before the COVID-19. And I said this is like June 19th 2019 San Francisco has 30000 car break-ins a year. The streets are filthy and a health hazard. It is extraordinarily expensive yet feces and prices rise in tandem. This is a bubble which will burst when the right alternative finally appears just like taxi medallions. And I said San Francisco can be compared to a terrible product with great legacy distribution. Users hate it and want to leave just like they want to leave Oracle or something like that. But network effects keep people in for a while at least as extractive brands continue to soar. When the true alternative finally arrives exit will be rapid.  When was that?  That was June 18th 2019.  Good timing.  Good timing right? So I was like this feels like a rubber band tension which is getting too strong. And what was funny by the way was Paul Graham's response which I actually think also held up well which I only actually saw much later. Paul said in response This seems unlikely. Historically it is been common for hubs of certain industries to draw people despite high cost and low quality of life. When they decline it is always due to some external force e.g. the whole country does not simply an alternative appearing. And there is a guy who replied to both. He said It looks like both tweets held up from October 2021. Right? It is pretty  is not that good? I thought that was really cool.  Yeah. That is good. That is good.  And so essentially  there is a recent post that I actually like a lot. Have you heard of the concept of tensegrity?  I have actually. That is a nice boost to my confidence. Yes.  I had not heard of tensegrity.  So I am familiar with tensegrity within the context of Buckminster Fuller and different design principles.  Yeah. And so this is something where I had probably seen it but I was not actually aware of the word until a few days ago. And tensegrity is I think an excellent visual metaphor. See I had thought of things a lot of things implicitly in terms of that in terms of rubber band tensions and force diagrams. And there is a rubber band tension in SF between how horrible the city was which was pushing people out like feces and prices rising in tandem just being attacked on the street in this super expensive city and no public transport and it is unsafe for women and crime all this stuff. Yet on the other hand you had all of these tech jobs and all this stuff keeping people and the valuations of these companies kept going up.  Uber this an expensive apartment or whatever. So there is just this crazy thing happening where money is being pumped in from the cloud and just incinerated by the city. And it is 12 billion a year on this stuff. I think it is 13.7. Now it is like probably the worst managed  you cannot even call it a first-world city really anymore. That does not even apply. It is a descending world city. Did I tell you about that? I do not use the term developed world and developing world anymore. It is just all ascending world and declining world. And that is a declining world city.  Yeah. That makes sense to me. Let me say one thing just real quick on tensegrity.  Yes.  So it is a combination of tension and integrity. Here' the characteristic property of a stable three-dimensional structure consisting of members under tension that are contiguous and members under compression that are not. So you can find this on Wikipedia. There are also somatic or physiological examples of this. At least certainly some people would posit that fascia and some of the internal structures of the body one could make an argument would also fall under this principle or definition of tensegrity.  Yes. And there is this good post there is a blogger I had not heard of before but it is Panalysis panalysis.substack.compwhy-wars-start. So it is a tensegrity model of international relations. Right? I thought this was really well done because it was kind of a  this is kind of how I model things in my head. But it was great to see a visual metaphor for it and relate to stuff I already know like force diagrams and stuff. In this post you can see for example the UK and Germany. They both align because they have democratic ideals and they have auto and meat trade and they are part of the NATO Alliance but what pushes them apart? Well language and they have different regulations. So there is both pull and push. And the thing is that whenever you have that rubber band tension but tensegrity is a better model because it is not just one force at a time it is many different forces. This thing can kind of withstand some push and pull and whatnot. But if something just goes really strong or really weak suddenly the whole structure goes ca-chunk. Right? Because there is things that are connecting to other things. And so what happened with San Francisco was I could tell that these forces were just in extreme tension but I felt that it would collapse. I did not realize there was going to be rse six months before COVID. But I did know that it was not going to persist. And just what happened was these forces were there and then one of them just suddenly went to zero because everybody went remote. Since you did not have to be in the city at all all the culture changed at once it was a crowd exit. It was a collective exit a cultural convention change which said If you are serious you are not in-person. Because before if you were serious about a deal you were in-person. But now if you are serious about your health you are not in-person. And so now there is an excuse in a sense and not just an excuse but you can turn down every plane flight you can turn down every in-person conference. They must offer a remote option. It is actually really important now. And so the thing is that is why COVID-19 is a permanent shock. Whenever you take a bunch of people who were at the zero point on an axis and then you spread them out where some of them were 100 percent remote even in the removal of that force like post-vaccination it does not all come back. It is like hysteresis.  Oh no no no. Yeah. No. Absolutely. Yeah. There is a lot of durability. And we could just look at examples of how many Zoom invites I get even though we could just do telephone and walk around even though people are now re-engaging with one another. And also there is something to be said for the proof of concept that we witnessed for mobility and relocations during COVID. So people proved to themselves and their peer groups proved to them that it was possible to not just trial other locations while working but insist on being relocated or else you are going to take a different job. And those kind of macro-trends feed on each other. And Austin is a great example. Right? It is like when you have zero friends in Austin moving to Austin is a harder decision than if you have five. And once you have 50 friends in Austin it becomes quite easy. And I think we see that along a number of different directions.  That is right. And now the new thing is those 50 friends can all move together. So I wrote an article at 1729.comMiami which actually cites articles from I think from 2013 that I think predict this in some detail. I gave this talk Silicon Valley's Ultimate Exit and a follow-up essay called Software is Reorganizing the World that talk about how software is enabling these mass migrations. And that is fundamentally the resolution to our current disaligned world. What you really want is not a 51 percent democracy you want a 100 percent democracy. That is you do not want a situation where it is the absolute minimum necessary consent where it is a Fosbury Flop like we talked about before. You are just barely clearing the bar and you have 51 percent of people vote and 49 percent of people are unhappy. Those 49 percent will comply in the most grudging way possible. And your majority is very contingent and could drop with one bad headline or event. But what happens is low levels of consent the 51 percent may feel like they want to impose their will on the 49 percent via coercion. And that is actually bad because it is easy to coerce when it is like 0.01 percent of the society when it is like some random murderer. You are going to get 99.99 percent of society agreeing that coerce of force is legitimate against them. When it is 51 versus 49 percent not only is coercion much much much harder to do by orders of magnitude because the ratio of 99.99 to 0.01 is much greater than the ratio of 51 to 49. Okay? Not only is coercion much much much harder it is also not obvious that it is going to be something that'ill even maintain your majority because even the application of coercion reduces your majority. So instead what you want is to resolve this right? You are not going to resolve that by just voting more. It is going to be resolved by some combination of either coercion or migration. And when I say Why coercion? Well one side coerces the other into just completely agreeing with them. They basically win a civil war. That is what happened with the Russian Reds versus the Russian Whites after the Russian Civil War. But there was in the US and the Cold Civil War there was an article on this in 2018 that actually was RTed by both Jack Dorsey and Evan Williams. And it was  here hold on. I am going to see get the exact  there is an article from early 2018 so almost four years ago now three. Yeah. The Great Lesson of California in America' Why There is No Bipartisan Way Forward at This Juncture in Our History. One Side Must Win. And the people writing this Ruy Teixeira is a coauthor of The Emerging Democratic Majority. And essentially they say Remember the great lesson of California the harbinger of America's political future and realize today such bipartisan cooperation simply cannot get done. And essentially what they are basically saying is California's is one-party Democrat state and that is what you want for the country. And so then the national continuum of more progressive to more moderate solutions then got worked out within the context of the only remaining functioning party. And so essentially they are just saying Just win. And now of course is a question mark as to whether you actually want democracy if you want your party to win every single election. If you do not even want the other party to exist and consider them illegitimate then that is actually not really in a democracy anymore. Or if it is it is something that is actually more similar. If it is a one-party rule it is more similar to a communist party where it is just a smoke-filled room where the primary is not really the general election. General election is just a formality and the primary is the real election. So you could argue it is still democracy if the primary is an open primary. But the thing about this is this kind of relates to  now. Evan Jack basically RTed this did not endorse it per se as you said interesting take. But it definitely got a fair amount of attention. And this is what I mean about one path forward when you have massive disagreement like that is just one party just courses the other. Okay? And course includes a lot of stuff. It could mean physical force but it can also mean what we have seen which is deplatforming on banking et cetera. In fact one way of thinking about this sort of cold civil war is with 1861-1865 if you look at the map prior to 1861 the blue and the gray were geographically separated. And of course they were ideologically separated. But the victory condition was obvious the North invades the South's territory. Ideological and geographical victory coincide. But today if you look at a map of the US blue and red are  they are at the county level they are all mixed between themselves. And so there is nothing to invade there is nothing in physical space that you can invade. They are all mixed. Right? But there is an article from 2017 that gives a visual. So from cjr.org it is title is  Breitbart-Led Right-Wing Media Ecosystem Altered Broader Media Agenda. But the main thing about this is the graphs that are mid-screen on this. So I have no opinion on the article itself but the graphs that are in the middle show that  here I just pasted the link for you so you can see them. The graphs in the middle show that even if the blue and the red are on top of each other in physical space they are completely disjoint in digital space.  Yeah. That is interesting.  Okay. Do you see that?  I do. Yep. Yep.  So that is where the war is being waged. And here's the thing. If victory in the physical realm is invading somebody's territory victory in the digital realm is invading their mind. Victory here looks like blue blotting out red or red blotting out blue.  Mm-hmm .  And now we can actually look back on the last several years with a completely new lens which is not the marketplace of ideas but the battlefield of ideas. And now we understand deplatforming unbanking canceling et cetera not as disputes within a free society but as digital warfare where you are trying to take out their tanks their battleships et cetera their big guns on the other side by having them wink out of the digital space so they cannot recruit more soldiers energize them et cetera. Now this is war that is fought with words and with keystrokes and with economics it is not guns and shells though it did bleed over to the real world during the riots in the Capitol and so on. The physicality of this is secondary but it is not non-existent. So this I think is actually not the coming conflict though. This conflict is DemocratRepublican. I think the coming conflict rotates it by X degrees or in a different plane. The coming conflict is going to be centralization versus decentralization where it is going to be basically like fiat versus Bitcoin. I think that is quite likely to come. And so a lot of people switch sides. There is going to be people who are like let us say super patriot Republicans who will side with the government my country right or wrong like the guys who were in the Russian military who stayed in the Soviet military. It does not kind of matter. And then there is folks who will switch to the  or take the decentralist side. And that is like actually many of the tech CEOs who like Jack Dorsey's a Bitcoin maximalist. Zuck is now doing Ethereum with Facebook and so on. Many of those are going to go on the crypto side. Right? So I think Bitcoin itself will be the main flash in the conflict and crypto is sort of  Bitcoin is different from crypto because maximalists want it to be different. That is to say whether you think of them  It is kind of like Is Taiwan part of China or is it its own country? If you are the Chinese government Taiwan is part of China. And if not it is its own country. Now in reverse if you are a maximalist Bitcoin is its own thing and all of crypto is just scams et cetera et cetera. Whereas if you are in crypto or in Web3 actually Bitcoin is great but it does one thing which is digital gold. And then we need that. We also need private cash and we need programmable currency we need smart contracts. We know all this stuff. Now for what it is worth. I had a couple of tweets on this but basically Satoshi was not a troll. He did not start fights on the internet. He spoke to Zooko who was the founder of Zcash. He endorsed the idea of Bitcoin. In general I think he was about as attitudinally different from some of his self-styled disciples as a mythical Jesus was from the Spanish inquisitors. So I definitely would not call myself a maximalist. However and moreover I would also say if you look at Satoshi's writings you know Hal Finney you heard of Hal Finney who is basically like the   I have heard that name but I cannot place it.  He is the first named person to engage with the Bitcoin the first person to engage with Bitcoin publicly other than Satoshi replied on the original email. Some people think it was Satoshi and used his name to boost it. Certainly he fits but he passed away from a general disease. However he froze his body. So maybe we can revive him at some point but here's the thing. Hal Finney and Satoshi had a discussion and Finney said Satoshi are you endorsing the idea that additional blockchains each create their own flavor of coins which would trade with Bitcoin on exchanges? And Satoshi said Right domain coins could represent the right to own a domain for a year. So Satoshi Nakamoto did entertain the concept of issuing other digital currencies. Domain coins. The reason is that might seem like totally obvious to you or me but whereas I or you might think of Satoshi as like a Newton and the Bitcoin white paper is like Principia Mathematica like a feat of science or a feat of engineering. There is other a lot of maximalists think of it more as like a religious text. And to be fair you can argue it is got aspects of it because it is not simply an engineering innovation. It has implications for how one lives. And that basically debt is bad and inflation is bad and equity is good and capitalism is good. There is a lot of principles that are bound up in it. Freedom pseudonymity lots of different principles the network society all those things are bound up in it even though a genesis block has this concept of the bank bailouts being bad. And so it does have something which is more than just F  ma. And so I understand where that comes from. And basically in many ways I think this will be seen as something like the Bible or the Quran or the Communist Manifesto or the American Declaration we are still close to this event but the Bitcoin white paper the invention of Bitcoin is going to be something that just like there is Sunni and Shiites Protestants and Catholics there is all these different schools of thought and there is maximalists and there is Ethereum people. And there is CBDCs are this weird kind of thing. The Counter-Reformation Catholicism adopted some aspects of it. Protestantism was criticizing them for it. CBDCs are the centralized state adopting some aspects of digital currency. All of these things come out of this.  Hold on. May I interrupt?  Here's what it is. Here's what it is. I will just say this.  60 seconds. I am going to give you 60 seconds.  Here's what I was saying. I was saying that the past iteration of this cold civil war was Democrat Republican think of that as like World War I. Now there is like a rotation of it which is like World War II. And that may not be the best analogy because there is most of the same groups who fought the same time. We might come up with a better one which is like I do not know World War I and the Cold War or World War II and the Cold War where the US and the USSR were on the same side then on different sides. But the point is that is Democrat Republican the next one is decentralist versus centralist and Bitcoin maximalists on one side and woke capital on the other. And then there is folks who are in the middle and crypto is sort of in the middle Web3's in the middle. But I think it is more on the decentralized side. And then you will have folks who are I do not know Republican types who are also more in the middle but they are going to be more on the state side. So that is I think what the coming axises which are the rotation of the current axis and that leads to I think significant civil conflict because they are kind of irreconcilable but I do think the decentralist version will win. But now let me give the mic to you and I will come back and explain why I think that.  We may end up hitting pause on that and coming back to it in another conversation. I want to say a few things then I am going to segue to some rapid fire questions. We will see how successful I am but the couple things I will say. Number one is that for people who are interested in how humans make meaning and create myth spread myth you could substitute ideology for myth if it makes you sound smarter that is fine I would suggest they read or reread Dune. So I am rereading Dune I have read it before by Frank Herbert. And it is incredibly sophisticated and nuanced with respect to   As an adult.  As an adult oh absolutely.  Yep.  It is basically meme warfare and the use of kind of the use of not just myth but the human proclivity almost necessity for myth whether that myth is something called my country or whether it is a religious doctrine. And this we can get into separately. We talked about it a bit in the first episode but I would suggest people reread Dune which I am doing right now because I am about to see the movie and I want to make sure my memory is fresh but the whole idea of the lineage of the Bene Gesserit is really worth looking at very very very closely. Also really talks about in a sense decentralized guerilla warfare on multiple fronts. It is a fucking fantastic book. So everybody should read that. And a bit of trivia because I imagine a lot of people listening will be if not crypto native crypto curious. So the word in the name Nakamoto is in Japanese  my Japanese is a lot better than my Mandarin  but is center origin would be one way to translate that Nakamoto. And the character for Naka is the same character different reading as the zhng of zhngwa of China Middle Kingdom. Although I think the better way to translate that is Center Kingdom. And I just want to drop a little bit of trivia for any language nerds out there but Nakamoto is a really it is a great last name for Satoshi Nakamoto. All right. My questions. First one. Very important. Have you always said RTed instead of retweeted?  I guess. I do not know. I mean I think I might use them interchangeably. Is this an accent thing?  No no I just like it. I have never heard that verbally before so I like that. All right. So you said I am not a Bitcoin maximalist but I want to ask you a question. I will preface it with saying people listening this is not investment advice informational purposes only. It is a way for me to better understand and share your thinking Balaji. If you were starting from scratch had no holdings in crypto but could only bet in one place BTC versus ETH versus other you only get to pick one which would you choose and why?  BTC.  BTC why?   everything else is a technology company whereas Bitcoin has become almost like an element like gold. That is to say the fact that Bitcoin not only is the first but it has the disappeared founder. Because it has a disappeared founder it fits a certain kind of mentality where because there is no leader you do not feel like you are submitting to somebody. You do not feel like you are submitting to somebody by buying gold. Satoshi is who you make them out to be. I mean one thing this is not how I think about money typically but if you look on any dollar bill there is weird incantations there is a pyramid with eyes on it and so on. Most forms of bills they have the most famous people in the country on them. The branding exercise is actually pretty important on this stuff. And the thing is that you can separate out the economic the ideological and the technological. As I said it is a log scale. Most people would consider me from the outset very similar to a Bitcoin maximalist. But I will give you two thoughts on that. So first is on the economics yes if I can only buy one thing you just buy Bitcoin because nothing competes with it. It is possible by the way now to be clear do I think it is a 100 percent chance of success? No. I think it is possible that there is some remaining security issue associated with the code but what is interesting is Square is now doing something with decentralizing mining and the fact that mining's being driven out of China is actually good because I do not think any other state has the state capacity to do what China did and the ruthlessness. So it is unlikely that there is going to be a technical attack on Bitcoin. The only thing that is going to happen going forward is potentially a regulatory or a software attack. But outside of that it is community is so strong that can probably repair on that. Regulatory attacks are also less likely to kill it because the US is losing control over the world. If Germany defies on Nord Stream 2 and if sanctions do not affect Germany anymore does not affect India El Salvador can go Bitcoin. Some states will have Bitcoin be legal as well as within the US. So the federal government does not have the veto. So finally really the technical attack is there some possibility of some zero day that can inflate a lot of coins and be hard to patch? That is possible. It is still something where there is one client that is very popular one Bitcoin client it is not a multi-client thing. So that is the main weakness right now. Is it possible there is some supply chain attack where some library's included and it has not been audited sufficiently? Yes. Also quantum cryptography that is kind of an unknown but is it possible that say quantum decryption becomes something that is out there before quantum encryption that quantum decryption is highly centralized and some governments can do it or some centralized actor can do it? But quantum encryption is not something everybody has access to. Those are all possibilities but the risk factors relatively low. So that is on the economics. On the ideological kind of the way I think about it is I actually if you go item by item probably I agree with maximalist on so many things. I understand where they are coming from. Exit the Fed check stop the bailouts check return to sound money check build a voluntarist society check end the welfare warfare state check Bitcoin is a global reserve currency check Bitcoin has an apocryphal technological breakthrough check but Bitcoin is only digital asset ever and everything else is evil that is where they lose me and that is X. And that is why buy Bitcoin sell maximalism is the economicideological thing because I am not a monotheist I am like you might say from my cultural background or something like that India's polytheistic it is plastic it is pluralist. I believe in the value of immutability but I also believe in the value of programmability and I think it is good that those are two separate things. If it is highly immutable like Bitcoin or gold it is not going to be highly mutable and programmable those are two valuable things but they are two almost necessarily separate things. And so the thing about it is that is that is on the ideology. Again though the reason I think the maximalists are going to have amazing traction or huge traction over the coming years I think Bitcoin maximalist in a sense is the most important political movement in the world that people do not understand about today because essentially their argument is it is all a scam that is to say the Fed is a scam but actually all the printed money means many of the corporations are a scam. The censorship is a scam. Lots of things that the state is saying are false. Everybody who is rich they are all cantillonaires because have you heard that term the Cantillon Effect? Do you know what that is?  I do not.  The Cantillon Effect is like some people get the printed money first. So it is not uniform in terms of its application or of society. There is some truth to that. That is bidding up assets that is causing something where it is like dunking on Mars. Actually I think Mars has lower gravity than the US. It is like Space Jam.  Dunking on the Moon.  Yeah. Dunking on the Moon. That is right. Actually Mars has 38 percent of gravity. So yeah basically dunking in a lower gravity environment you might still need to be athletic but less so that is sort of what it is like doing tech or VC in this highly inflationary environment at least for now it is possible that all gains are just wiped out because things go totally vertical that is what happened in Weimar. Everybody thought they were  have you read When Money Dies?  I have not.  Okay. That is a good book. Actually Joe Colangelo had a good clip from I will just kind of read that clip. This is by Adam Ferguson he had a great quote.  The History of Hyper-inflation Wiemar Germany. One of the wildest aspects I never knew was that early on people all thought they were getting rich. They were selling hard assets for what they thought were insanely high prices in marks. And so essentially because the printed money flowed to some first rather than others there was this Cantillon effect. Here's some quotes. My banker congratulates me on every new rise but he does not dispel the secret uneasiness which my growing wealth arouses in me it already amounts to millions. Speculation on the stock change is spread to all ranks of the population and shares rise like air balloons limitless heights. The value of my industrial investments is rising to extent which seems to be incomprehensible and always makes me uneasy. And basically this thing is something of course then the hyperinflation comes because everybody's rich they all spend and all the prices suddenly rise because more money is chasing fewer goods. In the US it is nonlinear actually. One aspect of it that I had not fully understood is the printed money is in some ways contributing to the great resignation. So for whatever reason you are having strikes you are having people who are not working as truck drivers or working as dock workers anymore maybe more power to them. They have gotten this printed money. But what that does is actually it non-linearly depresses supply not just of labor but of goods because the ports are not being unpacked. That is why the administration's talking about bringing the National Guard to go and man the docs. But that concept is it is not just more money chasing fewer goods or it is not more money chasing the same goods. It is more money chasing fewer goods fewer supply of both goods and services less labor and less stuff because people are not being paid to unload things or build things. So I think there is a non-linear inflation effect that might be coming.  Oh yeah. Well you can look at lumber and a number of other things that I think are byproducts of multiple factors.  It is a byproduct of multiple factors. Lumber in particular I think it like went up and then it crashed but overall inflation is definitely here. It is now no longer being denied as some conspiracy theory. They are no longer seeing it is transitory. They are admitting it is bad. Oh I am confused as to why it happened. Eventually they are going to say It is good because it is wiping out all of the fortunes. It is like a jubilee. All your debts are gone why are you mad about it? And then they might move to seizures unfortunately. So I know that I know I am saying this in a chipper tone but let me give some maybe some good aspect to this. One of my macro-theses as we have kind of talked about before is that peak centralization was 1950. One telephone company ATT and two superpowers the US and USSR and three TV stations ABC CBS and NBC. And so we are kind of running history in reverse at least in the West. And I have this essay on this at sotonye.subtstack.com. He gave this very flattering title to it which I would not have chosen. But if you Google S-O-T-O-N-Y-E Balaji Srinivasan you will see it.  We will put it in the show notes as well.  Put it in the show notes. This goes into more detail. But basically if you go backwards from 1950 to 1890 the Western frontier closes but you go forward from 1950 to 1991 the internet frontier reopens and you can actually map these things. Backwards in time you get the Spanish Flu forwards you get COVID-19. Backwards you get the robber barons forwards the tech billionaires. Backwards you get the private banking era forwards you get the crypto era. Backwards you get the Cross of Gold speech by William Jennings Bryan today forwards you get digital gold. Backwards you have right and left fighting in the streets and today you have right and left fighting in the streets. Backwards you get Weimar Germany today we have Weimar America where it is both the inflation and the cultural stuff that was very common. If you see Babylon Berlin a lot of similarities to modern America. There is this book called Voluptuous Panic  that kind of documents what Weimar Germany was like similar to America today culturally as well it is not just the  When Money Dies gives the economic aspect Voluptuous Panic where Babylon Berlin will give the cultural aspects similar. You also have the conflict between the state and capitalism where the centralized states FDR was doing the Brain Trust and he was doing he was packing the courts National Industrial Recovery Act he was doing the what am I going to call it? The entire alphabet soup was set up at that time. And of course the gold seizure. And you also have something if you go even further back in time sort of antebellum polarization. Now the thing is the attentive listener will say Well Balaji you just mixed things from like the 1920s with the 1800s and so on. And I say yes but that is because it is sort of like A B C D but it is not exactly DCBA it is not exactly happening in exactly the same reverse order. I think the common symptom is the centralized fist clenching in 1950 is now losing control. And so similar events are recurring in a different order because centralized control is dropping off. For example that centralized control allowed for public health and also censorship. That is why the Spanish flu I am not sure if it was solved but you just did not hear about it because censorship was actually effective. Now as part of the arc up of decentralized state. And now we have the arc down of decentralized state. There is neither effective censorship nor effective public health. And so you have this total catastrophe or at least perceived catastrophe around COVID-19. And the way I think about it is it was not the Spanish flu fortunately it was not 100 million dead but it is going to be on the other 10 million dead. So it is pretty severe or lucky that it was not Spanish flu. It might who knows could mutate. And the thing about this is when you have this worldview at least in the West and as I will come back to China a lot of these things are happening but we are seeing the alternative outcome. So for example you are getting the Cross of Gold speech and he is like We will not be tortured  impaled crucified I think on a cross of gold and now we are getting digital gold people want gold back. So the populist movement is not against gold it is for it. And so you are seeing a lot of these things happening in reverse not the frontier closing but the frontier opening. And one of them that I think is pretty important is the stuff that FDR had the Brain Trust. He had the brains on his side and so Executive Order 6102 the seizure they were able to implement it. But I think if they try it this time it is not going to work because history's running in reverse and the IQ is not part of the state and now   May I interrupt?  Yeah of course.  Okay. Maybe could we pause that and leave the audience wanting more on this particular thread? And may I ask a number of new questions?  Sure. But let me just say one last thing and then let us go to that. Now I am going to say something that sounds sci-fi. Basically the modern US the whole thing is that there were the entire mythology is beating the Nazis and beating the Confederates. So beating the ethnonationalists abroad and the secessionists what we have here at home. And what may happen over the next 10 to 15 years is the regime may lose to the ethnonationalists abroad namely CCP. And they may lose to the maximalists at home and the secessionists at home and the breakup may happen. And the difference is of course that the Chinese communists are non-white and they are communists they are not like White Nazis so they are different ethnonationalists so it is different enough. And the secessionists or whatever you want to call them this time are absolutely not for slavery. They are for freedom. In fact you could argue they are anti-slavery activists because they do not want to submit. So I think that it is quite possible that we see the reverse outcome of a lot of things. And then at that point what we want to do is if the CCP wins and if we have American anarchy we need to figure out some way to rebuild civilization because in that world the thing is anything good can massively over-correct. You have to have some limiting principle because otherwise too much is not enough. This is why I would not call myself a maximalist I would call myself an optimalist. That is to say I want to figure out what the optimum is across many variables and set an explicit objective function rather than simply maximize something where too much is never enough. Maximalism just leads  you can call it fundamentalism you can call it it just leads to a certain variety there. And again I am not trying to beat anybody up on this. I am just trying to say that. Yeah okay retire the current system. Whatever you do or I do it seems destined for that retirement. We have to think about what the next system looks like after that. How do we ensure that we do not have crypto-anarchy but crypto-civilization? Yes. I think that the Chinese are going to rise but what does an unchecked China look like? The US unchecked after 1991 behaved quite badly in some ways in all the invasions the unchecked China might be quite mean. And so how do we defend civil liberties? How do we defend privacy? How do we defend civilization in this environment where we have sort of the reverse outcome? I know that is provocative call that a sci-fi scenario.  You are once again outlasting me and the battery in my headset. And I know I cannot change my audio source with the software we are using so I may lose audio altogether. So I want to ask a couple of remaining questions and I am going to just throw a number of them out there at once because I think this will make the most sense. And then you can pick and choose which you want to go after. Here are some of them. If you had to be bullish on one US-based big tech company which would you choose? And then if you are still doing angel investing or if you were doing angel investing which categories or areas would you find most interesting. And then any predictions for the next 12 months? Or are there any things you are preparing for in the next 12 months with contingency plans of different types? Either one.  Yes. So all right. So basically the one thing I want to say is before we get into that just on the topic of secession for a second just to make sure I clarify what my position is. I believe in volunteerism. And so I think rather than fighting over land I have zero interest in doing that personally. Instead I think you should try to crowdfund territory in no man's land. So nobody else has a claim on it and you have got it fair and square. And it is in the middle of nowhere. Like basically the equivalent of Burning Man because fighting is stupid and there is plenty of territory out there and I would rather build it from scratch without a fight. So I would not call myself a secessionist. I do think that if you look at some of the conversation around national divorce that is happening on both sides that is happening in NY Mag published something on this a few years ago which is like American breakup I think Maybe It is Time for America to Split Up. Sarah Silverman has talked about this and folks on the right have talked about so-called national divorce. So it is definitely in the air. And one last thing I will say is that all of this stuff the language is super-important because secession of course sounds bad but independence sounds good. It gets back to that concept of Russell Conjugation. The American Revolution was secession of the colonies from the British but that was independence from the American perspective. So this also gets that earlier concept of are winners writing history? So the adjectives I chose were as neutral as possible. I want to make clear that I do not support any kind of physical conflict peace-loving and I would want to basically buy territory outside of this however what I want or what you want there is some forces that might be greater than us. So in this sci-fi scenario this is how I sort of see the Hari Seldon-like psychohistory happening. So that is my kind of   Clarification accepted thank you.  And you know what psychohistory is? It is the sort of prediction of the future and so on. This is just scenario analysis. So why is that scenario analysis important? Well I assigned some probability to that scenario. There is also other possible scenarios. Another possible scenario is it is just a lot of disagreement and just a lot of migration and yelling online for many many years. And then it is something like what happened with the Soviet Union where it does break up but it breaks up in almost basically peacefulbloodless way. And that is like a good outcome. And I think that is likely. That might be the most likely it is much better than civil conflict. And there is things like with instate unions for example where maybe that is what happens. But we will see obviously hope for the best plan for the worst. So now to your point on this actually relates to big tech cos and bullish and and bearish and whatnot right? So the US big tech companies that I am the most bullish on though I am not I do not think I actually I should not say I do not I do not know if I actually hold any shares in these companies. I might in some entity of an entity. But it is certainly not to my knowledge a large holding. I am actually most bullish on TwitterSquare and Facebook. And the reason is TwitterSquare the reason I put them is they are going to become probably merged into something like with Square's Bitcoin support and the fact that Jack is CEO of both of course they are two separate entities but he can figure it out and probably offer Bitcoin payments on Twitter for many things and basically build like a Bitcoin Ethereum into Twitter. What do I mean by that? A Bitcoin Ethereum meaning it is like a lot of the functionality or copied functionality of Ethereum like Rootstock sort of I think cloned the Ethereum EVM. So it might have a lot of the functionality of Ethereum or Solana or some of these other chains but that is sort of Bitcoin-backed. And there is different ways of doing that. There could be basically essentially a centralized version that says like a minimal decentralized component which is one way of doing it. And you just like load Bitcoin onto it and the rest of it is centralized. There is ways of doing it with zero knowledge. There is a number of different engineering trade-offs that could be made. But essentially I think that is one direction TwitterSquare. And then Facebook because Zuck is also a founder and he is just like his I do respect him. I really do. And the reason I do is the number of hits that he is taken over the years to start as a 21-year-old kid in his dorm to build what he is built. And from that to this three-billion person network. I mean a lesser founder would have backed down after the mistake on what is it called? Libra. But Libra and then Diem and now he is doing Novi which actually I think has a much better chance of working because it is natively crypto. I mean look it is hard. It is easy to say I did actually say this at the time that what they should have done is start with Bitcoin and Ethereum payments in WhatsApp and do remittance corridors rather than doing this. I think there might be some public record of it but I definitely talked about it. Rather than doing a new coin start with the existing ones build up experience on that rather than doing Libra. And that was not their first job but you know what? That looks like what they are doing now in Novi and very very few people would have had the conviction to persist with something in the face of that level of resistance. I mean we were talking congressional hearings most people would have quailed okay. Same with all the negative press. Same with I mean like the Oculus bet that is two billion for something where they had to go through multiple iterations to get the product to work. But now they are going to maybe rebrand the company around the metaverse or Instagram. I made this comment on basically Instagram was not an easy call. This somewhere it is being retrospectively litigated because it is worth a lot. But just to bullet point this Instagram raised a 500 million valuation the day before Zuck offered a billion for the company. One billion was like 25 percent of their cash in hand. They had about four billion at the time so it was actually a lot of money. It was weeks before the Facebook IPO the board was not consulted they were just informed and Instagram had no revenue.  Yeah. That is not an easy call.  That is not an easy call. And in fact Jon Stewart mocked it at the time. He is like A billion dollars for Instagram. The only thing that is worth that is something that instantly gets me a gram of cocaine. Everybody mocked it made fun of it. They said Oh this is such a bubble purchase. They are so stupid. It endangered the IPO potentially. I mean there were so many aspects of that where that was a highly highly non-consensus call that has now been turned into Oh it was an obvious buy. And the thing about this the problem is that people who are wrong will not admit they are wrong. The only way to show that you were not 2X righter than somebody but 10000X righter than somebody else is an investment where you are 10000X righter 10000X more correct. And by the way this is very common. Google's top search is for a business model or the internet is not going to be a thing. So many articles on the early internet were like this. Or of course Bitcoin is going to zero. Or COVID-19 is not going to be a thing. These journos are not off by 50 percent you cannot just read their article and think you are being sophisticated by discounting it their mental model of the world is often off by 10000 or a hundred thousand X.  Now in fairness just to set a counterpoint there are some journalists who are incredibly prescient there are good and bad and ugly within the world of journalism. Just to be fair.  Sure sure. But many of them are becoming VCs and angel investors or going to Substack.  Yeah yeah yeah yeah. A lot of them are defecting because the ecosystem is just full of vitriol. It is like everyone's pissing in the pool so a lot people are getting out of the pool.  Yeah. Because the thing is look what I am talking about is really I should preface it with the corporate journalist the one who is employed by a legacy media corporation. And that legacy media corporation will  Sulzberger's company the New York Times will literally run billboards advertising itself as the truth Fox will run billboards advertising itself as fair and balanced. The Washington Post will literally equate itself to democracy itself. Now Facebook does not do that. No tech company has the balls to do that say that you are equivalent to truth or fairness or democracy itself. But yet that is a for-profit corporation that has the arrogance or the lack of self-awareness or something to come out and say I determine what is true for the world. I am the paper of record. I am the first draft of history. Whoa. The monopoly of truth is upstream of the monopoly of violence. The monopoly of truth you say that WMDs are in Iraq and then people go and invade. You say that somebody is guilty you prosecute them in the court of public opinion and then they get prosecuted. And so that is a super important power that some privately held media corporation should not have. And so what is happening now fortunately is that power is being decentralized. First in the most important way which is on chained truth cryptographic truth. Not argument from authority but argument from cryptography. Not NYT but BTC. So that is power being taken away. And what is funny is look as you know I am not the kind of person who thinks White is an insult. But these folks are. And for some rich white nepotist like Sulzberger to be determining what is true for the whole world is simply not applicable. One might even say it is quote white privilege. And so instead what we should have is something that is a global decentralized network where people of every group including of course White Americans can participate and determine what is true through a mathematical process that starts with us figuring out who has what Bitcoin. And then it goes to who has what asset. And then it goes to who made what assertion. And that is like the ledger of record concept that we talked about before. So there is a root and branch thing where corporate journalism has also lost that they do not understand it just like CCP is hard power and BTC is hard money. Cryptography is hard truth and corporate journalism has actually lost control over hard truth. Just to give you one example of this from earlier this year. Vitalik Buterin made a large donation to India for COVID. And do you know how people knew that it was real?  Looked at the blockchain?  They looked at the blockchain. That was ground truth. That is really important. Because what is the other thing that you tend to do nowadays? If something's real let me see if it is on Twitter. Did that guy actually say that? And the thing is that is actually not perfect nowadays because Twitter deplatforms a lot of people so their record is gone. Or last year Twitter was hacked if you remember that and Bezos  and other people were posting things. So while it is imperfect in the not too distant future there is things like DeSo there is various kinds of decentralized social networks out there Capsule all these things that are coming or are out there. In the not too distant future that backend is also on chain. So to show that somebody said something you will not link to Twitter you will link to the crypto Twitter version the on-chain record that shows they posted this or said this. And because it is protected by proof of work or a similar consensus algorithm you can compute how much money would be required to falsify that. How much computation how much energy would have to go into falsify that. That is really interesting. Because you also have multiple confirmations it is not just one source. The thing is I do not care if something has a thousand retweets what I care about is if it has two or three independent confirmations from economically dis-aligned actors. This is the same as academia by the way everybody's optimizing citations. What you actually want to optimize is independent replication. That is what true science is. It is not peer review. It is physical test. So anyway this leads to kind of worldview stuff like what am I interested in? So the reason I was interested in I said Twitter Square and Facebook is they are still founder-led. Because they are founder-led they are getting into respectively Bitcoin and Web3. Whereas Google for example  I respect Sundar and it is very hard to run an organization like the one that he does. But with the big exception of AI under DeepMind thanks to the DeepMind acquisition Google really has not innovated that much. There were some promising things like tried to integrate robotics that was taken down by scandal. But basically conceptually technologically economically it was sound to put that all under one roof and actually advance state of the art robotics. They had Boston Dynamics they acquired all these companies they were going to knit them all together. Unfortunately scandal took that down. They had all these messaging apps basically there is been a drift. They have got too much money and they do not have enough focus or what have you it is all the same big company stuff. That thing remember I said before about how if there is a lot of money within a company people can do the off diagonal they can loot. They have formed those coalitions the win-loss and loss-win as opposed to everybody wins. So that is definitely happening there. And just to show why I am not bullish on them. I mean it is 2021 you know what they do not have it is a core thing for search that they would have had seven years ago if probably Larry Page was still in charge?  I do not.  Block explorers. Why do not they have blockchain.info and Etherscan those are  I mean people do not get this but block explorers are actually the stealth threat to search. That is to say we are not used to thinking of them as a threat to search because financial data of the blockchain type being indexed on a website like blockchain.com or Etherscan where you are looking through smart contracts and so on that seems like categorically distinct from text and media information that is on the internet that you go through web search. But guess what? The internet of money and the internet of information eventually merge together. Because with something like DeSo with what was called Bitcloud but DeSo if you go to their block explorer you can see that every post and like and so on is on chain. And that shows that actually more than just financial data can be represented on chain. Social data can as well. And if social data can pretty much everything else can because social networks include media and all this other type stuff. So it is all going to go on chain eventually. And some of the zero knowledge stuff like what StarkWare has done is solving some of the scalability issues. So if it all goes on chain that actually is a threat not just to Google but also Facebook and Twitter because indexing the web is hard. Indexing a social media company's database is even harder because it is closed and corporate. But indexing a public blockchain is easier than both. Just to give one example. With indexing the web you have to go and have a crawler that has to guess when to recrawl one of a million sites. When is it going to refresh? You do not know they are not going to ping you. So you have to guess and you have to spend you have to do a whole fiscal model on this kind of thing. That is just one piece of the whole web crawling problem. With the blockchain it is the opposite. Every update is pushed to you. You just subscribe to it and you just get a block push to you and then you re-index it. So enormous parts of the entire infrastructure are solved by different abstractions that take millions of lines of code and reduce it to nothing. And then the question is can blockchains themselves scale? And why would people put everything on chain? Well it would seem insane in 1990 to say you are going to stream movies over the internet. That was crazy. And people thought it would not scale but it did. And one of the other reasons by the way that we are going to get blockchains as a backend for everything do you know who sucks at information security?  I can think of a lot of people but what is your answer?  Government IT developers. Do you know who is actually awesome at security?  Tell me! Balaji?  No I am okay whatever. But crypto developers. So there is this website so most people do not understand this there is a website called Rekt.News. And it essentially documents every major hack in crypto. I am talking   It is like the Fucked Company of crypto.  Yeah. So millions of dollars get stolen. But here's the thing. That is why people are like What are you talking about crypto is secure? There is all these hacks. Here's the thing. We are churning out the equivalent of combat veterans. This is a live fire environment because see the thing is in Web2 your systems can get hacked without you knowing about them. Someone can just get onto your computer and they will just hang out there slurp up information sit there. And the reason is it is not a negotiable instrument the data in your database they do not know what the price is on the open market. They might want to sit there and slurp up more information. They might want to escalate their privileges and so on and so forth. If however there are cryptocurrency private keys in every directory. You have now given that attacker an incentive to just take the money right now because who knows you might move it in 10 minutes. So that suddenly makes intrusions tangible. Now you might still have a politically or ideologically motivated attacker but once intrusions become tangible and you can see the damage that is done you basically capture the flag on everything in security. One of the hardest things about computer security is it is like oh my data was hacked. All right guess that happened again. There is this website called Have I Been Pwned where you can type in your email address and find how many different hacks you were subject to. But the thing is we do not have a  go ahead.  No I am just wondering who owns that site just enter your email address.  Good guy. Troy I forget his last name but he is a good guy. He is a security guy who is legit. But yes good question. But Have I Been Pwned the thing is companies now subscribe to Have I Been Pwned to run their users' emails through to make sure that they are not reusing a password that was already hacked. Now think about what is going on there. That is like a shared database between companies that they are using so like your login to X site depends on your login to Y and Z and W site. That is like the concept I have in this post. Yes you may need a blockchain on how blockchains are effectively a primitive for shared state between companies where I can write to it and read from it in such a way that I cannot interfere with your reads and writes. But point is that gives a shadow of what a shared login system looks like.  the current hacks of crypto things obscure the fact that in Web2 you can set security to zero and just focus on utility. Because if you have utility you have customers. And if you do not have utility you do not. But security is orthogonal to that at least at the beginning. In Web3 that is not the case. If you do not do an audit of your contract if you do not think about formal verification if you do not use a type safe language if you do not really think through all of your error modes and maybe use audited contracts and be extremely defensive in what you are doing your contract gets hacked on the first day. So minimum necessary security is much higher. It is a requirement for making money. And they sweat it. People sweat it for real. They know that one compromise you lose the money. And people do die in the digital realm. And best practices come about and new tooling is coming about.  What do you mean by people die? You mean initiatives projects companies?  Yes exactly. In virtual war in this virtual cyber war companies do die. They get all their funds sacked. They are dead. Reputation killed. So the thing about this is when people look at ransomware and so on ransomware is actually  so how that works basically there is an undetected security hole on something like an Epic software. And then there is a thing that appears and it says pay me some Bitcoin or pay me some Monero in order to unlock your computer. Now if  okay this is not yet feasible but it is going to happen do you know where that would be actually extremely hard to do would be to run that ransomware on the Bitcoin Ethereum blockchain itself. Why? Because if they could have hacked it they could have awarded themselves a billion dollars they do not need somebody else to do it. So the thing is that blockchains will become by dint of their built-in bug bounty by dint of the fact that they are not just open source but open state the most secure backend platforms in the world.  Now do not you think that is also going to be a Cambrian explosion of social engineering? I mean I would imagine that all sorts of sort of Kevin Mitnick the art of deception type social engineering will explode to sort of not skirt but on some level circumvent very tight technological precautions.  Yes.  And we are seeing that in Discords. Certainly I mean I have to imagine this is happening although I have not read any accounts. But one of the crazy things in the NFT world is if someone gets hacked because they accidentally give someone a QR code or God forbid their passphrase they can see exactly where their stolen stuff is. They can look at an unidentified wallet holding their stuff and watch someone selling their stuff. It might not be plausible or sensible now but at some point in the future I could foresee there being greater value of some NFTs to the person who had them stolen than the person who did the stealing. In which case you would have ransom-like circumstances. I do not know but I would   Every crime we can possibly think of will happen in that sense. Might already have. Jameson Lopp has this GitHub of I think Bitcoin physical attacks so physical plus virtual will be combined social engineering. But I think in some ways there is  okay there is good and bad. The bad is you get more  with the state receding with decentralization winning the American anarchy that may follow  remember the thing we were talking about with tensegrity and the rubber band? So right now we are in this weird phase of an anarcho-tyranny where there is a crazy guy who is smashing windows or pooping on the street in San Francisco. That is the anarchy. But the tyranny is that the Uber driver who parks next to him gets a 200 ticket for being on the wrong side of the road. So the guy who smashes the window of the car nothing happens to them. The poor working class guy who parks inside a road gets whatever a hundred dollar ticket. So it is a combination of anarchy and tyranny. That I think is  so the new information to me over the last eight or nine months is I think that the tyranny does not have enough state capacity to sustain for long. And that is different than the Soviet tyranny. That is different than the 20th century top down sort of states. What I have realized is in the 20th century the big problem was tyranny because you had left authoritarian and right authoritarian extremists and what was precious was freedom and equality in the sense of being treated as an equal member of society rather than some equal protection under law all that stuff. In this century I think after that rubber band snap happens which I think is going to happen and the tyranny vanishes and we just have anarchy what is scarce is not freedom but leadership. That is to say in a time of tyranny what is scarce is freedom in a time of anarchy what is scarce is leadership. And so what happens I think is  like Russia in the '90s there is this book I think   May I posit something while you are looking for that? And that is I would imagine human nature being human nature does not seem to have changed all that much over the last few millennia that if we have say centralized social networks while it may be true that no central authority can deplatform you you will have Lord of the Flies dynamics whereby someone accrues incredible reputationpowersocietal sway and can effectively force exile by just causing so much vitriol and acid to be thrown at any individual player. In the sense that I expect it will see deplatforming by other means than some central order.  Yes. I think what happens is you get recentralization. So yes I do agree with that. Basically for example what is happened in the US is if China has centralized censorship by the state in the US because the First Amendment prevents that you have decentralized censorship by corporations. Where it is technically compatible with the First Amendment but it is spiritually not compatible. And then the response to that is the third order which is decentralized censorship resistance. See because the Western form of censorship is this retrofit. It is not like the Chinese where they set out and they are like we are going to take the hit we are going to take the PR hit the reputational hit whatever international hit we are just going to censor. Because this was a retrofit on the system it is  retrofitting this tyranny on top of a previously free system when Twitter was the free speech wing of the free speech party it started out with that is a bad fit. And there is still enough people with living memory of what that freedom looked like. And it is now becoming apparent which it was not to me I think a year ago that the state capacity for really exercising that in a coordinated way is not there. That is to say if the Chinese state  do you know what lawful evil versus chaotic evil are?  From Dungeons  Dragons?  From Dungeons  Dragons yes exactly.  I do I do. You should probably describe what they mean but yes.  Yeah. So lawful evil is methodical careful evil. And in some ways I mean I think it is a caricature to say this in some ways but in some ways the Chinese state you can think of it as lawful evil. When they set out to censor you  every switch is flipped the guys all fan out. Like Bitcoin mining banned boom they actually just go and execute on it ruthlessly like a corporation. The top guy gives the order and they all go and do it. If you watch the Chinese military parades under Xi Jinping they do not even salute the seven person CCP standing committee anymore. It is not a salute of an oligarchy it is a salute of one guy. And that one guy gives an order and all these guys go  there is a little like robotic like this. That is the whole point of the military parade by the way is to show that in peace time if they can do this and in war time they are just completely coordinated like ballet of violence basically. That is the whole point of the military parade. So they are like lawful evil. Whereas the American state in many ways is chaotic evil. Oh Afghanistan just this total catastrophe. And we have stores being burned down and people storming the Capitol and states doing this and money being printed. And look there is a butterfly I am on Twitter yelling at this person. And there is no coordination of any kind. There is no strategy. This AUKUS thing is a great example. Did you follow this at all?  I did not.  Okay. By the way as a sidelight some people would be like Oh tech bro why are these crypto brostech bros getting into foreign policy or politics? On the other hand they will also say Why do not these tech bros or crypto bros why do not they learn some history and humanities? These are mutually contradictory criticisms of course. But my response to that is twofold. First is as I mentioned before just like after the 2008 crisis it was obvious that the Federal Reserve the bankers did not have it under control. In fact like Bernanke in 2004 had given the speech at Jackson Hole Wyoming I believe on the great moderation on how macroeconomic volatility had been solved and they had it all under control. And it was no big deal basically meaning no more depressions nothing. Of course a few years later the financial crisis happened. So they obviously did not know what they were doing even if they had control of the system. Hence FinTech hence crypto because of that distrust. And now what we are seeing in 2021 if it was not apparent before but it is really apparent now is that the foreign policy establishment of the US the national security the military establishment did not just blow lew Afghanistan despite 2 trillion and 20 years they basically blew the largest lead in human history arguably over the last 30 years. An empire at its absolute zenith is now losing to the Taliban. And by the way it is not even like Vietnam. The Vietnam defeat was actually more excusable because they had a superpower sponsor. The Soviets were on the other side the Chinese were on the other side supplying arms. Those were serious states. Who is backing the Taliban? China is not putting in weapons to my knowledge. Russia is not. Maybe Pakistan. So it is not like Vietnam. It is actually much worse than that as a defeat. So the point is just like the bankers obviously did not know what they were doing so time for other people to come in new fresh blood. If you take a look at my fellow tech bros in finance and VR Palantir and Anduril. Thiel and Palmer Luckey waltzed in with no background and advance the state of the art of the intelligence in military communities. And that kind of shows a shade I think of what is possible if we do decide to get involved in this. And obviously in cryptocurrency guys like Vitalik people who are running these coins are running economies they are running monetary policies of large countries. It is a step up from simply running a company you are running a community you have to think about things. You cannot control people's actions. You can nudge maybe by pushing through an update. But even that update may be pushed back on. It is actually like the executive legislative and judiciary the President and the lawyer congressmen who edit text and then the judiciary that enforces it that fallible and highly unreliable and irregular judiciary. Rather than that you have the executive of the CEO or the founder you have the legislature which are the coders that propose the edits and changes. And you have the judiciary or the nodes that interpret the code but do so in an extremely faithful way. So in a sense it is a violation of equal protection every time somebody with the same facts walks into a Wyoming court and gets different justice for example than a Milwaukee court or a Minnesota court whatever. Every time that happens on something that is supposed to be uniform the same input should give the same output. That is what rule of law should mean. And I am not saying I am not beating up I am just using Wyoming Minnesota as an example I am not beating up any particular state. I am saying that the concept of a judge changing their decision making based on anything other than the raw inputs. Judicial discretion in many ways is actually often bad because you have things where people start going jurisdiction shopping. Not because the law is different which is fine but because the judge likes this or likes that and has a certain attitude towards this. It is like there is an apocryphal Israeli study where people get lighter sentences after the judges have eaten something and their blood sugar is up. So they are more merciful. That is bad. Instead you should have this alternative. So my point is though that founders are now getting into rule of law currency like with Palantir and Anduril into military and foreign policy stuff. So that preface is why we are starting to think about all of this stuff. Another preface I know preface preface. Well actually let me talk about France AUKUS and then come back to that. So with France s this amazing thing that shows we talk about chaotic evil at least you do not know what they are doing. So here is the sequence of events. Basically after the whole Afghanistan withdrawal thing where it was just so televised so everybody saw the images of this catastrophe. And it was not just obviously people within the US who saw it all American partners saw it. And they were like whoa that military that we saw in Hollywood beating up aliens and so on is unable to manage a withdrawal without any gunfire. The Taliban was not even shooting at them. I do support I think the withdrawal overall probably was a good idea in the sense of at least necessary it is complicated but the execution was catastrophic. That is kind of the conventional wisdom. It is how the second order consequences I think are important. So one is that the admin wanted to I believe turned the page on this from a PR standpoint and that is why this AUKUS announcement was teed up. The thing about it is it is very unusual. When is the last time you have seen the President and the Prime Minister of the UK and the Prime Minister of Australia in a simulcast?  Cannot remember.  Cannot remember right! Intentionally it could have been something that was signed to some deal of a million things that happen in government that are not a prime time announcement. This was intentionally the goal was to like hey turn the page I know you thought we screwed up in Afghanistan but we are pivoting to Asia and we are totally serious about it ha ha China. The problem is though that it actually revealed a bunch of issues. First is the fact that it is Australia the UK and the US. Well there is something called the Five Eyes. And that is Australia UK US New Zealand Canada. There is this Canadian newspaper that said what is it the three eyes now because why were the other two excluded? Well New Zealand because they do not have some nuclear they have something about nuclear subs cannot operate in their territory or their maritime region and Canada because evidently they are such wimps militarily. They do not have anything. But the thing about that is it showed to the external world something they would never seen before which is internal division among the Five Eyes. Number one. Similarly the Quad which was this much  thing of India Japan Australia and the US which actually did make some sense in the sense of India Japan are I think serious countries versus China. If you wanted to make an alliance that would make sense. India and Japan were left out of this and the UK which is on the other side of the world was brought in. Now who is more concerned with China than India and Japan which are real countries that border them? They are not going anywhere. The UK does not really have an empire anymore. It does not really have stuff in the Pacific Hong Kong went away. So what the heck? It also just like it showed the five eyes were really the three eyes it showed internal division in the Quad. India and Japan made polite murmurings in public but within India within Japan if you read the newspapers there they are like WTF. Then France itself because they had this sub deal with Australia that evidently by old reports was not going that great. It was taking a long time et cetera. Australia had recommitted to their relationship. Now all the stuff's being aired in the public because here's what happened. France got annoyed and France is not just France. France is basically one half of the EU with Germany. So they got the EU to denounce this and they pulled their ambassadors. And part of it is that their pride was wounded because they actually have islands in the Pacific. They have actually a significant I think million plus population of actual French citizens in the Pacific near Australia more than the UK does. So they actually had a reason they still think of themselves because they are on the UN security council is like a great power. Now they were just sort of kind of lied to and backhanded that is how they think about it even if they were screwing up on the sub aspect. The thing about it is they got really mad pulled their ambassador the EU and the US are now actually largely split on China. Because I said France is not just France France is the EU. Even if I think the EU is declining and Britain will break or has broken off from it of course. Scotland might break off from Britain and Catalonia and the  countries they may all break off from the EU. Still the EU is a thing even if it is declining. The EU is now kind of split and they are like You know what US? Why do not you go and do your thing in China and we will do our own thing? South China Morning Post had actually something on this. Then what did Australia get? Australia got subs but you know what the fine print is the first nuclear submarine that Australia builds is going to appear? Do you know what the date that they have got is?  What is that?  20 years. 20 years! The thing is this is not a serious thing. This is basically something  it reminds me of the San Francisco 300 million bus lane that took almost two decades. Patrick Collison has a website called Fast. I will give you the exact URL. It is patrickcollison.comfast. He shows that stuff in the past was built way faster. Just as one example   Give an example of a nuclear reactor.  Yeah exactly. The first nuclear submarine was built faster in a few years relative to this one which is to take 20. How is that possible the first sub that is built 40 years ago is faster than this one? Or like The Empire State Building was started and finished in 410 days. The Eiffel Tower was built in two years and two months this type of stuff. The thing about this is we know that it is physically possible to do that today because China does it. China built a hospital in 10 days during s videos you can see of them building a subway station in nine hours or a building in 10 days. Then of course what people say is oh and this is cope by the way they will be like oh that is all Chinese construction It sucks. It is just going to fall down. It is plastic crap. We have good stuff. I am like have you seen the Millennium Tower in SF? Have you seen the SF transit center in SF? Those are also cracking and going to fall over. Even NYT actually did a thing on how SF is not actually earthquake proofed and all the building codes do not mean anything. It is not like the US is getting high quality structures for all of that money in time. Moreover even if you granted and people have seen the photo of a building in China  even if some tiny tiny percentage of the time you have some structural issue. When you go from many years to being able to build a hospital in 10 days or being able to build a subway station in nine hours it is like a 100-1000X. The amount of money you save is so dramatic that you can slash rents and crucially also enable military victories because the military is about the physical world. If China as a subroutine can contemplate building a hospital in 10 days they can also contemplate building a blockade or a bridge or something else in the physical world. And if the US can only build a sub in 20 years it is like an older man whose bones do not heal as fast anymore. Who cannot do the things they used to do anymore. And yet still think of themselves  that is the dangerous part. If you are 80 and you think of yourself as 20 okay young at heart is one thing. But going and trying to knock out 300 for reps you might hurt yourself. If you are trying to bench that much after not doing something in a while. You might never be able to get there again as that man you might need your son to be able to do it. That might be the last time you bench that amount of weight so it might need a new nation to be able to do these things. Like a rebirth of some kind. I am going a little further but China the AUKUS thing that just made them mad it did not give any results. The US is acting China is taking actions because  did you see this recent hypersonic missile launch?  I did actually see the news. I have not read the coverage but   Well have no worries. The US government's on it!  That was basically a Fuck you very much show of power response?  Yeah and you can argue why are we hearing about this stuff? You can argue oh the military industrial complex is leaking it to get more money for hypersonic weapons. Or the military industrial complex wants us to know think we are losing to China. Therefore we will buy more weapons. That may be true but it is actually also true that the US is weaker militarily than China in the South China Sea on the specific issue that China cares about which is Taiwan. It may be possible for someone to have an interest in it but it also being true. It was like We welcome the competition. This is what was  I am like you welcome the competition when it comes to  you do not welcome military competition. That is exactly the kind of competition you do not welcome. You welcome economic competition that might be fine you do not really welcome that but okay you can tolerate it. It is a generalization but a lot of Chinese people have said Chinese culture generally trusts actions over words and Western political culture today at least is a hundred percent verbal. It is just all signifying and hashtags and so on on Twitter and almost zero offline accountability for actually doing anything. Tech culture I would say is something of a hybrid at least the pre-2019 tech culture you might call it crypto culture web three culture now where absolutely there is a story that you are telling in a slide deck. But the numbers really really really matter. Especially once numbers exist once you are at Series A or Series B or beyond another investment of money does not come that easily. It requires you to actually deliver results. It is not simply like an election. An investment is much more diligence on it. What happened was this AUKUS thing made China mad without getting any results. I saw this joke like hypersonic missiles it is a separate thing the US government is on it they have just banned gifted and talented education in New York take that China. That is going to crank out tons of people who understand how out to fly something past Mach 5 and know how to deal with  I will trip light material. It is like that is  look at that what a chess move. By the way it is not like the federal government does not care about education. They do. They are actually sending the FBI to stop people from protesting school boards but not to stop them from banning . Then of course India was in Japan. We are like why are not we a part of this this Quad discussion? India also is kind of having it a little bit both ways where they are also a part of something called the SCO. Do you know what that is?  I do not.  It is the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. It is sort of like a little bit like a NATO-ish EU thing that most people in the Western know about but it is pretty important becoming more important. It is China Russia Iran just became a member Kazakhstan like central Asian countries and actually India and Pakistan were admitted at the same time which made me kind of quizzical because first India being in anything with Pakistan other than like the UN is pretty unusual. Second India and China being together is unusual but India seems to be taking a balancing role it is almost the opposite of its cold war role where it was closer to the Soviet Union than it was to the US but it was not in the Soviet camp. It was not like fielding troops to the Warsaw Pact. This time it is closer to the US and the West than it is to China. But it is not going to be like the UK which is like America's poodle as people would say after the Tony Blair thing. So it is going to actually take its own independent thing. So SCO people believe maybe that is just a way for India to kind of hedge a little bit but being in both the Quad and the SCO meeting is kind of it is like you put both the Knicks and the Lakers or whatever right? Then of course Taiwan saw this and was like Oh boy because China got more annoyed. So the point is why do I go into this example in detail? This is just pure chaotic evil or at least just chaotic even if it is not evil. It is something that pissed off the French pissed off the Chinese showed that the three eyes in the Quad were internally disaligned piss off the EU and split them versus China. Basically did it all for a photo op after another military disaster and essentially achieved the exact opposite of what they even wanted to achieve which was a pure optical thing. It is not even there is no military gain whatsoever. This is being done at the most senior levels  a choice to do this at the leadership of these three countries. Now this is just one event but as you can see it had like ripple effects and so on but it was like the anti Alliance. It broke apart alliances rather than putting them together. Because of this that is like at the foreign level and domestic you can give similar examples where for example 17 states are now protesting this thing of sending the FBI to local school boards to be mad about protests. The rubber band snap that I think is going to happen is that control of the US the federal government over locals and internationals is just going to contract until only those jurisdictions that elected the current president listen to the federal government and those that did not just nullify everything and just take it to court and do not abide by it. The question is how does that actually play out? Is that purely legal? Is there like national guard staff involved? Who is actually if anybody is prepared to actually shoot somebody over this and I do not know it is hard to say but I can see the conflict kind of brewing. So that was lawful evil versus chaotic evil.  Let me hop in. I do not know but we are at five hours plus now. I think I would like to bring this to a close if I may and we can also continue offline on these subjects but I will skip the angel investing or hypothetical angel investing if unless there is a fast answer for it but   Yeah I will give you my fast answer on it. So my fast answer is that I am broadly interested in obviously crypto obviously startup cities and network states which I have talked about but if I was going to cut into areas I would say crypto info bio robo astro and actually Politico. Crypto is obvious  info. Actually I think that thanks to wokeness basically media corporations have abandoned many niches. Sports Illustrated is not Sports Illustrated Teen Vogue is not Teen Vogue. In fact if you took these articles they basically all sound like the same. I cannot even type stuff. That is like literally if you just strip the branding and you say can I try to distinguish it I am not sure you could because they are essentially all on Twitter and they are all probably the same sort of conformist group. Now though with Substack and with Ghost and with decentralized media like Mirror  I am a small investor at Mirror. Basically what you are seeing is independents have the means to go and effectively start their own media company but they also have an incentive to give a different message than the mainstream. So you are seeing Matthew Yglesias and Glenn Greenwald and Matt Taibbi and Bari Weiss and Jesse Singal. This huge IQ drain of some of the best writers from these old outlets leaving them only with those who were incapable of writing originally enough to become founders. So now just like for example in academia several years ago there was a new level above professor and that was founder or investor because you can scrape for whatever a 100 thousand grant from some stupid bureaucratic committee or you can make a 100 million company exit it and then you are basically able to investigate whatever the heck you want for the rest of your life. If you can build a lab out of spare parts or you can build a future that you want like Vijay Pande for example left Stanford and was running the Bio Fund recruited him because he is a friend of mine. The level above professor is founder. The level above journal corporate journal is now founder. And so info is very interesting because all these niches are going to be recolonized by independence. That started from the beginning with a better brand because they have been abandoned the Sports Illustrated the Teen Vogue et cetera. So media I am actually much more interested in and I think you can make a profit in it. Like The Athletic for example shows you can it is just that you cannot see the same things as everybody else. You need to have the people who are independently minded. That is like the new thesis the new wrinkle. I also actually think that India could become a media superpower. And I know I say that and immediately people think oh what do you mean Bollywood? Bollywood's going to become really popular oh I am not so sure about that. Look Bollywood is fine. But what I mean by that is a lot of animation is done in India. Like if you look at the end of Tenet a lot of the visual effects were done there a lot of the computer graphics. There is something called SAJA South Asian Journalist Association. Obviously there is Bollywood. A lot of talent exists there. The same way that China ascended the ladder from making plastic stuff and iPhones to doing first party stuff like drones with DJI or WeChat. I think India if China's a tech and manufacturing superpower I think India becomes a tech and media superpower and can potentially be like the bright sun to the West's Black Mirror. Because Western media is sort of declining in revenue with technology. That is why they have this Black Mirror attitude towards it. Oh everything is so bad. Whereas India is ascending the technology all their stuff has just gotten better over their lifespan. Smartphone has coincided with a huge improvement in living standards rather than a collapse in their old media model. India I think is very underrated in terms of where that replacement media is going to come from. All the folks I just mentioned like Singal and Bari I like all them but they are like defectors from the old I think we are also going to get a lot of fresh blood from overseas and genuinely internationalized media because it should not just be a bunch of randos in New York. It should be globally representative. People should be able to tell their own stories without being intermediate by some New York media corporation. So that is info then  that is media but it is also movies and other stuff. So mention crypto info bio. So like telemedicine is now legal in the US. Thanks to actually some of the things pastoring COVID. What I mean by legal is doctors can do telemedicine across state lines that opens up the market in a big way. It is possible now to use that to unlock medical tourism and start actually unlocking fee for service medicine which is actually way better than insurance. In general you only want insurance for catastrophic things. You do not want it for routine things. You do not pull out your car insurance to pay for gas or floor mat. It is only for emergency things and same with healthcare you are basically going to lose money on everything other than emergency insurance. So it is telemedicine it is medical tourism but it is also quantified self. It is all the true transhumanism which is brain machine interface and genetic engineering and all that stuff. Then with robo  I think that is also underestimated because its being done on the industrial side of things that is robotic agriculture manufacturing farming retail supply chain all of the recent supply chain stress I think is going to cause an acceleration of that. It is also actually the way to erode China's manufacturing advantage in the medium to long term just like everybody has a smartphone you have a bunch of robots that start making things for you. I think one thing I would linked was like a hundred dollars robot arms. You can start learning this at home and just learning how six degrees of freedom arm works and grasping and all this stuff build your own robot overlord. Astro I think that is actually  it is funny right? Astro I think that is coming down way in cost. It is not just basics there is a whole industry that is building out there. And then politico is kind of the startup cities and network states and the media and crypto stuff but really what does the next postwar order look like? And I think it looks like national stacks and neutral protocols. So neutral protocols are the crypto stuff but national stacks are not just in American internet or Facebook and Twitter and Instagram and so on not just a Chinese internet of WeChat and ByteDance but an Indian internet and a Brazilian and a Russian and a Japanese. And there is a piece of this already like Korea has Naver and Russia has Yandex. Going further with that and having kind of equivalence national equivalence so that local leaders are going to basically demand this so they cannot get de platformed. And it might be that some countries have the scale to do it themselves like the US and China probably India others  or Russia. Others might be in groups. It might be a bunch of Spanish speaking countries that do it together. But national stacks I think will be important and in collaboration with neutral protocols that is sort of like domestic travel versus foreign travel domestic transaction communication versus foreign. So that is the type of stuff I am thinking about in terms of angel investments and the thing that is there that I could probably talk more about is transhuman stuff but that is under Bio that is very important. That is reversing aging that is bionics that is brain machine interface. That is like limber generation and bio electricity. I think that is  if in the 2010s what was underrated were crypto and China I think in the 2020s what is underrated are India and transhumanism and it will be more obvious by the end of the decade but that is kind of how I think about things.  Offline we can talk about some scientific studies that you may be interested in supporting. So we should talk about that. Lest we forget 1729 do you want to tell us what the latest and greatest is with respect to 1729?  Yeah. I have been kind of running it in like alpha-ish over last few months not posting that much recently because been kind of working on some new stuff but on November 1st I am going to be announcing a lecture series with weekly VR lectures and having them recorded if you cannot attend and the goal is to basically build a community and audience in VR and start putting out the polished versions of what I have been working on. Go to my Twitter and you will see the announce over there or subscribe at 1729.com.  Perfect. Beautiful. For those who do not know just briefly the origin story 1729.  Oh sure. It refers to the  it is sort of like the E  mc2 of India just like E equals MC squared came from Einstein a genius Western physicist. 1729 comes from Ramanujan who is a genius Indian mathematician. And what it represents is the first number that is a sum of two cubes in two different ways. It is one cube plus 12 cube and it is also nine cube plus 10 cube. It is famous because when Ramanujan was very ill on his deathbed a mathematician who was a friend was trying to cheer him up and he came by and he said Hey this taxi that I came in on has a very boring license plate. It is 1729. And Ramanujan said Oh no it is actually a very interesting number. It is the sum of two cubes in two different ways. It is something that everybody can understand cubes and sums are but it also illustrates that Ramanujan was on a first name basis with every number. And it has a couple of other kind of things which is it is both Indian and international and spending a lot of time in India now but it is also universal. Like Google was both an American company and a global company and it is  it is also something that has a number theory kind of connotation because Ramanujan studied prime numbers and number theory and that underpins cryptography and crypto which is also something I think about. That is kind of a fun thing.  It is a nice tie in. 1729.com people can check that out. They can follow you on Twitter balajis.  B as in boy a as in alpha I as in Lambda a as in alpha j as in joy I as in India S as in Sam.  Nailed it.  I am not sure that was all the call signs. I should have said like Bravo Fox Trot or something.  I usually just make it up as I go if I need to spell it out that type of way. Balaji once again I do not know how you sustain this level of output. It is remarkable and I appreciate you taking so much time on the other side of the planet to have a very wide ranging conversation. Thank you very much. Is there anything else that you would like to add in brief or requests that you would like to make to the audience anything at all before we close out this conversation?  I think that was great. I think that I would like to see you all in VR. So come by. 1729.com.  Lots of exciting things ahead. Well thank you Balaji. For everybody listening we will have copious copious show notes. I will need a small stadium of my own full of show notes experts to help assemble everything but we will have lists to all of the books and people and so on mentioned in this episode. You can find that at tim.blogpodcast and I will probably create a short redirect so you can just go to tim.blogb2 b as in bravo number two. That stands for Balaji second episode of course. So tim.blogb2 will take you to all of the show notes. And until next time thank you for tuning in. Be safe out there.   