 Dax welcome to the show. Thanks for making the time.  Yes. Thanks for having me. It might be fun for people to even know why we are talking.  Well let us see it originated with a mention in my newsletter 5-Bullet Friday. I had listened  Very complimentary.  Very complimentary and very well-deserved related to an episode of your podcast Armchair Expert in which you interviewed Atul Gawande who I have respected for a very long time author of many books including The Checklist Manifesto. And it was one of those episodes that I come across every once in a while where I think to myself I should have interviewed that guy first because I do not think I am actually going to be adding much to the conversation by having a second interview unless I just jump straight to the rapid-fire questions If you were a breakfast cereal what would you be? kind of stuff. You did an exceptional job and  So flattering. Thank you.  And so you reached out after that and that is how we connected. And we had I guess one or two conversations since and here we are on the show.  Yeah we connected over the phone. And I will admit to my very I think it is human susceptibility to compliments from high-status people. I mean this is deplorable about me. But certainly people wrote on that episode on our feed that it was nice and everything and it feels good. But then to see in you could consider quotes a competitor on some level or a colleague I do not know how you want to frame it but to know that someone else who does what I do listened and liked it is abundantly flattering. Sometimes I will reach out to I think we are both friends with Sam Harris. So if there was an episode I had loved of his I will tell him that. And then occasionally he will go Oh I really liked your And I am like Wow. I assume you would never listen to my show because you have your own show. So I do not know. It gets elevated quickly for me that you took the time to listen when you spend so much time in the podcast world and you probably want a break from it.  I have decided that I want to go back to the well and try to work on the craft. And part of that is listening to people who are really good. And I polled my audience on Twitter to determine which episodes to hone in on. And that was part of my homework.  Oh. No kidding.  Yeah. And I did that early early on because I started this podcast in 2014 seems like in the Pliocene era. And I initially looked at Inside the Actors Studio and some of these others. Terry Gross. Also I think had a similar experience to yourself in the sense that went on WTF with Mark Maron and Joe Rogan and was on Nerdist and had such a great time compared to the two minutes of having someone look over your shoulder at a teleprompter morning TV edition that I decided to kind of kick the tires and try it out at least for myself. But it seems to me like you have much more so than myself I mean skyrocketed to such a dominant place in some respects with the podcast. And there is a lot to unpack there but I thought where we could start is your mom. And I will place some background around that. I have had many friends of mine ask me if I would have my mom or dad on my podcast. And they have also suggested that I record episodes with them even if I never release them. And I think there is something to be said for that. I have not yet done it. You did have your mom on the podcast. And I would just love to hear you describe why you did that and if it was at all difficult to pull the trigger to do it and publish it.  Well for me it felt like I should absolutely do it because the premise of our show is look man it is hard to get through 80 years on this planet and not fuck up royally often. And so my mother I do not know where she got it from to be honest with you but she is always had the most compassionate empathetic point of view. An example would be I lived in a small town occasionally a young kid would die in a car accident always drunk driving related and there would be other people in the car and the whole community would be mad at the driver. And my mother's first thought would always be like Oh man what are the parents of the boy driving thinking about? Every baby comes home and cigars are handed out and everyone's excited and this is just not where it should end for anyone. She always had this knack for taking almost the antagonists in stories and having a great deal of empathy for them. And so however much I am able to do that on our show it is directly credited to her for sure. And this really willingness to own your fuck-ups in public. She would tell people relative strangers how many times she would been divorced or this or that. She seemed to fight shame with that. And so I just always admired her about that. And I definitely think that if that is why the podcasts work it is attributable to her. So it seemed natural to have her on. But then I had the fear of my mother is not a public personality. She is not been in interviews. It is a stressful situation as you have just said. I think people underestimate how much of a starter pistol goes off when you are on one of those talk shows. It is like you are standing behind a door. It is about to raise up. You are supposed to walk up to the right and to the left and you shake the guy's hand then you sit down and then youit is so quick and like being shot out of a cannon that it is very hard to relax and be yourself out there. So I had an appropriate amount of fear that she would maybe just not be the person I know once there was a microphone in front of her. And then to my great delight she had no problem with it. She was just very comfortable right away. And then I think the unforeseen thing for me was the person who does interviews was operating on some level and so there are obvious things that I would have asked for follow-up questions with any other guest that I had never asked my mom. And I guess the one that was probably most profound ismy mom has this incredible story. Three divorces. Started as a janitor night shift. Built a company. Raised three kids on her own. She is had two suicide attempts she is wrestled with mental health issues. My first stepdad was physically abusive and beat her up in front of us. And it was gnarly. And she was very comfortable with that. And so she is going through her story and then it just hit me for the first time. It is something I would have asked a real guests which was God how could someone as tough as you and as confident as you have lived with someone that was beating you up? You do not fit the stereotype I have of someone with low self-esteem that would find themselves in that relationship. And she said again I have never asked her that but she said The shame of having failed twice. I had just got divorced from your dad and I did not want to tell my parents. And that did not go easy and everyone was disappointed. And I felt like a failure. And now I picked this other guy and I probably did it haphazardly. And here I was again and I would have preferred to have gotten physically beat up than to own the shame of having failed twice in such a short period of time. And I think that ended up being one of the most profound things that happened in that. I know a lot of women reached out to us and really related to that and have contacted my mom separately about that. And so that was a neat part of it that I never thought to really ask her in real life. But then once in this context it seemed very obvious I should ask that. And so I dug it. I could definitely see it going off the rails. And I will also add one thing about my mom which is I one time told a story on a talk show that embarrassed her. And she called me and she was a little embarrassed and I felt really bad. And I said I am sorry. I guess I sometimes just assume you are as open as I am or whatever it is. And then she called me back about a week and a half later and she said You know what? I was wrong to call you. This is your story. And you have a full right to tell your story. And it involves me sometimes and that can be sometimes I am embarrassed by that. But you certainly if you have any right it is to tell your own story. So I already had that relationship. So I think that puts me in a much better spot than maybeI do not know what your relationship is with your parents. Are they still married?  They are still married. Yeah. My parents are still together. And I mean there are a million directions we could go with that. And maybe we do maybe another time. But before we turn it into the Tim therapy session which we can  Well we will when you are on my show for sure.  Yeah. We will do that. I am very curious if A that is a level of equanimity that you have seen in your mom before? Because that is a very I want to say mature not in the age-related sense but in the psychological sense perspective to take with your story and the divulging and telling of things that might be embarrassing to her might even cause uncomfortable conversations with her friends. Have you seen that before? And then the second part is did you see any downside or did she experience any downside to being on the show as someone who is not a public figure? And as we both know a lot of weirdos can come out of the woodwork.  Oh yeah. Although it is filtered at a certain point as I am sure you experience. In general if someone's listening to your show they probably like you. I doubt people hate-listen to you the way they did to Howard Stern in the '90s.  My stuff's too long.  Yeah. It is too much of a commitment. No. She has had nothing but incredibly positive moving reactions to that. And I do think she thought maybe what I have thought in the past which is Oh if she says this is it is going to be embarrassing to her brothers or her other family members. And that was not the case. And I guess that is what I have learned almost 250 times in a row doing the show which is every time you think it is going to be embarrassing and there is going to be backlash that is almost assuredly going to mean something real and vulnerable came out. And I have yet to see vulnerability met with shittiness thus far. I mean it will certainly happen. And certainly some things I have admitted have been mildly weaponized by different political points of view. But in general I have just been so encouraged. And a little bitthe premise of why I wanted to do the show is that I am in a 12-step program. I am in AA. I watch people. I have watched people for the last 17 years share things that should make you hate them but when they do it and they are owning it as a fault or a mistake or a character defect it is just hard not to be empathetic towards that. Because man I have yet to meet the person who is not wrestling with some shittiness. It is a unifying trait of us humans. We have got some shit we are all dealing with.  It seems like you have owned and use extremely well vulnerability as a superpower of sorts on your show and quite possibly elsewhere in your life. Let us talk about one component of that which is addiction. When did you first think of yourself as having a problem with any type of substance abuse or substance use?  Throughout my using. But I had a different point of view which is my heroes at that time were Bukowski. They were other romantic drunks. They were Waylon Jennings. And I had this fantasy this romantic fantasy that I could do something artistically that would be impactful enough that it would excuse all of my shittiness. So Waylon's got several songs basically apologizing for cheating on his wife. And it is hard to be in love with a fun-loving man. And Bukowski would put these books out and it kind of excused what a horrendous piece of shit he was in his real life. So I think I was looking to be a fuck up but maybe one that was funny enough that people overlooked it or I wrote something important enough that people would give me a pass. And so that was my fantasy. And on some level it worked a bit. I think people were willing to be around me more than some other people that are less funny. But I had underestimated that I ultimately suffered. I ultimately was demoralized and pessimistic and defeated in that it really was not about all the people around me I could keep in my orbit. That I ultimately had to be with myself all the time. And so I had an awareness that I drank too much. That was quite obvious. And I knew that I used cocaine far more frequently than the Surgeon General would recommend. And I did not care untilI had a few attempts at getting sober and I could put together two or three months. I generally did it because I knew I could not use the way I used and work in movies. And I cared more about that. So I would generally get sober for movies. And then in between movies I would go out. But my most profound moment was I was about to start this movie Zathura I knew I had to get sober for. I thought Oh I am going to go to Hawaii for a week vacation with a buddy before I start because I know I am going to be getting sober. And I specifically went to Hawaii because I was under the impression they did not have cocaine there. It was very hard to get cocaine there and I did not want to die. But they have other stuff there. And I found crystal meth and all this stuff. And by the time I left that trip I had a layover in San Francisco and I was so physically sick from that week. I had been in a car accident. I had smoked meth for a few days. I was in so much physical anguish that when I got to San Francisco I really needed to get down three or four Jack and diets to make the flight to L.A. And I had been in AA at that point. So I am so afraid someone from AA is going to run into me at this airport. And so I am hiding in the corner of this bar and there is the proverbial mirror it actually was there and I am hiding. And people recognized me. So that dream had come true. I was about to make the most amount of money I ever made in my life starting that movie an amount of money that I thought would solve all things. And I was the most scared most depressed most suicidal I had ever been with all the things I had wanted to get. And that was a very very scary moment. And I realized Wow it really is not about those things. I had told myself as I think a lot of people do if I got some money I would be happy. If I got this girl I would be happy. If I got this job I would be happy. And I was lucky enough to get to all those things. And I was very unhappy. And so I really had to ask why. And I had to actually figure out how to be happy. Because it was not those things. They help for sure. I do not want them to be taken away but I was at my shittiest point with all the things I had set out to get.  Where did you land asking those questions in terms of what makes you happy? What were the levers that mattered? What were the ingredients that mattered?  Well I have slowly cobbled together a little checklist for me. I think A. shame. I just had a decade of shames. All kinds of deplorable behaviors while fucked up. So that was a big component. And then really self-esteem. I was trying to get my value from a lot of outside validation and then I got it and I saw the same person in the mirror. I had also dated girls that I was convinced if that girl liked me well clearly that would prove I was desirable and worthy of wanting. And then every time I would look in the mirror at their house I wouldsame piece of shit. And so over years of being sober my list really became have I exercised? I cannot put too fine a point on my belief in exercise. I am a zealot about it. I am annoying. If I had to pick one thing in my life it would be that I exercise. I have just never felt worse after an hour of exercise than I felt before. So exercise is huge. Have I gone to a meeting? That is huge. Have I been of service to somebody I do not want to be? And in general when I feel terrible if I ask myself those three things if those three things happened today they have never happened. I have never done those three things and been in major discontent. That for me is my checklist.  You mentioned shame. So shame is something I have danced with at points certainly after some childhood experiences. And I know you have had your own rounds with various types of shame and so on. I was not planning on going here this early in the conversation but you recently admitted to a relapse and had a very public conversation about it. If we flash back to your mom's experience not wanting to fail not wanting to admit that this time it had not worked I view what you did as tremendouslythat is coming out and addressing it and putting in place something proactively as a plan to try to mitigate it happening again. Walk me through your experience of deciding to tell deciding to share. Because psychologically I cannot speak to what that was like internally but I would like to hear it.  Yeah. I was very very hesitant to share it certainly publicly. One I had let this 16 years of sobriety become so intertwined with my identity. I mean I would tell someone within the first half hour of meeting them that I have been sober for 16 years. So it was like so much of my identity was that number. And we fight to protect our identity pretty hard. And I did as well. And then additionally I have this ego component which is I so cherished the people who listened to the show who would hear my story of sobriety in recovery and then maybe try going to a meeting or they got sober. I mean I have gotten hundreds and hundreds of messages from people over the last few years of doing the podcast saying Hey man I am two months sober because youthanks for this. And half of it was just genuinely I think that is an estimable act. So that gave me a ton of self-esteem. And then my ego's certainly some percentage of that which is maybe the unhealthy part of it which is I liked being a beacon of someone that this program worked for. And I did not want to lose that. I did not want to not be someone people would look up to and want sobriety from. And as I started telling people closest to me that I had relapsed a good friend of mine said If you are true in that your real desire is to help people it is so much more helpful that you relapsed. You having 16 years and being married to Kristen Bell is not very helpful to anyone. Those are not overnight goals that someone would feel like they could relate to you on. He said So if you are honest and true about this desire to help people this is very helpful. And so I really took that advice to heart. And I also as you know there is something much different for me about listeners and what I call armcherries than people maybe who saw me in Idiocracy. In Idiocracy you have gotMike Judge is the genius behind that and it is his vision that we are all executing. And if you like the show you probably like me. I am very connected to anyone that likes the show. I think they like me not a character I played. And I could not have a show begging people to be honest about the shitty things that they have done and then not do that in return. But it was really really hard. And then I had other fears. Again this is all in the midst of being actively addicted to opiates. So a lot of the things I would tell you I know now are not the truth at all. But in those moments I am like I come out and say I relapsed I may lose sponsors. I do not know. I may not get asked to sell Samsung microwaves. I make a living. There is a financial component that could backfire. And I will add into it it is so not fair my wife that now every fucking interview she does for the next six months they are going to ask her about my relapse. That feels very unfair to me that I would put her in this situation where now she is got to explain what the hell happened. So those are just all the factors that I was afraid to come clean about. And then it was an interesting experience doing it because when Monica and I recorded it I had a lot of control over that. We could edit something out if we did not like it. We could not release it. We still had control. And then there was a period where we are like Well what do we call it? So I had control over what it was called. We had a control over what day it came out. And then I underestimated that once it was out it was just out. And then I had no control over it. And one of the reasons I relapsed is I fucking love control. I love to know what mood I will be in. I love to regulate my emotions and my feelings. That is one thing drugs do is you know how you will feel in 30 minutes. And I desire that. But I will say all my fears that they have yet to come to pass. I did not lose any sponsors. We have this great relationship with Lightlife it is a vegetarian meat. I got a huge basket of flowers from them. It said We want more than anything to still be in business with you. So it could not have been nicer. It was humiliating in some ways. The bottom line is I felt horrendous lying to the people in my life. I had not gaslit people in 16 years and I was gaslighting people. I was gaslighting people in my life. I was gaslighting a doctor. I was doing it. And I just I do not have the stomach for it anymore. I could not do it. Monica was like You are on something. And then I deny it deny it and deny it and make her feel crazy. And then I feel horrendous about that. That used to not bother me or I used to be able to do it but I was not able to do it. And so whatever downside that there was which was so minimal the relief of not looking at people I love and fucking lying to their faces has been infinitely better.  So your wife has said publicly that you are also addicted to self-improvement or growth and that seems to be in your favor. For those people listening who perhaps have battled with addiction or relapsing what are some of the things you are putting in place to decrease the likelihood of it happening again? What have you changed?  It is a really interesting experience for me because I am day 35 or something right now. So the first couple weeks was just kind of really owning that it was not just this last period where I would had two back-to-back surgeries. I mean that certainly lit a fire under it but if I really go back it started as I said in that episode with having been in a motorcycle accident having a legit prescription leaving it in Detroit because I had no one to administer it going home to take care of my dad who is dying of cancer. He has Percocet. I take Percocet with my dad. So that is shady. I am not really supposed to do that but I am justifying that as well I have a prescription at home and fuck it. Also my dad's dying and we are sitting here looking at the lake and I can kind of justify that. Then I admit it to Kristen and Kristen does not think I am a terrible piece of shit over that and I kind of just work through that. Then that becomes a little bit of a misleading experience which is like oh yeah I did that once and it was no big deal. I did not go out and buy more. I did not do anything crazy. I did not act like an addict. Opiates were never my thing. I have a lot of stupid hobbies and I get hurt. Maybe two years later I get hurt again and I have a prescription and now this time I do not take them at night when they are administered to me because they fuck up my sleep so I just save them and then in the morning when I get the other administered ones I now take two because that feels better than the one. So now we are getting more shady but again not shady enough where I am ready to go Oh I do not have 12 years of sobriety over this and I willfully allow myself to be misled by all that. I go This is not something that I really do not have control over. I know what powerlessness feels like. I know what unmanageability feels like. If I drink there is no guessing where I will be in three days and if we add coke to that there is just no guessing where I will be for a week or so. That to me is powerlessness and unmanageability but this thing is very misleading because I can do my job I can wake up on time I can be there with my kids I can do everything I would do and for the most part no one has any idea and I am doing all the things I think I need to do. I am exercising. I am still doing the fucking checklist which is ridiculous. I am being of service I am exercising and I am going to meetings but again now the lies are justthey are just piling up. A lie I tell in the morning has to00 to make the first one make sense and I am like Oh my god. I forgot how this spirals and then that became very clear that it was unmanageable. I did not know who I was telling what to at some point and then the powerlessness was justopiates is a gnarly thing to get addicted to because daily your tolerance goes up. So even if you are not even in search of getting higher you are just going to have to take more and more and more and that is the situation I found myself in pretty quickly into the whole thing which was just like I am taking a tremendous amount now and I am going to have a horrendous detox and I know it. That was not part of the plan. Did I answer your question?  You did not but the backstory is helpful. What are you doing now or what are some  I am sorry. I told you the firstyes.  Yeah.  So the first part was  Some breakers that you put in place.  Yeah. So the first part was just understanding how this thing happened. I needed to get my arms around how did it happen. Well it happened with all these baby steps so that was important for me to acknowledge. There is no wiggle for me. There is no white lie for me because the white lie will justit will grow. That is what it does. It grows. Then secondly I had to ask myself what am I trying to escape? What do I find so uncomfortable in my life that I need to confront? That took a couple weeks for me to kind of isolate and that is being tackled now. That is being tackled in therapy and that is being addressed. I know and I am not really ready to let everyone in the world know what that is for me but funny enough the most generic thing in the book in AA Big Book is resentments will make us drink. We cannot have them. For whatever reason we are the type of people that we cannot afford to have them and I had a couple and they were huge and I was ignoring them and I was not wanting to confront them. I am now in the process of working through all those. So I think A just coming clean being honest with everybody and then committing to figuring out why I wanted to escape and addressing that which I feel like is happening. Then again the huge silver lining of this whole story is that I did not go drink and do coke which I did not think was possible. I thought if I had the sad one day I would be like Fuck it. Well then I want to drink. I miss that. So I just feel crazy lucky that that compulsion did not come over me.  Also as you are talking about remaining honest to your listeners it strikes me that if the only thing that came out of your podcast were the strength of that public accountability with this type of situation that that would be a huge ROI on starting the podcast. I mean that is an incredible point of leverage. You mentioned Monica's name a few times. For those people who do not know who Monica is who is Monica?  She is my cohost on Armchair Expert and her story's fantastic which is she was in our friendship circle kind of peripherally and she let us know she could babysit so I think about seven years ago maybe she babysat for our firstborn kid a little bit and then when we had a second kid we kind of brought her on more full-time to help and then we discovered pretty quickly that she was also a UCB person and was incredibly funny and a really good writer. So then Kristen started asking her to write things for her and then she kind of just took over Kristen's life. If Kristen hosts an award show Monica writes it. If Kristen does a commercial she punches it up. She just becamefunny enough some of the stuff I used to do for Kristen now Monica did. So I was just very thrilled about that. I was like Oh good. We have two writers in the house now. So she transitioned from watching the kids to really running Kristen's whole thing and thenshe was always around and our hobby would be to argue about political things or a podcast we had just heard or a TV show. We loved debating and so when I wanted to do a podcast I thought oh this would be so great to have her both just to be a completely different point of view than my own and I think it is also important that it would be a non-white and a non-male point of view would be helpful and she had provided that and become the most beloved part of the show. She also fact checks all of my interviews because I spout facts I learned in college in 1999 that are either not true anymore or I have misremembered them. So she has this fact check component and it is kind of morphed. Then she had her own show on our network that was as big as our show. So she is amazing.  So you poached your wife's chief of staff for your  I did. I did. We had to have ait was a really funny conversation because she is like You know I think you are stealing Monica right? and I was like Yeah yeah. I go But we got to go with what is financially better for everyone. So had I not had the financial argument in my corner I would not have won it.  Well let us double click on Monica's role a little bit. There is a large piece from The L.A. Times and there is a short mention or an excerpt that I am going to pull out which is Eventually Padman came up with a business plan and together they hashed out rough parameters. So that refers to the planning stage of the podcast. Could you describe at that point in the very nascent stages because you are very thoughtful and you are a very smart guy also very agile on your feet very funny of course but also very methodical and very analytical if you want to be and Monica clearly very smart. What did the business plan and parameters look like in the beginning when you guys were on the back of a napkin?  Yeah. That might be overstated. I think that implies a lot more planning than we actually did but in a nutshell two things. I am a terrible delegator. I have a ton of fear that someone will not execute something in the same tone that I like. Again back to me being a control freak. It is why I went into directing at some point. So to find someone like her who I would watched take over Kristen's point of view and tone and execute it flawlessly for years I just felt very safe. It is the first person I think I have ever really just trusted to execute the shared idea. Yeah. I did not know everything other than I had been a guest on podcasts. That is all I knew about podcasts. Rob too our other producer he was very instrumental in this. He was producing another podcast and I met him on there. So Monica was meeting with people who have successful podcasts and finding out everything that goes into it so she really did gather up all that. I just wanted to chat and she really figured out how to do it with Rob who was also very instrumental in it. Then the thing evolves. It becomes something that you could not have foreseen and you thought you wanted to do one show but it kind of becomes another show. She is incredibly helpful in beingit is just great to have two people who are objective checking each other because I am wrong a lot she is wrong a lot but together there is a pilot-copiloty thing. I will call her the pilot for this and I am the copilot. But yeah she is just I will tell you we did not edit when we first started the show and the result of that was I felt a compulsion to fill every dead second of airtime. I already talk way too much. I have steamrolled in this interview and so I did it even times 10 because I was like This person's thinking for 22 seconds. I got to say something and Monica was like We need to start editing this show and then she started editing the show and she really then becomes the editor who is so in charge of the tone of the show and it is her point of view as much as anyone's because she does do that. I have never listened to an episode and thought what the fuck was she thinking? I am always like oh God thank God sheshe also knows when I go too far which I go too far quite often and she saves me.  Just to give people a peek behind the curtain how do Monica and Rob split responsibilities just so people have a window into the podcast operation so to speak because this is certainly me following my own curiosity. I mean you have built something amazing you and your team. How do they split responsibilities?  Okay. So I will kind of tell you pre-COVID because it is evolved obviously. For hanged dramatically but when we did every interview in-person Rob was in charge of every audio thing we needed the hosting site publishing it. He takes the photographs. He is really great at graphic design so he does our look the yellow thing and he also does all the merchandising. He designs all the stuff. I mean Monica and I are involved in it but he physically makes everything I assume on Photoshop or something. I do not even know what he uses. He is also the liaison between all the technical people that are involved and then Monica is very much a producer in that she is dealing with publicists she is booking the show quite often she is on the calls with sponsors and advertisers trying to explain what we do and what we do not do and how everyone can be happy so she is likeby the time it gets to me and it is time for me to read ads all the things have been handled by Monica whether that is just like Oh we do not actually say that but he is happy to do this. So she is in charge of both editing dealing with all the advertisers booking and dealing with getting people. Rob also will get people too. It is a lot easier for us to get experts than it is celebrities and our show is Monday celebrity Thursday expert so experts generally have a book to sell and that makes it a lot easier. But Monica's now very dialed in with all these different publicists and as we have had better guests then more people are interested in all this and she handled all that. I research. I show up and I interview people and I also reach out to people that maybe I have access to that no one else has access to and on a rare occasion Kristen has to get involved because people like her a lot more than me.  So the podcast landscape is kind of an elephant graveyard of three-episode podcasts or 10-episode podcasts. Even very well-known people with ostensibly preexisting audiences just tap out frequently and there are God knows how many what 30000 50000 100000 new podcasts a week launching. I have no idea. The number is enormous.  Yeah.  You kind of pole-vaulted very quickly to a dominant position and you have stayed there and this is probably a question you are tired of people asking you but to what would you attribute that if you had to speculate or your best friends or people who know the show really well if it is easier to answer that way what do they attribute it to?  Well we launched really big which was an advantage that we have over so many people and we launched very big or at least I explained it by the fact that Kristen and I did it together and the episode did not go that well which I think people found very I do not know probably mirror neurony satisfying for anyone who is in a relationship. So I had an explanation for why the first episode did really well and then also some of my more popular friends like Kimmel I think was on the first batch and so was Ashton. They were nice enough to help. So when they were a part of the launch I really kind of attributed it to them andor the shared interest in Kristen and I as a couple because we have found this out. It would be hard to miss if say she posted a picture of herself. Let us say it gets I do not know what 100000 likes. She posts a picture of her and I together it will get 300000 likes and same for me. There is a factor of three thing more than the sum of our parts. So I had explained it by that and I thought for sure it would all fall off as soon as she was not on the show and my other huge friends were not on the show and then it just kept working and I did not know why. I do not know that I fully know why. I think there is a tremendous amount of luck involved and also we get incredible guests. I mean the guest thing is its own machine where once Bill Gates is on someone else who maybe was like I do not know some of it becomes self-perpetuating. But I will say and when we talked on the phone I told you this that I learned a lot when we started doing live shows and we got to actually interact with people who listen to the show and we would hear their questions. As I told you then I always noticed in Sam Harris's live shows when people ask questions it is a diatribe thesis on some kind of molecular biology. The real goal is clearly I want Sam to think I am smart and so what I glean from that is that they like that Sam's smart. That is what they like about the show. That is what I like about the show. I like that he can argue well with other people and I am exposed to really smart people. So when we started taking questions they were almost unanimously Oh my god. I am sorry I am wearing this sweatsuit. I wore a skirt but my thighs were sweating too much because I am on my period and I had to go to Ross and buy this stupid sweatsuit for 5. Anyways I was wondering what your shower routine is. Then the next person would get up I farted in the thing and now my friend will not sit with me and it was just like I was overwhelmed with how vulnerable all these people were. It is like they led first with something kind of embarrassing or vulnerable about themselves and it was not until then where I was like well then that must be what they like about me and that must be what they like about the guests when they are on our show versus other shows is that they seem to be more vulnerable or something. So I guess that is it and then I guess from that I would conclude it must be rare. It must be rare to hear people be that way or people would not be listening.  Yeah especially with the mixture of guests that you have on the show if that makes any sense. I mean I think that vulnerability fromreal vulnerability not rehearsed one-or-two-story vulnerability but true I have not talked about this before vulnerability in  Yeah realtime?  Yeah realtime Oh shit. I think I just backed into a corner vulnerability from both the tier one celebrity and tier one experts is quite uncommon. So I think that is  Well they have a safety net I will add. So everyone that comes on the show we tell them up front You can cut anything out you want. You go home tonight and you are like I should not have told that story about my brother. His feelings will be hurt' they just tell us and we cut it out. So we are not 60 Minutes or The New York Times. I have no journalistic obligation to not give people the right to cut shit out. Right?  Yeah.  So I think what happens is they know that if they say something regrettable they can just get rid of it and then upon saying it I think they realize they feel different than they feared they would feel or they see from our reaction that we relate and then they are maybe not afraid anymore that that came out in that time. It is like I know you just published something really intimate but it is like I have been molested. When I tell people I have been molested I can just see them and they are like Oh wow. He just said that and no one ran away. Okay. Fuck. I am going to say it too. Yeah I was too. I mean look dude. 25 percent or at least if The Body Keeps the Score is an accurate book 25 percent of people have had some sexual trauma in their childhood. So any time you are with four people one person there hadit is not rare.  Yeah.  40 percent of kids have experienced physical abuse enough that it left a mark. I mean these are not rare occurrences yet we all feel so isolated in them and unique and at fault somehow. Yeah. I just think there is something about if you start people are inclined to match you.  When we were chatting on the phone I was asking you how you prepare for episodes and it seemed to me and tell me if I am misremembering this but just for people out there who might feel like they are just a collection of weaknesses that one of your let us say past challenges dyslexia is actually a superpower of sorts when it comes to podcast prep because you have such a developed memory that you do not need to rely overly so on lots and lots and lots of notes which is part of the reason why I tend not to do video because I like to look at a lot of notes. I do not have that retention that you seem to have. Is that a fair description?  Yeah. I think what other dyslexics who I have met throughout the years what we seem to share in commonlet me back up and say there is a great chapter in a Malcolm Gladwell book I want to say in the Goliath book about for years and this is what I learned growing up that dyslexics were twice as likely to end up in prison which makes total sense because you are going to fail out of school and what are your options? But it is since been revealed that alsothis number's not right so whatever the number is. You are also twice as likely to become a CEO. So it is like oh that is kind of interesting. It is like it can break you but also it can become this asset. So what I have found from a lot of other dyslexics is that since you are not really getting anything off that chalkboard that is a roadblock you are kind of forced to really develop a great oral memory. So when people tell me a story I find that I just remember that. I will run into people that I have not seen in five years and I will be like Oh my god. Did not you I may remember the story better than they do. So when I research and I think out my thoughts as I am learning about them questions pop up and I kind of jot them down on paper but just the act of me writing them they are pretty much in there then. Yeah that must be a result of that dyslexia background where I can hold onto that although it is getting worse. I will add that. I have two kids and I am getting older and I was on opiates for a few months.  Chipping away at the old prefrontal cortex.  Yeah.  You give your guests final cut. That is also something I do. I am actually frankly surprised that more shows do not make that explicit. It is kind of shocking to me. I ended up modeling that on Inside the Actors Studio because early on  Oh cool.  Yeah. Early on I was introduced to someone who used to do research for Inside the Actors Studio and I hired them to review transcripts of some of the early episodes of my show to try to identify where I was sloppy where I could improve et cetera which was a really useful exercise. So the question for you is how have you thought about working on interviewing or how have you most improved as an interviewer since starting the show?  I am still really bad at this. I still give myself a C but I used to be an E because I talk way too much. It is as if I met you at a bar and I want your approval and I am aware of that and I am trying to get your approval. So I have talked less and less and less over the last few years and it gets better and better the less I talk. But again I will justify it a little bit in that I am so often trying to enact vulnerability which requires me to go first. It is almost like an AA meeting where it is like I share first and then maybe you are compelled to share back. So it is kind of required and then we get into this tricky situation whereI mean it is tricky for Monica is how many fucking times can they hear me tell this story? They got to be so bored of it but at the same time the guest I have does not listen to the show so they have not heard it and then I also feel like it is mildly unethical to cut out the part where I say I was molested and then just cut right to them going Yeah I was not. So it is a little dicey. It is not perfect by any stretch and I do end up talking more than probably people would prefer. But yeah I have gotten more and more comfortable with it. I think also originally when I started interviewing experts I am intimidated by them. I mean I am talking to Richard Dawkins. I read Selfish Gene and just thought how could someone have thought of that 20 years of thinking this guy's brilliant. So my own fragile ego wants him to know I get your books so I am going to waste so much of this interview letting you know I get your book. And I just I do not try to prove with the person I am smart which is very hard again with the dyslexia baggage. I have a chip on my shoulder that everyone thinks I am dumb. No matter how much proof I get to the contrary I still have to work through that fear.  So if you used to give yourself an E and now you give yourself a C aside fromyour words not minetalking too much what is improved and what do you most want to improve? Or is it just the volume of talking? Are there other aspects?  You know one thing I will say that has evolved is I was trying too hard at the beginning to get people to be sharing something we never heard. Here is what happens I am always in a meeting with other dudes and I hear some person share. And I think God I am so lucky to hear men talk about this. I do not think anyone not in AA gets to experience this. And so I want everyone to have that. And so then the people I have on I wanted them having no AA experience I want them to jump right into that. And so I think I pushed pretty hard at the beginning and I have laid off. And then sometimes I think have I laid off too much? But I am getting more confident when it is going to be that type of interview. That is great. It will be that type of interview. I follow them more. I try really hard not to follow more than I previously tried to lead because they just get repetitive. I have all these insecurities. I think we related a little bit on this just like there was a while there where I was just looking at how many listeners we have and I am just waiting for it to drop. I am like Well this is going to drop. I know the inevitable trajectory of all things. Even hit TV shows. They just slowly and precipitously lose and there is better shows out there. And then I get distracted all these things. And I just had to stop thinking about that. I just had to remember I did this with no expectations. I did not think a lot of people listen I just loved talking just fucking enjoy talking and then things will happen one way or another. And so I have semi successfully gotten out of them. I have not asked Rob what the numbers are in probably a year. Maybe the first month of COVID. I was like curious what that had done but since then I have not asked and that is kind of a good barometer for me of how healthy I am and how much I am getting my esteem from the right place. And now I just think do I love talking to that person or not?  Correct me if I am wrong but I believe in doing prep for this that I read somewhere that it was confusing to you in a sense to see the podcast achieve escape velocity and become this juggernaut while not working on it as hard as you had in other things that had produced less stellar results. And my question is do you think that is just something inherent to the format or is there some aspect of you hitting your zone of genius and flow precisely because you are not trying extremely hard?  I mean that could certainly be it. I think there're other factors too. The example I gave was that I am used to directing a movie where it is a two-year endeavor like CHiPs for me was at least two and a half years of my life where that is all I did. And then the whole outcome'00 p.m. I know if I have completely wasted two and a half years of my life in that respect. I enjoyed the process so much but in that respect yeah. Not the outcome I wanted at all. And that is happened to me twice on two different movies where I gave it two years of my life and then it just floundered. So just show up and do something for three hours' work. The work felt very like something's too good to be true here. I think I had a lot of that going like this is not how it works. I am supposed to sit in hair and makeup for an hour which I do not want to do. And I have got to learn a bunch of lines and then I have got to tediously shoot this scene and all these things and this is like No sit down shoot the shit and bow. And it works. It is just very confusing. It is hard to understand why it would work. But I think some I did not even know what expectations to have. I did not know enough about podcasting to know if I was a failure or a success. I can tell you what a successful comedy movie is that you spent 25 million on. I know you have to get 13.5 that opening weekend but I did not really know that. So I was not even thinking about it. It is probably the thing in my life that has been purest in that it was really just about the experience and not about the results. And then lo and behold I ended up with good results when I did not care which is so confusing. I tried to tell this I have no advice for actors but one is just you have got to somehow convince yourself. You do not care. If you get cast in this thing it is the only way you will be good in the audition. So you got to somehow trick yourself. I do not know how you are going to do it but I found a method for me to do it. And that kind of seems to be the case here.  What is your method?  To throw myself in?  Yeah.  Well a couple of things I have been lucky enough that I have cast things now. And I do know now that so often it is not about how good or bad it gets. It is people are right or wrong for stuff. Someone could have been much better at it in theory but they are just not right. There is something I do not know what it is. So recognizing it is not personal helped from being on the other side of it. And then also tricking myself into if I love acting if that is what I am claiming I am as someone who loves to act and audition is just an opportunity to go act. I get to go act and that is something I am supposed to love. So if I do not love going and acting in front of people then I am probably doing the wrong thing. So to see the audition itself is an end in itself. Like I get to go act. And then I also have this point of view now which is like I am going to show you what I would love to do in this movie or TV show. And you may or may not like that. And that may or may not be right for this TV show and that'ill be okay because I really only want to do this thing. And so getting ownership over it is like I would like to go be in your movie and act like this and that may or may not work for you. I will not take it personally as I hope you will not take it personally that I do not want to go and shove a banana peel up my ass to get a laugh. That is just not what I want to do. So maybe neither of us want to do what each other wants to do but occasionally those things are going to overlap beautifully. And the more I am excited to go show them this interpretation I have of this writing. And that'ill be that. Just the outcomes got a lot better once I switched into that mindset. I think that goes for a job interview too by the way.  For sure.  I think you can go there show them who you actually are. You are better off being at the job where you being actually you is wanted than you trying to be fucking Eddie Haskell and everyone finds out eight months later. Oh guess what? This guy does not like doing research on the weekends. That is not his bag.  So you have this incredible podcast I mean I will speak for my podcast. An incredible ROI right? Like you said it is not two and a half years in and then you find out on Friday whether it succeeded or failed. I mean it is three hours in and more more likely than not. Once you have a loyal audience it is going to succeed on some level.  Yeah.  Has that changed what you say yes and no to? And how do you decide which projects or invitations to say yes to now? How has that changed if at all?  It is given me this insane freedom because I also grew up quite broke for a period of time. And my family was very obsessed with climbing the financial ladder. So I am obsessed with money and I have great fear and financial insecurity completely irrational. I have had numbers throughout my whole life. I had this amount of number I feel safe. If had this amount of money I will feel safe. And then I never felt safe. So first I just want to own that It is a complete fear but having a source of income that has nothing to do with movies or television or commercials is so liberating for me because now I am lucky enough to only do stuff that I am excited to do. I do not actually have to think about the financial component. I would not do something motivated out of financial insecurity which is very new for me it is three years old. I would always be tempted to take a movie I liked less if the payday was twice as much and I have interviewed a couple people that grew up with wealth and I have watched them navigate their career and I have been envious of it. Nick Kroll comes to mind. He has so much creative integrity. He just does what fascinates him. I think he is had opportunities to do bigger things or bigger paydays. And he is just always stayed on his path of what entertains him. And I just envied that. And he grew up with a ton of money. He said when I interviewed him his fucking dad drove him to school in the limousine like Mr. Drummond. So I am experiencing that to a degree which is I just get to do things I am really excited about today and that could totally change. The podcast could go away. I could be back but currently I get to do things I am super interested in. All right or I do not do them.  We all have fears. I have fears. You have fears that you have certainly spoken about very publicly. If we look at your podcast and my understanding is it skews female in terms of listenership you have clearly struck a chord with the leading with vulnerability. Do you ever fear straying outside of that or operating too far outside of a template that appeals to your core listenership or does that not cross your mind?  Well no it totally does. I am trying to be as smart about this thing as I can. I A do not want to lose it and B I would like to grow it. And so we are in this great situation where you and I have a laboratory and we can try things for very little investment. Right? I will tell you an example that just happened is I got interested in conspiracy theories as a result of having Bill Gates on and seeing all these crazy comments. I really had no idea what the hell they meant. Save the children. He is a pedophile. what is going on right? I got really fascinated with conspiracy theories. So I said to Rob Hey find us a conspiracy theory expert. And he found this guy David Farrier I cannot pronounce his last name. I can spell it for you. But he directed this documentary Tickled that I love. And he also has a show on Netflix called Dark Tourist. And he is a journalist who investigates a conspiracy. So I am talking to him and I am having the most amount of fun I have had interviewing somebody in two years it is just candy. And so I am loving it. And then we can kind of see from the results of that episode that people also loved it. And I am like Well fuck I would love to talk to that guy once a month. And so I call him like Do you want to do this once a month? And like they will pay you you would be a part of the show. And he is like Yeah I am up for that. And then we saw the response. So it is like Oh that is awesome. That just kind of presented itself and revealed itself. And so I cannot wait to do that. And then we have had a couple different things like that where it is just oh it worked for us. And then it appears it worked for the audience so let us do that again. And I have the 300-mile goal of I would love to do this show four days a week. I would love to give people what I get from Howard Stern which is like oh I am following this story. You know in a dream world Monday is candy at some super famous person you like and then Thursday is protein it is the experts but maybe Friday is we give you some weird topics we just learned about that it gives you something to talk about on the weekend at your barbecue. I would love each day to have its own thing and not get stagnant and stay interesting. And I have some faith that those things will present themselves the way this conspiracy thing did.  So the podcast and when I say the podcast just to be clear people from talking about Dax's podcast is so successful and so reliable and so appealing to so many sponsors. If you wanted to make the decision tomorrow to do it every day you could right? It supports you enough that you could do that. So why wait why not do that sooner? I am not saying you should or should not.  yeah.  I am just curious.  Well I have a kind of commitment to just to do it right? So like this David thing as a perfect example like Oh I loved it and I want to do it a lot now. And I do not want to just arbitrarily fill up days. I want to make sure that I am passionate about each day and excited to switch gears from an interview to maybe something more journalistic or whatever it is. And so I am committed to that to making sure that I am super crazy passionate about it. And then also I have some outstanding obligations. I am on a show Top Gear that'ill come out in maybe January and I have 12 more I have got a film starting in February and I have a game show my wife and I are going to do. So there're certain things that I will have to just be mindful of making sure that they can fit within a schedule where I am still doing four a week or something. But so I guess I see myself maybe not taking any more on-air shit or on-camera stuff and just doing this all the time because it is my favorite thing to do. Although Top Gears insane I just go there and I horse around in fast cars that someone else owns. And then I leave and I do not have to deal with anything. I do not have to put new tires on the back of it and people are excited when I act like a jackass. So that would be hard to walk away from as well.  Howard Stern.  Yeah.  I know you have a lot of respect for Howard Stern. Why do you have so much respect for him and how are you guys different or similar?  Yeah it is really interesting because I only liked him a bit when he was on terrestrial radio. I was never up that early and I did not commute anywhere. So I had to like turn it on in my house which it was a foreign concept to me. But once he was on satellite radio I could choose when I listened to him because it just replays. And he had also evolved enough. I do not think I would have been on board for throwing baloney at girls' asses and stuff. That was not really my jam. What I really immediately loved about him is what an amazing interviewer he is. He is just such a great interviewer. And I love that I still find this very intriguing about him is that his fan base is I would guess opposite of mine. I think it is mostly dudes. And so here's this guy who has this kind of dude fan base and there is a lot of sexual stuff yet he does transcendental meditation. He does not really drink. He eats perfect. He is in love with his wife. And it is just monogamous to the core. I loved this dichotomy of him. I thought it is interesting that he is speaking to all these guys yet he is seemingly kind of different than his fan base. And I also credit him for doing more for gay rights something I always cared a lot about. It does not help when Lena Dunham gives a speech about gay rights her fans already feel that way. They already are in step with her. It is not going to convert anyone. And I always just applauded him being so embracing of gay rights when his fan base I do not think was that way. That I just think that enacted way more progress than the left talking to the left. And I think he is done that kind of bravely with like supporting Hillary and having her on the show. Most of his fans do not want to hear Hillary. So I just love that he like kept the ear of people open and was very soft and gentle with evolving real time himself. And he is had so much personal evolution and I think taking his audience along for that ride in a really unique way I do not think too many people have done that.  When you listen to a Stern interview because you mentioned he is an excellent interviewer I would agree with that. For you what does that mean? What are some of the telltale signs or clues or characteristics where you are like God damn that is really good.  Well the thing that you are almost guaranteed to get in every single Stern interview is the person's going to say something they have never said before. Like if I am a huge fan of Bill Murray or I am a huge fan of Letterman what could be more fascinating than Stern talking to Letterman? He does not talk to anybody. And the notion that you are going to learn something about them that does not exist anywhere else is exciting. He has a monopoly on that. And then also his passionate interest in people is infectious. And there are many people he is had on that I think I do not like them going into it. And I have got to say with the exception of maybe three of his guestsand I have listened to several hundred interviewsI liked the person more after he talks to them. There is only a few times I was like Oh that person's kind of a dick. I was not expecting that. It generally goes the other way. What I like about that is I do believe that all these people we disagree with or they are divisive I do believe if we were stuck somewhere with them and talked to them for two hours that just the humanity takes over. We are so much more similar than we are different. And I just find his thing oddly life-affirming and encouraging like oh yeah I thought this person was this. They are a person who is afraid their kids are going to turn out shitty and this and that I liked that experience.  Yeah. He is incredibly skilled and however you put itthrowing baloney at chicks' asseshe can do that too.  Mm-hmm .  He is a connoisseur of that. I remember growing up seeing him on TV and there'00 a.m. with Snapple commercials. That was my memory of it was being 12 years old and having insomnia and watching Howard Stern on television. But when he wants to turn up the dial on Jedi interviewer I remember listening to his Sheryl Crow interview and being really impressed with just how well he navigates with so much due diligence and preparation but not seeming like he is reading off of any type of script extremely skilled. I read related to Howard and I want you to fact check this but you would not want to invite him on the show because you would not want to feel like you owed him a favor or he was doing it as a favor. if I am getting that right? Could you expand on that please?  Yes.  I mean because if Howard Stern came to me and said I will be on your show but you have to like be a clown at my kid's bat mitzvah I would be like sure I am in. Fine!  No I would be delighted to owe him a favor. Do not get me wrong. I would want to owe him a favor but I wanted to add one thing a gift he has that you and I do not have which is he is the most skilled. There is no question. Also he has a status that you and I do not have that actually has no matter who he is interviewing in deep desire of his approval which is incredible.  Well sure.  I think Letterman had that. People go out there and they really wanted DaveI certainly was dying for Dave to like me when I was on the show. It was way more about getting him to like me than whatever was happening with the audience or what movie I was supposed to promote. With a singular goal I want Dave Letterman to like me. And I think he benefits from that a lot Howard Stern. I know I wanted him to like me when I went up. I do not think when people sit down with you or I it is going to make or break their year whether we ultimately liked them or not. So I think we have more of an uphill battle but I just know as a fan of the show and someone who knows him personally he does not want to do anything and I get it. But you know I want to do less and less. And I imagine with more and more success I want to do even less. And so I know he does not want to be on this show. I have faith that if he were on it he would enjoy himself and not regret it as much as he thought he was going to but I just know he does not want to. I have his email. I have never asked him to be on the show. I will never ask him to be on the show. HopefullyI have said to Baba Booey once Look he is promoting this book. Our audience fucking buys books man. That is why we get experts. There is a huge uptick if someone comes on the show with book sales so I am not even saying I want a favor. I am just saying If you want to sell a lot of books the door's open and I just left it at that. But that was as far as I would go with inviting him.  I know Howard Stern would be a dream guest for a lot of people. He does not want to be a dream guest!  Yeah.  Do you have any dream guests you have not already reached out to right? Is there anyone where you are like one day?  Well I have got to say the most shocking event of my lifeit is the only guest I have ever called my mom to brag about that I knew was coming was Bill Gates. I saw that documentary on Netflix. I do not know if you have seen that? Inside Bill's ?  I have not.  I guarantee if you give it five minutes you are going to plow through all four episodes.  Okay I am it.  It is so good. He is one of the most fascinating people to ever live on planet Earth. There is no question. So I am obsessed with him and we did not invite him on. I just talk about him a lot because I am obsessed with him and someone from his team called and said Would you guys want Bill Gates? And Monica called better than if she had just hit the lottery she is like You are not going to believe who just asked to be on the show! And my first thought was like Obama or Bill Gates. Like who would I not believe? It was fucking Bill Gates. And I think he was the number one guy I would have wanted to talk of course I would love to talk to Obama. I mean that would be awesome. And then Bill Murray I am pretty obsessed with Bill Murray and I know he does not do anything either. So the odds of that happening are very slim. But I would love to talk to Bill Murray. He is a North Star like I said. I brought him up at the beginning like breathe believe in yourself be calm It will happen.  Perhaps another cliched question but I am going to ask because I know people would enjoy hearing the answer. And that is for people who ask you for advice related to podcasting because you must get it all the time from friends also I am thinking of starting a podcast I just started a podcast I am going to start a podcast. Let us just assume you want to spend a little bit of time and give an answer because they are a close friend. What do you say to them?  Well it is interesting. Because I think that the friends of mine who have reached out they are a little bogged down in the idea right? In the concept. And I do not think that is the most relevant aspect to be honest. I do not think like if you give a one-line description of why Howard Stern has been on the radio for 40 years successfully it is not like shock jock who is not afraid to throw baloney I do not know how you sum that up. The concept is irrelevant. It is him. And if you look at why he is so successful is that he is just fucking brutally honest. He tells everyone what he is thinking embarrassing stuff. I remember one time this was so great he came in it was a Monday morning show. He was grumpy all morning and Robin's like You are grumpy huh? And he is like Yeah. Yeah I have been grumpy for two days. Why did I get grumpy? I was sittingoh my God I know when I got grumpy. It was right after I took a dump. I know what happened. I was reading a fucking article that said Ashton Kutcher has a billion dollars.' And I was like How the fuck  Mind you he is friends with Ashton so the fact that he is acknowledging that would piss him off. I guess he has 500 million. It is so wonderful. Like here's a guy with 500 million sitting in a very nice toilet presumably and he is agitated that this other guy has a billion dollar. It is so human and wonderful. I think most people would hide that about themselves. They would not own that they are that shitty and petty. And so I guess when people call me I am like Yeah the concept's great and blah blah blah. I may have a note or two about sustainability of a concept. I will just go It feels a little limited to me because will not that be done in 10 episodes? Or will not that be done in 40 whatever. But mostly I just say If you are going to do it you have got to make the decision that you are going to be a hundred percent honest or it is not worth doing. And I do not think it will work. And so often the people that are calling me or other public people so that is kind of a big barrier for them understandably. I just do not know that it works unless you aremaybe I mean if you have a procedural show like let us say Making a Murder. Or not Making a Murder but those wonderful women who have the best podcastMy Favorite Murder. If you are recovering a case every time yeah I think maybe you could have a premise-driven one but you better be a Radiolab or This American Life and you have got a team of journalists that are going to go out there and build this incredible show over the course of six weeks and edit it into 90 minutes. But if you are just going to drive the show if you are the content then it better be like being your best friend or I just do not think it will work.  Yeah.  What are you thinking about right now?  Well I am thinking that you have to like the format you choose. If you do not like the format you choose you are just not going to have the endurance also to do it for a long period of time. And you are going to be if you are competitive and maybe that does not matter maybe you are just doing it for the love of the game and you do not care if anyone listens but if you want to break through the noise you need a certain degree of enthusiasm and endurance both of which will be lacking if you do not enjoy the format you choose. It just seems so  I agree.  fundamental as a decision. You   Well and by the way I have talked to some friends where they are like Oh I want it to be about X Y and Z. And I will go I am just going to point out I have known you for 12 years you have never brought that topic up to me. But I can tell you the topic you bring up all the time which is home furnishing. I know you think because you are a director or an actor or this you should be talking about that but you love home furnishing. That is what I know you like to talk about nonstop. Why is not that what your show is? I think first you have just got to go What am I endlessly talking about? And I know I do not go eight minutes into a conversation at any party where I have not asked Did you get molested? Or they say something and I think Oh I am just curiousoh it was one of your parentsI noticed your husband he is very quiet. Was your dad quiet? That is all I am interested in. I want to know why we have all landed in these spots and I think the clues are in your childhood. That is all I talk about at parties and then that is all I talk about on the podcast.  Yeah. You are not changing wardrobe too much in terms of going on the show. You appear to be a voracious reader and you read a whole lot it seems. Are there any particular books that you gift to other people or recommend more than others?  Yeah there is a number one. I cannot stop talking about it. I have read it three times now. I will read it again soon is Titan the Ron Chernow book about John D. Rockefeller.  Rockefeller.  Have you read that book?  I have not. I have seen the cover.  Ooh. I have got to tell you for someone I can already tell like you I am blown away with the fact that you would have had someone go over your transcripts and point out things that you are doing wrong or that you would listen to find the errors. It was such a specific commitment to betterment which is fascinating and obviously very inspiring that is why people adore you. I would have guessed Rockefeller was one way and then in this book I learned he is almost the opposite of everything I would have guessed about him and that his approach to all these things was so unique and so confident. I do not know how this guy got this confidence. When he was running Standard Oil which is a feat that'ill never be accomplished again I mean the level of what he accomplished is insane. But early on in the company he set up a couch in his boardroom. He is a big believer in naps. Every day he napped for a long time. And he would have all the board members at the table but he would be laying on a couch. And he would doze in and out and he listened to them talk. And then he would just pop up with like one idea and that was good for him and then he would walk home early that day. He was not what I would have thought. And just his weird confidence I just loved it. And then all of the things he has impacted there is not been an American that is had a bigger impact on life than him. There was no research medicine. That did not exist. He funds the first research medical facility. He is the one who says Man if you go get a procedure in Tennessee those doctors have a totally different set of knowledge than the ones in New York. No one's doing the same thing. Why is that? Oh because of all these medical schools they do not have a unified curriculum. Okay who has the best curriculum in the country? Johns Hopkins. What if I take that curriculum and I pay universities to adopt it? He unifies medicine. He gets rid of hookworm. He just tackled anything. He was so cocky and confident in the things he tackled and he succeeded. He is just an amazing person. I cannot read that book enough.  You have read it three times. You might read it again. What do you getbecause there is an information appeal learning the bio and so on but you have a great memory. You probably get that after two passes. What do you gain from reading it a third time a fourth time?  Well funny enough it is a big book so I do forget a lot of the stuff.  Yeah this is not a Charlie Brown strip. These are big books.  Even as I am talking to you there was a period where he somehow took over all the shipping routes on Lake Erie and I cannot remember right now the exact mechanics of how he did that and so that will interest me. Like how again did he get a monopoly of the Lake Erie ship? That is interesting. I am going to want to find that out. Yeah I cannot explain it. It is kind of just kind of like watching a favorite movie. It is like I enjoy it each time around. And then also I always recommend all the Jon Krakauer books. He is my favorite writer probably. Yeah I would not even know what you want to say is the best. Where Men Win Glory is an incredible book. Have you read that one?  I have not mm-mm . Excellent writer though.  You will see a theme here. I love when I find out something's opposite of what I thought. It is why I like Malcolm Gladwell right? Every single chapter is about some common sense assumption that we find out through testing is counterintuitive. I find that to be the most pleasing experience of going Oh my God I am dead wrong about that. I would have thoughtthat does not make any sense. I love that. Pat Tillman. I remember when Pat Tillman quit the NFL and joined the army because he wanted to go to Afghanistan. And when I heard that I thought What could explain that?  He is either a religious zealot and this is a crusade against Islam or two this guy has done something so dark in his past that he has to atone in this insane way. Those are my only guesses. I read that book Where Men Win Glory and it is the Pat Tillman story. And I find out quickly it is not any of those things at all. And that this person had this level of integrity I certainly do not possess and I do not think I have ever met anyone that has this level of integrity. Real quick he was like the last round pick to the Arizona Cardinals. He becomes one of the best safeties in the league. He gets offered 8 million to go to St. Louis on a four-year contract Arizona will only give him a one-year contract for like a million bucks and he stays in Arizona. He is like These people bet on me when no one would. I am going to stay and get less money with less security because they deserve that. I would not have done that. I would have fucking been shopping for a house in St. Louis or whatever team. And thing after thing in his life was like that. And so just this incredible human that I have never gotten to meet in real life that I get to meet through this book and it is opposite of everything I assumed. He was not a jingoistic patriot. In fact he got immediately disillusioned because he got deployed to Iraq instead of Afghanistan. He did not think we should be in Iraq. Then he goes to Afghanistan he is killed in friendly fire. There is a cover up. His brother uncovers it and the family and they speak out about it. They are like You will not use him as the poster boy for the military because he was misled and lied to and then he was killed by a friend. That is wild.  It is Titan by Chernow also at the top of the list. I will trade a recommendation not that you need more.  Please.  But Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World if you have not read that. I cannot recall the author offhand.  Hold on I got to write it down on my . I cannot spell Genghis Khan but I will figure it out. Genghis Khan   Yeah. I will also  And what is the subtitle? Genghis Khan and what?  Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World.  Oh wow this is right up my alley.  Yeah yeah. Yeah this book it sounds like will be right up your alley. It was recommended to me. I am not going to name his name because I do not know if he would want it to be named but recommended to me by one of the best-known CEOs in the United States. And it is outstanding. And if you want to talk about a portrayal of a person and their role in history that is counter to almost everything you might believe and all the preconceptions you might have just the first 50 pages will leave you just absolutely dazzled by how much of an impact on things we take for granted now Genghis Khan had. That is a good read.  Can I just tell you I have almost no knowledge of him other than did not he invent the shock troop the stirrupped rider on a horse utilizing the mass of the horse to strike other soldiers? Was that his big invention warfare wise?  There were a lot of military innovations. I do not recall using the weight of the horse. Certainly he was very good at amassing and building an army by absorbing the engineers and warriors of the conquered. He was also very tolerant even supportive of all religions as long as they made sure to pray for Genghis Khan at some point.  Uh-huh . Sure that is a small request.  And from a logistics standpoint I mean the type of warfare using theseI mean his scouting missions would defeat some of the most capable armies in the world. These were like advanced teams that were scouting and they would defeat armies. They would be considered the US or China of its day in terms of military power. His impact and the impact of his activities on logistics I mean ranging from postal services to beyond  Wow.  and just the sheer magnitude of what he did even compared to Alexander the Great. I mean it is staggering. It is a cool read. It is a really cool read.  And do not they say like some actual percentage of people on planet Earth have his genes?  Yeah there is some absurd percentage that gets cited.  Is that apocryphal or is that real?  I would need Monica to fact check that. I think it might be apocryphal but who knows? I mean it would not surprise me and it would also not surprise me if it were exaggerated but  Well I have a salacious personal experience I will tell you about that is probably inflammatory. But Marlon Brando had that island down in Bora Bora and my wife shot a movie there and we were there for six weeks and I got to all the little islands in the atoll. I had gone on diving things and I met a lot of locals. And it is rumored there that he had had like a dozen or so kids right? And I am telling you this is very anecdotal but I personally met several people that were clearly half Brando and half Tahitian I guess. And I thought would not it be hilarious if all of a sudden not unlike when the Samoans overtook the NFL if all of a sudden there was just a sweep at the Oscars for like a decade?  Stranger things have happened.  He might amount for some percentage there in Bora Bora.  Well Dax this has been a lot of fun. I want to ask just a few more questions and then wrap up for this round one. You have been very forthcoming with a lot of your challenges over time. You do something that I respect a great deal which is not leading with solely the highlight reel. I think that that is a real service to people who are suffering as we all are in various ways often self-inflicted wounds. And I wanted to know if you have perhaps a favorite failure? And what I mean by that is a mistake or something at the time that you viewed as a failure that in some way set you up for success later. If there is anything that you gained from tremendously that at the time seemed like a shortcoming or a failure or a mistake?  I mean the one that jumps out immediately and is most relevant to this conversation is I was heartbroken when CHiPs did not open. Because back to my identity crisis I had a three-year stretch where in my mind I decided I was not an actor anymore. I was a writer-director and I liked that. It felt loftier. Well and substantively I feel a lot more pride over having written a script than having acted. I do think it is harder so some of it is worthwhile. But I had decided I was a writer-director and that was going to be the next 10 years of my life. CHiPs had tested really high at Warner Brothers and they immediately put me on another movie that I took over from some other people and so I was doing that. And then overnight that ended. I did not have that identity anymore. And they had already commissioned CHiPs 2. I was already beginning to write that. And I got very depressed for three or four months maybe more. I started doing math and thinking Okay could I retire now? Could I be done now? Live on this amount of money? Blah blah blah. That is what I was spending most of my time thinking about is whether I was completely done. And that is when I wanted to do the podcast. I was ruminating on so much stuff. I was thinking about my own life and identity and trajectory and the failure and then I started it in the wake of that. And I think because I was so interested in failure at that timeI say often on the podcast I have nothing to learn from someone holding an Emmy over their head. I will never be holding an Emmy over my head but I can relate if that person cheated on someone they loved and regretted it. I can relate to the failures that led up to that. That is something I can learn from. And that is how I learned from people in AA. I do not ever learn from someone telling some victory story it is always how they fucked up and realized it. And so now in hindsight had I had the thing I wanted which was being a writer-director it is so time-consuming. My kids were one and three when I finished that movie maybe two and four and I would have been gone. I would have taken bigger movies. I would have been way more into that. Ironically I would have ended up making less money. This thing that I had no desire to do and this complete collapse of this identity I had and desire turned out to be something that allows me to be with my kids a ton. I am at home all the time. My wife can take work out of town if she wants. I can travel and do this. This life that came out of this epic failure this 20-year pursuit turned out to be something better than I had even thought to imagine. I did not even know that this could exist. Yeah that is a very obvious one for me now that I look back and go like Fucking thank God that thing failed. I would have been writing that movie then directing that movie then trying to get them to give me 100 million to do this one. Well and by the way the movie business is collapsing so I would have been doing all that in a time it is almost impossible to do that. Yeah I got so lucky in that thing not performing crazy enough.  What a story. It makes me think of something a friend of mine said I cannot recall who it was but sometimes you need life to save you from what you want.  oh yeah yeah.  I mean what a great story.  Well even if you go through your own life right and you think of the times you got exactly what you wanted and then the times you did not get the thing you wanted. And what I know most is that I do not know what is best for me. The things I got that I wanted did not turn out or result in anything I had forecasts or dreamt of and yet all these things I did not want to do. I did not want to be on TV. I had decided in my egotistical mind I was a movie actor. I did not want to be in TV. I reluctantly was on this show Parenthood because I was at a lull in my career. Best experience I have ever had as an actor opened up the doors for me to act and so many other things. Without question the best thing that ever could have happened to me as an actor and it was the thing I did not want to do. And I got to do the exact thing I wanted to do ride wheelies motorcycles in a movie I directed and it fucking did not turn out.  Yeah. Just maybe two more questions here. This is going to be a question that sometimes turns out well and oftentimes does not so we will see where it goes.  Flaccid or hard?  What was that?  Flaccid or hard?  I would say this is a clear half-chub question so we are going to go with that. And it is if you had a billboard metaphorically speaking to get any message word image out to billions of people could be anything non-commercial what might you put on that billboard?  Hmm. Wow that is a big one. I feel like that would take me a couple of weeks to come up with the right answer for that. Let us see let us see. I am driving on the road and I am going to see a billboard and what would I most want to see? Okay I got it. I think it is the message I most need to hear.  Yeah lay it on me.  Would be Be as kind and forgiving to yourself as you are to the people you love. I am pretty fucking brutal to myself. And I will listen to a guy in a meeting share the exact same thing I just did and I am like Oh that poor guy. It is hard. Of course that happened. But for me I am like You are the piece of shit I always knew you were. Here's more proof. You do not deserve love from anyone.  That is the billboard I would also most need to see so I appreciate that answer. And Dax I really appreciate you as a student of life as a presenter of personal truth including when it is uncomfortable. I really believe that the exploration of vulnerability and story and sort of shared difficulty on your podcast is a real service to your listeners so I want to commend you for that and thank you for that.  Thank you.  You are welcome. And I really appreciate you  Sadly I think that the people that need to hear it the most are us boys and only the girls are listening. I feel like we are the ones that justit is all about weakness and strength for us itself. It is so stupid ugh.  Yeah. Well I am probably the mirror image of your podcast in terms of demographic. I would guess that I am around between 60 and 70 percent male so it is certainly a lot of men and women will have listened to this episode and you have given a lot of food for thought. Where can people find you learn more about you? Where would you like them to check you out?  Well they should read my autobiography Horsepower a Storyno I am on Instagram. I think just under my name Dax Shepard. Yeah and then Armchair Expert. If anyone would like to listen to the podcast so Rob tells me it is on all of the many platforms people consume their podcasts on. And yeah I think that is it for me. I hate Twitter. I am on it but only to promote the show. What a cancerous black hole that place is whew.  Yeah. A lot of people peeing in the pool on Twitter. It ruins the fun. Well thank you so much for taking the time to have this conversation Dax.  Yeah it was awesome. I cannot wait to interview you.  Yeah yeah.   We will give it to like a month lull so we both get interested in each other again.  Right. Separation makes the heart grow fonder so we will do that. And to everyone listening thank you for tuning in. And you can find show notes for everything we discussed including Armchair Expert including Horsepower his brand new autobiography  And cologne!  and all of the social handles and everything at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time be safe. And If your compassion does not include yourself it is incomplete to quote Jack Kornfield.  Mm. Mm mm    