 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. And I want to skip my long usual preamble because we are going to run out of time before we run out of material with today's guest I have been looking forward to this conversation for a long time  many many years in fact. Dennis McKenna you can find him on Twitter DennisMcKenna4 and we will provide many other links. Dennis's research is focused on the interdisciplinary study of Amazonian ethnopharmacology. He has conducted extensive ethnobotanical fieldwork in the Peruvian Amazon and we will define a lot of terms in this episode so do not worry about getting lost in the weeds too quickly. His doctoral research at the University of British Columbia focused on the ethnopharmacology of ayahuasca and oo-koo-he  and we will double check the pronunciation  two tryptamine-based hallucinogens used by indigenous peoples in the northwest Amazon. He is a founding board member of the Heffter Research Institute which does exceptional work and was a key organizer and participant in the Hoasca Project  that is H-O-A-S-C-A Project  the first biomedical investigation of ayahuasca. He is the younger brother of Terence McKenna. From 2000 to 2017 he taught courses on ethnopharmacology as well as plants and human affairs at the Center for Spirituality and Healing at the University of Minnesota. In 2019 in collaboration with colleagues he incorporated a new non-profit The McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy which we will discuss. In the spring of 2019 he emigrated to Canada with his wife Sheila. And now resides in Abbotsford British Columbia. You can find him on all the socials Instagram dennismckenna Twitter DennisMcKenna4. Facebook at Dennis Jon J-O-N McKenna and also McKenna Academy that is M-C-K-E-N-N-A Academy on Facebook on Instagram and on Twitter. Dennis welcome to the show.  Thank you Tim. It is a pleasure to be here.  I thought I would start with a bit of history and pull in some colorful characters while we are at it. Could you please describe your first meeting with Richard Evan Schultes? And that can kind of segue into who Schultes was but I really enjoyed this story in your book The Brotherhood of the Screaming Abyss which we will talk about. I have printed out my Amazon Kindle highlights. I have 189 highlights from that book. We are not going to go through them all but let us start with your meeting with Schultes if you would not mind?  Schultes was a professor at Harvard. He is been called the father of ethnobotany. He certainly was not because ethnobotany as a discipline existed before there was Schultes but he was one of the more high profile people. He was the director of the Botanical Museum at Harvard University for many years and he made many contributions to Amazonian botany but the one he is most notorious for and most well-known for is he was probably the world's expert on what we used to call hallucinogenic plants psychedelic plants used in different parts of the world. But that was what made him so famous. And like many people I envisioned a career in ethnopharmacology for myself which is something that I sort of realized was possible when I was 18. We can go back to this this is earlier than Schultes when I got my hands on this amazing book called the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs but I digress. We can return to that. So Schultes was just a towering figure in this field like Einstein in physics or I of that stature and many many people with a passion about psychedelic plants and indigenous use of these things looked up to Schultes and wanted to work with him and I was one of those. And in 1974 I was living in Berkeley with my brother or close by my brother who was living there. And I determined to go see the great man to make a pilgrimage essentially to Schultes. And in those days there was a deal. You could buy a bus ticket 60 for 60 days and you could get as far as you could go as long as you kept it within 60 days. So I made this pilgrimage to Harvard to Cambridge and   And where was your starting point?  Well I started at Berkeley and I went first down to Louisiana Hammond Louisiana and visited some friends of mine who owned a leather shop. A hippie leather shop a wonderful bunch of people running a leather shop in this totally redneck town. Why did I go see them? Well I went to see them because they lived out in the country where there were pastures and cattle. And I went there basically to hunt for mushrooms and my idea in my  this is 1974 and my idea was well I will get a bunch of mushrooms and dry them take them back to California and sell them. Well it was like the worst season for mushrooms in like five years that they would lived there. So I went down there and I did find some mushrooms but just a few. Plenty for my own needs but I did not have grocery bags of them or anything like that. That was the first place I went was Hammond Louisiana. And then I just got on the old bus and continued on. I stopped and saw interestingly this anthropologist in Maryland who had studied the Yanomami. One of the Amazonian tribes that uses these psychedelic snuffs. And he was a linguist. He was probably one of the few people in the world that actually spoke Yanomami. He had some interesting samples that he collected. I went there basically to pick up those samples and hang on with him. And then I continued up to Boston. And I had an old girlfriend who happened to live in Boston and we were still on good terms so I went there. I had a place to stay. And then I went  I mean I saw Schultes before I saw the girlfriend. I basically got off the bus and went immediately to the Botanical Museum. And it was an incredible experience for me because I was like in total awe of this man. I mean it was like an audience with the Pope or something. But he was not Pope-like at all. He was just a very kindly down-to-earth ordinary person and he welcomed me and took me to lunch at the Harvard Faculty Club and we talked about what I could work on. And What would you like to do? was the way the conversation started out. Because Terence and I had been to Colombia in 1971 and one of the things we were looking for was this oo-koo-he this orally active Virola preparation which eventually ended up being one of the foci of my doctoral work. But that was 10 years in the future. But I was interested in Virola. I was interested in those snuffs and he is Well you could go to the Amazon and study Virola and sort out the chemistry of it. So he said That is what you  that would be a possibility. I totally appreciate that endorse that. So I said  he said Well there are two things you need to do before you do that. And I had my degree. I got my undergraduate degree in 1973 but he said You need more chemistry and you need to take more organic chemistry and you need to take more taxonomy which you know as plant classification the classic approach to plant classification. So I said Yes sir. Absolutely. I got the message. I got back on the bus. I went back to Berkeley and I moved back to Colorado where I am from even though I had my bachelor's degree. I just enrolled in a couple of courses advanced organic chemistry and the taxonomy specialty I chose to look in was grass systematics which was like torture. Grass systematic classification is the most arcane difficult thing you could do. I must have had something about wanting to punish myself but I studied grass systematics and organic chemistry. And an interesting sort of unexpected delight in this was that the person that was the chemistry teacher of this organic chemistry course a man named Frank Stermitz it turns out he was quite a well-known alkaloid chemist. He used to illustrate his lectures with Well so here's LSD. Here's how you make LSD. Here's how the fungus makes LSD. And he was a brilliant guy and another mentor. And he said Well do not go work for Schultes. Go work for Norman Farnsworth in Chicago. And I said No. No. You do not understand. Schultes is God. And so Schultes encouraged me to apply and I was getting these courses that he thought I really needed to have on my transcripts and I applied. And I did not get in. I did not get accepted into Harvard which was kind of a crushing blow but not unexpected. It was a blessing in disguise in some ways because while all this was going on I was living in Fort Collins Colorado going to Colorado State. My friend Larry Beasley was an old friend from high school and he was a horticulturalist. And as it turned out he was running the greenhouse at Colorado State University when I moved there. So I had access to the greenhouse and brought in some ayahuasca cuttings that we had from California and also I had access to a sterile culture lab. They were doing tissue culture there which can also be adapted to doing fungal culture. And I was messing around with ways to try to figure out how to grow the Psilocybe cubensis and I had access to a university lab to do this work in which was amazing. And we tried a few things and actually succeeded in growing mushrooms out of these mason jars on sterilized substrates. You are probably familiar with the book Psilocybin Magic Mushroom Grower's Guide which Terry and I published under pseudonyms.  And one of your great contributions to humankind.  Maybe the most significant contribution but that was the method that we developed there. And in the process of growing the mushrooms and then sampling the mushrooms and just getting excited about being able to grow mushrooms I thought Wow. Well maybe I will change my focus from Virola to psilocybin mushrooms. And I wrote to Schultes about this and I said What would you think of that? And he wrote back a rather kind of stuffy letter saying Well my specialty is higher plants and I think if you want to work on fungi you should talk to Dr. Alexander H. Smith at the University of Michigan. But basically saying  I mean the subtext was You are a traitor.  How dare you?  Yeah. Not really. I mean he was   I am kidding.   there was subsequent encounters but he basically said If you want to study Amazonian plants I am all in. I would be happy to have you. And as it turned out I did not get accepted. So that opportunity was taken away but the unexpected benefit of this was that some years later  well this was '74. So after that I did my masters at the University of Hawaii not studying psychoactive plants. My plot to study psychoactive plants there was undermined. But I ended up applying to the University of British Columbia. And I started there in 1979 and my supervisor there was a man named Neil Towers. Also kind of a giant in this field not as gigantic as Schultes but very much known in the world of phytochemistry and ethnobotany and so on. And he was quite open to me working on mushrooms. I actually started out in his program because he had come to Hawaii while I was a graduate student there and my supervisor in Hawaii was another one of these incredible mentors that I have been blessed with throughout my academic career Sandy Siegel. And Dr. Siegel whenever anybody came to visit a visiting professor or dignitary he would always invite the graduate students up to his house and we would sit around and have pizza and beer and shoot the breeze with whatever luminary was in town. And Dr. Towers was one of the luminaries. In the process of having this conversation he said Well I have got this young master's student working on psilocybe. He is working on the enzyme that converts psilocybin to psilocybe the phosphatase and she is not getting very far with it but it is a very interesting project and I wish there was somebody to kind of continue that work. And I practically spit my beer out and I said Well Dr. Towers I have had some interest in this and what do you think about letting me do it? What do you think about taking me on? And he said Well yeah if you are interested that is a possibility. So we started corresponding. And I was like midway through my master's thesis in Hawaii at that point and we started corresponding. And I got accepted and I got with Dr. Tower's support I actually got a four-year graduate fellowship and I started working on psilocybe and the idea that I had developed the technique for growing them.  Dennis may I pause for just one second?  Certainly I am getting off on many tangents.  Oh no. I love all the tangents. If there is any theme to this show it is embracing tangents but I want to just mention a few things and ask a couple of questions but I want you to bookmark that. So we are in Canada or we are headed to Canada at that point but I just want to mention a few things. So is it true that when you first met Schultes when you walked in he was effectively hugging an air conditioner? And the reason I ask is that if you look at pictures photographs of Schultes in his prime it very much evokes an Indiana Jones minus the tomb raiding of course resilience and durability. I mean you see him in native dress. You see him really fully engaged as not just an observer but as a participant. He spent more than a decade as I understand it   About 15 years   15 years in the Amazon and this is not flying first class   No. No.   to the Amazon.  No.  And so your first exposure to him was him hugging an air conditioner as I understand it.  Yeah. Well he was obviously a little past his prime at that point but when I took this bus and got off the bus it was like early September. It was a sweltering summer and I got off the bus and I took my backpack. I must have looked a mess. I mean I would been literally on the bus for four days. But I got to his office and I went up went to the desk downstairs. I said I am here to see Dr. Schultes. They said Oh he is upstairs in his office. So I went upstairs and could not see anybody there. There was nobody at the reception desk and I sort of peered in this dark room with all the blinds closed and wiping the sweat from my brow. And then I could see him back in the back of this office laboratory that he had there and he was hugging the air conditioner.  When you have an AC you might as well use it I suppose. Otherwise why have it there?  Well yeah I figure. It was like utterly charming because I expected this swashbuckling like you say Indiana Jones tough guy and he was all those things but you got an air conditioner you may as well hug it. So that is what he did. Yeah. It was very disarming.  I love it. I absolutely love it. Let also pick up on a couple of other points and ask just a couple of definitions for people listening which we will get to in a minute but I would like to read a few things from the Brotherhood of the Screaming Abyss if you are willing to bear with me because I think it will hopefully help tie some things together in the minds of those who are not familiar with your background and your work. So Sanford Siegel who you mentioned. So his research interests among many other things included exobiology but I want to read just a paragraph about him from your book. And then three sections that I pulled out about science. It is going to take me a minute but if you could bear with me. So this is from the book and on Sanford Siegel. And this is where the excerpt begins. In his NASA-funded work he was extremely creative in his thinking about stress physiology in extreme environments. For example he wondered what would happen if he tried to grow a cactus underwater. Turns out it grows fine as long as you bubble oxygen and carbon dioxide through the water. How well does a tarantula survive under a radiation flux similar to that at a Martian surface? It survives just fine for months. Can you germinate onion seedlings and liquid ammonia as a substitute for water? Yes. Ammonia can substitute for water and many biological processes. He had a genius for thinking of these incredibly creative exciting and simple experiments and yet they all had a rationale and a reason behind them. He was an out of the box thinker. And then I am going to jump to what you said separately in the book about science. I knew scientific thought had its limits but before we could reject science the most powerful set of intellectual tools ever developed by the human mind we first had to learn how to do science. Then if we still wanted to reject it we could do so as scientists with full knowledge of what it was we were rejecting. I think these are really really important to tie together because you have such broad exposure. And as I understand it there are many influences early on two of which were I believe it was the Yaqui Way of Knowledge by Carlos Castaneda even though subsequently a lot of people and you are aware of this came to conclude that a lot of that if not most of it was fictionalized and a book that I have about 20 feet from here which is the first edition of something you already mentioned the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs ESPD. And that is from 1967. I have the updated  I should not say updated but a second volume from 2017 which you organized for the 50th anniversary. Could you speak to perhaps the appeal of science? Because what I have noticed in the let us call it the psychedelic ecosystem is that you have purists in many different silos if that makes sense?  Mn-hmm   And part of the reason I have been so excited to spend time with you is because you have been a boundary walker of sorts across these different silos. So what is it that drew you most to science and the scientific method in addition to some of the facets perhaps represented by Castaneda's work in some respect?  I think 1967 1968 were like pivotal years for me in terms of my discovery of my professional direction and my professional interests as well as being psychedelics these are also very personal things but that year 1968 is the year that these two books came across my desk. The Teachings of Don Juan the first edition that my brother gave me for my 18th birthday. And then the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs which I am not even sure I do not even remember where I originally got the first edition but that had come across my radar a few months earlier. And these two books were very important for me in terms of sort of framing my interests. It made me aware that there was this ethnographic background and these traditional backgrounds even though we probably most people agree that Castaneda made a lot of this stuff up. Did not really matter. It does not really matter. It made it clear that there was a body of traditional knowledge around the use of these things whether what he described was accurate or not did not matter. That was one page one side of the frame. And then the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs made me aware that a lot of this was about chemistry and plants and pharmacology and molecules and a more hard science biologically oriented aspect to it. So these two things seem to fit together very well. And I thought ethnopharmacology is a real thing at least to the extent that this book exists. It is a real thing.  And could you define ethnopharmacology?  Yeah. Well ethnopharmacology there is various definitions of it. The one I like is kind of tortured. It is kind of long but I will explain why I like it. So ethnopharmacology is the interdisciplinary by definition interdisciplinary scientific investigation of biologically active substances used or observed by humans in traditional societies. And the reason it is so tortured is it is not always about plants. It is not always about medicinal plants. It is not always about things that humans ingest. For example arrow poisons. Totally legitimate kind of subject for ethnopharmacology. And then traditional societies kind of limits the scope. We are talking about not  I mean in some sense all of pharmacology is ethnopharmacology because it is people doing it. But we are talking about traditional knowledge indigenous knowledge and that sort of thing. That is the formal definition of ethnopharmacology that I like.  And I think it is also worth highlighting for folks and you would have I am sure dozens or hundreds of examples how many commonly used compounds or drugs have come out of in some form of ethnopharmacology right? Whether it be aspirin or you mentioned dart poisons that curare leading then into anesthesia and the list just goes on and on and on. There are so many things we take for granted that have their origins in these places.  The whole spectrum really of when you are talking about natural products especially for things like CNS-active natural products and so on. They come out of a cultural context. We know about these things because they have a cultural context. And I mean if you look at even just herbal medicines herbal remedies every one of these things that you can buy in the drugstore or the health food store has a story behind it has a cultural back story. And then entrepreneurial forces and commercial forces take that and develop products out of it. For example kava kava is a good example of that. I mean it is now a supplement and you can buy it in a health food store. It is a very useful muscle relaxant and sort of tranquilizer but it comes out of the context of Polynesian traditional medicine. Many many things are that way. So there is always a cultural backstory. That is what I like about ethnopharmacology. It ties those kinds of things together with the nuts and bolts side of it what are the active ingredients? What is the chemistry? What is the pharmacology? And so on.  If you do not mind I know this is a bit stochastic but I would love to jump into this volume the 50th anniversary volume of the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs and just as background and please correct me if I get any of this wrong but the 1967 gathering was subsidized by the US government. Was it the NIMH?  NIMH that is right. National Institute of Mental Health.  And so you have this gathering of titans of sorts to discuss exactly as the title would imply the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs after which a volume was produced printed and sold by the US government which included the findings. And suffice to say shortly thereafter you have the Nixon administration the Controlled Substances Act and game over.  Right. Yeah.  And then you organized this 50th anniversary and just to give people an idea of the contents and also I want to tell people if you were interested in the science this is published by Synergetic Press. You can find it on the Synergetic Press website as well as on Amazon. This is a beautifully produced double volume where you have the original 1967 and then the 2017 edition. The contents are just fascinating. And one of them that I would love to dig into it does not necessarily have to be  our discussion does not have to be reflective exclusively of the content in this Broad Spectrum Roles of Harmine in Ayahuasca by Dale Millard. Could you speak to some of the more recent findings related to ayahuasca? Which could include this discussion of harmine but I think a lot of folks have assumed that ayahuasca is this psychedelic brew principally containing Banisteriopsis caapi this vine and a plant source containing DMT like chacruna or Psychotria viridis. That the vine really just serves to render the DMT orally absorbable or active. But it seems like there is a lot more to the story.  It does do that. It does do that. It is the MAO inhibitor monoamine oxidase inhibitor that renders the DMT containing the admixture plants active because DMT itself as you know is not orally active if you just take it pure or if you make a tea of chacruna one of these and then drink it by itself nothing's going to happen unless you have an MAO inhibitor on board. But it turns out the alkaloids of Banisteriopsis these beta-carbolines are much more than just MAO inhibitors. For example one of the primary alkaloids in ayahuasca is harmine. And harmine is a strong MAO inhibitor but it also stimulates neurogenesis which is nerve growth. And these are recent findings. Another constituent in ayahuasca is a related alkaloid called tetrahydroharmine which is an MAO inhibitor but also a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. So it has like SSRI-type activity. And also some other unexpected things. For one thing and this came out of our ayahuasca study in Brazil. It has long-term effects on the levels of the serotonin transporters in the brain. That the serotonin transporters are the pre-synaptic molecules that take serotonin back up out of the synapse and recycles it and re-releases it. Well like SSRIs tetrahydroharmine inhibits that but it also causes a long-term elevation in the levels of these serotonin transporters. And that was a unique finding. We did not know what to expect but that came out of the study. And it was kind of surprising. But then when we found this effect this is all done this is all in vitro. We took tissue samples platelet samples and so on and this was all done in the lab but we found this persistent elevating effect on the serotonin transporters we thought What does that mean? It was not really clear. We were asking a naive question. Is there anything biochemical that makes regular ayahuasca drinkers different biochemically than normal people or other people? And this was one clear difference. We did not really know what it meant but then we looked into the literature and we found out there were a number of pathologies that were associated with abnormal deficits in the serotonin transporters. For example various kinds of alcoholism addiction suicidality even homicidal behavior various kinds of behavioral pathologies which happen to be the very pathologies that many of the people in our UDV study were saying ayahuasca had saved them usually from alcoholism. That was usually their problem and if they stayed in the church in that supportive context and drank ayahuasca regularly then they stayed on track and many they were on track. These were very behaviorally psychologically functional people not sick. If they were sick they were cured and they attributed it to ayahuasca. And then in our in vitro studies in a couple of vial assays we found that it was really tetrahydroharmine that was having this effect and the course of action was over about two weeks. And my friend Jace Callaway who was one of the investigators on this and figured out how to do it he had access to brain imaging technology at his laboratory in Finland. He was doing postdocs in Finland. And so he tried taking tetrahydroharmine himself and imaging himself and showed well sure enough it did raise the levels of these serotonin transporters on about a two-week cycle. And then if you stop taking it it went back down to baseline.  So does that mean on the two-week cycle that after one administration the levels remained elevated for two weeks or that it required two weeks of administration to elevate?  It required about two weeks of continuous administration to bring it to that level. And that was the cycle that the UDV  customarily they took it every couple of weeks not that they knew about this effect but that was just their practice.  Well I guess they knew about in a sense they indirectly knew about the effect but not the mechanism right?  That is right. That is right.  And for people who do not know UDV I am probably going to mispronounce but that is the Unio do Vegetal something like that. One of the syncretic churches found in Brazil.  That is right. Yeah. I should have explained that. One of the syncretic churches the group that invited us in to do this biomedical study in the early '90s. And that was one of the chief findings.  Does the UDV differentiate between different types of brews for different purposes? My understanding is that some of the Daimitas or some of the members or perhaps groups within Santo Daime another one of these syncretic churches do have different I do not want to say admixtures but concentrations of different things and different brews for different purposes. Are you aware of that existing in within the UDV?  Yes. The UDV does have that. They do have different formulations and so on and they do not talk about them. I mean we were not able to get any information out of them about that other than the fact that yes we do have these different formulations. I mean we came up against a couple of interesting things about when we were dealing with the UDV which was that they were very concerned that ayahuasca or hoasca as they called it be viewed as a sacrament not as a medicine. And so if you wanted to   Much less as a drug right? That would be a big problem.  Much less a drug. They did not like the idea that you would study it as a drug. So I mean they were totally open to doing this biomedical study but as far as going the next step and looking into mechanisms and that sort of thing. They were kind of conflicted about that. They could see the value of it but then they did not like the idea of godless science delving into their central mystery sacrament. And I could understand that but as a result of that we lost some opportunities to do some interesting things.  Totally. I wonder if that would be different now because my understanding  I think I got this from the book is that or maybe it was from a different reading that I did of yours. That part of the reason for their cooperation was politically sort of legally motivated in the sense they wanted the localnational government and potential policy makers to view this as beneficial. And so they were open to showing the benefits but they did not want reductionist science to as you put it remove the mystery by explaining some secular mechanism of action.  Yeah. There was definitely a political aspect to this. This is a big reason why they wanted this work to be done by outside investigators who presumably would  if it was just UDV and there were scientists in the UDV it was a middle to upper class demographic segments but they wanted people from the outside to be the chief investigators to avoid the perception that the work would be biased. And that is one reason I got invited and Charlie Grob was the chief principal investigator. I invited him to do that and he became that. So they wanted this regulatory agency called f a combination of the DEA and the FDA. They wanted to present data to CONFEN that showed that this was not a public health menace or danger and also that it was beneficial andor potentially beneficial. So there was definitely a political sub agenda here but as it turned out I mean we just did the science and the science supported that it was beneficial not only for  I mean the people almost all of our subjects to join the UDV in a state of life crisis. And they felt like the medicine the tea as they called it and the very supportive context of the UDV which they did not  they said that is equally necessary but they felt like that was a vessel for redemption essentially and turning their lives around. And so it is a complex thing. It is a complicated matter.  I am endlessly fascinated by the syncretic churches that use ayahuasca as a sacrament because I think there is so much that could be learned when you have these relatively large groups consuming twice per month. I mean it is just an incredible opportunity. Question for you around ayahuasca because I think in the we have already alluded to this but in the minds of some ayahuasca is one thing right? It is like an old-fashioned that is always made the same way but there are many many different cocktails that could be called ayahuasca and in The Brotherhood of the Screaming Abyss you talk very briefly about  and I am not sure if you called this in the book but Chacruna panga which is also I think it is a Diplopterys cabrerana. Is that how that is pronounced?  Mn-hmm . Diplopterys. Diplopterys.  Diplopterys. Oh so many words I only read I never hear them said.  Close enough. Close enough.  Which by some like the Awajn it is called yag and it is a different plant from chacruna. Did you ever have the opportunity to consume ayahuasca with the Chacruna panga?  Yes.  Experientially did you find it to be different?  Well I only consumed it a few times. I found it to be shorter acting and in terms of the visionary stage of the experience and also more intense. So there is something pharmacokinetically going on there with the absorption of it. But people are mistaken if they think ayahuasca is one thing. Ayahuasca is a very complex in the cultural context it is a very complex thing. There are many varieties of ayahuasca. The vine there are then all these admixture plants. Some of which contain DMT and varieties of those. And then a whole pharmacopoeia of other admixture plants that are more or less associated with ayahuasca. They are part of the dietas which is a common practice in the Amazon. You learn about the properties of other medicinal plants by taking them and then you take ayahuasca either in combination or after you take them and you learn about their properties from the visions that ayahuasca gives you about their  so ayahuasca is like the pipeline to plant wisdom in a certain way to tap into this I do not know what you might call it Gaian mind that is represented by these many admixture plants. So there is a whole lot of work left to be done with ayahuasca and looking into more depth than we were able to look at at that time. That is one of the projects that we are trying to get off the ground with the McKenna Academy. We want to do a very extensive phytochemical botanical survey of different ayahuasca brews document their preparation document the plants that go into them and then follow that up with bioassays and just get a better handle on the varieties of these different brews and their uses. Why would we care? Why do we want to do this? Well it is gathering knowledge. It is gathering information but the potential practical outcome of this is that you can formulate brews that might be specific for different types of disorders. Maybe some work better for addiction some work better for trauma some work better for depression or that sort of thing. All of this is kind of supported by the fork knowledge but there is been nothing like a controlled study of any of this. It is very hard to get funding to study ayahuasca in a clinical setting because it is not a pure compound. It does not lend itself to the same kind of double-blind placebo-controlled protocols where you can use with something like psilocybin. It is complicated.  It seems very complex. I would love to ask you about one particular plant which well it is hard to tell them apart sometimes because it depends on the orientation. It could be Datura metel or it could be Brugmansia. I want to ask you about Brugmansia also called floripondio or to. Do you think there is a place for that? It scares the hell out of me and I know it is sometimes used but what is your position if any on Brugmansia?  Well first of all you are right to be scared. This is a very dangerous plant. It is not only toxic but it produces a kind of delirium. It is not a psychedelic. I sometimes say in my lectures it is a true hallucinogen but not psychedelic but by that I mean psychedelics you see hallucinations sometimes behind the eyes or whatever. You usually know that these things are hallucinations. With Brugmansia which used to be called  the genus is very close to Datura. In fact they used to be classified as Daturas but with Datura the experiences that you have you see hallucinations and you cannot tell if they are real or not. And so in that sense it is a true hallucinogen but it is not psychedelic. And it produces a state of profound disorientation and delirium essentially. So it is used very badly. It is used as a date rape drug and things like that in Brazil and Colombia and it is often associated with brujeria in the ayahuasca tradition. In other words black magic sorcery. And if you take a brew of ayahuasca that contains Datura or Brugmansia you can tell because it causes this dry mouth sensation which is typical of these anticholinergics like Datura.  Is that like the scopolamine?  Exactly. It is scopolamine. So you can tell that if you are taking ayahuasca that is got to is the traditional word for these things to T-O-E accent. That is a good sign that you are dealing with a brujo and that is a good sign that you should get the hell out of there because they do not have your best interests at heart and are unlikely to. That said now you have to acknowledge that it has a place in this whole ayahuasca complex. And there may be people that can practitioners that can use it beneficially. But my own experiences with Datura which you have probably read about in the book that scared me away. I mean   Horrifying. Yeah.   I had no idea what I was getting into. And we were very lucky. We could have killed ourselves.  Yeah. There are documented lots of documented fatalities with both of those and I wanted to mention to bring that up just because there are risks associated with a lot of these things. There are documented fatalities with tobacco over-ingestion tobacco juice in the Amazon. You have to be really really careful. And I want to come back to a second to this kind of hired gun aspect I think as you put it in the book in the world of vegetalismo and in this let us just call it the medicine world in South America. It is not the case that everyone is focused. It is actually rarely the case that practitioners are exclusively focused on how we perhaps view these medicines in North America for healing for the contending within processing of trauma. It is a much  the cosmo vision and the use case is much much broader and I just want to mention one more thing which is even if you do not believe in black magic or anything like that you can believe in manipulation. And the Brugmansia like you mentioned in Colombia is one example and elsewhere although I think that people are kind of hip to this and law enforcement is hip to it. So perhaps the use has declined but it was very common that crime syndicates would take the Brugmansia extract or somehow purify the scopolamine and walk  then they would have prostitutes or other people blow the powder into the faces of victims and this is the crazy part that I want to highlight for folks. That after which sometimes these victims would be brought to their own home they would help the perpetrators load everything in their house into a loading van and they would appear totally normal to say the doormen and so on and 12 hours later have no recollection of what they did. I mean it is wild. I mean it brings up kind of these visions of The Serpent and the Rainbow. It is crazy to think about.  It is. They appear totally normal except that they are helping load all the furniture into the elevator at three in the morning.  Yeah.  Yeah. I think it was vice.com that   Vice did a good piece on this.   did a good thing. Yeah. So that is the thing. The Datura the Brugmansia confuses you and makes you extremely suggestible. So you get this stuff inside you and then people say Well let us go to your apartment and take out all the furniture. Let us go to your ATM and take out all your money. And you say Oh well that sounds like a good idea. Let us go do that. So black magic aside it can definitely  it does not have to be magic it just puts you in such a state of confusion and susceptibility suggestibility. That is the way it works.  It really is so fascinating and simultaneously sometimes terrifying to go really deep into the rabbit hole with this. Could you speak to traditional use of plant medicine in ayahuasca and hearkening back to the mention of the sort of non-inherent good nature of practitioners or ayahuasca non-inherently bad nature but sort of this neutral available for higher aspect in some instances that I think a lot of people are not aware of? Could you sort of speak to that a bit?  There are brujos. There are people who do not really have your best interests at heart and there are other people other practitioners who really are amazing healers and they can help a great deal of people. But the thing is that the context of traditional use has changed due to outside cultural influences. Because like anything else the people want to give the extranjeros  the ayahuasca tourists or whatever  they want to give them their money's worth. And so the nature of the ceremonies changes has changed in response to this. I mean back in the day before there was anything like it when ayahuasca usage was still kind of a tribal based tradition there was not all this outside influence it was the shaman who took ayahuasca not the people. Rarely would the ayahuasca be given to a person that came to the ceremony unless there was some specific illness or something they wanted specifically to be treated but it was the ayahuasquero who had the visions that downloaded the information about the plants and other kinds of practices they might engage in to help people with healing. Well that is all changed. The outside influence of the global culture and people are not going to go to South America and spend all this money to sit and watch somebody to drink ayahuasca. They are there to have the experience and that is okay. I mean I think it is just fascinating what we are seeing go on now with the ayahuasca tourism thing is definitely a complex thing. It is not necessarily a completely bad thing or a completely good thing. It is a mixed bag because many people are helped by this and all the tourists coming down they bring economic benefits to these communities but then those are not equitably distributed. You get a situation where the local ayahuasquero who used to be just some guy or some gal that was a person in the village who kind of did this work on the side and they had their own livelihood farming fishing or whatever well now these people are kind of superstars and they get a lot of income. It generates a lot of jealousy within the community where that can happen.  They also get priced out of the local market right?  Exactly. They get priced out of the local market. There is pressure on the resource base. Ayahuasca and the admixture plants are being overharvested and there is not enough effort being made to really make sure the sources are sustainable but that is changing. The market is adjusting to this. But these changes take place over  they take years and there are some very hopeful trends now. People are becoming more aware of some of the issues with overharvesting and so on.  Let me pull another paragraph here and then I want to ask you a question about some of your personal experiences. And this is related to the science that was brought up earlier. There are many things in Heaven and Earth that are beyond the ken of science and may remain so forever. Anyone who has taken psychedelics seriously or has had other transcendent experiences is likely to share that conclusion. At the same time science remains the most effective method for asking questions of nature and getting back answers that can be tested and validated. You fascinate me on so many different levels and I have actually read much more of your writing than I have read the writing of your brother. And part of the Venn diagram that makes you such a subject of interest to me is the scientific let us call it the esoteric and then the personal. And I have heard in other interviews you talk about when prompted you do not just volunteer this but when people ask about the number of sessions you have done with let us say ayahuasca it seems to number  even though you do not keep track  in the 500 plus range.  I would say so.  Something in that range. And as far as I know you are not a member of one of the syncretic churches where people would drink twice a month so people can do the math if someone does that for decades it adds up. I would love for you to speak to because many people will hear that and they will say Wait a second you do it once it changes your life and then you are kind of done. Why on earth would you ever do it so many times? And I would just love to hear you speak to that.  Partly it is because of the context in which I have used ayahuasca and brought other people to South America to have these experiences. I have organized retreats and that sort of thing. So I am one of those  I am guilty. If you want to point at the people that have fostered ayahuasca tourism I have certainly contributed to that. I am a little conflicted about it. So when I do these retreats then I drink. People expect me to drink and I do drink. The other reason is I think every time you take it  maybe this is the more valid reason  every time that you take it or most times that you take it not every time you take ayahuasca is going to be a peak experience. I mean there is lots of times when it is disappointing and you just get sick and the brew is bad or whatever. But it has a lot to teach us. There is a lot to learn from ayahuasca. And even though you have taken it multiple times you still keep getting new insights or new  I mean the experience seems worthwhile. And so I keep taking it. Maybe I am thick-skilled. Maybe other people have an easier way to assimilate the lesson and say Yeah. I got the message. Okay. I do not need to do this anymore. I have come close to that a couple of times but I think Ram Das famously said or maybe it was Alan Watts I am not sure who said it Once you get the message hang up the phone. And I sort of think I disagree with that. I think in other words the message is not the same every time. There is no standard message and this is a dynamic interaction with the plant that you are learning from. Indigenous people talk about plant teachers and you can get into the weeds about whether that is a valid concept are they really intelligent? Are they not? The point is it does not really matter whether the plants the ayahuasca opens up some part of yourself that may present as something not the self but that knows things that has information to transfer. It does not really matter.  is the information good? So every time you take it or when you take it there is really a bottomless well of things to still be thought about and assimilated and so on. So I kind of do not believe in the Hang up the phone approach. My approach would be I guess keep listening. Keep listening because a lot of what you might hear will be stuff that you have heard before but there may be new things that come along that make it worth it to stay engaged. And so that is how I relate to it. It is not a waste of time to keep listening.  And you have also noted that and you are not the only person Luis Eduardo Luna and others have also noted that these habitual consumers of ayahuasca often seem to remain exceptionally sharp and lucid into older age. And as I have thought about this and spoken with people who have a lot of experience like yourself it seems like there are kind of different frames through which you can look at this experience. One is almost like the replacement of a malfunctioning hip. So you have a hip replacement it is one and done maybe you need it again 10 years later but that is it. That is the Hang up the phone approach. And then there is this way of looking at it almost like going to the gym and there are all these use cases historically that seem to at least offer other use cases like the use of ayahuasca for hunting let us just say. And another one that kind of occurred to me as I talked to some of these folks who drink in South America some people drink four five six times a week and it is almost like you could let us say live in New York and go to Japan and study things in Japan in the hopes that you can bring it back to New York and apply it in your life in New York but you could also go to Japan and just get to know Japan and the culture and how to operate in that space. And I would love to hear you speak to outside of the groups that you bring down where you are expected to drink How do you decide when to drink?  Well just usually the occasion presents itself. I mean I do not go  it is rare that I would come to one of these places and not drink or just when it seems appropriate is when I decide. If I am in a situation where ayahuasca is being drunk then I would probably drink it. And I tend not to go after it outside of a ceremonial context and even for a while I would say Well I do not even drink it in the States or Canada. I just confine it to South America when I am down there. But then I cannot really stick to that because there are opportunities here and now I go to a place called Soltara in Costa Rica which is one of the higher profile ayahuasca retreats. I am an advisor to Soltara and I like the way they are doing it. I think they are very ethical in their approach to all this. And so it is a matter of opportunity rather than anything else. When it seems appropriate. But to what you alluded to before about how  it can be in some ways ayahuasca and a lot of psychedelics can be a big reset but then there is the maintenance part of it. And the work we did with the UDV and the finding about the modulation of these serotonin transporters is really an eye opener because what that speaks to is that regular use of ayahuasca can actually repair some of these deficits. In fact it may be the only drug or medicine that can do that. I think peak experiences can be major reset moments. And I think this is part of the therapeutic profile of a lot of psychedelics. They basically get you out of your default mode network. They get you out of your personal reference frame. They let you look at situations from a slight remove. And you have insights as to your existential situation whatever it might be. Not all psychedelic experiences not all ayahuasca experiences are necessarily these peak experiences and they do not have to be. They can be beneficial and they can help you remember maybe is a more accurate term some of the insights you had from previous experiences. And then I think there is a physiological aspect too particularly with ayahuasca like this modulation of the serotonin transporters and so on. And neurogenesis you mentioned that a lot of practitioners ayahuasqueros seem to be unusually sharp and lucid even though they are maybe of advanced age. And I think that is a reflection of ayahuasca. I think that in general I am a skeptic about this whole microdosing fad. I have my doubts about it but in the case of ayahuasca I think microdosing might make sense not for the hallucinogenic-psychedelic effects but for the things the beta-carbolines do for your nervous system. You can think of them as a nerve tonic. And keeping these serotonin transporter levels elevated is probably a very good thing guarding against depression and that kind of stuff. So again just like with the plants and their chemistry there is lots to be learned about the pharmacology of ayahuasca too.  So I want to talk about the McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy. We are going to spend a good amount of time on that. Before we get there though since we are talking about some of the possible benefits of in this case ayahuasca I would love to discuss perhaps the other side of the coin. And I know that the experiment at La Chorrera does not relate to ayahuasca specifically but I would like to and I know you have described this many many times we do not have to spend a ton of airtime on it but the  I am going to read a paragraph actually two paragraphs and then we can use that as a way of backing into it if that is okay. Here's the prelude to the chapter that introduces the experiment at La Chorrera which again we do not have to spend too much time on it. Just enough to frame this. In some respects everything in life before we arrived at La Chorrera was a prelude to the events that engulfed us there. And everything afterwards has been a reflection of them. Terence chronicled the events in True Hallucinations. Though his account may seem unlikely and bizarre I believe it is largely accurate even if interpretations vary as to what it all meant. I cannot vouch for every detail if only because And this is the part that I am just going to highlight here I was lost in hyperspace for much of the time or overwhelmed by psychosis again depending on interpretation. Anyone with an interest in the facts' of our story if the word even applies should regard Terence's narrative as required reading. And then we flash forward too much later in the book. Terence mentions that on March 20th we all celebrated at one of Bogota's finer restaurants and that the others agreed I was totally back.' They were not aware that in my mind I was in telepathic communications with all the waiters and that our dishes were being wafted to the table by telekinesis. Rather than alarm them I kept that to myself but except for a few episodes like that I was doing all right. There is lots to discuss here. I have personally experienced many upsides to psychedelic use including ayahuasca. I have also been put into hyperspace as you put it on a few occasions or have become say destabilized if you want to be a little less charitable. And I have friends who have become destabilized dietas in some cases using ayahuasca in other cases. In some cases from LSD  we do not have to go to South America for this  for weeks months at a time. And I would love to just hear you perhaps expand a little bit on your personal experience and if you have had more experiences like this so that people can be aware that this is one of the cards in the deck.  It is one of the cards in the deck and people should be aware that this is a possibility which is one reason why it is important to have a strong ritual environment a strong ritual context in an ayahuasquero a practitioner that knows what they are doing because they can keep you on track and get you out into hyperspace and get you back. And that is the whole essence of shamanism. I have not since La Chorrera had the experiences that have kept me three sheets to the wind if you will for weeks at a time. It was not particularly pleasant. I mean at the time I was not concerned about getting back. All those concepts had evaporated. But after I did get back and actually did get restabilized and truly back in my body and then in ordinary reality on reflection I realized what a dangerous place this was to be in and that potentially it could have gone the opposite way where I never did reintegrate. One of the reasons that I was able to reintegrate I think was because of the circumstances of La Chorrera the process had to play out. There were people in our group who said This is totally out of control. We need to get these people out of here into a psychiatric facility and under treatment. And Terence and I both completely resisted that because we understood what was going on. At least we thought we did. We were in communication with each other. It was like No you just need to let this play out. And I think that was the right thing. I have a lecture I give a talk I give. Was it a psychotic break was it a shamanic initiation or was there an alien encounter? Probably all three in a certain way but it was closer to a shamanic initiation in a certain  Not that I call myself a shaman I am not but it is  the shamanic initiation is where you get to explore these dimensions and then you get back out. You get back onto your mundane feet in 3D and ordinary reality of whatever that is. I am wandering here but I think the point is because of the fact that it was able to play itself out from beginning to end it was actually a very healing experience. Rather than being disorganized and incoherent for the rest of my life maybe some people say I am but I do not think so but it was actually a healing experience and I came back from it stronger. And I feel like even though I have continued to take psychedelics ever since on occasion I have never gotten to that place again and I am grateful for that and I also feel that I am basically a fairly stable person.  Let me ask a couple of follow-up questions because there are a few things that struck me in the book in describing this. And people should pick up the book and read all of it including this chronicle but   Only the Kindle version is available as you know.  Which is perfect for me because   Hard copies are no more.  Hard to come by so I can take notes and then export my notes which is my favorite thing in the world to do. So I have my 189 highlights and then I went through and I added three asterisks to the things I wanted to follow up on. That is a six-page document so I am fully nerded out when it comes to my digestion of this book. And please fill in the details or fact check me on this but one of the things that struck me and this also seems to be a pattern across people who and I do not want to characterize your experience this way but those people who might come unmoored and stay adrift for longer periods of time is there was a real density of consumption of psilocybin mushrooms when you were there. And my understanding is you guys had very little in terms of food maybe some instant noodles and rice. And you had this just almost ridiculous abundance of mushrooms due to these zebu cattle who were down there. And so you started spicing up meals and so on by throwing in psychedelic mushrooms. So you had just not only a high-dose experience there is a lot more to it of course but you had a really high density of continuous consumption. Is that accurate? Is that fair to say?  Yes yes yes. And so in this process we never really did give ourselves a chance to get back to baseline as you will and look at Well what is going on here now that we are unstoned? We were never unstoned! Most of what happened with the experiment at La Chorrera  when we actually performed the experiment at La Chorrera  was post-mushroom. We were not eating them anymore.  That is right. That was about two weeks later.  But there were plenty of them in our system. And then of course on the night that we did the experiment we ate them. But mushrooms are tricky. Mushrooms are not necessarily to be trusted in a certain way because they can lead you into these delusional spaces. And as a plant teacher well they are not plants but as a psychedelic teacher they are somewhat less trustworthy than ayahuasca. You can get into these delusional spaces. And it is something to be careful of.  Certainly not to be trifled with in a sense. I think it is a good idea to respect the mushrooms.  None of these things should be trifled with.  To follow up on that you mentioned letting things play out and how that was beneficial to you and your reintegration and perhaps if you had been subjected at that point to a psychiatric intervention that that could have been problematic for you. This presents a dicey situation I suppose for people who might experience things in the sense that as a counterweight to that I know one person for instance who went to Peru did a traditional dieta where he was consuming something called chiric sanango and ayahuasca on alternating days and he did this for quite a long period of time. Chiric sanango is seen in a number of cases now people who have had psychotic breaks after continuous administration. Not to say it is bad I just think that this is an observed kind of phenomenon.  Right.  And his family had to go down to South America  he thought he was God  and convinced him that if he were God the gift he could give would be getting on this thing that was made up in his mind called an airplane and coming back to the United States. But I suppose there is a plausible argument to be made that he would have been among the lost and maybe would not have come out by himself. So how do you think about when it is appropriate? And again we are not giving medical advice. Everybody needs to talk to their medical professionals but would there not be times when a psychiatric intervention would be called for? How do you think about that?  There would definitely be times when a psychiatric intervention  I am not saying that every time. For me the fact that the experience did play itself out what was allowed to play out was this process of integration and integration is really important as you know to psychedelic experience and this process of getting back to some kind of baseline but with that changed perspective with the benefit of having had this experience and changing that perspective and so on. But sometimes this is why set and setting is so important. When you take it in an inappropriate set and setting then there is the potential to come up against what we call the real world society and its conventions and its expectations. For example I could share with you the son of a very good friend of mine in Minnesota about age 18 went with his I do not know what his previous psychedelic experience had been not great but a few low-level mushroom experiences and so on but he decided with some of his friends to take a trip to New York City. This is like small town boys in the big city and just having a great time. They took a lot of mushrooms and he descended into this delusional world. His friends said Well we are going back to Minnesota and he said Well I am staying here. What are you going to do live on the streets? Yes and he had this whole thing. Well it did not take very long for him to come up against New York's finest as you might say because he was acting pretty strange. And he got into a tussle with the cops and punched one in the face. That was a big mistake. Next thing you know he was in jail and being transferred to what is the huge psychiatric hospital there? Bedlam or something?  Bedlam? Bellevue maybe.  Bellevue Bellevue. The only reason that he was able to resolve it in some ways was that at this point I was getting involved. I was actually in Brazil. I was in my ayahuasca retreat with all this was going on. But my friend called me and said This has happened. Is there anybody in New York a psychiatrist that could help him? As it turned out I said Well yeah as a matter of fact Steve Ross might be able to help him. And I called Steve. This is all done by Skype. When I called Steve and I explained the situation and he said Well as it turns out I have admission privileges at Bellevue which I had no idea that he did but he went over there and he was able to intervene on this young man's behalf and get him out of there but the guy never did recover. He went back. He was on psychiatric meds and he was fairly functional when he was doing that but he hated being on psychiatric meds. And it was a tragedy in many ways. He never fully recovered.  How old was he at this time?  He was about 18 or 19.  Did he have a family history of schizophrenia or anything like that?  Potentially yes. There was schizophrenia in this family. It was a very strange family situation. His mother was a devout Evangelical Christian and his father was a psychedelic cowboy. He grew his mushrooms in the basement and brewed his own ayahuasca and so it was a weird family situation.  Wow.  It was very bad. I do not want to disclose too much.  Of course of course it is very sad.  It was a very sad outcome. It is hard to predict but apparently he had this family history of schizophrenia and the mushrooms triggered this. This is why you have to approach it from an informed place and hopefully with a practitioner whether a therapist or a shaman or whatever who can hold that space and modulate the outcome. To take it on the streets of New York probably not a good idea if you are not from New York. I do not know.  For sure. It also just brings to mind maybe it should be the four S's right? You have screening set setting and then support.  Exactly.  You have a safety net in place before you get on the trapeze.  That is right.  A therapist. Someone who is supervising.  This was just approached by these young men in a very recreational way and they were out to have a good time and it was not good.  Powerful compounds and this applies across the entire pharmacopoeia. SSRIs also can produce suicidal ideation and all sorts of states. It is a really good idea to have professional assistance and supervision with these things. Well let us talk about the McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy because you bring so many different perspectives and lenses and also toolkits to bear on these discussions. I would just love to hear about this new nonprofit and why you started it.  The new nonprofit The McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy which is www.mckenna.academy academy is the suffix of the website. I wanted to create  originally the idea that we would start this academy and that we would have a physical place in South America where we could do retreats which we had been doing all along and then conferences and different types of educational activities to explore natural philosophy. And a lot of it was the ideas that would be a modern mystery school modeled after Eleusis  or not modeled after it but in that spirit a place where people could come together and share ideas and marvel at the cosmos and marvel at existence and do what natural philosophers do natural philosophy being the precursor of science what science used to be before it became so quantitative and reductionist. Natural philosophy is the root of science and it differs from science in that it admits that there are other ways of knowing rather than the reductionist way of knowing. That is valuable but that is not the whole trick. This is the limitation of science. Science can understand segments of reality but in small pieces but it does not fit the whole picture together too well. So the Academy is basically I guess the modern analog would be something like Esalen a place where ideas of brilliant minds can come together and create dialogues. Of course COVID changed our business model radically because we could not do these conferences and so on so we have had to pivot and go online. And that is what we are doing now just trying to create an online presence and continue our work. It is partly educational and it is partly research. We have got a project going on down in Peru right now. We are making a documentary about the current state of traditional medicine in the Amazon around Iquitos. And a lot of it is about this botanist that I have worked with for 40 years there who is the curator of the Herbarium at the University in Iquitos. He is one of these people about which it is said When the medicine man dies it is as though a library has burned down. He is not a medicine man in the sense that he is not a healer but he has tremendous knowledge of the Amazonian flora and the medicine properties of these plants and he knows many many healers in the community. So we are trying to document his knowledge because even though he is a scientist he does not write things down. So we are trying to through videography make a documentary about what he knows and then hopefully that will attract funding. We have big plans for this project that we call The Knowledge Preservation Project. The first aspect of it is to make a relatively short documentary about this gentleman whose name is Juan Ruiz and then to develop  over the long term what we want to do is work with the Herbarium there and digitize the Herbarium and try to make it into a world-class resource for plant research of all kinds that would be centered at the University. So this is all described in our website and that is probably our biggest project right now for which we are seeking support.  Support and so people can find that at mckenna.academy. I encourage everybody to check it out. There are five key departments. Tell me if this requires updating but you have therapeutics education retreats RD and media. Is that still an accurate reflection or has that been modified?  That is an accurate reflection but then some of those things are dormant at the moment like the retreats.  Due to COVID.  Due to COVID. Eventually we want to get back to that. Media obviously is an even bigger part of it because the internet is our teaching platform now. Therapeutics again not so much because they are usually associated with the retreats but education for sure and RD. And I put this project that we are dealing with this gentleman at UNAP the university there is in the category of RD.  And the McKenna Academy is public charity. Is that right in the sense that it is tax exempt as a 501?  It is. It is a 501 tax-exempt organization chartered in the United States even though I do not live in the United States anymore. I live close enough. I live in Canada but the Academy is incorporated in California as a 501.  And who is involved with the academy besides yourself? Are there any particular people who are acting as advisors or research collaborators?  Yes definitely. Yeah we have a number of people that are associated with it. The woman who is the executive director Christina Chaya lives in Peru and I have worked with her previously on organizing retreats. So she continues to work with me. We have very good people on our board one gentleman with lots of experience in the financial industry. Another woman is a corporate lawyer so we have that expertise. And then we have just a fantastic bunch of advisors one of whom is Alexandre Tannous who you know very well and Wade Davis is an advisor. Paul Stamets is an advisor. So we have a number of high-profile people.  A strong roster.  Yeah definitely.  What types of projects would be on the shortlist of things that you would like to engage with and explore assuming that you have the resources to do so?  Well a couple of things are on the plate. So we have got this long-term project this Knowledge Preservation Project which we are beginning to brand it as Biognosis. The focus right now is on the documentation part but then the next phase which will take much longer and cost a lot more money is to focus on the herbarium there of which Juan Ruiz is the curator of this herbarium. So that is a long-term project that we want to do. In the shorter term we are working on developing an ethnobotany course in collaboration with the Organization for Tropical Studies in Costa Rica and we are going to be offering that course this fall. And one of the people that is working on that is a guy named Michael Coe who is an ethnobotanist and I was on this committee. He got his degree at the University of Hawaii and he studied cultural keystone species in the Amazon around Pucallpa which is basically ayahuasca. He is going to be the main instructor in this course which will be online. And then we are planning to do a virtual symposium probably in August on the Stoned Ape Theory. We are going to do that because one of Terence's books The Food of the Gods is being reprinted again. I am actually doing an online event with Michael Pollan and the publisher. We are doing essentially a podcast together but then we are going to do a one-day symposium on the Stoned Ape Theory and have some interesting speakers. I wrote a new foreword for it which I will be happy to share with you. And we are going to have this symposium because we are going to revisit this whole idea which actually based on new discoveries is more plausible than it was when Terence first proposed it. And that is what my foreword is about in part is that we did not know about the way that these psychedelics can create these hyperconnective neural architectures and their neurogenesis and enhancing the connectivity in the neocortex and that sort of thing. And that was not known at the time Terence wrote the book. What was also not known was anything about epigenetics. And epigenetics provides an evolutionary mechanism by which these changes in neural architecture could be propagated through generations. So if you look at the environment that we now know from paleoclimatic data that sort of thing Northern Africa was a wet place a couple of million years ago. And there was seasonal rainfall there were cattle there  there were the ancestors of the modern cattle  and there were hominids. So the three variables in this environment did exist. What was the long-term impact of that? Well you know The Food of the Gods basically led to the origin of consciousness and the imagination.  I read a draft of your intro or maybe the final version I do not know but it is really a great exploration review of more recent findings but also a great exploration of language images imagination consciousness and then also the data to support this overlap of hominids with ungulates and coprophilic mushrooms.  Right.  It seems almost inevitable that our ancestors would have been munching on these and found them very very interesting and compelling on a lot of levels.  I think so. I just think it is worth looking at this in the light of some new discoveries. These things can never be proven which actually makes them more fun because then you can make these wild claims and nobody can disprove them either. That is where we are at with that but I think knowing what we know about neuroplasticity was the word I was looking for that psychedelics foster neuroplasticity epigenetics provides a mechanism for inheritance and so I think that changes the speculation from plausible to maybe more than likely.  This stuff is endlessly fascinating to me. And I want to return for a second to The McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy because you mentioned something that I just want to underscore and that is that to do these things that is to further the Knowledge Preservation Project Biognosis the ethnobotany course and many other things you are currently looking for support. If you do not mind saying if you can is there a specific number that you have determined will allow you to pursue these projects with the resources required to really gain some degree of traction with them?  Yes we have a rough idea. We are undertaking a capital campaign now fundraising campaign people should feel free to visit the website and donate if it grabs you but we are looking to raise about 600000 by the end of the year and this is to support various projects like this. And then the Herbarium Digitization Project which is much more ambitious and much more expensive and it is going to stretch over a couple of years what we are dealing with is essentially an herbarium which is a gem a scientific gem but it is in a third world developing country university so there are a lot of deficiencies. For example at this herbarium there is like 100000 specimens but at least half of them are not even mounted. So we want to get enough funds to complete the Herbarium essentially and then link it into various online database of resources for natural products pharmacology genomics and so on just create an open access resource for anyone with an interest in Amazonian flora. It does not have to be medicinal or psychedelic or whatever the interest. And that is probably going to be a two to three-year project that will cost somewhere north of a million dollars but it will be well worthwhile. It is just again I am a big believer in collections and collecting knowledge. That is the thing. Knowledge collections are important. Every plant that you can attach a piece of information to enhances the value of the plant and provides a reason not to drive it into extinction.  Important yeah. Once they are gone they are gone. You have mentioned a phrase in a number of other interviews I listened to that I would love for you to define because I do not know the phrase. And I would like to  the importance of voucher specimens I think that was. Is that the right word?  Mm-hmm . Voucher specimens yeah.  What is a voucher specimen?  Voucher specimen this is what Schultes used to rave about all the time. He would go on about We did all this chemical work on say Banisteriopsis for example and there is a whole history of chemical investigations going back to the late 19th century. People looking into the alkaloids the composition of Banisteriopsis. Voucher specimen is simply an herbarium specimen that you make. And if you are collecting plants and you are dragging them back into the lab to tear them apart chemically and see what is in there you have to be able to reference a referenced specimen essentially.  So keep one that you do not tear apart in other words. Is that what   Collect pieces of the plant. Make an herbarium specimen of the plant. Make several deposits in different herbaria around the world but at least the herbarium of the host country and then you can always go back to that. Because taxonomists love to question each other. So if you have a referenced specimen you can always go back and look at the actual collection. If somebody said Well this is Banisteriopsis caapi that McKenna collected in 1981 but five years later some other botanist may come through there and say Well that was not Banisteriopsis caapi. That was Banisteriopsis longeolata and these people are fools. They did not know what they were doing. This is what taxonomists do all the time. They fight with each other. But the point is that the chemical investigations are documented by an herbarium specimen that you can always go back and check and now of course they use DNA profiling and this sort of thing just another tool in the arsenal. If you look at the chemical history of ayahuasca if you look at who did what when they were sorting out what the alkaloids were the first four or five investigators I can send you a keynote about this which you can look at your leisure but the first four or five groups of investigators they did not take vouchers. So their work is not worthless but in some ways degraded because there are not vouchers to document what they actually worked on. That is the thing with voucher specimens.  Just to put some more connective tissue around let us just say the Amazon and the flora of the Amazon how many species would you say we currently estimate plant species to exist in the Amazon?  In the Amazon?  Yeah.  About 80000 to 90000.  And how many of we and this is maybe a loaded word but properly studied and examined in any way?  Around 10 percent.  10 percent and so   Of course worldwide they are always revising the number but the total number of higher plant species in the world is around 240000 to 260000.  It is just such a wealth of biological not just knowledge but practicality. You have such potential medicinal application.  Well there is great discovery great potential for drug discovery because we have only looked at about 10 percent. Those are the number that we maybe took a superficial look at. The number that have actually been thoroughly investigated is closer to one percent. So there is tremendous potential to find new compounds. In fact that is another project that The McKenna Academy is working on or collaborating with a group called Woven Science a group of entrepreneurs and scientists and other types. And we are in the process of developing a bioprospecting platform app that will be affiliated with the University in Iquitos. And then you get into basically a search for new molecules screen them against a whole variety of possible targets. So this is another long-term project that will probably run into the millions if it is properly done. The McKenna Academy is peripheral to it. We are involved but we are nonprofit so we do not have to make profits. But it is going to be a very interesting project and it goes into these ethical areas about who owns this knowledge who owns this   Biopiracy.  Biopiracy so we have to be very sensitive to all those issues so that we can say We are bioprospectors not biopirates. We want to share the wealth if there is any return on the investment. We are committed to having indigenous people have a big stake in that have a place at the table and a big say in how this goes forward because really they have been the stewards of this knowledge for millennia really. And it is always been the case that big pharma big science comes in. They take what they want. They say Thanks very much. See you later develop million dollar drugs off these things and that is not right. The indigenous people should get some recognition for being the stewards of this knowledge. That is the whole thing. This is what is in danger. As the habitats are impacted community structures are impacted and the traditional knowledge. And one of the first things to go is the knowledge of plants.  Well Dennis there are a million things that I could ask you. I did not even get through 10 percent of the questions that I   Good we will have 10 more.  We have space for many more conversations. I want to say a few things. One is that for those people listening who also want to extend their exploration of these topics I think Mark Plotkin has also done a lot of great work with the Amazon Conservation Team and he is thinking about enabling and empowering those groups to participate in prospecting and the preservation of knowledge. He and his wife and other people in the organization have done really great work. And I know you guys are friends and go back really really far.  Absolutely.  And I also want to ask so just to confirm for people listening donations to The McKenna Academy of Natural Philosophy are tax deductible since they are donations to 501. The target of 600k I will commit here to kicking that off with 50k of my own.  My God.  And I want to encourage people listening to consider doing the same because at 50k a pop that would be 12 people can be done very easily. And this is an early stage bet right? Albeit in a nonprofit side I do not expect of course I cannot get any returns from this in a financial way but I really view you as a pioneer who also has a high degree of biochemical and ethnobotanical fluency who can participate and reconcile and critically examine multiple spheres. And you have a history of producing really fascinating and I think important work. And I definitely encourage people to also grab the Ethnopharmacologic Search for Psychoactive Drugs. They are in a boxed set. If you just search Dennis McKenna on Amazon it pops right up and you can purchase it on Amazon Prime. It is a beautiful collection. It will give you a taste of some of what Dennis has curated and certainly you can find his writing everywhere else but I will commit to 50k. I encourage people to  this is not investment advice. It is a nonprofit but I really view this as worthwhile and you are coming into this also as someone who has proven a decade's long dedication to examining and studying various facets of psychedelics and beyond not just limited to that much like I think Schultes was also very very well versed in orchids and other things.  One of the world's experts on orchids.  And Roland Griffiths. Also a lot of people do not realize even though he is known for psychedelic work with psilocybin at Hopkins one of the foremost experts in caffeine and caffeine metabolism. And so you have such a broad spectrum of expertise I feel like this is worth supporting so I commit to 50k and I encourage people to take a close look.  That is incredibly generous of you Tim. Thank you. Thank you for that and thank you for encouraging your listeners to contribute. If we get a few more donations in that range we will not have to do a fundraising campaign. Our goals will be pretty much met. And we want to be responsible stewards of these funds. And in that regard we are also open to people who they may want to support us financially but we want more than just finances we want advice. We want wise people. We are creating a we call it the Symbiotic Circle but a circle of advisors with connections to other supporters but also ideas like people like yourself for example. I do not know if you are interested in joining our Symbiotic Circle but you are certainly welcome to.  Thank you. I like the sound of it. Symbiotic Circle sounds like a good thing.  I will send information about all this stuff. I do not know how much time you have to go through all this stuff but I could send you absolutely all the stuff.  One thing in the world that I seem to have time for is this kind of stuff.  I will send you more details about that capital campaign and some of the other projects that we have. And this has just been amazing. We killed two and a half hours.  It was easy. This is easy to do. And we have plenty  I have enough questions we could do a round two in short order. It would be extremely easy to do. What I would encourage people to check out mckenna.academy. I have a few thoughts on things that could be added to the website that might be helpful for listeners so we will chat about that separately. I think it would be easy to do also but check out mckenna.academy. Certainly you can find Dennis on social. Where are you most active if you are active at all Dennis on social media?  Well I have people handling most of the social media for the Academy. So I am not on there. I am on Facebook and Twitter but not much. You know?  That is why you get more done.  Well I would not say that but if it helps it helps. I would love to have more conversations with you Tim online and offline.  I would definitely enjoy that.  This has just been incredible. You are a fantastic interviewer. I am sure I am not the first that told you that.  Thank you. Thank you Dennis.  And you are informed. You really do your homework. So that is a huge thing. I think it could not have gone better we could talk all afternoon.  Easily and I am only 30-40 percent of the way through Volume Two of ESPD. This is one of those fields I am sure it is true with a lot of fields where the deeper you go the more fascinating and the stranger it all becomes. And you spoke to at the very very well maybe it was not the beginning maybe it was in the middle about some fears around this is related to some of these syncretic churches of science removing the mystery or the wonder. And it makes me think of Surely  Joking Mr. Feynman! by Richard Feynman a famous physicist who later in life developed a deep friendship with a painter. And the painter had the same concern about Richard through his scientific lens removing the wonder of say the beauty of a flower. And Richard's perspective was actually You have got it completely backwards  Exactly.  because I have the aesthetic appreciation. I am acutely aware of how much I do not know and I can also be dazzled by the scientific findings when you go down to the microscopic level and look at this beautiful thing in front of us and I am paraphrasing of course but I find it so reassuring in your representation of these multiple facets that these are not mutually exclusive silos even though there is so much goddamn infighting in the psychedelic space. It is comically tragic.  We are humans. That is what we do but I am totally on the same page with you about this. To my mind science properly pursued only deepens the mystery. That is the thing. It does not take the mystery away. It shows you how mystery exists profoundly at every level. That is the whole idea of The McKenna Academy being a mystery school. The mystery is the mystery of existence which is bottomless. It is endless. And science is one of those tools we have not to take the mystery away but to make us appreciate what the mystery is. And I am thinking of something that beep and I had a couple of exchanges. He said Tim's going to ask you What would you put on a billboard?' But we did not get to that but I was thinking about that. What I would put on the billboard is what I get from ayahuasca and other psychedelics  Remember how little you know. Remember how little you know and science often forgets how little it knows. So it can be arrogant at times. But you cannot be a true scientist without being a mystic I think. That is the thing. The deeper you probe the more complex the more beautiful the more intelligent it all seems. And this is why I think we have to appreciate science but understand it is not the whole story. It is not the end of the story. Just a useful tool.  We are all holding different parts of the elephant like that parable.  Exactly. Exactly.  Dennis this has been wonderful. I will follow up on the donation which for clarity I will make through my foundation which is explicitly for this type of thing. I could not be more excited. Is there anything else you would like to mention to listeners any closing comments anything like that? Anything you would like to direct their attention to before we wrap up for this round one?  No I think we have covered it pretty well. I would say look at the website. We have resources there. We have events which have been done in the past but you can still register. They are all recorded. Think of it as a place for resources but also get in touch. We want to be open. We want people to bring their talent and their wisdom and everything else to the table  and their money but that is not necessarily the most valuable thing. Money is just the grease that lets the thing run. So there is that but we are trying to bring together brilliant people and propagate this worldview this idea that we are out of sync with nature essentially and that psychedelics is one way to help us realize that and help us get realigned with nature because that is the big challenge that we face right now. And then that could spin off into another three hours of discussion. We will not go into that.  For sure. And for those people who want maybe a cliffhanger or a teaser I wanted to focus on a lot of the science and the biographical stuff in this conversation but we did not even get into some of the really strange and weird stuff which we might next time.  That is another one. Yeah.  So I will leave that as a teaser for round two. Well thank you so much Dennis. This has been wonderful and so much fun for me. I have been really looking forward to this and have done so much reading and I cannot wait to do more. I am looking forward to it. And to everybody listening as always we will have links to everything in the show notes that we have discussed. Of course we mentioned mckenna.academy. That is the beacon the main call to action here. Please check it out. And until next time be safe. And thanks for tuning in. Interview with Dennis McKenna on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Plants of the Gods  Ayahuasca Shamanic Knowledge Coca and the Adventures of Richard Evans Schultes Photo courtesy of MAPS Rick Doblin PhD  is the founder and executive director of the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies . He received his doctorate in public policy from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government where he wrote his dissertation on the regulation of the medical uses of psychedelics and   