 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss. Welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. I am going to keep my preamble short because we are going to run out of time well before we run out of subject matter with today's guest Balaji Srinivasan and I am sure that that pronunciation could be improved. balajis that is B-A-L-A-J-I-S is an angel investor and entrepreneur formerly the CTO of Coinbase and general partner at Andreessen Horowitz. He was also the co-founder of Earn.com acquired by Coinbase Counsyl that is with a S-Y-L acquired by Myriad Teleport acquired by Topia Topia perhaps and Coin Center. He has been named to the MIT Technology Review's Innovators Under 35 that was in 2013 is the recipient of a Wall Street Journal Innovation Award many others and holds a BSMSPhD in electrical engineering and an MS in chemical engineering all from Stanford University. Balaji also teaches the occasional class at Stanford including an online MOOC M-O-O-C that is Massive Open Online Course in 2013 which reached as I understand it more than 250000 students worldwide. You can find him on Twitter at balajis. I will get it right this time with a J B-A-L-A-J-I-S. And you can find much more about him on his website balajis.com. Balaji thanks for coming on the show.  Great to be here Tim.  And I thought we would start with a number and that number is 1729. And as I understand it that is not in reference to a date but you use that number quite a bit. Could you please provide a bit of context for how you have used that number and why you have used that number?  Sure. So I am actually going to be launching something at that domain probably by the time this podcast is published hopefully. And so it is a domain 1729.com. And what does it refer to? It is not a year it is the first number that is the sum of two cubes in two different ways. And what that refers to it is basically the Ramanujan number. So Srinivasa Ramanujan was India's greatest mathematician and kind of like India's Einstein but has kind of a romantic story in the sense that he was extremely poor and wrote these letters to mathematicians around the world. He had just self-taught math from a textbook. He wrote these letters to mathematicians around the world and most of them ignored him just thought he was a crank. And one guy brought him out to England this guy G.H. Hardy who thought this guy has to be a genius because no one would make up these equations. And so then Ramanujan began a rampage through mathematics and has people still to this day going through a page of his notebooks for an entire mathematical journal issue because he just wrote down all these results that were true but he did not provide the proof. You just intuit the result. So where does 1729 come from 1729? Well unfortunately Ramanujan died very young very very young from  people think it is because he was away from his food and the warm weather of India and so on. But basically on his deathbed Hardy came in to try to cheer him up. He said Ramanujan I came in on a taxi and the license plate it is very boring. It is 1729. And on his deathbed Ramanujan still had the wit and faculty to say Oh that is not boring. It is the sum of two cubes in two different ways because he is on a first name basis with every number you know? And that is kind of the legend of Ramanujan. And so have you ever seen Good Will Hunting?  I have.  Yeah. So Good Will Hunting was kind of based on that. There is actually a recent there is a book that was turned into a movie called The Man Who Knew Infinity. And   It is a very fun movie to watch. I mean it is engaging. I do not know how factually accurate it is but   There is pieces actually the numbers in there and so on. But to me for many years actually before joining Andreessen Horowitz what I was going to do is turn the MOOC course that I had done in 2013 into a global talent search. Because just like you have the Hubble Telescope looking for dark matter around the universe I thought of the mobile telescope the telescope provided to us by mobile could help us find the dark talent in the Global South the undiscovered talent. And basically that is not just the Global South that is Eastern Europe that is Russia that is all the former Soviet countries that is basically the world of all these people who did not have a chance. And I think of that as something that I have wanted to do for a very long time. That is what I was going to do prior to joining a16z for a bunch of reasons. I joined a16z instead in 2013 and I am kind of coming back to the path not traveled and doing this global talent search. And the idea is that basically we who have been fortunate enough to have some resources or winnings we can offer a hand up to all these people bring them into the global economy level them up give them what we know in terms of education or teaching or what have you. And all of the stuff can be delivered I know it sounds like a cliche but at scale over the internet you produce it once and you can replicate across millions of people. So this is what I am doing next. And hopefully by the time the podcast comes out this'ill be live. Knock on wood. Okay.  Amazing. So there are these seeming pillars of influence pillar may be too strong a word and I think we will want to explore a few of those including Lee Kuan Yew perhaps.  Sure.  And we will get to that. And for people who do not know who that is we will explain because good God I mean what a figure and what an influence. Now before we move further ahead what was the subject matter and the intent behind the MOOC that you taught?  Great question. So the subject matter the title was Startup Engineering. And the concept was that it was basically the class that I wish I had had before doing my first startup. And so it was kind of like a time capsule back to somebody who was into math or into just technology in general but was just completely naive about how to actually run a business or anything like that. When doing my first startup actually this is a first approximation but I thought that the primary difficulty would be calculating difficult integrals. And I was like Okay. That is the hard part and everything else is kind of basic whatever. We can knock that out before breakfast. And of course that is not the case.  As often turns out!  As often turns out that is right. Because the thing is I was a career academic for many years and in academia there is a high premium placed on novelty of results technical difficulty. And there is some good aspects of this. In math you learn how to think rigorously and go premise premise premise conclusion really interrogate your results. There is seemingly obvious things that are not actually true mathematically when you actually go and work them all the way through. Famously like the parallel postulate of Euclid is not something you can just take for granted you get different geometries if you assume different conditions there. And so you think rigorously in academia and then you think Okay. Well that is the entirety of the world. It is just technical difficulty and it is not. And so this course was meant for teaching the philosophy and all the nitty-gritty details to go from a command line up to a website with payments with JavaScript and all the types of  because you learn computer science in academia you do not really learn software engineering and there is a thousand details in how that works which are useful to get number one like get and stuff like that. And of course the reason you do not learn those things is they move fast. You have to keep updating it. So that was one piece. And the second piece was the philosophy of startups meaning what is the difference between a startup versus small business or why is this happening now? There is a piece of recent history for example do you know what the NSF-AUP is?  I do not I am not even going to try to pretend.  Sure. So National Science Foundation had this thing called the Acceptable Use Policy in place for many years and it prevented commercial traffic on the internet. How about that? Right? So the dotcoms   I did not know that.  Yeah the dotcoms that we know and love were actually not feasible until I think about 1991 plus or minus one or two years but I think it was 1991 they repealed the AUP. And the reason people fought it they said there was going to be spam and porn and malware on this commercial internet and it was all going to be broken because before that it was an academic and military internet. Everybody was sort of a quasi-trusted user on it. You had to have a .mil or .edu domain. And then they were like Oh my God all these crazy people are going to get on. It is going to be And you know what? They were right. All that stuff did happen. But the benefit was worth it. The downside was mitigated by I think the upside and that was the birth of the commercial internet. And that is something which most people do not even know how that came about. It really was something where one rule was holding back all this innovation. That is something that is made a deep impression on me. So stuff like that was the kind of stuff that I tried to convey in the course alongside the nitty-gritty. And I think most of the time that kind of stuff is not taught in the same place from the same person with one coloring the other. I think that is part of why the course was popular.  Thank you. That was a very comprehensive answer. I love comprehensive answers. Been looking forward to this conversation you are very good at teasing out the details. And we may end up teasing out the details on all sorts of things in this conversation including some of what one of our mutual friends described as one of several Balajisms including the line immutable currency infinite frontier or maybe frontiers and immortal life. I am giving teasers to people. It is a bit of a cheap trick if you will excuse it. Another one this is from we will just say anonymous although I think this sentiment has been echoed by a few people I chatted with which you may enjoy which is something along the lines of Balaji will end up on one side of a firing squad but I am not sure which side.  Okay. That is funny. I am very peaceful. I am extremely peaceful. I just want to put that out there for the record. Go ahead.  He is very peaceful. And I think that part of what fascinates people about you is how often they would consider you prescient. And often that comes with a degree of fear not of you but of the consequences of you being right. And I am thinking of for instance a quote I think it was on January 8th by the co-founder of Roam Research you probably remember this one. I think it is Conaw if I am getting that right which was something along the lines of The most terrifying words in the English language are Balaji was right. Okay. So I am planting those seeds just because we are going to come back to why some of the things you have predicted accurately have in fact been terrifying. Before we do that we can if you want to say something first we could dive into it.  I will offer just a little bit of color there which is so what he is referring to is specifically my predictions on COVID and the pandemic and so on but then also more generally kind of a bunch of unheeded predictions or things that I have said and that people would be like That'ill never happen and then it kind of happens. So it is not so much that it is always bad predictions it is not always just Cassandra. I like to think that I look for large deviations so that you can actually get large upside as well as large downside. And so folks who have I think who have followed me on investments have done reasonably well but there is both we will see.  There are both and Cassandra for those wondering that is a mythological reference correct?  Yes that is right.  It is given the gift of prophecy but with the condition that no one would believe her.  Correct.  So we will come back to some of these predictions. And is it I want to say I just heard you say eople would say t matter? Is one correct and one not?  I mean it is an acronym. I have heard it pronounced both ways ID-19 or COVID. So I do not   I like COVID.  Yeah.  I am going to roll with it and we will come back to that. Now before we started recording and you and I have chatted before we were chatting but I thought it would be kind of fun to kick the ball around in the conversation about podcasts because you have opinions about the state of media or mainstream media and perhaps even the future of media which I would love to dig into at some point. But you had some perspectives on the podcasting world relative to perhaps other ecosystems. Could you just provide your first I do not want to say postulate that is me trying to get fancy.  No no no. Yeah.  Yeah. Please go ahead.  Yeah. So basically let me give some definitions first. So here's a one-liner that took me a very long time to understand. So product is merit and distribution is connections. And so for example a great blog post that nobody sees is a great product with terrible distribution. Conversely a really dumb article or whatever that is a piece of content that is in a feed that is seen by millions is a terrible product with great distribution right? And these are actually essentially disjoint things. Sometimes you can build products that have distribution built in like social networks or payment apps where they are inherently viral that is why people like them. But most of the time these are disjoint things and you have to put as much thought into the distribution of the product. If you are selling chairs or something like that it is not enough to make a good chair you need to think about Okay. How do you get to Walmart? How do you get to this distributor? How do you get on Amazon? All of those tens of things are critical parts of making it work. And Peter Thiel has this good line which is that distribution is the thing that just engineers do not get. Part of the reason I think they do not get it is that it is based on connections right? So it cannot be just produced to math or at least parts of it can be like your contribution margin and so on. But it is something where a lot of it is networking or knowing somebody and people do not usually put thought into this but when you walk into a convenience store why are some energy drinks pulled up all the way to the front? Like 5-Hour Energy why is it in the checkout aisle and why are others at the back? That is not an accident. That is a bunch of distribution relationships and deals because people are hyper-conscious the store owner is hyper-conscious of the fact that being up front near the checkout is a great spot to move inventory and that is actually more valuable to be there than at the back. It is a negotiation with a  okay. What is my point? The point is that I think an enormous amount of our media ecosystem today is actually something where the product is terrible but they have got a lot of great legacy distribution. Okay. So again a software analogy. Think about Microsoft or Oracle. Oracle which makes a database any engineer who is listening to this the database is okay but most people if you are starting from scratch you will use PostgreSQL or an open source database or a combination of some kind. So Oracle has kind of a bad product or a declining product in many ways at least relatively versus the open source competition but has great legacy distribution because it is got its hooks in all of these enterprises the salespeople know them. It is also hard to extract it to pull it out. And how does that relate to the podcasting thing? Well if you think about distribution not just for sales or for companies but for ideas media creators can have great content which is a great product or they can have lots of followers or lots of influential followers to show good quantity and quality respectively of their distribution. And podcasters when two people tend to do a podcast together they tend to have comparable distribution. Because they have comparable distribution X hundred thousand Y hundred thousand or X million Y million followers across platforms not any one platform that actually is it is almost like the Wild West where both people come to a saloon armed right? An armed society polite society. Okay?  It sounds like something that should be put on the license plates here in Texas. Go ahead.  Yeah. And what I think it is done is it is changed the culture of podcasting. The thing is when everybody's kind of comparable in distribution the culture is changed to one of politeness back and forth give and take as well as the long form nature of it. Right? But the contrast to this is like a journalist versus a subject. Podcasting is peer-to-peer. Journalist subject is hierarchical. There is a journalist a corporate journalist an employee of a media corporation and then there is the subject right? As in the subject under the microscope or the subject and there is a King and their subject or subject to. That word subject is such a revealing word. It gives away so much. The journalist and the subject under the microscope. And the thing is that journalist-subject relationship when the journalist interviews the subject the journalists can edit they can pull whatever quote they want and they have the distribution that the subject does not. They have millions of folks who will read their thing the subject can just squeak and cannot get a word out edgewise. They can yell all they want but it does not do anything. No one will listen to them. It is just boom. That is why people used to say Never argue with the man who buys ink by the barrel. You are writing a little letter to the editor and they are rolling off the printing press right? It says if you have got millions of drones that you can just hit enter and boom just push software updates to and this person can just talk to the people around them. Because that is what media is media scripts human beings right? If code scripts machines media scripts human beings even in ways that we do not fully appreciate. That is why people spend so much in advertising. You might think advertising does not convince you of something but it just sort of reminds you that Coca-Cola exists. And then you are at the store and you know Maybe I will get a Coke. That is how words are picked up. That is how vocabulary is picked up. A small example if I said postulate like eight minutes ago or nine minutes ago you might say postulate two minutes ago. That is a small example. So that is not bad. It is just how we should think about it. Point being that once we are equal on distribution then we can actually speak to each other as peers. And it is futile to try to argue with someone who has way more distribution and is hostile you just need to build your own distribution which is much more possible in the internet age.  I agree with that. I agree with the if we were to put it in delicate terms the sort of mutually assured destruction element of civility I think there are also a few other contributing factors. One is that many journalists working under a masthead have the air cover they have the air cover of not only the reputation whatever that might be. It does not need to be the most prestigious publication but they have the reputational cover. They also have the insurance cover the errors and omission policies in actual insurance those clauses within actual insurance policies and some degree of legal protection by their employer would be one. Another is that very often podcasters have experienced having their quotes cherry-picked or have been on the receiving end of a hit piece. And therefore I think are just more sensitive to inflicting that on other people not to say it is   Exactly empathetic right?  Yeah. They are more empathetic. And I would say that you see that very clearly you see a shift sometimes not always in journalists and there are many spectacular wonderful diligent ethical journalists out there. Some of them are very close friends of mine. And those who are say tending towards the kind of cynical cherry-picking side. Once they launch this is how it usually or often happens their own book and now suddenly they are at the whim of other media and other reviewers and other critics they really for the first time sometimes get a large dose of their own medicine and often that can stem the tide a little bit. I would say last not to give podcasters too much ethical credit although certainly some of them and many of them are ethical I think that it is very difficult to cherry-pick when you are interviewing in long form. Not only that but both sides can very easily record. So there are a lot of factors that make it a friendlier format. Although I will say I have had podcasts that are highly produced try to pull a fast one on me before and not that that is terribly relevant but that was how I learned to listen and pay attention to my dog very closely because it was one of the few times that this woman walked in this was pre-s many years ago to interview me with a producer and so on. And my dog growled.  And the dog barked? Wow.  The dog growled Molly growled and that almost never happens. And I apologized for her growling and continued with the interview and very quickly realized that I was being led into a trap and I just stopped the interview. I said Yeah I think that if this is how you are going to approach it we are done. And it turns out if they are on a deadline and they have a highly produced piece and they have a lot of employees and mouths to feed that that is actually a reasonably strong move assuming you can afford to do it is just not play ball just to walk off the field. And so a lot to be said about media.  Absolutely. The thing is actually the non-answer the ignore the block is actually quite effective as an individual and even more effective if practiced by a large group of people. There is this site blocknyt.com that if you saw actually did quite well on Twitter and is a minor hit. And I think you are going to see much more of that where essentially the issue is that a journalist versus subject it is almost like a traveling salesman who goes town to town and runs a con on this person and the next person and the next person. There is this great book called The Journalist and the Murderer that actually documents  have you heard of this?  No I have not. But that is a hell of a title.  Hell of a title. It is actually in the Modern Library's I think top 100 books of the 20th century. It is called The Journalist and the Murderer.  Wow. No kidding.  It is by a former journalist. And essentially it talks about how there was this really brutal killer and a journalist who interviewed that killer and then published a story that was a huge misrepresentation. And the killer was so mad they sued the journalist and the jury actually ended up sympathizing with the murderer over the journalist once they understood what the journalist had done. So it is a phenomenal book. You should read it. Actually I am just going to read you the opening of it because it is so good. It is by Janet Malcolm of The New Yorker. Okay. Ready? Famous opening. Every journalist who is this is her quote okay? It is not mine but it is  all right. Every journalist who is not too stupid or too full of himself to notice what is going on knows that what he does is morally indefensible. He is a kind of confidence man preying on people's vanity ignorance or loneliness gaining their trust and betraying them without remorse. Like the credulous widow who wakes up one day to find the charming young man and all her savings gone so the consenting subject of a piece of nonfiction learns  when the article or book appears  his hard lesson. Journalists justify their treachery in various ways according to their temperaments. The more pompous talk about freedom of speech and the public's right to know the least talented talk about Art the seemliest murmur about earning a living.  Okay. So I want to offer  go ahead.  By Janet Malcolm of The New Yorker. Okay. So I want to just say that is a journalist on corporate journalist basically. Now go ahead you were going to say something.  Well I was just going to say that there is for those who want to there are two sides to this coin and I want to say for those who want to further educate themselves on the dark arts and those gambits they might fall prey to there is also a book called Trust Me I am Lying by Ryan Holiday which covers a lot of this including the tactic of getting an email 20 minutes before a piece is going to be published asking for a comment which of course is intended to   Panic you.   not elicit any comment or panic you or other tricks. I am going to be commenting on you whether you provide a quote or not. Therefore you should do A B or C. But that is a good book on some of the dark arts and do not lose your place. I do not think you will because you seldom do but this also lends all the more testament to those journalists who can withstand and methodically counteract these powerful incentives and motivations to actually do good work where they do not get sucked into this vortex of perverse incentives. So I do want to say that the people who are actually able to stand in the eye of the hurricane and do that I give a tremendous amount of respect because it is hard.  I understand what you are saying. I do think that the structural incentives in the profession now are such that you have got someone who is literally just swimming against the stream. And I think actually part of the issue is that it is a profession in the first place. And what I mean by that is the founding fathers talked about how a standing military was a bad thing because you would have this Praetorian class that was armed to the teeth and there would be again subjects. And that Praetorian class was in drills it had its own esprit de corps its own sense of self and would increasingly go contemptuous of these civilians who they watched over and that was a recipe for bad things. So that is what they preached against a standing military. Now the US basically did not have a standing military for a long time until essentially the permanent wartime mobilization of the 20th century especially post-World War II. And before the ideal was to have citizen soldiers. If you have seen the movie 300 well the Athenians come out and it is like I am a potter and I am a baker or whatever and they grab an ax and go to war but they are not permanent military. Now whether we can get back to a standing military or rather away from a standing military to a citizen military I think that is going to have to wait until midcentury when it is all drones. At which point then it is all computer programming. And actually I know that is just a cast off from our  go ahead.  So within the next 30 to 40 years once we get to the sort of asymmetrical warfare where the cost of offense is much lower than the cost of defense with armies of drones is that what you mean?  Yeah. I think basically some time midcentury maybe more I do not know if you have followed the just as a footnote on a footnote the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict which was heavy on drones. That is a glimpse of the future of warfare. The future is already here but it is not evenly distributed kind of thing. So I do think that eventually once you get full automation of everything it will actually be just drone on drone. And then people will surrender rather than have civilians killed. It actually might be more ethical in some way. There'ill be obviously a transitional phase. The transitional phase of human versus drone will sort of be like early in World War I there are cavalry charges versus machine gun nests and the calvary were just kind of this outdated way of war that quickly went away. Human versus drone human versus robot will be like that I think. And then people will quickly be like Okay. We just need robot versus robot. Anyway so leaving the standing military bit aside because I do not think that can be solved in the short term by analogy there is a concept of standing media. A standing media is again like a Praetorian class or a select class a code elite that among themselves practices certain behaviors that the average person cannot. And what is interesting is NYMag had this thing a few years ago like the media on the media. And it was  let us see if I can find it. I think it was in 2016. It was the case against the media by the media or something like that. And it was something where there was a poll of people who all work in the media and essentially it said that they all agreed that basically it was kind of an internal  here's the survey. Okay. Let us find you the exact thing. The Media on the Media July 24 2016 00 p.m. One of the biggest things that they all agreed on is journalism's biggest blind spot in its coverage is groupthink. We draw from a limited pool of people who generally have a similar background and class. They are simply unable to see the perspective of people who are not like them and tend to drive out those who do not fit in. Now I actually understand this coming from academia. I could see how that epistemic bubble happens. It is ironic that the people who complain often most about filter bubbles are actually complaining about the plural because there was just one filter bubble that they controlled and now they are annoyed that there is more than one.  They have competing filter bubbles.  There is competing filter bubbles exactly right? So the way I kind of think about this is the answer is not reform. The answer is not to tell these professionals Hey go in journalism better or Hey you are doing a good job. This guy's doing a bad job. I think that is been tried for a very long time. I think the answer is radical decentralization in several ways. One critical way is everyone is a journalist. So citizen journalism as opposed to corporate journalism. And so this way you do not have a media corporation that is literally running billboards declaring itself to be truth incarnate. Lest I exaggerate that is literally the slogan of one large media company that shall go unnamed. It runs a billboard saying it is the truth right? And yet these media companies are basically the big ones are nepotistic endeavors. They are passed down from father to son. They are everything that they castigate technology for being which it is not they are these kind of inbred sort of things. And no one ever points this out right? No one points out that the owners of these papers are actually just literally father to son kind of endeavors which is not happening in tech. You do not get father  people found their companies in tech right? So the alternative to sort of this hereditary dictatorship running these media corporations is everybody writes and you have local expertise you have chemical engineers writing on chemical engineering and you have biologists writing about biology and you have computer scientists writing about computer science and they do it as a duty not for profit. Meaning that it is actually the fact that there is this corporate business model there basically currently incentivizes them to go for popularity and the number of clicks as opposed to truth. Now you might say Are you against profit et cetera? No I am saying that the citizen journalism part is one important component. Let me give two or three more. A second important component is decentralized cryptographic truth. And this is a big concept. I am not sure I am going to be able to do it justice in a few sentences but I am going to try which is to say it is now possible with cryptocurrency for an Israeli and a Palestinian a Chinese person a Japanese person a Democrat and a Republican to all agree on the state of the Bitcoin blockchain right? Regardless of your political views your geography people agree on how much Bitcoin someone has globally. This is an incredible triumph because a trillion dollars forget it. I mean a million dollars is the kind of thing that people will fight over and disagree on and so on. There is essentially no dispute on who owns what BTC. And that is the kind of thing that people tend to have large disputes over. A trillion dollars people tend to fight over. They tend to try to fake history they forge things all that type of stuff. The point is that once you can develop consensus algorithms that can get people to agree on what Bitcoin someone had at what time you can extend them as we are doing to get people to agree on what properties somebody had at what time. So what stocks what bonds what real estate with this with that right? Which is again another huge component of the kinds of things people fight about. And then less obviously you can extend that to a variety of what events happened at what time. So what device recorded this temperature in Kansas on this date? Or what hospital uploaded this medical record to the blockchain at this time? Or what was the price of this house that was sold in this area? Or what crime was reported by this victim or this police officer in this area? All of these feeds of data right now that are happening in these kind of disparate silos you put them together into something I call the ledger of record which is a global feed of cryptographically timestamped history undeletable history. It is kind of like Twitter in the sense of when people are referencing whether something happened they are like Was that tweet real? And you go to the permalink right? And you want to see whether someone actually did it. That is imperfect for many reasons one of which is that Twitter can man-in-the-middle it another is that the person's account can get hacked and they can post to someone else's happened last summer. With cryptography with digital signatures not going into all the details that offers not a perfect set of checks but a much greater set of checks on this comes much harder to falsify history. You cannot delete the tweets as Twitter can do. There is a lot of things that come into it where that feed becomes incorruptible. It becomes an indelible ledger and it becomes cryptographically validated. And so what I think in crypto this is called crypto oracles the point being that you are no longer relying on just pure humans fallible humans to tell you what is true. You rely on decentralized cryptographic truth rather than corporate truth. And this is already the kind of thing which is the input to smart contracts handling millions of dollars. I think we are going to scale this out over the next 10 years and this is actually the alternative to a few folks in Brooklyn trying to determine what is true for the entire world which simply does not scale. Not that it ever did but it is very obvious that it does not. All right. Let me pause there. A lot to digest. There is more I could say.  That is a lot to digest. So it will be very interesting to see what happens to long-form journalism. That is pieces that would take possibly weeks or months of dedicated time to produce but putting a bookmark in that we can always come back to it. There are a few things that I would love to get your opinion on or perspective on and I will give kind of a preview of the two. One will be current forms of self-defense whether preemptive or reactive while we are waiting for the future to be evenly distributed. What can we do in the meantime to protect ourselves or counterpunch if we are being potentially mistreated by members of the media that is one. And then after that I am going to ask you about for yourself keeping a ledger of predictions much like you have recommended people to write out the bull bear and base case of joining a company and then checking themselves a few years later. But let us first talk to any particular strategies or tactics for   Self-defense.   defending oneself. Exactly. For self-defense. Do you have any thoughts there?  Sure. So I have several. The first is maybe the least obvious which is you should radically reduce your expenses if possible because financial independence is upstream of individual independence and ideological independence. If you are in lots of debt if you are not in debt but you are just spending every dollar you have because you live in an expensive area then you are extremely conformist because oh my God you lose your job and you have no savings and you have got this high consumption. And so you just have to stay in line for everything. Now if you want to live like that go ahead. But if you do not the first thing to understand I think is that it is much easier to reduce your costs by 5X than to increase your top line by 5X. It is possible to do both but it is almost deterministic to reduce costs if you are willing to do it and how do you do it? You go to nomadlist.com or teleport.org and you do a spreadsheet and you optimize your personal runway. And your personal runway is what it sounds like. This is a concept I developed. It is very obvious but just extends the concept of corporate runway to individuals. It is your savings divided by your burn rate. And here's the thing. The moment that you move to let us say Bali or some very inexpensive locale and start living like a grad student and of course this is most applicable for people earlier in their life. It is harder for folks with families and what have you. So I recognize that but even then it can be done. There is a Reddit group called I think LeanFIRE Financial Independence Retire Early there is Mr. Money Mustache folks who do this kind of thing like household budgeting right? But as an individual it is actually relatively easy. What you do now and this is actually even easier in 2021 than when I first started recommending this you get a remote work job at a good tech company. It could be any company of course but let us just say tech because it pays well or whatever if you can get it but a remote work capable job. You move to the cheapest place that you can tolerate that is good. And actually there is actually some really great places that are cheap and warm especially now that remote is feasible. I mean basically all of Latin and South America if you have to be in an American time zone for example and big chunks of Canada if you like the cold. And of course the Midwest and what have you. These huge areas of the map that have opened up thanks to remote. And if you do that and if you cut your expenses 5X now you go from just as a thought let us say you are making I do not know 100000 a year as an engineer. And before you are in San Francisco and you are burning 90000 of that a year or something that is actually not insane. A lot of people do exactly that because the rent is so high. Now you go to some rural locale or even overseas and now you are actually only burning let us say 50k a year. 40k in tax or what have you and then 10k or 20k let us say it is 60k 20k in expenses because you just cut it all the way down. Well now every year that you work you have basically built up because if your income goes away your tax goes away as well. Every year that you work up if you are spending 20k a year you have 40k in savings if you just do out the math. Earn 100 spend 60 bank 40 if your spending is 20. Then you have two years of personal runway added for every year that you work there in this simple toy example. And that means that you do not need to accept angel financing you can self-finance. You can just for every year you work you can take two years off. It is basically a way of getting personal financial independence like a deterministic path to doing  now of course you are no stranger to this. You have been talking about this stuff forever The 4-Hour Workweek and this is not unusual for your audience. But I think that the perhaps somewhat novel is connecting this to ideological independence because it means you cannot be canceled. You can just ride it out. Like the square-jawed Chad yes. You know the memes I am talking about? No?  No I do not. What is square-jawed Chad?  Okay. This is very online. If you Google the Chad Yes it is like someone would be like Oh my God I cannot believe you believe this or whatever and the guy's like Yes. He is just not backing down at all. Just totally firm square-jawed Chad. You have never seen this?  No. Nope. That is all right. I did not know who Taylor Swift was until like four years ago. So I am a little sheltered it would appear.  Yeah. It comes from Yes Chad Know Your Meme. Here I will send you the thing. Anyway   I will put this in the show notes for people right next to drone warfare.  I bet 99 percent of your audience has  maybe it is obscure or maybe it is not I do not know but we will have to see. Anyway point is how do you do the square-jawed Chad yes? It means you have to be able to accept  you are not backing down. You accept what consequences may come because you have planned for the future. You know conflict may come and you have essentially banked up. So that is what is called a one-piece financial independence.  Right. And it requires not to state the obvious but it requires or may not even require courage the less fear you have. If courage is acting in the face of fear if you have minimized the risk or the damage of being canceled or any type of media retribution you have less fear to overcome. It just makes it easier like you said to have that ideological freedom to hold a position.  That is right. The second thing is if you read books like Beautiful Trouble do you know what that is?  I do not.  Okay. So that is like a   I feel like I will be saying I do not and I do not a lot in this conversation.  No no no. So Beautiful Trouble is an awesome window into another world which is  It is a handbook for activists. So you sort of learn when you read it you will be like Whoa I recognize that from this event and I recognize that from this event and you start to realize actually how much stuff you read in the paper. Some part of it is sort of from corporate PR but another big chunk of it is from activist PR. For example taking a laser pointer-ish thing and shining a logo onto the side of a building. There is various kinds of stunts like this right? But the one that is relevant here is there is this concept called spectrum of allies. Where you have got people who are at  Let us say there' strongly supportive weakly supportive neutral mildly opposed and strongly opposed. And your goal as an activist is to recognize you cannot just move people from 2 to -2 right away. What you do is you try to find some incident or thing that is bad. And then you go and you put a microphone to everybody and you force them to comment on this person or this incident and be like Can you excuse this horrible thing? And you try to force them from a 1 to a zero or what have you. Now that is actually a very premeditated thing. When we are visualizing it it is an attack on your social network. This is a premeditated thing. It is not like an organic thing. And it is a spectrum of allies. And when we are thinking about this is you have a social network supply chain. So visualize yourself you are a node at the center. And you have your employer. And let us say you are a CEO you have your investors you have your employees you have your customers. There is all of these nodes around you. I am talking about from a tech startup context but you can of course generalize this to something else. And those nodes can be colored. Let us say they are gray or blue or red. They can be colored according to their ideology. And the most important thing about your social network supply chain and this is not obvious it is what periodicals they read and respect because those periodicals have root access to their brains. If a periodical suddenly says let us say The Wall Street Journal and you have got a bunch of Republicans surrounding you for example right? The Wall Street Journal suddenly says You are bad. All of those people who read and respect The Wall Street Journal will suddenly zombie turn their eyes glowing red and start excommunicating you. Or they will move in the spectrum of allies. So the guy who is on the fence may quit. The person who is really strong and strong supporter might move to what the minimum contractual obligation is. And so the attack it is like a mortar that lands in somebody's social network neighborhood. That is what negative press is. Negative press is an attack on your social network. Now how do you mitigate this? Well first you as I mentioned you are like a sovereign individual you are financially independent. So if people pull away it does not matter. But second and more important you need to actually identify where likely attacks are going to come from and make sure you actually choose your friends your employees everything such that that is actually robust to foreseeable kinds of attacks. You robustify your social networks supply chain. In the same way that a judicious person who runs a manufacturing plant is thinking Okay. China has some supply chain risk you are thinking Okay. That person has social network supply chain risk. I think they would go south in this event. And then you might want to get them off the board or you might want to not hire them as an employee or hire them as a contractor. And that is actually better for them as well because they may or may not know it but they are basically the Manchurian candidate. They have got a remote chip in their brain and they are just like this when you are denounced. And now we have it actually relatively good in the West. The term cancel by the way it is actually very juvenile. It kind of comes from TV shows being canceled like cancel culture's like teenagers complaining about it and this sort of elliptical way of complaining about it has made its way up to 30 and 40 and 50-somethings discussing this topic. But the original term for being canceled was being purged. That is what they called it in the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China and so on. And it could well be said that in the Soviet Union or the PRC an editorial was a prelude to an extrajudicial execution. You would not just get canceled and lose your friends. You would lose life liberty andor property. You would be shot or jailed or certainly expropriated or all of the above.  Sent to a labor camp in the Cultural Revolution.  Correct. And the other nodes in your social network might be as well. Like if you were a member of a family that had a known capitalist rotor in China not really very good. And it was possible just like people come back from being canceled Deng Xiaoping was actually purged three times. His son was thrown through a window during the Cultural Revolution and was in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. I mean this is the kind of stuff that happened in other countries. It got even more violent than it has so far in the US. But we will see what happens with that. Anyway point is that so that is the second mode of defense versus personal financial independence. And second is collective independence. You want to really think through who the nodes are that are associated with you. By the way one interesting consequence of this if you flip it around is if you have a monochromatic supply chain. There is basically nobody for example at The New York Times Company who reads and respects Breitbart. So Breitbart has zero effect on The New York Times Company. No node there can be Manchurian candidate by them. But The New York Times Company absolutely on if you go to Breitbarts extended social network supply chain there is absolutely folks whether it is ads or other kinds of things that read and respect NYT. So A can publish an article that has no effect on B but B can publish it and it has an effect on A. Another example is if Xinhua Daily  and by the way I am not saying anything pro or con about Breitbart and NYT I am just making an observation of fact there. Another example is Xinhuanet in China the Chinese people's daily if you are a Chinese and they denounce you your whole social network supply chain is like Whoa the government just denounced this guy. You are in trouble. If you are in the US nobody even reads Chinese or even cares Hey these guys are Tartarians who cares? Or at least that is what folks  you would be able to brush it off. So it is more than just red or blue or whatever. There is other colors to it. Whatever you assign the color to the CCP or what have you. And so another one might be if Al Jazeera denounces you or Russian state media denounces you. You have got vulnerabilities to different kinds of things. If you were a Russian expatriate you might be much more concerned if RT suddenly started going after you than if you were just some random American or even a Chinese person. Go ahead. Let me pause there.  Well I was thinking we could  I would be curious to hear what else you have thought about for yourself in terms of self-defense if there are any tactical recommendations. And just also to come back to one of the examples you gave with reducing your expenses by 5X would you not  so it is a combination of questions. You can take them in either order. But if you were employed by a tech company whether that is a Google or Facebook or otherwise is that not a significant vulnerability in the system? While financially if you maintain your job you can withstand say public denouncement or media denouncement but the company may not have the same willingness to support you.  Absolutely. So let me get to point number three. So point number three is I gave a whole series of talks on this and I have been thinking about the technology for it as well something that I call the pseudonymous economy. So the thing is that real names were not built for the internet. Real names are actually a technology. In fact real names are a stolen base in many ways even the term real name is a stolen base. It is better called a state name or a social security name because it is a global identifier. It is an identifier that anybody can type into a database and pull up all kinds of information on you. And this is something where historically past cultures understood that giving out someone's real name was actually very bad or knowing you had power over that person. The reason is that  if you read this book Seeing Like a State very good   Seeing Like a State?  Yeah Seeing Like a State. So this is a great book by Yale University Press that essentially talks about how names were developed to among other things simplify the process of conscription. So rather than Oh that guy over there with brown hair which is an analog identifier that could refer to a bunch of folks though it is imprecise. Instead you would say John Davidson. And that first name last name was a it is not perfect it is not quite as good as a number but it is a reasonably good digital identifier where you could go down a list and cross it off. And the thing is is that would not just be conscription you could not have even executed Leninist registration of property very easily without those lists. It was all about the list. Literacy is what actually enabled a big chunk of that. You had lists of names. That guy's rich that guy's not rich. Take his property et cetera. So the point being that the alternative to real names or a single global identifier and everything is pseudonyms search-resistant identities which people are already using at large-scale. There is 400 million pseudonyms or pseudonymous users on Reddit. And by the way there is a distinction between anonymous pseudonymous and real name. Anonymous is totally disposable identifier that is like the culture of 4chan that actually is kind of a pit right? Pseudonymous like Reddit is a persistent pseudonym that accumulates reputation but that is at a distance from your global identifier. In general what I think is the Peace of Westphalia at the end of our 30 Years' Internet War is going to be   Hold on pause for definition. If I could click on did you say Westphalia?  Yeah. So from 1618 to 1648 Protestants and Catholics slugged it out over religion but also over power you know who is going to rule the Catholic Church or Martin Luther guys disciples of Protestants very bloody war lots of killing. And it was basically centralization versus decentralization among other things. And eventually the truce that came out was the so-called Peace of Westphalia which established the modern nation state basically  go ahead.  I was just thinking how happy it makes me that you thought I might even know that. I am so honored. So thank you. But please continue. I do not want to take us off track but it made my day. That just made my day.  I do not mean to drop an obscure reference and there is lots of areas of history that I do not know about but this is one that I think about a lot because it is highly relevant I think to the present day in many different ways. Arguably the 30 Years' War arose out of the introduction of the printing press because you could go and mimeograph all of Martin Luther's stuff and spread to people and that is how you did the software install boom into people's brains. And that is Protestant Reformation distribution took off. And so this technology gave rise to this huge fight that essentially redrew the map and the concept of the nation state was born out of that which is okay you do not have these transnational entities that just can have influence everywhere. Instead we are going to have these sort of geographically defined areas that are the sovereign government with a monopoly of violence and a religion cannot just walk in there and just start bossing people around. There is a lawful government. That was the truce that people came to. You stay in your own lane I stay in mine just out of all the bloodshed and to stop the bloodshed. Okay. So I think we have just begun hopefully there is not bloodshed or not much of it I think we have just begun. People think we are ending it but I think we have just begun the global internet Cold War where all of the social networks currency networks compete for ideological and economic dominance around the world because it can just spread virally back and forth like this. And everyone will be trying to cancel each other and whatnot it is going to be this crazy crazy thing. For example one thing I anticipate will happen sometime in the 2020s is I think in some country probably the US for lots of reasons I think the cloud will burst. And what I mean by that is some  the treasury was just recently hacked with the SolarWinds things. People do not know what they got. They could have gotten every tax return. They could have gotten all kinds of very sensitive stuff. And in the   It was hacked with what? I am sorry.  SolarWinds is sort of the name of the hack.  I see. Got it.  And the scope of it is not fully understood. It is this total ownage of all kinds of government systems. And this is not the first time this has happened. It is also happened to the government of Texas and so on and so forth. I am not pointing at any particular entity. The main thing is when there is a recent hack of Ledger the crypto company their database was just blast on the internet. And you could actually I was not a customer but people could see their name and their home address on the internet and they are like a crypto fanatic who has a hardware wallet on there.  What a nightmare. What a nightmare. Oh my God.  And so it is like this thing where you cannot easily change your home. Some people can but   Yeah. Suddenly you have guys in tracksuits showing up at your house.  Potentially. Exactly. It is like a rank order list of who holds crypto really really really sucks right? May lead to home invasions other kinds of things very bad piece of information to have out there. It is an enriched list. Right? So it is hard for  the thing is even discussing it I hate bringing more attention to it on their hand it is also something which has important consequences. And one of the consequences is that it shows it is not a theoretical risk to think about what these hacks could be. So far people have talked about hacks kind of in the abstract but once a government database is hacked and all of this surveillance on us is just blasted out on the internet the cloud bursts whether it is Facebook   What does that mean about the cloud bursting?  Like all Facebook DMs rain down all Slacks rain down something like that happens.  Rain down meaning are suddenly searchable and available for consumption.  Suddenly searchable and available. Wikileaks style. Exactly. Now when that happens the defense that people are  now it will cause all kinds of crazy stuff. Basically it is not so much that you will see fires and electrical outages and so on. But all kinds of social damage will be caused low trust relationships broken all that type of stuff. Like the tearing of the social fabric. Go ahead.  Well I was just going to say not to mention that even if you feel like you have nothing to hide and this is an issue with a lot of surveillance act bills and things like that. If suddenly every lawmaker every member of Congress has dirt on them I mean the destabilizing effect is non-trivial.  It is non-trivial. Now there is an argument that when everybody's naked no one is. Some people may make that argument right?  Right. Sure.  What I think happens   But it does not all happen at once. That is the thing right? It is not all discovered simultaneously nor distributed simultaneously.  Exactly. That is right. And if you look at what happened during the Sony hack and so on this is like a preview of that. And so the answer I think is we are going to need to build a pseudonymous economy where over the medium to long term you separate out your real name your earning name and your speaking name. And in fact you have multiple earning names and multiple speaking games just like you have multiple usernames at different sites. Crypto is a crucial component of this because it allows you to earn pseudonymously and with a recent innovation that I have not coded it up but I have got the white paper level description of it would let you transfer reputation from one pseudonym to another. So one issue right now just to frame the problem is you may have a bunch of reputation followers or karma for example under a username even a pseudonym. If you boot up another pseudonym it starts at absolute zero which is one of the big things that stops people from doing it. Let us say for example you have a large Twitter following and you boot up a new pseudonym that pseudonym starts with nothing. And so it takes you time to boot up a new following that is a whole effort that deters a lot of people from doing it they are starting all the way from scratch. And I thought about this problem because the thing is that with cryptocurrency we have actually solved this where you can set up a username and another username and you can use ZCash to transfer money from one name to another pseudonymously. So money can be transferred reputation though did not seem to be until I realized that actually you might not be able to do it for followers which are non fungible that to say one person is not like the same as the other but you could do it on a site like Reddit where you had Karma that was accumulated. And so someone who had 10000 Karma under one pseudonym just like you use ZCash to transfer digital currency ZCash was basically like the truly anonymous version of Bitcoin the truly private version of Bitcoin. Just like you use ZCash to transfer cash from one name to another you could use ZKarma to transfer Karma from one username to another and thereby a reboot under a new username. And that username would have no comment history but people would be like Okay that is a 50000 Karma person or whatever the number is clearly that is somebody who our community esteems to some extent has been offered a lot. Perhaps we should listen to what they have to say because they felt they had to go into a pseudonym for this. And of course you could do this with not just a global Karma but subreddit specific Karma. You accumulate all this Karma in I do not know the historian subreddit or the mathematician subreddit or something like that something controversial to get off your chest you can say it this way. So that is one dimension of the pseudonymous economy. I think another dimension is basically that just like you do not give out your password I think it is going to become less and less and less common for people to give out the mapping between their physical body and their usernames online. Like you may not even tell your wife.  Well you mean physical mapping that just means you are not going to correlate those two things for someone.  That is right exactly. So essentially able to be considered a full pot. And we are already moving towards this there is this YouTuber whose name I forget shake his head he is like a faceless guy like faceless horror or something like that what is his name do you know what I am talking about?  I do not know but we will find it and put it in the show notes.  What is this guy's name? Corpse Husband. Ever heard of him?  C-O-R-P-S-E.  Yeah Corpse Husband. So it is this guy with this super deep voice it sounds like this I cannot even mimic it. This guy had the super deep voice who is never shown his face. And so Corpse Husband basically he is quasi anonymous. He is given away his audio but not as video. And I think that stuff like that I think what is going to happen soon sooner than we think probably by 2025 2030 latest is you will have filters on your Zoom that are not simply like Oh my background is San Francisco or whatever but audio and video filters so that you sound and look like a different person. And that will be the equivalent of clothes.  The FBI informant filter something like that.  Just something where people do not need to know who you are. And here's why I call this a Peace of Westphalia I think at the end of this  rainbow is not the right metaphor but this journey pseudonymity stops both discrimination and cancellation. So it is not ideal but it is accepted and widely used by people of all political persuasions. And so it is sort of like a mutual disarmament where you cannot cancel somebody. The only thing you can do is judge them by what they are saying you cannot discriminate against somebody. You do not even know what their immutable characteristics are. And so that is actually I think an acceptable truce to many parties not a great one but it is the total opposite of bring your full self to work Google stuff or whatever. It is actually the total opposite trade off which is minimum necessary self. And I think this goes hand in hand with a future world where there is more tasking more microwork less full-time jobs and so on. Some of the stuff obviously you have touched on many times.  All right. So there are lots of questions I could ask including  we have talked about what it stops but not what it produces or what side effects or perverse incentives could come into play with a synonymous economy. I think we might get into that but I just want to ensure that I do not miss asking a question. And this is really a meta question of sorts and if it is a shitty question you can tell me and we will do something else. Sure. I had for context as you mentioned or maybe as I mentioned. I think it was on January 30th of 2020 this is a week after the lockdown in the city of Wuhan you posted a tweet What if this is the coronavirus? Or What if this coronavirus is the pandemic that public health people have been warning about for years? And you ended up predicting accurately many things related to COVID. You have certainly been a participant and in some respects by participating a predictor of many developments in blockchain and cryptocurrency. And for that reason I had a laundry list of questions related to different types of possible predictions that you might have. I thought a broad strokes way of checking all of those boxes might be and tell me if this makes any sense or if you are game to try this is to actually talk about investing. And just to say if someone handed you 100000 or 100 million today and you had to invest it how would you even think about that? Because I think by answering that it might actually begin to speak to some of your predictions in the upcoming years. Should we think about that framing?  Sure. So basically I never give financial advice   I was just going to say as a disclaimer what would you do? This is not financial advice. We are not registered investment advisors caveat emptor this is for informational purposes only no minors or minotaurs allowed et cetera et cetera. Please continue.  Sure. So the question is if I was given 100000 or a 100 million what do I do with that? How do I maximize returns? So the dumbest thing but that I think is the most obvious thing to do is put half into Bitcoin half into Ether.  The dumbest meaning the simplest or the most ill-advised?  No the simplest. The simplest thing that I think is guaranteed to produce really exceptional returns. I think you could probably do in retrospect from I do not know 2030 looking back there would probably be something you could do that would be not probably there will be almost certainly something you would do that would be better than that but that is going to do extremely well and I think it is a global strategy also.  Is that what you would do now? Understanding you have sold multiple companies you have had multiple exits you are post-economic I assume in that respect but you said to maximize returns and I am not sure if that is how you would think of the objective at this point.  Right. So is the objective to make the maximum difference to humanity or is it to maximize returns? What was your   It is whatever you would do with it.  Oh okay. Well what I would do is something very different so I thought you meant invest on behalf of somebody else.  Well in a sense you answered that. So I would love to hear your personal take.  Sure okay. So I will tell you what at least I am planning on doing which is pouring money  some of my own and maybe some from investors if I had such crazy money  into bootstrapping talent around the world through 1729. So just to return to that because we were talking about that at the beginning. This is going to be the first newsletter that pays you. And so that is the say daily at least a thousand dollars in Bitcoin prizes for doing tasks. So for example here's an essay the best 10 responses to it get a hundred bucks in Bitcoin. Here is a scientific article the best 140-second video on this gets a thousand dollars that explains it to the masses. Here is a textbook or a chapter of a textbook please generate 10 exercises for this chapter that are fully open source that anybody can do and I will give you a hundred dollars in Bitcoin each. So that is cumulative like an open source Coursera open source Wikipedia in a sense. And the goal here in doing this is several fold. First is I want to actually build up those citizen journalists that we talked about those content creators. Second I want to invest in a cumulative form of education open source education where these folks are doing tutorials. So for example those 10 questions I just mentioned it could be on science but they could be on video editing or other kinds of things. And it is all just open source so that people get paid for creating the educational tasks that others can do. How are those two things related? By the way I know that seems a little vague but let me explain. So you have these tasks that people are completing and you have this educational content that people are creating. The reason they are related is there is global tasks that anybody can do but you might be able to get paid more if Figma or if Python or if chemistry. And so the educational tasks that I also pay people to do are like a curriculum that if you solve these tasks you can level up and get higher value from remunerative tasks. So the basic idea is  go ahead.  May I pause you for a second? So if you have a task like create 10 exercises based on this textbook or this material can multiple people perform that or complete that task? If so do you pay all of them? How do you decide who to pay?  That is a great question. So the review process actually we allocate as much of a budget or a good chunk of the budget just to review because review is its own thing. And there is various ways of doing review. And we are going to experiment with a crowdsourced aspect like a Reddit-style leaderboard of up and down voting and then a manual review on top of that and then there is like 50 different things that you can do to kind of make this more sophisticated. In a sense this is like earn.com 3.0 there is earn.com. There is Coinbase Earn which earn.com was actually doing extremely well before we sold to Coinbase is essentially pay people to reply to emails and complete tasks. And then Coinbase Earn was asset issuers creators of new cryptocurrencies and digital assets would pay users to do tutorials on their asset to learn about how it worked like Filecoin or Orchid how to use decentralized storage or decentralized VPN. And this is like a third iteration which also combines a bunch of ideas that I have had for online education. So just to summarize it again A a newsletter that pays you with at least a thousand dollars a day in Bitcoin prizes for completing tasks and tutorials. And then B what this does is hopefully it bootstraps talent all over the world. Anywhere there is a phone there is a job. We can give this skyhook to people and you can just start with nothing absolutely nothing other than this phone which people have made really cheap. And you can do the tutorials you learn some skills you level up you get more tasks you start leveling up more you get digital currency. So anywhere there is a phone there is a job and there is an education and this is what I plan to do with what I have been fortunate enough to make and that is my contribution to humanity I think or hope it to be. And hopefully this helps find also like the next Ramanujan out there. Who is this kid in Brazil or the Middle East somebody's in some war torn area like Syria it is all bombed out but hopefully that kid has a smartphone and we can kind of airlift them out give them a shot if they are willing to put in the work and be all free. So let me pause there. That is at least where I am thinking about doing and I know it is an idiosyncratic use of capital but I am not the type to spend on Ferraris or whatever.  Yeah. I would expect no less. So let us just say that there is a bright kid in Syria who I am struggling so much because I am accustomed to saying Ramanujan but I am getting that corrected so Ramanujan and he is performing or she is performing various tasks at a high level. What do you then do with that talent? So presumably they develop some type of reputational score or they accrue some type of reputation. How do you airlift that kid out or encourage them to airlift themselves out? Is it the capital? Is it that they now have the resources and greater optionality to perhaps improve their situation? Or is there another approach because they could be brilliant and continue to complete these microtasks?  Right. So three thoughts there. So first is of course Syria's an unusual case because it is actually a war zone but   We could use another example if it is easier.  Right. So let us say it is Nigeria or it is India or it is a place where maybe the kid does not necessarily want to leave. If they do not want to leave now they have their cake and eat it too. They can have home-cooked food they can have their local culture and local language but they can also get into the internet fast lane. And they can contribute pseudonymously ideally to a community that will neither discriminate against them nor cancel them because the accent does not matter their age does not matter skin color does not matter. Gender does not matter none of those things matter cannot matter that is at least my ideal the true global meritocracy. And that is international of course. And so the concept here is yes they would start earning. And the thing is a thousand bucks even once in a year is actually a lot of money for people in a lot of places. So that is like quite a lot of people that we can airlift out that way. When I say airlift as I said I do not necessarily mean like remove them from that location unless they want to leave they might be just able to stay there. I mean more like airlift them from whatever situation they are in at least give them the opportunity. And what does that mean in practice? Again if this works it is ambitious and it is crazy and so on but let me try and explain it anyway. This is actually the digital native solution to education. Here's what I mean to that. So you can think of a piece of paper and then you can think of a scanner and then you can think of a text file. Right. So you go from physical to this hybrid like physical to digital scanner and then digital native. Another example would be you have got a face-to-face meeting you have got Zoom and then you have got virtual reality. Zoom is also like a scanner. It is taking the offline and putting it online. But then VR is like digital native. With me?  I am.  Third example physical cash then something like PayPal or fintech which is just basically the scanner taking that and putting it online. And then you have crypto which swaps out the backend is just now natively digital it does not have a physical form. And with education at least higher education offline you have got the physical college then you have got the scanner which is like Udacity and Coursera and so on which are fine companies good companies billion dollar companies but they are basically taking the college experience and putting it online. And then there is this really interesting Terra Incognita of what does digital native education look like? So let me kind of motivate how that works and then you can see how maybe that links in with the tasking piece. And I say this as someone who is taught a lot of courses whatever it may be a mistake but it comes from my experience of mistakes. So let us say you take a Stanford degree in computer science there are on the order of 25 courses you need to complete the degree give or take. And that is in addition to so-called graduate education requirements. Each course roughly 10 weeks and say on there you have 10 problems per week sometimes more sometimes less. So that means about 2500 problems 25 times 10 times 10 you need to solve 2500 problems before you get your one degree. So it is like you have zero degrees at problem 2300. And then you have one degree after problem 2500 a caricature but not by much. Right? And after you have your one degree you go and now you can actually get paid and you can work and so on and so forth. That is a historical thing get your degree and then work. Now of course this is only an idealization people will do paid internships and so on during college. So after 500 problems they have enough qualification to go and get some job or internship. That is true. But to first order this is how the system is still meant to work get your diploma before you get a job. Now one of the things people used to say a sort of a caricature or attack or whatever of Udacity Udacity had these nanodegrees. They say Oh you are getting a nanodegree. Well you better expect a nanosalary. Right. Oh it is crap. So the thing about that is what if you take that seriously what if you say all right rather than this step function this discontinue segue you have to solve 2500 problems before you get a job that is paying 100k what if you solve five problems and I give you a job that pays you 10 bucks a microtask and we see how you do on that? That radically reduces the risk for both sides your risk in terms of spending all this time learning something and the employer's risk. And frankly the difference between a person who solved five problems or one problem in JavaScript versus zero is actually a big difference that is actually a big difference. And so the idea here is that if you could show proof of skill somehow if I could demonstrate that I have some skill in JavaScript or I have some skill in chemistry or skill in Illustrator whatever then I could qualify for more skilled microtasks. As opposed to the Mechanical Turk scale lowest common denominator which is fine but that is just like labeling something as a cat or a dog all you need is a pulse. It is the recapture style thing that you see label the cars. That type of stuff is fine but that is like just all you need is a pulse. You do not need any skill. So the question then becomes how do you actually do proof of skill? And I think the answer is something and I have got a post coming on this which I call the crypto credential. And the idea is every time you solve one of these problems we do not give you karma like on Hacker News we give you a little badge that says you solved that problem and that is held in your digital wallet just like your cryptocurrency. Think of it as an NFT if you know what NFTs are. So this is an NFT basically except it is non-transferrable.  And just a side note for people who were interested in learning more about NFTs or non-fungible tokens if I am remembering correctly Katie Haun and I discussed this at length in that podcast episode which you can find elsewhere. So just Google her name H-A-U-N and my name and it will pop right up so please continue.  Awesome. No Katie's awesome. So the idea is this is not something you can resell so it is not like a piece of art in that sense. It is a third application or Nth application of crypto. It is not cryptocurrency it is not art it is a crypto credential right. It is awarded to you. And the first version of those are just you solve problems on a website and you earn these crypto credentials just like you earn badges at stack overflow just like you earn badges in a video game you earn these crypto credentials the difference being there on chain and because they are on chain you can log into any site with them. And now you can qualify for instant jobs microtasks. Now here's what is cool about this there is a lot of details in how we implement this which I can get into but what is cool about this is it levels it all out. Yes absolutely there is smart people at Harvard or MIT or Stanford but there is smart people in the middle of Brazil and in Hungary and India and Nigeria and the Philippines. And I know there are smart people there because I could see them in my class. And I could see that many of them were the equal or the better of some of the more pampered kids at these expensive schools especially nowadays where there is less stress on just getting the right answer and more on canceling people or whatever undergrad is much more screwed especially in the US than it was even 20 years ago 10 years ago. So plus because of the pandemic lots of colleges are shut down and they are having economic problems there is a huge desire to do something better. And the concept is if we do this right it is like Wikipedia for education because every course is open source the problems are out there it is like an open source curriculum. We were going to build it on the Exercism framework. At least that is my thinking right now I might change mind but E-X-E-R-C-I-S-M.io this is an awesome site by the way got a funny name too like exorcisms but with an E. And exercism basically has something where you can learn Python by doing like 50 Python problems. Or you can learn JavaScript by doing like 70 JavaScript problems and it is recorded on the site. It is like you see this counter go up. And just think about how much better that is than typical social media where all you are doing is fighting for clicks or whatever fighting for hearts on Twitter or likes on Facebook whatever it is. And that is something where you are just incrementing numbers on somebody else's server. I am not seeing it as zero value there is some value to it but it is not value that you can easily quantify or extract from the system you built up your followers here you cannot import them or export them. It is not really building up yourself. So the deal behind 1729.com would be you would constantly be pursuing improving your knowledge and your bank account. You would constantly be learning and earning. You would be learning and getting these crypto credentials and then that would allow you to earn cryptocurrency. Now the third thing actually and this is something I have been also thinking about I am flirting with the idea of and maybe we will do this is you may think this is crazy but you are also The 4-Hour Body guy.  Already crazy. I think I have crossed that rubicon a long time ago.  All right. So so the third thing I was also thinking about is actually putting up a third kind of daily post which is burning. That is to say just post something of you working out and we give the 100 best each day like 10 in BTC. It is a varied health task not just working out maybe it is show your fitness tracker or what vitamins are you using or something like that with the goal being that people who are at 1729 are focused on truth health wealth. Learning true things in leveling themselves up that way by gaining knowledge health like improving their body their physique. But also like staving off aging thinking about transhumanism measuring themselves and then wealth as important a third. Truth health and wealth in that order because determine what is true make sure to maximize your health and then accumulate wealth but do not do it at the expense of what is true or what is good for your health. Go ahead you are smiling.  I love that. I love it because I mean not to bring this to The 4-Hour Body it seems like a downgrade I mean I am very proud of that book and happy with it   Great book yeah.  A lot of what was in there that seemed highly speculative at the time has only gained more traction and support and literature and so on so I am very pleased with that. A large component of that and especially The 4-Hour Chef which very confusingly is about accelerated learning and behavioral change the disproportionate impact of small incentives and stakes is I just think so underdiscussed and one of the stories that I tell in The 4-Hour Body I believe was of a Google engineer who hoped to get in shape and he created a pact with a fellow engineer which was we are going to work out together whatever it was three days a week. And if either of us misses a workout we are going to pay the other person a dollar. Now these are Google engineers they make more than a few dollars a year and it was incredibly effective. And the fact that it is a microincentive leading to a microbehavior should not be minimized because ultimately our life is largely comprised of longitudinal accrual of these microbehaviors it is a big deal. I love that idea. Let me backstep if I could. I mean I knew this was going to happen so no surprise here but I realized that I did not deliver on the promise of one of my questions and that question was related to so we are going to focus on the earning component here for a moment just because I want to ensure that I provide what I promised to listeners. I asked what would you personally do in this case to maximize return with 100k or 100 million and then we did not dig into the predictions or assumptions underlying your answer. The answer was half in BTC Bitcoin half in Ethereum. And I would love to hear you comment on number one the assumptions of what is going to happen or not happen that makes that a rational investment. And number two and maybe you can answer this first if you could paint a picture of what you consider the risk profile to be in doing something like that. And again this is not investment advice but is part of the calculus and assumption that this is a 10 or a 100x extra to zero or something else if you could just speak to that.  Sure. So I mean look it is crypto crypto is crazy and it is very difficult to predict exactly what is going to happen with anything. But the two things I said that I would do with the money are there is return on investment then it is like return to society. And what is interesting is actually when you talk about the return on investment is 50 percent BTC 50 percent ETH return to society is the sort of open source education tasking truth health wealth thing. And by The truth health and wealth I think of as the next Libert galit fraternit it is the slogan of the next state which I will come to or one of the next states. But coming back up the stacks so both of those things actually have common premises underneath them which is that I am simultaneously very bearish on the US specifically in the West generally but very bullish on the internet technology crypto Asia and future progress. Often somebody is very positive on one and positive in the other or vice versa. Now they are actually separated out. They are separated out of things because for a long time people associate technological progress to the USA. And now technological progress is something that does not benefit the US establishment. They do not win a game the East Coast establishment does not win a game of free speech and free markets. And so that is why they are clamping down on free speech and free markets because if everybody has a voice especially around the world  go ahead.  Why do they not? Could you just say a few more lines on why that is the case? Why they do not win the game? Why those things are bad for the East Coast establishment?  Well so a small example of not winning a game of free markets whether it is the bailouts whether it is all the regulations that protect them or the whole GameStop thing where it definitely looked like some strings were pulled somewhere. I am not saying the Robinhood thing because I think Vlad gave a pretty good explanation on that for people who follow that whole scenario. But certainly Discord going and just shutting down GameStop discussion out of nowhere based on I think a pretext seemed like someone pulled some strings somewhere to make that happen. And that is something where truly free markets maybe Wall Street does not win. There is a rigging that is going on.  It is obvious. It goes East Coast establishment just to be clear you mean specifically in the financial sector?  No   Do you also mean DC?  Media DC Harvard like basically the legacy kind of entities in the US the pre-internet establishment. And then like free speech that is even more obvious. Right. Every single day you have some new editorial saying something like Free speech is killing us or critical thinking is bad Or whatever and Oh I cannot believe people are having unfettered conversations. That was like the latest thing. And for many people this is like this weird thing where how is it that the US that they grew up in has suddenly just done a 180 on this? And the answer is that those folks have legacy distribution but they have a terrible product. They cannot win the argument. And because they cannot win the argument they are trying to use their distribution to shut off other people's distribution because they know they would lose the argument if distribution is open to all. So they are against free speech against free markets. And crypto is actually truly free speech and free markets. So that is actually the true inheritor of the Western tradition. It is sort of like the internet is to the USA what the Americas were to the UK. It is like this new world that it will eventually give birth to the successor. And crypto is like a huge huge part of all of that because it captures the part of the West that is actually globally admirable like unambiguous rule of law except in smart contracts protection from search and seizure through encryption all that type of stuff. Okay. Coming back up you asked though why why to win this game? Because first is empirical observation what is the underlying pinning thing? Well they basically become these inbred folks. They are not selecting on talent anymore. They are selecting on connections. They are selecting on whether you were the son of the son of the son or the daughter of the daughter of the daughter. It is not something where they are actually taking the best folks they are taking the folks who can just repeat the party line. I think that is one huge component of it.  Just for sake of clarity do you mean within corporate entities therefore contrasting sort of   East Coast media for example take a look at how many of those folks went to private school. How many of those folks have a trust fund? How many of those folks inherited a fortune? And one of the things that is happened by contrast like  go ahead.  How does that tie to the BTC ETH?  How does that tie? Those folks they lack the skills to win in a fair competition. So there is various rigging that was done most obviously with the bailouts of 2008 there is so many other items that is just a very high profile one. And in response to that technologists developed Bitcoin and Ethereum and these free systems. I mean if you look at the genesis block it references the bailouts in the genesis block of Bitcoin where it is essentially the counter to this sort of nepotistic East Coast establishment. And to me that is like super obvious but you are right that it is actually useful to kind of lay out the full logic of it. Because I think one of the consequences here or one of the medium term things is you can only use force to kind of clamp down on global free speech and free markets for so long. It is like a Jack in the box that will just pop out somehow. One way I think about that is after the financial crisis basically the way that they decided to like stop the next crisis is they made it almost impossible to get a banking charter. All right. So you punish the banks by eliminating all of their competition. Now somehow fintech and crypto found a way different threads coming to the same thing where basically like working above doing partnerships working below. Despite the front door being closed technology came in through the windows in the chimney or what have you. And it is actually sort of reforming the system against their will. Dodd-Frank did not reform the banks he just sort of enshrined them. It was a coronation in the name of a regulation. It did reduce some of their profit levels in some ways but it made them look more invulnerable  go ahead. You were going to say   No I am smiling. I am enjoying. For those who cannot see us because we are probably not going to be publishing video. We are currently on video so we can watch each other's facial expressions. Please continue. I liked the coronation disguised as regulation.  Right exactly. It is literally picking winners because you are writing the regulation that assumes a certain structure and capital requirements I mean like the concept of a smart contract was not contemplated in Dodd-Frank like a contract that could be executed independently of a judge or a person. Okay what is my point? The point is I do not think many institutions that predated the internet will survive the internet. It is this universal acid. And the reason is because it connects people peer to peer. One of my laws of internet physics is the internet increases variance. Why? First let me give the observation. The observation is you go from 30 minute sitcoms to 30 episode Netflix binges or 32 second YouTube clips. You go from a stable nine-to-five job to a 20-something billionaire or a 40-year-old failed son who is made nothing of themselves. You go from a taxi ride standard taxi ride to Uber which actually has very long trips and also very short ones. The whole thing is spread out relative to the ride time of the normal taxi. And the reason for this this is a very common thing in every area I have seen hundreds probably thousands of companies at this point I have seen all of these graphs. So you will have to believe me that this is a synthesis of a lot of different graphs that I have seen when the internet disruptor comes in variance increases there is more downside and more upside more amazing outcomes and more really bad outcomes in all kinds of ways. Why does that happen? The internet because it connects people peer to peer entities peer to peer it removes the middleman it removes the mediator it removes the moderator it removes the mediocrity. Now each of those words has a different connotation. Getting rid of the middleman everyone cheers Yay. Getting rid of the moderator people are like Oh I am not so sure. Getting rid of the mediocrity again everybody cheers. So those are all kind of similar words but they mean somewhat different implications but they are all true at the same time. So what happens is you have these communities that then arise with nodes that can never connect to each other boom they form some bizarre subreddit right. Or some amazing thing like ETH research or Y Combinator. I do not know if you have ever centrifuged anything have you ever centrifuged anything?  I can finally say yes to something. Yes.  All right great. So you centrifuge and you get these different layers out.  Samples of tissue or a fluid from my own body.  There you go. There you go. So if you centrifuge something you see all the layers you can often see them just in the test tube itself. Like Whoa that was like a slurry before but now it is like very defined. There is a supernatant in those layers. And I am in the same way that is what the internet is doing. It is just basically taking all of these previously mediating mediocre moderating middleman institutions and just nuking them. And they are trying to fight back but they will not make it. It is like if the centrifugal force is too much I think. The one exception might be the Chinese Communist Party. That might be the exception that proves the rule just because they were like super early on a lot of this they built the firewall they may be the exception that proves the rule and the future may be a centralized East versus decentralized West. Where what would I think happens in the West did you see this Greater Idaho thing for example?  Have I seen what?  Greater Idaho? So a bunch of counties in Oregon want to break away from Oregon and merge with Idaho. Catalonia wants to break away from Spain. There is all of these breakaway movement type things or whatever happening. It is like a rumbling that is happening. Go ahead.  Quebec. There are quite a few examples. I mean I have a Texas t-shirt that says Most likely to secede with a picture of the state. Not that that is but actually you could look into some of the formation documents so to speak of Texas it is kind of fun. But yes I am not familiar with Greater Idaho but I am familiar with the breakaway movement.  Right and the thing about that is I think some of those bad some of that is good but the centrifugal force the whole thing is juddering the system is juddering because folks are unhappy with it. And I think one of the reasons for that is going back to Westphalia one of the Westphalian assumptions is that people who are geographically proximal are ideologically proximal. That say you live next door to this guy therefore you share his language you share his culture you share the norms for the most part you know them you say hi to them all the types of stuff right. In the modern era people live in these apartment buildings where they could not recognize somebody who lives 10 feet away from them but they are sharing the most intimate moments with people 3000 miles away via Snapchat or Twitter or whatever right?  So this variance just again to try to tie some of these threads together the variants increased by the internet and what you are describing these are to the benefit of in this case Bitcoin and Ethereum.  Yes. And now the reason is they are examples of the extreme upside they are examples of several things at the same time. First those middlemen are going away whether it is the old nation states they will fight to keep control it is not going to be a trivial thing. Some of them will reform. I will come to that point. I do not think every state just goes away. I am not like a total tech utopianist in that sense. But first there is a loss of faith in the past. And that makes people open to turning the constant to a variable. A dollar sign this fixed dollar that everybody knew into well like in a fiat or crypto. Something that was a constant is now a variable fiat or crypto. Before it was just fiat. Was fiat even a word 10 years ago? People knew it.  I had never heard it.  You had never heard it right?  I think it was a car when I was a kid and now it is crypto.  Exactly that is right. Or rather it is opposite of crypto.  I am sorry you are right. It was a car. Jesus. Well I am tying myself up in knots here. Yeah. It was a shitty car and now it is a shitty debased currency.  Exactly. That is right. So essentially many things we have taken to be constants have been turned into variables because there were constants due to that mediating influence. And once people could connect peer to peer on the internet you could see there actually more permutations and more levels and those people started to gain more of a voice. And that is true in so many different areas I just point out this one right. For example just the digital versus physical versions of everything you had to specify whether it is a snail mail or an email 20 years ago now it is almost all email or the meeting is it an in-person meeting or an online meeting. The reason that BTC and ETH are important is first they represent the sort of unbundling from the old system where it is no longer able to corral all the nodes the nodes are not all trusted it is not performing the functions that they all wanted. And the top ones can now escape to build something better which they did on the internet. And that I think becomes the new center that people align around like the digital native kind of thing. Because I do not believe that you just have all these particles flying around forever. I think we are in the age of unbundling and then eventually rebundling. I mean like there is that thing by Jim Barksdale the only way he knew how to make money on the internet was unbundling and bundling that was a very funny kind of thing it is also true you think about you unbundle all the songs from all the albums then you have rebundled them in Spotify playlists. You unbundle every single article and website and URL in the world and you rebundle them into a Twitter feed. You unbundle all of these different  actually there is a lot of things I could talk about with unbundling here but you unbundle all these different products and you have them on Amazon and you rebundle them into like shopping lists or whatever they are so you can click and just buy like 50 things at once it is as if you have your own store shelf this is your prepper shopping list. And there is 1000 things like this if you think about the unbundling and rebundling. But I think the next step is because states of mind and nation states no longer map to each other because people are friends with millions of people around the world who share their values but they are not physically concentrated. The physical areas have less volition by their subjects. So they have to enact more coercion. And more coercion internally leads to less solution and leads less legitimacy. And that is a negative feedback loop where at the same time people are building bonds with other folks of like mind that are geographically disparate. And that is something that is exerting like a strain on the whole system which I think eventually results in mass migrations and people assembling into communities of like-mind to sort of rebuild civil society with folks who they agree with ideologically and that is already kind of happening with hacker houses. And so I wrote an article on this by the way eight years ago in 2013. And I think it is really starting to happen. Go ahead.  Well I think it is it is certainly happening on a small scale. I am aware of a number of concrete examples in places like Utah upstate New York and so on where this has been I think dramatically accelerated by COVID. And a mass exodus at least for the time being I do not think this is permanent but out of city centers. Not to belabor this point but I think it is a useful tool to use in the conversation in the case of BTC and ETH how would you think about downside risk and what would need to happen or what might happen or not happen that would make them bad investments?  Great question. So I think that for BTC because like a 10-year-old protocol the attack on BTC that I think would be the most likely is that the Chinese put up the great firewall against it. So it is a network level attack as opposed to a mining attack because the thing is that Bitcoin assumes that every node can reach every other node or every mining node can reach every other mining node. And so it assumes a global intranet. If you put up the firewall you can work out the kind of predatorprey on this but they block port A333 and the Bitcoin devs do port randomization. And then they do deep packet inspection and these guys do tunneling to try to put it over a stage through GPS there is a back and forth that can happen there. I think at the end of the day the firewall is pretty sophisticated. That plus domestic penalties may make it challenging for people to maintain a blockchain indefinitely in China or what happens is they mine the China chain and the rest of the world chain is also being mined. And there is like a peekaboo problem where they sync up every once in a while. And because the China chain would have more mining the rest of the world chain would have less mining. All the blocks mine the rest of the world would get thrown away with a chain reorganization the China chain would basically periodically throw away every transaction that is happening in the rest of the world. That would be like the worst case scenario where remember two things would have to happen there. First they would have to put up the firewall. And second they would have to allow Chinese mining to continue.  Sorry. At some point as you are describing this I would love to hear you assign a probability if you had to like zero to a 100 percent over a timeframe. In the next five   I would say 30 percent chance of a firewall attack. It is not a hundred percent the reason is because Bitcoin is like a guy who is like extremely strong and muscular on many dimensions but can be hit from a direction over here it is just an assumption of the protocol is that every node can reach every other node and depending on the location of where mining is happening. To be clear I do not think this is a fatal blow. I think what would happen is in the event that China allowed mining to continue but put up the firewall which is like the most Machiavellian thing they could do. They are pretty smart.  Right. And the 30 percent that you assigned was only for the first part of that correct? Not the allowing mining to continue.  Well if they do both. I think it is very likely they are going to do a firewall attack at some point. If they do that and shut down mining no problem. Okay and the reason is because there is enough rest of the world or whatever mining to continue to just being Chinese can only transact in the rest of world. They have to either go overseas or pick up the phone and speak the words to somebody to execute a transaction. China will never be able to actually eliminate Bitcoin because of the way it is constructed. If they really went after it super aggressively they are the only state in the world that I think has the combination of total disregard for individual privacy or human rights totally organized like top-down surveillance regime which gets a workout every single day with a firewall that combination. The US government cannot mail checks to people on time. The US government is not capable of a technical attack the US government cannot set up a website. It is not the entity that we know from the movies which maybe never existed. But the US government from 1933-1968 could do like Hoover Dam and a Manhattan Project and Apollo that was like a generation that has long since gone. You cannot think of the last impressive thing that happened  go ahead.  Well no I am just smiling. I am just enjoying this conversation tremendously. It is not because I have something to say although now that you have given me the mic I will ask a question that perhaps is just on the mind of people listening and that is that 30 percent that you gave does that mean that Balaji is saying there is a 30 percent chance of Bitcoin being a bad investment?  No. I am saying something different which is in the event of such an attack like a firewall attack what would happen probably is a few things. First depending on how it manifests people might actually move over to a quasi trusted chain for a time. That is to say you put some form of signature or hash into miners when they put it out there to prove that they were a non-China miner. And you would actually temporarily move away from the Satoshi algorithm of heaviest proof of work chain to heaviest trusted proof of work chain. You actually have to introduce some trust potentially to get around that is one option. It is just that like a fork of the chains and this event that they do the firewall but they also allow mining to continue which is like the most Machiavellian thing that is possible. However if there is some other issue with the Bitcoin protocol the thing that I am pretty sure will never disappear is the Bitcoin ledger that is replicated in so many places and it is so valuable that in the event of some issue with the Bitcoin protocol the ledger could be imported into 100 other chains and would be it is already done with all these forks or whatever. But for example ZCash could just double their supply from 21 million to 42 million and just give refuge to all Bitcoiners. It just kind of snapshots at a particular timestamp. Everybody who has private keys before then you have got a spot on the ZCash ledger. The same thing could happen with Ethereum the same thing could happen and all these other chains. So it is as if your stock would get split into a hundred different or 1000 different instances your private keys would still find refuge. The sum total of all those values that might be a price hit. There is no question that there might be a price hit there maybe it is even more. Who the heck knows. Crypto is so unpredictable I cannot even say what would happen because some of the forks have done extremely well way better than I would have expected. But that would be a Tower of Babel moment where he would still want to hold on to your private keys but it would be all these other chains that would back you up. So it would be messy but I do not think the idea of cryptocurrency can be defeated at this point. I think any individual chain it remains to be seen how robust they are. But I do not think that cryptocurrency as a concept goes away. It is similar by the way to file sharing where Napster got sued and Kazaa got sued but BitTorrent and magnet links to the Pirate Bay are still around and actually quite good. BitTorrent streaming is quite good. What was that? Popcorn Time? Popcorn Time is actually quite a good app that is like basically streaming with the quality of like an iTunes or whatever BitTorrent streaming. So that does not mean I am not saying it would be a bad investment. I think that is the most likely attack I can see from the Chinese side.  That is specific to BTC?  For BTC. Yeah. So on the US side so now other algorithms other consensus algorithms have a greater degree of partition tolerance built in for example. The fundamental thing you would have to work out is extended tolerance for extended partitions where a big chunk of the network cannot see another big chunk of network. And so then you would have to detect that. You would have to like maintain a log of which nodes you were able to reach there. There is ways of doing this it is non-trivial. It is especially non trivial and production but it is possible. And a lot of smart computer scientists working on it. So you have to have partition-tolerant chains which could exist number one number two with respect to what the US would do the US will probably do a regulatory attack because that is the one part of the state that is still functional they can pass regulations and yell at people and job limit them and so on. Now what happened in New York with BitLicense I think is a harbinger of what is to come. New York sort of overestimated their clout. They are like We are New York so of course we are going to regulate all crypto stuff. What are you going to do? You are going to go somewhere else? It is New York it is the best blah blah blah. And that is not what happened Instead what happened was every crypto company was like Actually the world is very big now New York is the last place that we are going to operate. Literally last like we will operate in 49 other states and do New York last. And that just meant that actually New Yorkers got financial innovation last rather than first. So that one regulation the BitLicense was something where these folks who were at some point the Big Apple was number one and they just overplayed their hand in an arrogant way because they did not understand. The guy that did not  the guys who got them there were not arrogant like that. They were always hungry coming up there were folks who understood okay New York has to do this has to do that. These folks had been born with it they have inherited the system they just thought they always had that leverage. And I think that is a microcosm of what the US might do right. Where it becomes super unfriendly for crypto it is possible. But I think it is also possible the resistance comes from within the US. This is something we have very low probability on. I think it can go many different ways. The future is uncertain.  So the Federal level regulatory attack in the US you view as a low probability event? Or just a low consequence event because those companies domiciled in the US who are focused on crypto just redomiciled?  It is not that easy to just do that for lots of reasons. It is not that easy to just do that exactly. So I think US incorporation in the sense of like being incorporated in the US is going to be considered a major vulnerability in the future I think after the 2020s. And people ideally will want to incorporate on chain and then have jurisdictions that respect that because that is global rule of law. You can put your shareholder vote in there you can put your board of directors' vote in there everything can be done on chain in a better way just like you can print out a document locally or exchange Bitcoin locally or have email work everywhere or Twitter works everywhere you know what I mean? Local governments would actually adapt to the on-chain realities rather than vice versa. That is starting to happen. Now to the federal point go ahead   Yeah. I was just going to say that sounds like a company or organizational response to federal regulatory attack. I am wondering what if anything individual sort of retail investors who hold   Sure. So I would say go to Miami go to Wyoming go to places like that. Maybe Colorado which will be sanctuary cities and states for crypto.  Why is that? Is it just because you have the first two at least or are no state income tax or is that   I mean these places that are low taxes that is not actually the thing the mayor of Miami Francis Suarez is an awesome guy you should follow his Twitter basically may single-handedly changed governance in the US because he just got out there and he innovated in a way he is got the personality of a startup CEO have you followed this at all? The whole Miami thing?  I have not but I am listening.  His name is Francis Suarez he is mayor of Miami and last fall somebody one of my friends actually after just observing the latest catastrophe in San Francisco's like why do not we just all move Silicon Valley to Miami and Francis Suarez retweeted them with How can I help? Which is kind of like the VC kind of catchphrase or whatever. And by the way I am not cynical about that phrase at all. There is people who try to make it into like somebody to be mocked or attacked and making everybody cynical. It is actually a good phrase even if it is not lived up to 100 percent it is way better with that said than not said. Anyway so he put out How can I help? And then the contrast with California basically a legislator there told Elon Musk FU literally on Twitter. And Elon replied Message received versus How can I help? enormous gap between the two. So Miami suddenly basically began to  go ahead I hear you laughing.  No. I am shaking my head because I am just like how is that a good move? It boggles the mind to me how that type of response is productive.  And they are getting local positive feedback for that there are people who are cheering them on Twitter FU Elon et cetera et cetera stupid peanut gallery type stuff.  And then Elon moves to Austin and there you go.  Exactly he said Message received got the F out. And this is the thing so Suarez essentially has recruited all of these tech and finance people to Miami by literally just being friendly on Twitter and doing coffees with them welcoming them to the city billions of dollars in capital. All of these companies have now moved to Miami because why would you  go ahead?  I was saying Smart.  Yeah that is right. The ROI of every tweet has to be a million dollars. If you did a thousand tweets to recruit a 1 billion company to the city you can score it however you want maybe it is not a billion dollars for the city but the market cap is going to get distributed somehow it is going to be spent some fraction of that. His ROI is phenomenal. And the thing about it is you do not actually need 10 percent of the world's governors or mayors to be like Francis Suarez you just need 10. Because those folks will be these technologically progressive leaders that will recruit tech and finance to their cities. And Dubai is doing this Estonia's doing this Switzerland's doing it right? Chile for a while had a startup Chile program. All of these places now see the opportunity if they are smart. And many of the legacy mayors do not understand what is just happened. Basically COVID has put us into the remote world and now you are more like CEO of the city than a typical mayor.  That is so true. Totally true.  CEO of the city you are always selling you are selling your city. And crucially there is a new path to power. You do not need to go mayor to governor to president. You do not need to get on national TV. You do not need to politic and angle for a spot at the national convention or go to national media instead by just doing sales every day by essentially getting on whether it is Twitter or some social media platform and just getting out there and talking to folks recruiting folks and pitching your city and improving the product of your city. He got a bill through which was like well Miami is now like a pro-Bitcoin city. Actually it is the first city to buy Bitcoin. He also put the Bitcoin white paper on miami.gov. Here's the thing like there are a bunch of governments that did this Estonia Colombia Miami et cetera all in a little boom a few weeks ago put the Bitcoin white paper on their site. Now the thing is on the one hand of course it is just a symbol. On the other hand it is actually a great signal that that is actually a crypto-friendly place. It does not cost them anything. It does not commit them to anything. What it does do is it puts up a flag. And if you cannot get the white paper on a government website maybe that place is not actually that friendly to crypto. And if you can there is at least somebody there who is pretty friendly to crypto. It is actually a really great filtering mechanism in that sense.  It is much more than symbolic because of the bureaucracy involved. It has to actually get the nod from quite a few stakeholders in order for that to happen. So it may seem entirely or could be entirely symbolic if it were just an individual blogger but for it to be put on a website like that it signifies much more. Quick question for you. I mean it is as much for me as for people listening what are the implications of federal regulatory attack for those who are not able or not willing to move to Miami or Wyoming or   Yeah. So Wyoming also by the way has amazing crypto laws and basically my thesis on this just to hover on that for a second is those places will probably litigate and fight some federal kind of thing if it happens just because they have a strong incentive to all their citizens are there and so on and so forth. So that is actually good because it drags it out for a long time we see what happens. To be honest I do not know. I do not know what the answer is. I think that things are going to get really crazy because here's the other side of it that crypto ban if it is contemplated will happen at the time that crypto has created thousands of millionaires and billionaires not thousands of billionaires but like a lot of very wealthy people who are ideological. These are the kinds of folks the more crypto you have typically it is more correlated with buying into crypto in 2011 or 2012 or 2013 when it was an out of the money thing to do. Basically ideologically you made a bet against the monetary policy of the US. You said Bailouts are bad. And you said Despite what everybody's saying on TV I do not believe that. I actually want to make a contrarian  and as it turns out right  bet. Not like Q Anon or something but contrarian and correct you know what I mean? And that is actually like the whole Thiel thing you are actually making something that is in that quadrant. And so those folks are not folks who are likely to just go down without a fight the whole thing I mean these are activists.  And also highly anti-authoritarian generally speaking.  Yes. But capable of organizing. So it is an important combination. I mean this is the best parts of the community. There is all kinds of crazy actors in particular who I would not endorse. Maybe it is an idealization maybe this is the community I want to build. But I think it is fair to say that the best tech folks and the best crypto folks are win and help win which is actually not neither progressive   I agree.  Yeah. So here's the thing about that. Win and help win is neither progressive nor conservative nor libertarian and let me explain why. Okay so first conservative your typical conservative and maybe it is a caricature maybe some of your listeners will not like this or that but they just kind of want to stay at home they want to do their nine to five. They are not as ambitious they do not want to leave the small town. They do not want to go bright lights big city that is not dispositionally small C conservative. Your progressive often has a very zero-sum mentality. They may be ambitious but they often believe at a very fundamental level that the rich are rich because the poor are poor that one person's gain is another person's loss necessarily and they feel it is a zero-sum conflict and the state it is there as a weapon and so on. And the libertarian will say live and let live which is a vision of Little House on the Prairie all being by themselves et cetera. And win and help win is none of those three it is ambitious in a way that the small seed conservative is not it is positive sum in a way that progressive is not and it is collective in a way that libertarianism is not. And I think that is actually like the most powerful kind of philosophy where you are  and notice also the ordering the sequencing win and help win that is to say absolutely take care of number one that is important because if you do not do that you cannot help others win. But do that as well.  So two questions for you and I am sure many more but it strikes me that what Francis Suarez is doing what Wyoming is doing it is very valuable as an experiment and also possibly as different prototypes and that there are governors and mayors who would be very interested in learning more about this but they do not know how to approach it. Is there a list of what these different places are doing? Estonia Dubai et cetera Miami or anything a resource that one could point mayors and governors to who want to possibly look at testing different aspects of embracing Bitcoin or cryptocurrency?  So actually this is one of the first 1729 tasks that I wanted to commission because I have got a bunch of these. I want to see whether folks can crowdsource the rest. And then we just put that into the website. So let us do this experiment. I have got like 10 or 15 of them but I am sure I do not have the global list. And maybe we can just get that in a day.  Second because I asked about the probability you would assign to the Chinese side of things. When we were discussing that earlier what probability would you assign to the federal regulatory attack or shut down in the United States?  A regulatory attack of some kind I mean it is basically a hundred percent Mnuchin already tried something. The question is what level the attack will be   How should that factor into how somebody thinks about or I will make it personal again how would the regulatory tech potential factor into how you think about investing or not investing or bet sizing with BTC and Ethereum?  So the thing about this is an attack is not necessarily successful that is why I say a regulatory attack. And the reason is that there are lots and lots of people across the political spectrum who are very pro-crypto pro-crypto people tend to be more pro-crypto than anti-crypto people are anti-crypto with some notable exceptions I think that is true. So you just feel more passionately about it for all kinds of reasons ideological financial technical whatever and they are extremely online. And many of them are crypto-rich say of all the time in the world to be extremely online. And they are truly anti-establishment and so on. So they punch massively above their weight. This is a non-answer but let me give you something that I think is interesting. Back in 2011 all the early Bitcoin people thought not at all a good chunk let us say on Bitcoin talk or whatever I should not say all. But a good chunk of people thought that once more people knew about Bitcoin and crypto itself was not a thing It was just Bitcoin then. Once people more people knew about Bitcoin well then China and Russia and every country that was not the US would adopt it and the US would fight it really hard. And actually that is not what happened. What happened was once there was money to be made a whole bunch of people who were not just interested in a purely ideological project but were maybe ideologically sympathetic and could invest came off the sidelines. That is what happened in 2013. And that was this enormous strengthening of the ranks that was able to make the argument that this was financial innovation. Because there was technical and monetary upside not just an ideological project. That actually meant that the greatest support in some ways came from within the US and in fact places like China and Russia were actually more bearish on crypto and still are than the US is in many ways. So it was like the regime and the opposition are both the strongest within. It is this hard thing for me to fully articulate. But if that makes any sense it is sort of like both the problem of the bailouts and this giant monetary system that is failing the world and the solution are both coming from within the US or the West. Which is this kind of crazy thing but it is actually similar in some ways to the three-body problem where the Chinese invite the aliens to the world and then they have to solve it. It is Homer Simpson like Beer the cause of and solution to all man's problems right?  I was just going to say it also strikes me that your vulnerability to regulatory shutdown also probably depends on the form in which you hold Bitcoin.  Oh yeah. You definitely want to hold your keys locally. I am an investor in a company called Casa HODL which is actually like a relic. It is keys.casa is the URL. It sounds oxymoronic but it is cold storage as a service. So they go through with you how to set up your cold storage in such a way that the whole signing ceremony and so on it is basically home storage of your crypto in such a way that it is hard to mess it up and it is more error proof and whatnot. One of the most heartening things I have seen since January of last year is all this crypto leaving exchanges all around the world. Get your keys off exchanges do it now do it yesterday get your coins off exchanges. And do not worry they will be fine. Not your keys not your coins absolutely 100 percent true. And I think it is with DeFi you cannot even mess around with DeFi really unless you have your keys locally. So there is an incentive as well as a disincentive. So definitely keep your keys locally because that at least means that you cannot just have your account frozen with a tap.  So we have spoken or I should say you have spoken at length about a number of risk factors a number of potentials related to Bitcoin. Just to make sure that we touch this base is the risk profile of Ethereum different? Is it more resilient and less susceptible to certain risks? Is it more susceptible? How would you think about Ethereum as compared to Bitcoin from that perspective?  Yeah so it has a different pattern of risks. Some of them are shared like regulatory attacks on crypto. Others are distinct. For example if Ethereum completes the migration to a proof of stake system successfully then it does not have stationary Ethereum miners that can be rounded up in the same way that Bitcoin mining farms can be. So that is one major difference where you have got a bunch of mobile individuals. It is got downsides in other ways. I will not get into extreme technical detail but proof of stake because it is not doing computation in the same way the proof of work is does not have some of the same guarantees that proof of work does in terms of being totally totally trustless. You start to need someone to point you to which chain is real if there is a bunch of chains like Medusa like that are all competing. So it has a different orthogonal set of risk factors. I think Ethereum is certainly more complicated than Bitcoin in many ways. The most important of which being that there is tons of programs running on top of Ethereum itself. All the smart contracts. And it does have actually a negative network effect right now where the more things that run on it the higher the fees are which crowd out other things. So there is both positive network effects from composability and negative network effects that come from just incredibly high fees for all kinds of stuff. Now everybody's working on scalability of blockchains. It is a good problem to have. It is kind of like scaling the early internet. There is going to be paradigmatically new things. I am an investor in something called StarkWare which has something called Cairo that is very promising in general so-called zero-knowledge roll-ups are very promising. It may turn out for example with Ethereum that only the prices to applications stay in Ethereum and many other applications go to other L1 chains that then all just specialize by application. I think that is probably the most likely outcome. Or rather I think Ethereum will scale but I think that for example derivatives might go to a chain that is specialized for that. NFTs might go to a chain that is specialized for that. And so on and so forth. And chain interoperability a so-called interchain will be a big thing. Where assets can be indexed and referenced even if they are remote to particular chain. So Bitcoin had no knowledge of other chains but nowadays chains do have knowledge of other chains through things like crypto oracles things outside of themselves. Right? So risk factors of Ethereum are distinct different from those of Bitcoin. Some overlapping some not.  Let us segue to Lee Kuan Yew and we will get into who this is. Before we get there maybe this'ill be a shorter question and a shorter answer but they are in some ways tied together. In my mind at least. There are those out there who are terrified of your predictions because they feel rightly or wrongly and I want to hear your perspective on this that there is a high likelihood baked into those predictions of apocalyptic outcomes and that one needs to become a tech-enabled Jason Bourne to survive let alone thrive in the future.  Which is you Tim! But go ahead.  So how would you respond to that assessment? Do you view yourself as leaning towards viewing the future through the lens of entropy and dystopian possibilities or is that just a misread of what you are saying? And is that just a misread of you in general?  I think the future will be more different from the present than is commonly understood. So more different than ours was the year 2000 that different from 1970? Not really. Certainly there were political changes and obviously China had reformed and the SSR had fallen and so forth. But the rhythms of daily life are actually quite similar. You know? People got up they went to work there is a relative constancy there. Yeah. There were phones but they were not smartphones. They were still basically landlines. Handsets right? Cordless perhaps. Over the last 20 years there is been an enormous change in terms of rhythms of daily life. One way of thinking about that is what was your daily life when you woke up in 1980? So there would be an alarm clock beep beep beep. You would wake up you would go downstairs maybe flip on the TV to look at the morning news make some eggs drink some orange juice maybe read the morning newspaper go and drive to work where your job involved if you are white collar some papers and if you are blue collar you are going and hammering something or whatever. You would come back maybe go to the bar on the way back. Or you would just come straight home and play with your kids or something like that. Right? And almost every aspect of that is now changed. How do you wake up? You wake up to your phone right? What is the first thing you do? You look at all of your email because you are getting just all of these are messages right? Messages are coming into you right? You have this personal communication device. The first thing you do is different. This is for people who are addicted to their phone but a lot of people are. You come downstairs or you get up and maybe you have got some fitness thing that has read off your sleep. So you look at that right? Because your sleep was also instrumented. You go to the kitchen and there is food there but maybe you just go straight to work and you Uber Eats food to work. Or maybe you do not go to work at all. And you just work remote from your pajamas in the living room which is totally feasible today. Right? Your job is not evolving papers or hammering things but it is hitting keys. Everything is with 50 people who you might have never met in person that they are remote all around the world. Through the day you are reading newspapers you are reading code. Your job is just much more variable than the hammering job. Rather than pushing the same button for 20 years you are pushing a different key every second. Basically every single second of life from your sleep to your sleep tracker to your food through your ordering apps or what have you to obviously your work to your finances to your communications to where you decide to go after you finish working. Like Okay let us do Google Maps. Now the whole map is opened up. Right? One thing we take for granted is in the '80s and '90s you really had to get an atlas or get a map out to go somewhere new and you had to study it because you could get lost. Getting lost was a thing. Right? We never get lost anymore not in the same way. And so for the most part thoroughfares were really important. People did not really go off the beaten path that much unless you had a house over there. It was like the fewest number of turns. You really did not drive around randomly. You did not go to this random coffee shop over here. The map was mostly corridored. It was not opened up. And so that is all opened up now. Your recreational life you can meet with a different person 50 days out of the week rather than the same group of friends. So in so many ways the rhythms of life we have turned into these sort of nomadic creatures from 20 years ago. And our political structures and our homes and a lot of those other things have not flexed to accommodate that. And one way to think about that is there is two major ways that humans operate. There is the huntergatherer where we roam around the world. Many religions many cultures have something similar to a Garden of Eden-type thing which is whether it is in our genes from some like primitive hominid ancestor that we have got all the way down because vision is baked into the genes of course. Like the reason you can recognize something's human. That is genetic. So maybe there is something coded into us from many many millennia ago that recognizes a Garden of Eden-like thing when we were huntergatherers. Who knows how it is represented? And then of course there is the farmer or the warrior. Where you have a piece of land rather than roaming all around you are settled in one spot and your food is worse. It is grains. It messes up your teeth and so on. It has you grow less but it is more reliable. It is more consistent. Rather than the variable ups and downs with huntergatherer. And in many ways what I think and this is not original to me by any means this is a fusion. So this is a lot of different ideas but perhaps at least this take on it is we are going back to the huntergatherer way of doing things but with technology. The best quality of life will actually be available to the digital nomad who has a minimum number of possessions has the ability to pick up and move stakes at any point because mobility is leveraged against a state. A state is a sessile actor. Mobility is something that you can do as an individual the state cannot do. Not as easily. It cannot just stretch a tendril somewhere else. And so new kinds of polities will form. New ways of self-governing humans that are fundamentally network-based rather than state-based. Fundamentally optimized for mobile social networks as opposed to stationary houses. Because the assumptions are fundamentally different. And basically for example I define a network state as a social network with an integrated cryptocurrency in a sense of national consciousness that eventually crowdfunds territory. Okay? And I think that is a new kind of thing. That is one definition of a network state. And that territory does not have to be all in one place. It can be a cul-de-sac here a ranch here an apartment building here. And so you have a group of a hundred thousand people that owns pieces of territory all around the world and that is constantly in communication with each other through a social network and considers themselves to be a people. It is like national formation distillation that centrification that we talked about out of the internet. Boom. This is a network state. And it is like a cloud formation taking physical shape. The clouds are actually distilling down. And so when I think about the future I think about this type of stuff. I am thinking about 50 different graphs right? This is going down this is going up this is going down this is going up. Actually Jordan Peterson had a good remark on this similar kind of train of thought where he is like the number of different revolutions that is happening at the same time is too hard to track. Tinder alone is a complete change in our mating habits. Swipe right swipe left swipe right swipe left. That itself is this huge thing that would dominate the textbooks of another age because it is a massive change in how the daily rhythms of life operate. Have you seen the graph of how people meet their partners?  I have not.  Okay. This is an amazing graph of how people meet their significant other the 2020 update. Basically each little curve here tells a story but it was like did you meet at church? Did you meet through your parents? You meet at college? Did you meet at work? And you can see meet at work is this boomlet that kind of drops off. It is peaked in the '80s and it drops off in the '90s with various kinds of pathologization of something like that. And so what dominates everything today is internet. Internet internet. And in particular basically where norms have shifted now is that it is actually more legitimate. I mean I have aged out of this fortunately. But for my younger friends what have you it is impolite to hit on depending on the situation it is often considered impolite to hit on somebody in real life. But it is totally okay to do so on Tinder. So of course humans are contextual and of course the same behavior that is okay in a bar is not okay in a workplace or what have you. But now that is actually extended to digital venues as well. So Tinder alone is just this massive evolution. And then you have 20 of them happening at the same time. And so all of those are these things where the institutions that we have are simply not built for this at all. And that is where they are straining and stressing against it and they are going to give and we have to have a vision for what is on the other side.  So you are more a student of destabilization or stabilization but it just so happens that right now these multiple revolutions combine to present these stabilizing forces. Not so much that you view humans or the future of humans through a dystopian or pessimistic lens. Is that fair to say?  Yeah. That is fair to say. I think there is actually a lot of good stuff that is going to come out of this. So what is a positive vision? What do I think about? I do think that we can shape the future. Individuals can shape the future. You can shape the future. A founder can shape the future. I have seen it happen with my own eyes. And what I think a lot about is a positive international vision. And I think that is going to be based around essentially transhumanism. And why do I say that? So I have got various one-liners on this but I have got this book coming up by the way that'ill actually also be serialized at 1729. So there is daily tasks and book chapters. The book's title is The Network Safe. So you have got about 10 chapters that they should be dropping and then more to come. But one of the concepts in it is infinite frontier immutable money eternal life. As something to strive for. Because you need these slogans or things a bumper sticker that expands into a PhD thesis. So what does that say? That says space is good. That says Bitcoin is good. Crypto is good. That says life extension is good. And yet it pulls so much with it. Life extension basically says look universal health care is not enough. We need eternal life. Our ambitions have actually been lower than they need to be. Universal healthcare is just moving gravy around on the plate. It is a fundamentally zero-sum mentality that really presumes  go ahead.  No I just. That is a great turn of phrase. Moving gravy around on the plate. Yeah.  The goal is for you to not need healthcare in any normal sense. The goal is for you to be this self repairing rejuvenating. There is technologies out there which would sound crazy but I have got a post called the purpose of technology. We can scientists can engineers can restore sight cure deafness. There is good research on limb regeneration. There is good research on genetic modifications that'ill make you completely ripped without ever having to do anything. Like the follistatin stuff and myostatin stuff. And   Can I pause for one second?  Go ahead.  Just for people who do not have this bit of context because I do not want folks to think these are the ravings of a madman. You are very cross-disciplinary. You have spent a lot of time in the biological sciences genomics computational biology of course. And tell me if this is a fair statement you almost became the head of the FDA under the last administration as well. Is that a fair statement?  I was considered for a very senior role there. Yes.  Okay. Just wanted to add that for people who may not have any of that context. So please continue. Yes. Universal healthcare or basic healthcare moving gravy around on a plate unnecessarily unhelpfully low expectation.  Right. Exactly. I am really not somebody to stand on qualifications or credentials or whatever but in this area some people want to check them. Yes. I taught computational genomics have founded a clinical genomics company all that stuff. And of course no one can be an expert in every area of biology. It is too big. There is guys who are experts in radiology which I do not know as much about. But I do think that one of the few good things that'ill come out of this pandemic is a Y-shaped recovery. Where we are taking a different fork. We have deprecated the 20th century leisure economy. The 20th century leisure economy of bars and restaurants and clubs and all that type of stuff is something which just had this enormous economic hit to it. The levels of bankruptcies are just off the charts. It is a terrible thing. I think if we are lucky we get not in its place because it is not zero-sum but there is a greater focus on health on life extension. And the reason we say life extension by the way we are really reversing aging which is even better is it just captures everything. It is like a universal ruler where if we can reverse aging we can fix so many other things. We can probably should I say cure cancer? There is many kinds of issues musculoskeletal things osteoporosis macular degeneration all those kinds of things that happen often that are correlated with increasing age. And people have this mental model that Oh we are just breaking down. Like a car. It just accumulates hits and it breaks down. That actually cannot be the model of how aging happens. Do you know why?  Why is that?  Because if that was the case if we were breaking down like a mechanical thing then there is a known statistical distribution. It is like a hazard rate right? So you would have an exponential distribution of lifetimes and some fraction of cars for example just manage to make it through without any hits whatsoever. And so you would have some people if that was the case would live like 1000 years because they would just be lucky and not take any hits at all. That is not what we see. What we see is actually a sharp cutoff at like 120   Right. If you keep the human in the garage in perfect condition they do not last forever.  Yeah exactly exactly. That is right. So there is something interesting about it. It is very predictable. There is an aging and then there is menopause for example in women. And graying. It is not like one car rolls along and it busts a tire and the other one smashes a windshield. There is a greater degree of variability when it is just random things happening. If you see 500 older men they are all are some version of grayer or more wrinkled or what have you there is a predictability to it of how actually everything's happening. And so because of this people have found that aging is actually a coordinated thing. And people understand that going from a child to an adolescent is a coordinated process. People get that that is programmed into your genes. But it just has not really sunk in for many people is that the aging part is as well. And we might be able to unprogram that or reverse that. In fact there is actually a lot of results in this area. Way more than people think. There are studies I can show you that are if we technically call the holy shit phenotype where there is a guy whose graying hair has just been reversed. Repigmentation of hair just by taking a cancer drug as a side effect. There are studies of rats where you can see the follistatin injections you get this Hulk-like rat. I posted one of these. And so there is actually amazing things that are happening in biomedicine that have simply not achieved distribution. In part because of regulation in part because that is simply not the stories that people are interested in telling in part because of not exactly lack of funding but it is lack of funding and energy sufficient to overcome the regulatory and negative press obstacles. And this is something I think is related to doing decentralized media getting folks around transhumanism. Either people are going to vector on the sort of anarcho-primitivism axis. Do you know what that is? It is a phrase I think is going to become much more well-known. Anarcho-primitivism. It is basically the Unabomber ideology right? It is essentially ideology that humans are bad we are all destroying the planet therefore we need to kill as many humans as possible. Do you know VHEMT? Voluntary Human Extinction Movement?  I do not.  This is like a quasi-joke. But there is actually a lot of folks who do on some level believe that humanity is bad humans are bad humans' impact on the world is bad you should not have children because everyone's causing climate change and we are ruining the earth and we need to have a smaller footprint and we need to shrink onto ourselves and we cannot expand. And what we are doing is terrible. And we should just go back to nature somehow. And technology is bad. The future sucks right? This is a real attitude. And it is partly connected to folks I think idealizing nature. And these are folks who love nature. But often I do not think they realize they love tamed nature. They like nature without wild lions and they like nature while they still have eyeglasses. And they like nature while they can decide to lose the nature and go back to a warm bed. They are not really going to live like  the Unabomber at least had skin in the game. He is out there actually living in the wilderness like a true caveman. But many of these folks they are just inconsistent. But nevertheless they call themselves anarcho-primitivists. And that is a real ideology. And it is a burn it all down ideology. Unfortunately it is very popular much more so than you might think because it is easy to burn it all down. It is exciting to do. The aftermath sucks but it is like you get the sense of transgression you get the sense of maybe doing it all collectively together you get the sense of We are making history and destroying it  et cetera. And against that I think is transhumanism where you are going to the stars. You are transcending this human body we are doing brain-machine interface. We are doing limb regeneration. We are doing doing all the things and we are taking away all the limits thus infinite frontier immutable money eternal life.  Let me hop in for just a second. Are there any particular thinkers scientists or resources you would recommend just a handful for people who want to explore this further? I do not know if it would be a David Sinclair an Aubrey de Grey.  Those are good.  I do not know who would make your shortlist or what resources?  It is funny because the serious book on  so Zoltan Istvan is pretty good I think and   Say that one more time please.  Zoltan Istvan. He is prof   Great name.  Yeah exactly. There is a debate that he did with an anarcho-primitivist a while back called his name is Zerzan and they billed it as Zoltan versus Zerzan which I thought was hilarious.  It is like something from one of those early Superman movies.  Yeah that is right.  Superman II.  Zoltan versus Zerzan in 2014 right? This is one of those things which I do not think people realize is this obscure thing happening in academia that is going to dominate our future because there are going to be essentially these for lack of a better term Luddite forces who do not like tech do not like the disruption springing think we need to go back to when it was a simpler time. And I understand that. I actually really do. The easiest way to give them that path is actually VR goggles so we give them these. I half kid but I do not fully kid.  Ready Player One here you go.  Ready Player 1980. Exactly.  Right.  Because that is actually   Yeah yeah.  That is the best way to give them the idealized version that they think they want. Go ahead.  Well I was just going to say this is a rabbit hole that could go very very deep. So I want to respect the value in that while also recognizing that we may want to leave people hungry for more of that and continue exploring. So when we think of these I think I am getting this right sort of Malthusian dilemmas and growth of population and inextricable devastation and ecological collapse and so on I mean I do think there are some arguments to be made that uncontrolled population growth is a terrible thing for an invasive species so successful like human beings but on the same   But that is why. That is the thing. That is why we need stars.  Right. So we have the extra planetary and then we also have a few corrective forces. If anyone has read Lessons of History by Will and Ariel Durant war famine and pestilence example given COVID-19 also do a pretty good job of correcting for a lot of that. So we were discussing nation building. We have talked about nation states the weaknesses thereof of certain types of nation states and different types of leadership. And that is a segue to Lee Kuan Yew. Could you please explain for people who Lee Kuan Yew was and why he is interesting?  Lee Kuan Yew was probably the greatest leader of the 20th century. He wrote a book called From Third World to First and he took Singapore from this third world swamp which had all of these historical battles with drug addiction this post-colonial kind of dump into this shining metropolis. He had no natural resources to work with. It was a tiny place that was surrounded by hostile actors. He was in a region where there was a ton of basically communist revolutionaries that were trying to operate because he is in Indochina where you had obviously Vietnam and you had Cambodia you had China pushing everybody into communism. Despite all of that he managed to pilot it through not simply to survive as a polity but to build a country that was so impressive that when Deng Xiaoping took over China he actually went to talk to Lee Kuan Yew as one of the people to help him reform China because he could see what an ethnically Chinese population had done there. He could also see it in Taiwan and Hong Kong but for various reasons those were certainly influential in Deng Xiaoping but they were also counterrevolutionary. And so he had to give him a little bit more of a distance whereas Singapore and LKY were kind of the Switzerland of Southeast Asia. What Lee Kuan Yew did really the reason I think he is so important is I think he is a piece of the 21st century that fell into the 20th to paraphrase. Basically I think he was the first startup CEO of a country of a city state. And I think we will see a thousand more like him. So he is a very important person to study his life and history because here' he did what he did with minimal coercion. He is not famous for winning some giant violent conflict. He is not famous for some activist movement. He stands for delivering results. That is actually really really interesting. He is famous for boosting prosperity and zero-to-one-ing a society. He was really a lion really a great guy. Now of course I should say a lot of people do not like  there is a lot of people who will try to knock down Singapore in various ways. There is a famous article from Wired Disneyland with the Death Penalty. Here' part of the reason it is Disneyland is it does have the death penalty for drug smugglers. The thing is Singapore and China had a huge problem with the Opium Wars during that period. The British basically had addicted huge percentages of the population to opium. And that part is often not talked about in that Disneyland with the Death Penalty thing. There is a whole colonial overlay on what Western powers have done in that region. You  basically LKY just cleaned up that whole thing. Now I can understand that people do not want to live there. I think also the Netherlands is a totally different solution for example on drugs which is total legalization. Fine okay. Different structure different folk I think. There is multiple solutions there. But as just a ridiculously impressive country in many many different ways from a financial center it is become a tech capital you have got unicorns there. It is just a very very awesome country. It is warm. I love it. Great place.  Hugely impressive LKY. And Lee Kuan Yew is spelled L-E-E K-U-A-N Y-E-W for people who want to learn more about him. It is true. The systematic approach with which that country has been transformed into what it is today is mind-boggling. It makes me also all the more appreciate when I went to Princeton as an undergrad and there were many Singaporean students all of which were going to go back to Singapore at the end because their educations were being paid for by the government to work for the government. So their inclusion and retention of talent inside the government is also remarkable. And the way that they prioritize financially incentivizing also top talent to participate in government I think is really worth studying. Are there any other countries that are on your shortlist to watch if there were places that maybe the 22nd century   Sure.  Dropping into the 21st. I am pushing the comparison a bit.  Yes. So Estonia   What countries? Estonia.  Yeah. So Estonia. Basically the countries I am going to name are those that have leaders with some of the skills of software CEOs. So it is a different approach to the network shape where a state takes on qualities of a tech company. Masters technology to drive things forward. So Estonia basically had this guy that around the time of independence where Estonia got its independence from the Soviet Union this guy Toomas Ilves who is a Princeton-trained computer scientist. And he was the one who said Look we need to use this internet thing which at the time was like a country gaining its independence and me being there and saying We need to do this crypto thing. It was definitely some people were talking to that. That is roughly analogous. It was a thing certainly people were talking about but you are talking like mid-'90s but it was a relatively early thing to do. And it was not uncontroversial but essentially Estonia became a software country. And so they punched way above their weight with Skype and TransferWise and other kinds of companies that have come out of that really really impressive place. Dubai actually has done quite well. They have got a large fund where they are investing in things very livable place and very tech savvy. I think Switzerland is the The commonality of the places that I am naming is that they are relatively small countries which have had to do more convincing than coercive. When you are a gigantic country your go-to is courts right? Oh I can pass a law compel all these people et cetera. When you are a small country you have to work for your supper every day. And it is actually a better habit in the time of the internet. When crucially all these people are now mobile. In the remote economy what COVID has done what most people do not understand is doing this. And then the remote economy just jacked it up. Just like Google News in 2002 put every single newspaper in competition with every other one. And then all of these local newspapers shuttered and only the really big national distributors became international centers ones that could respond to it. And then the smart ones actually saw that. And then you had new things come up like pure digital outlets. In the same way the remote economies put every city in competition with every other city. Miami is in competition with San Francisco is in competition with this is in competition with that. And the smart cities recognize that. Actually Miami is on my watch list now. It depends on how much strength Francis Suarez has but because his so-called weak mayor and his weak mayor versus strong mayor his formal powers may not be that much but his political capital is much higher now. But I do not know how that actually nets out. But Estonia there is Switzerland there is Dubai. There is Singapore. Actually Israel also they have got Unity 600. They are very up on cyber war. They reinvent themselves constantly. Taiwan with Audrey Tang there who has done a phenomenal job in terms of leading their COVID response. I think let me see what else? Those are some big ones. Monaco the Prince of Monaco is actually very smart about crypto. I think in terms of larger countries let us do China India US. Push out the big 30. So China.  Yeah. India is in the news right now quite a bit. You have commented on this.  Yes that is right.  Not to skip to India.  I will do India last. It is one which I think is going to be the dark horse of this decade. It is one that is not priced in. People just do not understand how big a deal it is going to be but I will come back to that. So China is kind of priced in. Everybody knows it is a big deal. It is going to continue to be a big deal. Go ahead.  No you keep asking me. I am just smiling. I am just smiling. Yes. China everybody knows China's a big deal.  What is not priced in about China? I think that most people do not realize that a lot of I mean it is definitely becoming more totalitarian. The Xi Jinping Thought app and so sort of thought control is actually  Jack Ma having what happened to him. The Jack Ma thing made the headlines because he is so big that he is known in the US. You have to be enormously   Yeah. And for people who do not know Jack Ma founder or maybe co-founder of Alibaba. Like Jeff Bezos of China I think it would be fair to say.  That is right. So the super rich super successful tech entrepreneur gave a speech that was critical of regulation in a fairly measured way. And they just went after him they stopped the IPO of Alibaba IPO. He is under quasi-house arrest all the regulars are so mad and they showed them who is boss. And that is a real change! To be a Chinese entrepreneur in China the state is really asserting itself and saying There shall be no gods before me. As an entrepreneur you better bow and kiss the ring. And they are also pushing much harder on this Xi Jinping Thought app where you have to repeat Xi Jinping thought all the time. Now is that far from where America is nowadays? Not that far anymore actually. Like that is the thing I do not think people get. I think the world is splitting into three groups which I think of as woke capital communist capital and crypto capital. And America's woke capital and America and its subsidiaries tributaries allies whatever you want to call them. Communist capital is China. And crypto capital is the free world. And the distinction is the first two are very good at pointing out each other's flaws and faults but not in you know. The internet censorship all that stuff is going to ramp up aggressively in the US. I think that by 2024 you are going to have to use VPN. So there is going to be all kinds of filtering at the ISP level. It is going to get very very aggressive. All that stuff already exists. There is safe search there is block sites and so on but it is going to get to a level way beyond where people think. Because East Coast institutions can no longer win a game of free speech and free markets so they are going to restrict and constrict. And obviously the same thing is happening in China. The difference is China's just more explicit about it which is both good and bad. It is good because it allows them to I should not say good. It is good in the sense that everyone can identify it is happening. It is obviously bad because when it is explicit they are just in your face about it. The site is up and then it is down and there is no apology that is given. It is just the government says so. In the US it is this weird moonwalk where it is more like the Soviet Union or the Soviet Union would say that you have this great constitution and hey everyone can have an election and so on and so forth. But then actually I do not know if you know how elections worked in the Soviet Union. You just put in a blank ballot to vote for the communist but if you wanted to vote for someone else you could do it. You would write something down and they would know who you were. And so Soviet Union have all these rights guaranteed on paper but the actuality of it was a completely different thing. The gap between the actual thing and what was written down and that is where the US is becoming. Where it is  there is this joke in the 1980s that'ill kind of illustrate it. This guy Yakov Smirnoff. I do not know if you remember him. He said something like  he is the joker who came over from Russia. He is like People say that in Russia we do not have freedom of speech. Of course we have freedom of speech. But in America you also have freedom after speech. That is good right?  Yeah.  Is that true anymore? Not really. Or at least not outside of pseudonym. I think China is actually underestimated in some ways. It is not fully priced in. I think a lot of Americans underestimate China for a few reasons. First is they think everybody within the country is this oppressed that they do not like the regime. That they are against the regime. I think if you are a Uyghur or you are Jack Ma or you are an entrepreneur who is on the wrong side of the Communist Party yeah you are probably not a fan. But I think that on net the Chinese government has delivered the goods with for many people from their perception but the COVID response and with 40 years of growth they are the relative winners of COVID. The West just totally wrecked themselves. And technologically they are way beyond. People do not understand how far beyond they are. They did drones for taking people's temperatures. I tweeted about this in the early days of COVID. They really did five years in a few months of technological improvements to deal with COVID. From robots delivering stuff they had hospitals that are fully telemedical hospitals where the doctors did not have to go in and they could remotely operate them. All kinds of crazy things that they managed to pull off. So you have heard the term cope?  Cope as in C-O-P-E?  Well it is used   I know the word   You know the word right? But online it is used as Yo man that is cope. You are saying that to try to handle this difficult situation. And there is a lot of folks who are over the course of something very new and interesting I mean bad but interesting happen. which was as the US sort of flailed and its response as the federal government failed and state governments failed and local governments failed as public health failed and public schools failed and police failed and fire failed. As a power went out as the health went out. As like riots had all this stuff happened. People would basically say things like Oh yeah. I know you are saying Taiwan's got it under control but they are an island. And New Zealand. And China did that but they are totalitarian. And everyone would give like this litany of excuses which was why that course  you are so stupid that that would not possibly apply to the US. And fundamentally it was basically a bunch of excuses where America is not the worst in the world. What are you saying? We are just as bad as Europe. They make these kinds of comparisons. And you have to cock your head and be like We are number one USA USA USA. It is just extremely different from Yeah we are not the worst. Just completely different. And while there is this cope within the US on this. Outside it is very perceptible that the US was basically it was just handed a military defeat by COVID. People do not actually fully perceive this. I mentioned this a few times at Twitter which has not sunk in or whatever. Maybe people will get mad at me but 2018 there was a DOD thing. There was something like a national bio defense policy. Nine defense strategy protects against manmade and natural threats. And all of these four star this and that full FRAs Oh we are so protected. And they have got like this plan and they have had billions of dollars that was allocated for bio defense since anthrax attacks in 2001 2002. I think it was 2001. I forget it was late 2001 or early 2002 but I think it was late 2001 right after 911. Since anthrax all this money that went to bio defense. I know because when I was in grad school a lot of that money was floating around for like microbial research and what have you that was like 15 years ago. And there was SARS and there was the Ebola scare. There is plenty of warnings for all of this. And it was a military priority. There was like DARPA stuff that was supposed to crank out fast vaccines. And none of it actually seemed to work. To the best of my knowledge and correct me if I am wrong I might be wrong but the military's most public thing was setting up the folding chairs in the Javits Center. And that sounds really harsh. You know what I am talking about right? The palliative care? Early in the pandemic right?  I do.  And they put a flower there so people could die next to a flower. That sucks. And the reason I kind of make that harsh comparison is  you know the Maginot Line in World War I?  I do not.  Okay.  I do not. And also I know we have the lens on the US right now within the context of China but I would love to make sure we do not forget to have you comment on the other things that are not fully appreciated about China.  Sure.  Please continue. And I do not know the line. I do not know the line that you are referring to.  Okay so after World War I the French built something called the Maginot Line which was like Oh yeah Germany you are going to try and trench warfare on us? We are building the system of fortifications where we will just gun you the F down and you will never win trench warfare against us again. Of course Germans invented Blitzkrieg and just went around it. So this huge system of fortifications it is a great metaphor for fighting the last war. And so there is a guy who I do not personally believe that I have ever met him or anything. This guy who a lot of folks quote like Zayan and I should probably go and write a blog post on all the things I disagree with. It is about 20 percent I agree with like it is true that shale oil is an important resource for the US but he thinks for example American or demographics are a big win for the US over China but robotics over demographics you need a small number of people programming the robots. That is the future. You know you can already see that in warehouses. Another thing is he is really bullish on like the US military. And the US military at 35 was a failure right? The US military just failed on the pandemic. US military in many ways I would argue is actually a Maginot Line where it is set up to fight the last war. And one way of thinking about that it is hard to test this. Because it is just a prediction it is a forecast but China was able to build a hospital in like 10 days. And their infrastructure in general they can snap together a subway in nine hours. People keep posting these videos on Twitter. It is like crazy. But they do. They prefab everything. They snap together on site. And that is something which is a whole of society thing. It has to be legal to do that. The engineers have to be willing to work 24 hours. They have to have the early American 1900s work ethic not the late-American current work ethic. They have to be interested in building things as a society where it is not everybody fighting each other where you build something and it will make my property less expensive there'ill be shadows or something which is the San Francisco style. All of these things have to come together. It is not just one thing. But they snapped together a subway station at nine hours. So you can snap together a skyscraper in 30 days and people will say Oh yeah? Well their building quality is terrible. It is only going to fall over or whatever. Have you seen the Millennium Tower in San Francisco? It is actually creaking to one side. The whole Salesforce complex that they built near Salesforce this new train station? That was also creaking. It was built like a billion dollars or something like that. It was creaking after the first few weeks and they had to not allow anybody in there. So it is all like the American building quality. You have to do a Cisco analysis to actually put them side by side. But in general if you go to China most of the buildings are standing up and most of them are new and they are built over the last 20 30 years. What is my point? The point is the Chinese have shown the ability under duress to be able to execute in the physical world. When as a subroutine you can think Okay we are going to build a hospital that is just not something we can contemplate in the US. That seems like a 30-year process not a 10-day process. What do you have to do in a war? You have to build like a field hospital. You might actually build a bridge. You might have to take down a bridge. There is all those kinds of things that have to happen. And if in perhaps the most desperate crisis the US has faced in a long time people have this idea that it is like cramming for a test. Like Oh we will pull it out. The US will do the right thing after exhausting everything else. They will quote these like Churchill-isms from like 70 years ago. And the thing is that cramming for the test only works if you have studied somewhat not if you have not done anything for years. And that is actually I think it is flipped over a card where in an actual serious military conflict between the US and China a non-nuclear conflict I think China would probably win. There is a Taiwan conflict because we have got all the observables. The observables are even under duress the US military cannot execute in the physical world. It is got these plans for a pandemic that did not work. The Chinese can actually execute in the physical world and build these things. And that is not just a one-off it is like across their whole society. And it is also not a one-off for the Americans across our whole society where the power is going out and other kinds of infrastructure things are happening. And it is not like just one localized place. It is like the water in Flint. It is the power in California. It is the power in Texas. It seems to be spreading.  I was just going to ask so if if there were a military conflict or a nation state versus nation state conflict between the US and China it seems unlikely that it would be like Red Dawn on US soil. It seems unlikely not impossible. I mean there might be a cyber attack that has impact on any number of things in the United States in the domestic US continental US. But if we take as an example Taiwan if there were a conflict over Taiwan and the US lost what are the consequences of that in your mind?  I think it is huge because I think it basically  it would be comparable to like the Russo-Japanese War  in 1905 the Russo-Japanese War actually led to all of these former colonized people being like Wait a second the non-whites can win against the whites? Holy cow. And it was this huge mental unblock where that led to anti-colonial sentiment and so and just kind of ended one century and began another. And I think it would  that would be the true end of the American empire I think because it would be a true  it would not be something that someone could write off oh Vietnam we did not really try. Or oh Afghanistan or Iraq well no one else visibly won. It would feel different I think.  It would be like the Mike Tyson getting knocked out by Buster Douglas moment for the United States where people were like   That is right.   Oh this is actually a defeatable  This is a defeatable enemy.  That is right. Now the thing about it is we should hope it does not come to that. What I fear is that often there is a delayed reaction or a fuse on this stuff like Occupy Wall Street only happened about like three years after the financial crisis. So the fear is that if vaccines are eventually rolled out and if enough Americans take them then by 2023 or 2024 people will be spoiling for a fight to go and beat up China as the one legitimated enemy. In sort of the same way as in the mid-2000s it was okay to hate people in the Middle East. That was like a loosened kind of valve or whatever. You could be more angry towards them. It was more socially legitimate. I do not think it was good. I think that that was  it was just true that that was more legitimate or at least people greenlit it more. In the same way I think anti-Chinese sentiment will be more greenlit. It will not be  people will not jump on you for saying things that are negative about China and it will filter into unfortunately many Chinese Americans because anybody who is like working at a university lab or something like that they will come up with some rationale for why it is not racist or whatever Because it is nationalist and Oh my God I cannot believe you are saying that the agents of a totalitarian dictatorship are blah blah blah. That you have to be concerned about it. But point is that they will  I do not think it would be great to be a Chinese American in like four years or five years as a new Cold War really heats up. Now we should hope that does not actually come to  I mean call it  this is one of my bad predictions. It would be an unfortunate thing. Of course many Chinese Americans have been here for generations. They have no ancestral connection or the ancestral connection to China is very distant. It kind of does not  I should not say it does not matter. It does matter. I do not think there is going to be stripped of citizenship or anything like the Japanese internment. But I do think that it will sort of be like being a Muslim American in the 2000s which basically there was actually  it is one of those things where there was a lot of surveillance of mosques. Folks within the community felt it a lot. You might say it is legitimate you might say it is not. I am not trying to get into whether it is good or bad. I am just saying that that is likely to happen. Okay. So what is my point point is that the  I think that Cold War between the US and China we should hope it does not kick off into a hot one. If it does kick off into a hot one then the wounded American pride might like retaliate with nukes. There is crazy things that can happen. It gets really bad very quickly if you think about those scenarios. With that said I think that most of the world will actually not want to be  they want to try to keep as far away from this fight as possible. I do not think many Americans realize that. Many Americans think Oh yeah Europe they are going to saddle up with us against China. Europeans do not think that. Europeans think America's going crazy. And Europe is actually in many ways now in some ways actually to the right of the US. You can actually kind of put it on a spectrum where the US is on  it basically the most left-wing large country in the world. Then you have got Europe then you have got crypto in the center then you have got like India and Israel like center of right and then you have got like China as the farthest right. That is like a new kind of political spectrum of roughly on one side ethnonationalists on the other side ethnomasochists and in the center pseudonomists. Okay if that makes any sense.  It does. Let me jump in for a second here and then I want to move to the dark horse because I know it will probably not be a short conversation. On the Chinese front considering China if there were just a few actions or a few investments or changes that the US military could make or the US government what would they be to try to mitigate against some of these risks?  The US has within it the capability  like we were talking about earlier with crypto. They are the cause and the solution to all of man's problems and so. The US has within it that capability for a rebirth. Just like frankly China had a rebirth under Deng Xiaoping. And India had a rebirth under Manmohan Singh after decades of just being in the toilet. The US would have to experience a national rebirth. And that is a serious thing. That is a big deal. It would have to be like the level of Deng or Manmohan Singh or Lee Kuan Yew or something at that level. I do not think it is  you would know it when you saw it. And what kinds of things could lead to that? Let me give you some out-of-left-field thoughts. I do not think there is anything  but to answer your question do I think there is a tweak or another tweak? No I do not think there is a tweak because I think the US is on the civilizational downtrend. For example Intel failed their chip tape-out and Lockheed Martin as is mentioned the F-35 and Boeing failed their thing and all physical businesses have been shut down. The only thing that basically is functional if you think about it are the internet businesses that were founded 20 something years ago. Those are only things that are essentially functioning through the pandemic the political institutions did not work. And the reason is those new businesses were new enough that I guess they are like a fundamental distinction I have which is between founding versus inheriting. If the founders are still around the founders can edit things and change things. Whereas so many of these East Coast institutions were inherited. Sometimes in the literal sense of inherited fortunes or inherited newspapers or inherited money but also in the sense of inherited something that they could not have built in the first place. The 57th mayor or 72nd governor of some state could never have organized the National Guard and the Public Health Department from scratch. They were selected solely for legitimacy and not for competence as well. If you are elected you are selecting only for legitimacy you are not actually selected for being able to organize the NYPD from scratch. By contrast if you are a founder you are selected for both legitimacy why is the guy the CEO? Because he founded it. So you are selected for legitimacy but you are also selected for competence because all the backlinks the support that is come into you you do not just get them with a snap overnight like you do when you win an election they come to you gradually over time with a 1000 proof points. Zuckerberg did not just get three billion people and this gigantic organization. There were a thousand proof points that he did over 10 years where that support came in gradually. It was not just okay I do not have the nuclear codes. Boom. I have the nuclear codes. It was not like this overnight thing. It was gradual. And crucially one of the things about that is the folks who were selected on the basis of founding rather than inheriting selected for both legitimacy and competence rather than just legitimacy those folks actually are folks like Bezos who actually could organize the NYPD or the US military because he is an expert in logistics. And you know the saying right Amateurs talk strategy professionals talk logistics. I have no question that Bezos would at least be an extremely important contributor to the organization of military from scratch. If Bezos had to do the US military from scratch like a drone army he could probably do it. And so the question is how do you have selection for legitimacy and competence? How do you get more founding DNA versus inheriting DNA? So let me just throw a few interesting concepts out there. One thing I think about a lot this is a chapter in my upcoming book is 100 percent democracy versus 51 percent democracy. So what is 51 percent of democracy? Do you know what a Fosbury Flop is?  I do. I do. This one I actually do know.  Okay.  You want to explain it for us?  Sure.  Yeah Dick Fosbury.  Yeah.  Great story.  That is right. So basically if you have ever seen a pole vault in the Olympics you know what a Fosbury Flop is. It is essentially someone  they vault in such a way that they just barely clear the bar. They like manipulate their body in such a way. Go ahead.  And they do it backwards.  Yeah they do it.  Over the  they do it backwards.  They do it backwards. So it is just like barely clearing the bar. And that is the way a 51 percent democracy works. Where if you think about the root of democracy it is not actually voting per se the root of democracy is the consent of the governed. That is what makes a democracy legitimate. Is that  go ahead.  Can I add a note on the Fosbury Flop?  Sure.  A quick note on the Fosbury Flop and Dick Fosbury is that for the vast majority of the time that the Olympics have existed the techniques used for clearing that pole vault bar were almost like not a scissor kick necessarily but very similar to the way you might clear the high hurdles in a sprint race. And then Dick Fosbury comes along and I think I want to say it was in Mexico City but I   I think that is right. I think that is right.   might be misremembering that and the equipment had changed. So it became possible for the first time to land in the way that he landed which was on his back. And he was ridiculed at the time ended up winning a gold medal. And now that is the default technique used for   So Fosbury   Please continue.  Fosbury's method was actually a smart hack of the system. But one of the things about it is basically or the part that I am evoking is the feeling of just barely clearing the bar.  Very little margin of safety.  Little margin of safety. And so insofar as the legitimacy of democracy comes from the consent of the governed we kind of intuit that there is more legitimacy if there is a landslide. There is more of a mandate if it is a bigger margin because you have more consent. If there is more consent you need to use less coercion. You have more of a mandate with which to govern. 6040 is way better than 5149. Here's the issue. The issue is when it is 5149 which it is been for a long time now basically that is just the minimum necessary that is a Fosbury Flop of consent. It is a minimum consent to say Okay we have got the consent of the governed. And when you have the minimum necessary consent you have to use a ton of coercion when you are in power. And then what that does is it pushes that two percent over to the other side or whatever. And then the next group is in power. And then that guy has to use a lot of coercion when they are in power. And so this is a very bad negative feedback cycle where you are using yes you use coercion if you are a government but in general  think about being CEO if any of your followers here are CEO a lot of people have this kind of fantasy model of a CEO where the guy goes and barks where he is like I am the CEO just go do it like that. And if you ever are CEO you will find that that really does not work. You have to persuade and you have to convince and you need to motivate. And you really cannot just order flunkies around in quite that way because everybody's got another possible job they can get. It is more like a bunch of subatomic particles you are holding in your hand to just like not have them all go to escape or whatever. So it is a very different kind of thing where you have to convince you cannot really coerce. I am not saying that you sometimes cannot have to give it an order or something like Yes we are going to do it this way. I am not saying that does not happen. But ultimately it is much much more weighted towards convincing than coercion. Okay. So this is also true for a good leader. A good leader is doing more convincing than coercing. All right. Here's the point. We see this 5149 thing. The ideal would be a 1000. The ideal would be a 100 percent democracy where everybody consents and you do that in such a way that it is not like some Stalinist joke where everyone's voting their great consent for the great leader and they do not actually have a say. You need to have their not manufactured consent but demonstrated consent. To paraphrase Chomsky you do not want manufactured consent you want demonstrated consent. So where I go with that as I think okay there is actually three kinds of votes. We think of two kinds voting with ballot and voting with wallet which are democracy and capitalism respectively. There is a third kind which is voting with feet namely migration. Actually all three are components of the US political system. So for example if you put them on an axis with X axis being the cost of that particular kind of vote and the Y axis being the probability of changing the outcome. Vote with your ballot is a tiny tiny it is a small costs it is a few hours. And a tiny probability of changing outcome like one over N of N people roughly. If you vote with your wallet like a political donation it is not considered kosher to really calculate this out but people do. Washington Post often publishes like the price of a vote or whatever. They calculate okay here's the spending on political ads. Here was the actual votes. There is ways that people try to pull us out of regressions. Main thing is with some money you can effectively get more votes than just your one. Vote with your wallet it does through ads or what have you campaign stuff it gets to you  you are putting your 2300 max if you are an individual it might get you 10 votes or a 100. I do not know the number but basically it will get you more than one towards that candidate. All right. So that is a higher cost than a few hours but it is a somewhat higher probability still small of changing the law under which you live. And then we get to migration. Now migration is the highest cost of all usually because it is like 10000 or more to pick up stakes and move city to city or country to country. But it has by far the highest probability of changing the outcome. It is a 100 percent you just pick the laws. You just look at the dashboard of all the laws and you pick the one that you want and you moved there. Vote how you want we move where we like. And that is  go ahead.  No continue please.  So once you start thinking about like this third fundamental force there is nothing more American  I mean every  America is a nation of immigrants. That means tautologically it is also a nation of emigrants. And the camera is not as frequently put on what causes people to leave. What causes people to leave was declining economic circumstances or communism or Civil War or socialism or just a bad economic lack of opportunity and they came over to the US. And so if our ancestors were not evil then immigration cannot be evil. In fact immigration is the most American thing ever. And so now when you think about that as a third fundamental force you start thinking okay a 100 percent democracy means that people are resigning a social smart contract every few years they are part of a polity and they are  if they do not like it they have got 999 other jurisdictions to go to. They can vote with their feet to go over there. And the critical thing this does is this model of lots of jurisdictions run by the CEOs of city-states maximizes consent. You can  I can  I have got a mathematical model of this but maximize consent because like a company nobody is there if they do not want to be.  Let us take this opportunity to transition unless there are just any closing comments on that chapter that you would like to make but I would love to as our last topic   I have one last closing comment.  Yes. Fire away.  Once you start kind of thinking in this way about like maximizing consent and so on or using the network versus state something that is possible for example in Austin it is a city of like 850000-ish one point two million somewhere in that range of people. It is not inconceivable to just  if you start thinking of okay convincing rather than coercing you just start by declaring yourself shadow not you but someone maybe you okay someone with some distribution or even someone who wants to build it declares themselves either shadow mayor of Austin or community organizer or something like that. Okay. And they just   Very different proclamations.  Very different proclamations.  Yes.  Shadow mayor is like this concept from the UK like the shadow government. And you just start organizing people whether it is Austin or some other city. You just start organizing people. It is just like you start a company you declare yourself CEO you and who? You are the CEO you just named yourself CEO. Okay. So you just  whatever title you decide to give it maybe you say lead community organizer. I do not know. And people just start folding into you if you start delivering the goods. What are the goods? I think you would conceive of this thing as like a network union. Let us say not like a normal social network but a social tree. Not everybody connected higgledy-piggledy but a graph where folks are folding up into a union leader effectively a network union leader. Excepted it would be a network union so it is not just focused on labor rights but it could collectively bargain on behalf of the people as consumers as producers as investors as voters whatever. It is just like a group of folks that are organized for a collective action. It could organize for example shoveling of snow or empowers out it is a genuine community organization and you have this head and these folks folding into them. What is my point? Just like a startup you can grow that  and you might go back in time because this is so new. It is actually old what I am talking about is old but it is new to us today because it has not been done in a while. It does not seem like something you would. People know how to start a company and a multi-billion-dollar business they do not how to start a community organization but your ancestors did it like an Elks club or whatever type thing. And so you build that up and you may name it something and you started accumulating users 10 a hundred a thousand 10000 because your organization is competent and able to deliver the goods locally. It does not have guns. It cannot coerce. It does not have guys with badges. It cannot tax. It has to do everything with contributions. Maybe it is selling a product. Maybe it is organized like a company. There is many different ways of doing it. But fundamentally it is delivering the social goods that the current elected inherited government cannot. Because that inherited government was set up for a different time under a different set of circumstances. As you start just delivering more goods you gain more political capital. And ultimately that entire social structure is just softer in people's heads. The mayor the supervisors city hall all of that is just stuff people have agreed to do. And just like fiat to cryptocurrency call that fiat government this crypto government or something like that. I might do it all pseudonymously or whatever for some time. It is lots of different ways and parameters you can fix. At a certain point when you have got 100000 people in this hierarchical organization then yeah when there is an election called you will probably just instantly win and become mayor. And this is a way that you can affect political change outside of politics because you start actually focusing on delivering the societal goods by convincing people and you set coercion to zero. And frankly you can get really far with that because CEOs get really far with that. You might think of this as a tech startup. That is a fine way of thinking about it and you modify it to make it like a community oriented tech startup. There might be dues. You could do subscriptions. There is lots of different ways you could make this work. It is a community organization where you pay in to get something out just right there that might work. It is got local news. It is got childcare. It is like round-robin childcare. You keep track and you give to get. There is a lot of things you can do here once you start thinking about this. You can use Facebook groups to organize it. You do not need to code things at the beginning. A lot of it is just you might be able to do it with no-code if you know that. This is I think the recipe for how you start rebuilding functional organizations in the US. Not try to jam a square peg into a round hole and be like Hey let me capture the coercive of state and get the guns and then I will be able to finally do something here bossing around the other 49 percent. Instead you build these convinced-oriented organizations as opposed to coerced. Let me pause there. Okay your thoughts?  Well I think this  I might just call this  maybe this episode should be titled The Episode That Shall Spawn a Thousand Shadow Mayors. I think this is a valuable discussion. I think this is a very valuable discussion and I am glad that you got to explain this and I would love to get to India.  Yes. Sure.  So let us add any sort of concluding statements just to that piece. And then segue if you are open to it to maybe starting with India the dark horse as you mentioned and what is currently at stake. And there may be many things at stake but certainly the one that is pinned at the top of your Twitter profile is of interest to me. So I will let you take it from there.  Great. Yeah. So all right. So we talked about China we talked about the US. And so you have this thing where you have this ascending China and you have this declining US and they are just on a collision course sparks are already flying. This is the Thucydides Trap of the rising power and the declining one and big fight. And there is an interesting possible way out of this. Or at least  I am not sure there is a way out for the US and China but there might be a way for the rest of the world. Especially someplace like India which is  India is number three so it is neither the US nor China. It is actually in its own way in the position of a Singapore for example where it is not realistic you might think it is realistic to coerce the world to use the dollar. You might also think it is realistic to coerce a big chunk of the world to use the digital Yuan. Both of those are contenders for a global reserve currency the digital rupee is not for because it is number three you would have to be at the number one number two. So you could do something different. You could say actually the other possibility here if you are neither Windows nor OSX you go all in on Linux right? So you are neither the dollar or the renminbi you go all in on BTC and crypto because that is as a nation your first thing is you want to be able to control your currency but internationally you want no one to be able to control your currency. And you would rather have no one control it than a foreign power control because the currency is not just a currency it is a technology platform right? ternational market that is a technology platform the US can hit a button and just de-platform you from ike Twitter can de-platform you from Twitter right? The dollar is not just currency it is a technology platform. And it is a declining technology platform because it is basically based on this 20th century technology. If you look at the I retweeted this other day but new China's been gradually over the last 10 years replacing the dollar in cross-border trade. It was basically 80-something percent in 2011. And now it is I think it is now less than or close to less than 50 percent. So it is about to flip  the flipping thing is happening right? And then they will just replace it completely and it will be dollar independent. And that means just like the BitLicensing that we mentioned earlier there'ill come a day just like New York tried to throw its weight around with that license and actually found that it just sanctioned itself. And rather than forcing a bunch of companies to jump through its hoops those companies just put it last on the list right? America will try to wheel the dollar as a weapon one more time and just find that it is actually showing itself. It is just walled itself off from enough of the world economies outside the dollar economy.  Is India at risk of doing that right now?  So India had postulated a crypto ban. Okay. I think that if you look at the very latest reports that is now being retaught. And the reason for that is a lot of tech people a lot of financiers a lot of people in the government have communicated that actually the two biggest stories in India over the last 30 years are A economic liberalization and B the internet and crypto combines both right? It is the financial internet. It is literally at that level. Cause what did the internet do? It digitized books movies songs all forms of media right? Crypto goes and digitizes everything scarce. Stocks bonds commodities and of course gold and other things. Basically because what a blockchain is potential it was a way to copy things from point A to point B a blockchain is a way to transfer things scarce things in a proven way. So every financial asset becomes natively digital just like every media thing became natively digital. So economic globalization and internet massively benefited India and crypto is a combination of them. And so banning it would be this huge . So I wrote a couple of long articles on this A Why India Should Buy Bitcoin and B How India Legalizes Crypto and those have gotten a fair amount of traction I think within the Indian discussion. And there is some really good follow-up articles and videos that I have been retweeting. And it is definitely something now where I think folks are realizing that a ban would be precipitant. You know it would be too hasty. We will see what happens. But I think that it is going to be more likely that it is legalized with some form of regulation than it is to be banned knock on wood that is how it looks as of right now. Right. But 10 scale.  Okay. What would be the global consequences of India banning cryptocurrency?  So global consequences would not actually it is like  seen and unseen right? The thing is that if India banned crypto people do not understand how big a deal it is that India banned crypto because crypto has not had time to compound within India. It got banned in 2018 and then unbanned. Right. And so because of that the crypto industry is in a much more nascent state than it is in other places and so on. Meaning only like 10 million people have it or something like that which is small for a relatively large country. Right. But let me describe what would happen in the alternative and then it will be more obvious as to why it is a big deal. Basically over the last four years while everybody in the West was obsessed with American politics India's brought about 400 million people online. There is something called Reliance JIO which basically at 4G LTE there it is about a hundred X cheaper than in the US. So it has the cheapest mobile LTE service in the world which is insane right? Cause that is a huge physical infrastructure project in India that is hard to do but you need reliable power. All kinds of things have to work for something like that to work and at the same time two other things happened. COVID happened so all the world's jobs went remote and crypto happened which meant that you have this peer to peer international payment rail. So India has the opportunity to have 400 million people suddenly start doing all these remote work jobs that they are newly qualified for with their phones. Because every remote work job cannot be done there which is at least I do not know 10 million 20 million 30 million new sources of remittances and remote work. Maybe it is like 10 X that who knows. Right. So that would completely change the world. It would basically mean that every Indian who could do white collar work could do it for one 10th the price on an Android phone being paid in crypto or something like that. And when I saying crypto I do not necessarily mean Bitcoin or Ethereum but that is also possible. But if you look at stablecoinstats.com one of the stable coins which you can now transmit to anywhere that has an internet connection all they need is an Ethereum address you can send it to them. So the magnitude of that disruption is hard to actually when you have like a few hundred million people coming online that is a very big deal if they are part of the global labor market. It is not like they would not be connected if they did not have crypto but they would be a lot less connected because crypto means anyone on the internet can pay anyone for shorter it is like email. So if you have to go through the rupee it is fine for some purposes but it is certainly not fine for just paying somebody 20 bucks to do something right now. That is a multi-day wait for an international wire transfer you spend more than that on the wire fees it just will not work. So banning crypto would be one of those things where it is more obvious as to what would be lost when we unbanned crypto. So by 2030 you will be like yeah okay that whole thing would not have happened without it. But it is hard for me to show you that yet because the compounding has not happened yet.  Right. But with distribution with wider distribution and use of say micropayments via cryptocurrency much of the friction for this type of gigantic possible workforce to engage globally is removed. Right? A lot of the friction put another way.  Yes exactly.  If the Indian government wants to facilitate the global participation and effective competition of its citizens we are going to come online en masse with profound implications then cryptocurrency facilitates that substantially.  That is right India basically is internationally competitive in computer science. And it is also pretty good at all of these I mean like the Indian diaspora has been pretty good at things like finance media journalism as mentioned engineering but also medicine and so-and-so right. It is notable in those areas. These are all white collar jobs that you could do over an internet connection for crypto. And then you would not even have to leave India. And remittances remote work are a huge source of revenue. So basically India could be this the other thing about it by the way by supporting crypto right now America's blowing up the Middle East and China is building colonies in Africa. And you know actually on net yes we built those colonies for everybody. You can call them colonies you can call them cities. Like the Africans actually are benefiting from the Chinese presence. In that sense they are actually getting infrastructure and so on out of it. If you actually talk to Africans there they are not that negative on them. It is definitely not like Oh we hate the Chinese or something. It is not like that. But people can say Oh the Chinese are actually hooking them today and then they are going to put them in debt. Like they are trying to do with the belt and road projects. Are your listeners familiar with that? No?  It depends. I am sure some of them are! I am not.  China has this thing called the belt and road which was a bigger deal before the pandemic but they may be rebooting it. Essentially it is this idea of building global trade routes with over land and over sea where China builds across Eurasia these huge railway lines that can ship their finished goods everywhere to hit all these markets. And one of the concepts behind the belt and road is China builds infrastructure in all of these countries ports and railway stations and fueling stations and all this stuff schools whatever and in return that government just takes out a loan in renminbi but maybe it cannot pay back in which case China kind of repos everything and it has a military base there or whatever. So that is kind of this heads I win tails I do not lose deal that China is doing. It is actually quite smart. It is kind of like the Marshall plan in a different way. You know where the US got all of these military bases. That is a cynical way of looking at it of course. But you know that is certainly part of the games for the USF military presence in Western Europe. What is the point? Point is while America is blowing things up and while China's building these colonies what India could do is build software for the world because getting behind crypto and this is a good case right? If India gets behind crypto crypto is a globally neutral platform because everybody can trust it since they do not need to trust they can audit it. They can look at it themselves. I already see this today Chinese people no longer trust the retrains investors do not trust the US legal system and certainly not vice versa but both of them will definitely invest in a smart contract on Ethereum. That is actually where international capitalism still lives and will continue to thrive even in this age of tariffs and trade war and so on and so forth. People can actually work across borders regardless of facility fights. This is actually my spirit and this is something which I think India can be kind of a peacemaker. Similar to actually in some ways they tried to stay out of the cold war with the so-called non-alignment. There was NATO and the Warsaw Pact and non-alignment. And the non-alignment movement was sympathetic to the Soviet Union but it was not sending troops around the world to wage communist revolution. And that is actually the origin of the term third world. First world was the West second world was the communist countries and the third world where all these countries are behind the non-alignment movement. Now of course the non-alignment movement came in third it was poor. It did not have part of the reasons it did not join any militaries it did not have the money to even pay for the guns or anything like that. But now back to the future I think if the US and the West is there is a declining West and it is woke capital and you have on the other side the Chinese are communist capital. I think India could be crypto capital and it could be the center of the decentralized movement which is maybe the most powerful of the three because there are sympathizers of crypto in both the US and China millions of people. And it sounds weird to put it that way today in 2020 but it will not sound that weird in 2025 or 2030 because crypto is an ideological movement and it is a transnational movement. It is international capitalist and it is not nationalist capitalist like Reagan it is not nationalist socialist or international socialist like Hitler or Stalin's national socialist or Lenin was international socialist it is internationalist and capitalist. Or rather Trotsky was internationalist and socialist. So international and capitalist is like tech that is crypto. That is do a deal across borders that is I do not care what you look like we are equal partners in the deal and of course there is bad aspects of it too I am sure people can rattle them off but ultimately there is an ideology embedded in there. It is not simply a currency. And that is I think over time going to be what blue jeans were in the Soviet Union. That is to say the orange coin is like the global symbol of freedom and prosperity. Like the blue jeans were in the Soviet union. It is really a deep point. You know blue jeans in the Soviet union were a symbol of what was there beyond the Iron Curtain. The orange coin is both freedom being able to transact with whoever you want to say what you want freedom from surveillance speaking your mind not being de-platformed not being censored and of course prosperity because they are going up and to the right. Go ahead.  I was just thinking to myself we are going to have to call this episode The 4-Hour Podcast.  That is funny! No that is true. We have gone on a lot. So I think that there is an outside chance that India could become a backer of crypto for national security reasons because it is not going to be the US or China. So it could play a different game. If it embraces crypto then India gets all this remittance volume. It gets all this remote work volume and all of its financiers are actually quite good and all of its engineers are also quite good. The other aspect of crypto is it would allow Indian media  so this is actually if you want a dark horse you want a dark horse prediction for the 2020s? I actually think India has the potential to become a media superpower. Why do I say that? So China in the late '90s early 2000s it was making plastic stuff for Walmart. A lot of people were very skeptical of China's ability to ascend the value chain. All of a sudden we are going to make fancy machine tools like the Germans and of course it did. It went all the way up from iPhones and stuff now it makes drones with DJI and it makes basically everything other than the very top end semiconductors and they are working on it. China's workshop in the world people no longer say that it makes only crap. It makes a lot of quality stuff there now. I am just giving them their due. They do big quality stuff and they ascended that value chain very intentionally very methodically with espionage with all of that stuff with beg borrow and steal they did everything they could. You have a company there they forced to the acquisition of it all that stuff. They play fair and foul. So China became a tech and manufacturing superpower because they have got WeChat they have got the software and they have also got the physical stuff but I think India can take a different path and become a tech and media superpower. And the reason I say that is so first one we talked about the raw material. So of course he has Bollywood. You know it has less well-known it has the backend for a lot of animation for Hollywood. Like if you go and you look at the end of Tenet you see all these Indians there. They did a lot of the special effects a lot of computer graphics because of a lot of Indian engineers. And India has SAJA or at least the diaspora in the US South Asian journalist Association with thousands of journalists. And it has this multi-thousand year culture of arts and letters and it is exporting Buddhism and Hinduism. You have got all that. So finally it is got engineers that are competitive worldwide. Because now actually number three in tech unicorns after the US and China most people do not know that. So how does India potentially become a media superpower? Well the difference is it is not Bollywood going global. That is often the mistake people make. Why? Because when you go and you have a chair from China can you tell it is a Chinese chair? No not really. It is a global chair. You have to look on the bottom to see Made in China. Everything's made in China. So there is a company for example called ArcelorMittal an Indian company it makes steel but it makes a global bar steel. You do not look at it and be like Oh that is Indian steel. That is just like a globally competitive product. That is like the best product you may say I am not a steel expert but it is one of the best products for its price. It is totally competitive. Whereas Bollywood has a specifically Indian flavor to it. And this is the mind shift that I think India is going to make in the 2020s it is going to take a lot of people by surprise. It is going to start building products for the world not just software product because it can do that but media products. And I think the direction is a bright sun to the West Black Mirror. And what that makes them what I mean by this as I was saying earlier because East Coast of the US has experienced a decline in relative status as the internet has risen they have this sort of Black Mirror worldview. This future sucks. We need to crack down on our free speech and free markets. I hate these tech bros. Oh you invented a bus with Uber. Like they basically are doubling and tripling down on the old stuff. It is sort of similar to a country where technology passed them by they double-down on religious fundamentalism. They might be richer than us or whatever but we are better we are holier we have got a better democracy or whatever. It is cope. It is more cope right? So the West is in this sort of Black Mirror thing where the only thing they can see of the future not all of the West but certainly a lot of the intelligentsia a lot of media folks and so on. The only thing they can see in the future is this Black Mirror where their future is declining. And the future is dystopian. To give a completely different worldview have you ever seen the movie or even the trailer to Super 30?  I have not.  You should definitely watch this. All your viewers should watch this. You could not have a more different spirit and attitude towards technology than this. Imagine sort of like Rocky but for engineers kind of like that. Okay. It is not exactly right but it is got the same spirit. And it is essentially something that just glorifies computer science engineering leveling up in the future because for the global South for India for all these countries that have just gotten smart phones they have risen with technology. This is something which is correlated with the greatest improvement in living standards they have ever experienced. And that is just a completely different you cannot teach that. You cannot inculcate that is just a different cultural base. The future is looking bright. We are all the way up. We are regaining we are coming back to our rightful place in the world that is kind of the mentality there. And that is the basis for a completely different kind of culture a completely different kind of culture expert. And so I think that you can start the export of films movies culture that is based on technology global technology. So all of the stuff that I talked about and how would you do it? You were like how do you make it not boring cause movies all require conflict. There is going to be some Pollyanna thing. And so there is actually an interesting flip that you can do with a dystopian movie. The key trick is it is like at the beginning of Terminator the present is all idyllic everyone's gambling through the fields and so on. And then this crazy scientist invents some horrible new Terminator and it messes it all up and now the future is worse. And so the premise is that the president was fine and this tech guy tech bro made the future worse. Miles Dyson in Terminator. But it is easy to actually invert that. And the inversion is a present that is dystopian. It is a present where we are all wearing masks it is the present where the power's going out it is a present where random fires rage and cold snaps hit in the middle of nowhere and politics is dysfunctional Oh this is a really fictional story of telling right? So it is the present that is dystopian and there is a small group that might be able to carve out a better future. But I think just invented for example a better form of nuclear power but they are getting hemmed in by these power hungry regulators and these NGOs that just hate nuclear power and the press it is just trying to impress them for clicks. And these guys need to figure it out and actually build something better. And so you just invert a lot of the tropes you are still fighting the power but you are actually fighting the power that is technologically conservative and you have a group of technological procrastinators. Now what I just described actually has a lot of move to it because that is actually a reality. That is every single startup founder has to go through what I just described. Now once in a while you see a Hollywood depiction of this. House of Cards on Netflix in its first season actually depicted an evil NGO. Like a water thing. It was like some water charity that was just a scam for  it was a future president's wife running this thing. It depicted an evil journalist. The original Ghostbusters depicted an evil regulator. So did Dallas Buyers Club depicted evil regulators. So there are snatches where evil journalists evil regulators evil NGOs are depicted but it is like a one to 10000 or a 100000 where normally it is the evil corporation with evil military that is depicted but those are the mental models that people slot things into. If you have media that inverts that if you have media that allows people to pattern recognize that and it does not have to be in feature films it can be short video games it can be clips and so on. That is actually upstream of driving technological progress. Because A it shows the technology is good. B it still has a conflict as much conflict as a dystopian. And C you can just take all those plots adapt them straight from the history of a thousand different tech companies startups and then going backwards further in time you know Robert Goddard had to fight NYT Co. on rockets. Do you know that story? Basically they said that it was a total joke that what he was doing was joke. They were basically being technologically conservative forever. And so every innovator had to fight this and those stories are on the shelf that we can just take off and make into things. Let me pause there.  Well I am just going to say dark horses and cryptocurrencies and biology oh my. This episode is going to take my team a hundred years maybe I will need a thousand Indians to help us with this to do the show notes. I am just imagining linking to everything that we that  I am using the royal we  that you have discussed so far. So I think this makes a lot of sense in part because my headset is running out of battery and my bloodstream is running out of glucose. I think this is probably a good chapter one for folks. Is there anything that you would like to say if you are open to closing now or close to it are there any closing comments or questions or requests of my audience that you would like to make?  Sure. Go sign up at 1729.com. It is free and you will get chapters of my book and you also will be able to get some crypto tasks. And if you like this there is a lot more of it. And it is all better organized in writing. Tim has been a very gracious host it is been a lot of fun. And I think all of these ideas are laid out at greater length in the book and on the tasks on WhatsApp it is all free.  Wonderful and people can find you on Twitter balajis website balajis.com. For everybody listening my team will make a best effort to link to everything that we have discussed. It is going to be an incredibly voluminous version of show notes and Balaji thank you so much for taking the time. This is going to have to be the episode of everything. There are many titles that are vying for the final version of what we will call this episode. It will be very very challenging but I am looking forward to it as a challenge. But thank you for making the time. This has been great. We have covered a lot of ground.  Awesome. Thank you.  Interview with Balaji Srinivasan on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Interview with Balaji Srinivasan on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast Raise prices. - Marc Andreessen Marc Andreessen  is a legendary figure in Silicon Valley -- and worldwide. Even in the epicenter of tech it is hard to find a more fascinating icon. Marc co-created the highly influential Mosaic Internet browser the first widely used graphical web browser. He also co-founded   