 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show where it is my job to interview world-class performers from all different disciplines all different areas and also to have people on who curate best practices. And I consider my guest today to be someone who falls into both of those camps. His name is Greg McKeown GregoryMcKeown spelled M-C-K-E-O-W-N naturally. He is the author of the new book  Make It Easier To Do What Matters Most and a previous book of which I am a huge fan  The Discipline Pursuit of Less which hit the New York Times bestseller list and has sold more than a million copies. And I have saved my highlights from that book in my Kindle in Evernote printed them out highlighted them read them dozens of times. That is how highly I think of this particular work. He is also a speaker and the host of the popular podcast What is Essential. He has been covered by the New York Times The New Yorker Fast Company Fortune Politico Inc and many other outlets and is among the most popular bloggers on LinkedIn. He is also a young global leader for the World Economic Forum originally from London England. He now resides in California with his wife and their four children. You can find them online at GregMcKeown.com M-C-K-E-O-W-N once again on Twitter GregoryMcKeown Facebook Greg McKeown Speaker Instagram Gregory McKeown. Greg welcome back to the show.  Tim it is great to be back with you.  And I thought we would start with some leftover bits from our first episode and for people who are interested in knowing how much content will be overlapping or redundant my goal is to make it close to zero. So in other words if you want the joyful experience of listening to conversations with Greg we had a blast in our first conversation and my goal is to dig in areas we did not have a chance to explore last time. And I am going to start with one that might seem very random and it is more of a fragment than anything else because I do not have much context. And that is what is Gandhi's only poem and how did you come across it?  Well Gandhi became a barrister in London and might have stayed a barrister but he had an emergency come up in South Africa with his family there. So he traveled to South Africa. And while he was on the train he is kicked off. He is told You cannot be in first class and he will not leave. He is bought the tickets. He is allowed to be there from his point of view but it is in the middle of apartheid and he is not permitted to be there as an Indian so they throw him off. And that becomes a decisive moment for him. What am I going to do? And it was essential enough that he decides to stay and fight the law that allowed them to physically throw him off the train and he was successful but it took him a long time. He was there for 23 years before he was successful. Had to go to jail along the way a whole series of things. After that he went to India and what he is best known for the great standoff with the British Empire. And he wins through a series of Essentialist experiments really. He figures out what is essential. The thing that is going to matter and what he finds is salt. That infinitesimally small but infinitely important item salt was one of the reasons the British could so effortlessly control so many Indians. And so they controlled the production of salt and therefore of bread and the whole food chain. And so that was where the idea came to him to be able to walk across India in a demonstration of civil disobedience and make salt at the beach became known as the salt march because some 600000 Indians followed him and the British stand back and say Well who is this man? And where does his power come from? He is got no political position. He is got no money. And yet he is able to command this sort of loyalty this type of leadership. And that continues until eventually he brings independence to the largest democracy in the world. At that time 300 million people. Of course now far beyond a billion. He is become the father of India. When he died the US Secretary of State said Here is a man who has shown that simplicity is more powerful than empires. And Einstein said of him Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth. I mean this is all high praise. And I think deservedly. When I happened to have the opportunity to speak about Essentialism in South Africa I went to the Phoenix Settlement where he lived for that 23 years to the house where he lived. And I was given what I was told was the only poem he ever wrote. And I found in there four words that to me are a great mantra for life and also really the very essence of Essentialism.  Reducing oneself to zero. And that really is what Gandhi was all about. What he was doing was stripping himself of all the things that maybe other people thought they needed to do the other politicians at that time or just everyone else who is accumulating stuff like wealth or all these things. And he just said I just want to pursue my essential mission. What it was I came here to do and it is about that stripping away process. And so to me those words are beautiful words they are powerful words and they have come to be a symbol a mantra an ideal that I want to work towards.  Thank you for all the context. I was familiar with the use of salt as a symbol by Gandhi. And I was so impressed by how he was able to and really in many respects needed to but others would have failed keep his use of symbols extremely simple. He was able to use simplicity with such great power. And I am curious if there are symbols that you use for yourself and they might take the form of mantras reducing oneself to zero. Are there other symbols for you? I know we spoke of a piece of artwork called The Listener last time which I looked up and enjoyed so much that I ended up buying a print of it to put on my wall. Perhaps you could take a moment just to describe that but are there other symbols does anything come to mind when I ask that question that you use for yourself? Maybe not so much for others.  Yeah speaking first to The Listener I mean the idea behind this is by James Christensen and he always writes up a description of his painting. So it is not just that they sort of speak for themselves he speaks for them. He is passed away now unfortunately but what he says about The Listener he says Look in this Dolby surround sound of our daily lives we all have to find the mute button. And his idea is that since a painting cannot have a soundtrack that the title character at the center of The Listener has found that the best way to shut off the noise in the visual cacophony that is in the painting is to close his eyes. And so that is really the image. It is someone who is listening to his still small inner voice and remaining centered without being overcome. It is to find peace in a busy world. And that is what he is capturing. And so to me that  I mean on this picture there is images of Picasso you can find lots of famous people on there politicians and so on and I think his mother-in-law's in there. But it is all these people trying to pull on his attention and his energy and that listener is at the center. And so that is why it is a favorite painting for me because  and I have it in my office here as a reminder with all that goes on all the noise all the competing voices to listen not even how we would say to our own voice so to speak not just to what I want what I want to go after in life but quieter even than that. A different voice. A friend of mine describes the difference between the scared voice and the sacred voice. And I need to get past even the scared voice that might be mine and get to that stiller sacred voice inside. And that is why I love it. That is why that is a symbol to me. In terms of other symbols for me one that just came to mind after you asked the question is actually another painting. Oh man I am emotional even thinking about this. So I have got to tell a story to put it into context.  Please.  Is that okay?  More than okay. Encouraged.  So a few years ago Anna and I and our four children we moved into a beautiful area. It is white picket fences. There is no street lamps. It was like it was built in the '50s and the whole world moved on and nobody told anyone here and you have got more horse ways than roads. And it was just this beautiful environment to raise our children in. And one of my daughters Eve especially thrived. She just never wears shoes anywhere. She is always climbing trees. She is just a voracious reader. She writes masses in her journal every night. She loves to name the chickens the animals. She is just full of light and energy. Once I often take one of my children with me when I travel. And so one of the trips I was on with her an hour into the trip I literally text my wife. I am like She has not stopped talking for one hour. It was just pouring out of her as she is just vivacious and amazing. And she just as I say especially seemed to thrive in this new environment with space and out in nature. And then she turned 14 and she talked less she took longer to do her chores less vivacious a little more awkward. And Anna and I just said Well this is pretty age-appropriate behavior. That can happen. That is fine. But then in a routine physical therapy visit she failed this very basic test. And the physical therapist just said to Anna called her and pulled her aside and said Look that really is unusual. That should not have happened. You might just want to go to a neurologist about this. And you do not have to be warned twice right? You do not ever  Oh well I will get to that. We immediately did this and it got our attention. And we take her to a neurologist and what we had previously put up as being just evidences of being a teenager we suddenly saw through a new lens and realize that these behaviors might be much more important and they were. And also as we then paid attention we found that her capabilities inexplicably were just in a free fall. So instead of being vivacious and outgoing she just stopped almost speaking at all in sentences. It would be like one-word answers to anything. The emotion went out. She went  it was taking one of these old record players and you just make it go really slowly. I mean she could not even  it would take her two minutes to write her own name. 45 seconds I remember timing it to write the last three letters of McKeown. And we went to neurologist after neurologist and we were doing the things that we could do and they could not even give us the beginning of a diagnosis. Everything came back negative sort of good news but bad news because you would have no idea what is going on. And she is fully on the way to becoming comatose and then dying in a coma. I mean that is literally where we are and we do not have anything to go on. And I remember in the midst of this. I mean this is the stuff that agony is made of right? This is already a three four-month period. And I remember getting very quiet. And actually I am frank to say I mean I was praying about just what on earth to do. And words came to me. The words of a painting that we have in our home the words that came to me clearly was She will find what is lost. And that is the name of this painting. It is a beautiful painting. People can look it up. It is the image of a woman. And many other people that symbolically look a bit like angels but you could interpret it in a few different ways but they are all  she cannot see them in the painting but they are all trying to touch her. They are trying to bless her. They are trying to reach her. And there is no further explanation of that painting. But for me it means of course a very different thing. In that moment there is an assurance that no evidence can support. We do not even at this point have a diagnosis never mind a treatment. Never mind It is going to be okay. I mean nothing's going to be okay logically. Nothing is okay. But somehow there is this sense beyond it and it is been a long journey. It is been two years. All of this has happened since you and I last spoke on here. And she is had treatment quite miraculously. Had certain treatments in order to test  they said We are going to treat her in order to learn what might be going on. We have one neurologist who had that very clever idea about how you might use treatment instead of wait for pure diagnosis and then treat. You treat in order to learn and learned a great deal. And then return back into much of the state of before and just over this summer. So in the midst of the pandemic went through an aggressive treatment and is back. I mean she is back. And I would not have said that once in two years. But as of this moment she has found what was lost. She is vivacious and funny. In fact I just put on Instagram yesterday a video of all of our children dancing we can get to why they were dancing but they are all dancing in the kitchen. And I just managed to flip just an image before they realized that it was videoing them. But that is a symbol to me that matters and how that answer came is so connected also to The Listener and this deep principle. And yeah that is the answer to your question.  Thank you Greg. I cannot even imagine how terrifying and profoundly difficult that time must have been for you and your family. Are there any other approaches or tools that you have found supporting words anything that helped not just you but also the family during that period of uncertainty especially?  Well one of the other impressions I had was to look up a chapter in a book that I had read before and it was about cultivating a spirit of optimism and happiness. I think that is the name of the chapter. And I did not just feel like Oh I should just read that again. Well I did feel that. The sensation was I should do it every single day. And I did because you need whatever real help you can get in this moment. And what seemed to happen in that extremity was that there were neural patterns in me that were being rewired. So on a daily basis every temptation exists to fall into very unproductive emotions and habits right? I mean when something like this is so out of your control it is so vital. I mean there is a variety of things that you could fall into. But one of the things you can fall into is just I mean of course you could be complaining. You could fall into what I would call the heavy path. The depression exhaustion. You could try to solve the problem just through sheer effort. We could just  everything is going to be  there is not going to be any space for anyone but Eve. You could destroy your marriage. You could destroy your family culture. I mean all of these things were not just hypothetical. I mean they were right there. There was that opportunity. And as I was listening I read first of all and then started listening every day to  and I hardly missed a day in those first four months of listening to that. There was this other path this path of trusting of hope of good things to come. And the necessity to choose that path. And I would now call that like the lighter path. I mean it does not feel super light but it is lighter than the first. And so what grew out of that was instead of the heavier path Well why is this happening to us? Why us? Instead of going down just all worst case scenarios as everyone they are trying to be helpful of course but sending Well maybe she has this. Maybe she has that. They are not doctors or neurologists but they are trying to help. But these things they are sending to you are just like catastrophic diagnosis. And instead of that path it was like this it was Is there anything that we can be grateful for? Oh then we are going to say it. Say it clearly say it loud say it to each other. If we can see anyone doing something right we are going to talk about it in our family. If we could find humor. My oldest daughter Grace used to hold Eve's hand as they would go to a class or if they were going to  and she would just walk with her and she would just do anything to make her laugh. There was a little sense of humor still in her. It was definitely different but she did not move one iota away from her. Sometimes people in awkwardness or whatever wants to move away and she did not. So she brought humor into it. We would get around the piano and we would sing. We would read together at night. We would do the small and simple and even enjoyable things. And so what was at times agonizing but could have been seriously worse even was actually punctuated with joy. I mean it actually made us. It made our family culture. When this pandemic happened it was almost like we had a cultural antidote or something. That we all knew instinctively how to be and how to just  we are just going to invest in the culture again that is the first thing we are going to protect that asset. So all these things we cannot control do not control what is going on inside of our family and this culture. And it was a great advantage in fact in that sense when all of these things happened around us. And so I have come to think of that as being these two paths heavier path a lighter path. You can always make something however rough it is worse by a response or you can always make something a little easier by your response. Yeah.  Thank you Greg. Do you recall and maybe I just did not hear it but the name the title of the book. You mentioned you were reading a chapter and if you do not we can put it in the show notes later and I can get it from you after we speak. But do you recall offhand what the   Well the author of the piece it is a combination of lots of different talks and speeches in writing is Gordon B. Hinckley. He is a church leader and one of the truly most dynamic leaders that I have ever met ever known. you can go and see him on the old recording of Larry King and so on when he was still alive. He was on 60 Minutes. All over. I mean incredibly dynamic leader but just tremendously optimistic and was able to have an impact a positive impact all over the world. He wrote a different book not the one I was referencing although there is overlap called Standing For Something that did extremely well. And yeah we can get the item for the show notes.  Okay great. So the author is Gordon B. Hinckley and we will get the title. And for those listening we will put this in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast. Coming back to a few things that you said as a segue. So you mentioned in the throes of this situation with circumstances outside of your control there is a very understandable temptation to white knuckle and throw everything including the kitchen sink at it. To make it because it is that is your daughter's health and restoring it become the top priority. And I think there is a very understandable impulse to basically allow that to remove all the oxygen from the room and that you fix it by applying more work by working harder by increasing the volume. And I suppose that is as good a bridge as any to Effortless to your new book. So I really have deliberately not done any homework on the subject matter aside from a handful of notes that I have in front of me. But it is timely for me also because I feel like it is possible to use Essentialism and 8020 analysis and so on to determine the most important things to focus on. And even to following that focus on them but in so doing I think there is probably and I am stretching a bit here and I am going to hand the mic over there is a heavier path and there is a lighter path. Like there is a path of spaciousness. That is a word I have been thinking a lot about with respect to my own life ease and spaciousness. Does this have to be difficult? Is a question that I ask more and more frequently. So could you tell us the genesis story of this book or comments in any way that you think is appropriate?  Yeah you just nailed it. And I could not have written this book a few years ago. I mean you know the pressure there is it is a positive pressure but the pressure there is if you have written a book that is been successful to write the next one. And you are supposed to do it every 18 months or whatever the normal cycle is. And every time I went to do it I felt like I should not but I did not know why. There was no really good reason. I wanted to. I liked it but just felt like No you just wait. Which is not great for me. I am not a particularly patient person but I did. And I just literally could not have written this book without the experiences including  well definitely including the experience with Eve. And so in fact that is the background is that so Essentialism comes out I mean that changes everything for me. I am traveling all over the world and it is what I want to be doing. There is no complaint in any of this. I mean I want to be in with rooms full of people who want to become essentialists who want to hear about it. I mean everything in my life is now more want to do than before. We were doing a book signing and there is like  on one of these trips I was on there is like 300 people around the building and they would run out of books. I would never done that before. I go back to the room at night. And it is just like these things are a blur. And one of the groups I work with successful entrepreneurs I was working with and one of them says  talks about this the big rock theory. And we all know the big rock theory right? You have got this container and if you put in the small grains of sand first and then the small rocks and then the big rocks it does not fit right? That is the first part. And that is how it is supposed to work is that if you put the big rocks in first then the small rocks then the sand then it all fits. And that is like first of all I mean I believed that forever. And it is very analogous to Essentialism. Invest in the big rocks so the essential things your health then your relationships then your important projects. All of that I feel is true and right but I started to feel there were cracks in my assumptions because I was being more selective than I had ever been. I am not writing the next book. I paused on the Stanford class I was co-teaching. And the list could go on. The significant things I am not doing I am trying to be highly selective but I am also by this point father of Essentialism whatever the father of four children now. And so there is all of that and you want to be there for them and however inconvenient that can feel to be there and to respond. And so the question that grows up for me as I am traveling one day it is just like Yeah but what happens if you have too many big rocks?  Need a bigger jar.  Right. That is for real right. And it is like yeah I am being selective but what do you do?  You are being waterboarded by opportunity.  Yes sure. Yes sure. And we can say it less by responsibility.  Sure.  That these are things you want to do. They are essential. So now you have got a choice of what to do. You can either fail you can actually just Well okay. I am not doing that essential thing. Or you have got to come up with something else. And as I am out there traveling and I am having this thought I get a phone call and it is my son Jack on my wife's phone which gets my attention. And I am hearing him he is like pale-faced. And he is trying to explain Eve was eating and this and that. And my wife's saying Turn the phone around. And this is when she is having her first massive tonic-clonic seizure. So I am already feeling too many rocks. And then you throw in a crisis and that just blows everything up. I mean adrenaline gets me through the next few hours right. We are taking the red-eye back we looked at the hospital visits and all the neurology appointments everything I have just been talking about but normal life does not stop normal responsibilities do not suddenly just disappear. And that was really when  I mean I remember it took me probably longer than maybe it would for other people to just admit it. Is that you are right Essentialism you do not want to be admitting this perhaps but it took me a while. And finally I am just like Anna look I am not well. And what I learned through that crucible was and this is probably the distinction between. It is like what I learned is I was doing the right things and that is Essentialism but I was doing it in the wrong way. And Effortless is about doing the right things but in the right way. I was like the weightlifter who is lifting with their back. I am like the I do not know a baker who is kneading the dough all by hand instead of by a machine. I mean I am doing the right things but maybe I am doing them in a hard way is do it. So this is the point of decision. It is like do you put the rock down or do you find an easier path? If you cannot work any harder you have got to find an easier path. And I think there is a lot of people yes it might not be the daughter and the situation specifically as I am describing but if nothing else the pandemic itself that has pushed people to a similar point high achievers high performers who are on the edge of exhaustion. They cannot work any harder. And yet their impulse is to work harder because that is what got them here. That is what got them success. And so even as they approach exhaustion burnout or even go past it they still think The only way out of this that is what I have done before it is been hard work. I will just hard work my way out of this. And I think that is a really high risk. And it certainly in hindsight would have been for us. If we had gone down the harder part the heavier path we would have nothing left to deal with the second time when she relapsed. I mean we would have  you are all spent and then what do you give up? Then what do you lose? You are losing more and more rocks all the time. So that is really is the story behind Effortless is this requirement this need to discover is there an easier path? And the joy for me now and I feel real responsibility for this is to bring that to people. Because I just know I feel quite emotional about talking about this book because of what we have covered I suppose. But also because I somehow can feel it in me the unbelievable burdens that people are in right now. Some of them talked about many of them done in silence especially if you are a high performer. I mean this is the problem. There is this group of people and it is an expanding group of people who  these are the people who are not complaining. So they are silent. They are just they are pivoting when you need to pivot they are working hard they are doing what it takes. They are doing home education now suddenly. This group has spent a year in this mode. And I think a lot of them are closer to breaking than they have ever been. I mean I just read 85 percent of people feel their wellbeing is worse than it was a year ago. And that is just one symbol of this. And so to me in ways I absolutely did not predict and could not have predicted I think Effortless is an idea potentially whose time has come because as we really in a way unfortunately it hits at a time when I think it has the power of relevancy.  So Greg where would you suggest we go from here? And I rarely ask that question in interviews but we have a lot of options and you are probably more aware of the range of those options than I am. There are notes in front of me that we could explore because I would love to certainly share tactics and specifics with people in terms of what you have learned and what you are applying what seems to be giving you the best effortless return on investment so to speak. What has sort of changed your experience of working on the essentials for instance? So I will just give a sampling. I am not saying this is the direction we have to go but why you need a done-for-the-day list solve problems before they exist visualizing what done looks like how to take the first obvious action harnessing the strength of 10. These are just a few that I circled for myself because I found them curious. First step to clearing clutter in your head how effortless inversion can help solve a problem how to make your essential activities enjoyable and on and on and on. We have dozens of options here. Or we could take a different fork in the road. And I would love to get your thoughts on what makes sense because certainly I want people to come away from this interview if they are unable to read your book with some approaches strategies tactics or techniques that they can use.  Well I did not come into this with an answer to that question of course but I think we need to before just shifting to tactics I think we need to at least have a perspective a bit broader about how to even think about this effortless way. And we may find some interesting ways to explore that but   Great.  There is three in a sense Effortless is almost three books in one. They are connected but the first it is like three concentric circles. In the middle there is effortless state. Then second is effortless action. And third is effortless results and they build on each other but they are still quite distinct. An effortless state is  it is something we all know but we also know being out of the effortless state. Being out of the effortless state is like it definitely happens to many people me included. End of the day you are exhausted. You start to see everything people say as  You get an email it sounds like a slight to you. You cannot find your keys. Nothing's working. And it is because you are fatigued. But one of the things I found in the research is that when you are fatigued you are not a good judge of being fatigued. So you think you are seeing things as they are but you are really just seeing them as you are. And so you start to get everything wrong. Everything starts to feel hard. And one of the enjoyable to me ideas is really that even when things seem very hard many many problems can be solved by having a warm meal hot shower and a good night's sleep. You wake up the next morning and suddenly you find the keys right where you left them. Suddenly you see the email you received. It is like Oh no I know how to respond to that gracefully. It is no problem. And suddenly things are back in their proper perspective. And that is just one way of thinking about this effortless state. Part of the deeper work of effortless state is to do with figuring out what is cluttering you up right now. I think of each of us as having supercomputer capabilities. I mean our mind is so advanced it is so impressive. It is built for figuring things out and processing and so on. And yet it is just like my laptop can be at times starting to run slow because of all of the cookies that have been added to it and so on. And the metaphor is well in a few seconds you can clear all of that out of the machine and it is working a lot faster. In a similar way I think one of the most important effortless strategies is to figure out what is burdening us. What we are holding onto. And so this is different than a sort of quick-fix approach. It is like we have to maybe do a little deep searching in terms of what we are holding onto what grudges we are holding onto what we have not forgiven what complaints we are holding onto things that are using up more and more of our hard drive our RAM so that it is making everything harder. There is a story I came across of a man who  it was a fictional story of a man who was walking along. He is respected in his community. He leans over sees a little piece of string on the floor. He picks it up. He likes to fix stuff. And he just Oh that could be useful. And in the same day at the same time in the same square somebody else loses their wallet and they see him picking this thing up and they assume and believe it is the lost wallet. Accuse him of it. Tell everybody about it. He insists it is not true but they judge him harshly. So he is like a pariah in the town and everybody is  wherever he goes they do not  it is awkward now. They do not trust him now. This of course is a rough experience but he gets so fixated on it so obsessed by it that he just cannot stop talking about it. Everywhere he goes It is a little piece of string. It was just a piece of string. He starts so even after people would have got over it and moved on and okay just kind of forgotten it. No no worries. He is still raising it he is talking about it. He gets sick over it. He loses his health over it. He literally on his deathbed and it kills him. He is on his deathbed A little piece of string. It was a little piece of string. You just cannot do it. And so here he is he could have got back to what was essential what mattered. He could have got back to making a contribution. Put all of his energy onto what really was important but instead is consumed with this slight that he is experienced this judgment this harsh judgment and so on. And I do not know why I am really thinking this right now but I just wonder for you.  Here we go finally. Take the gloves off and get dirty.  I mean for you are there burdens grudges things that you have not forgiven things that you have collected that you are holding that are just making life harder than they need to be in some way? And I really do not know if you have something here. I am just feeling this moment and I am just putting it to you. What is your first thought when I ask you that?  With respect to would you like me to speak to grudges specifically or other types of let us just call it withholds or kind of persistent psychic drag things that fit in that category?  It is a good description of what you just had. I mean I am open to both but I am just going to put grudges to you.  All right. So I will say that a lot has happened since you and I last spoke and I took our conversation very seriously. I will not spend a lot of time revisiting it but we went through an exercise about with respect to finding the essential and identifying the blocks the obstacles both real and more often perceived the reasons for not doing the essential the commitments I have made to the inessential et cetera and a lot has happened since then that   Just to be precise on that. What you were talking about at that time was the thing you identified was a book that you wanted to write that you were writing. In fact you would spent years working on it but there was  the drag was just feeling somehow so burdened with This has to be perfect. And I feel like I might get judged quite harshly if I do this and how I intend to do it. And so there were things that were keeping you from actually proceeding with it. And it felt to me I do not need to overstate it but a moment of at least small breakthrough. That is how I remember it.  It was very insightful and it stuck with me. And I had a lot of conversations with people I trust afterwards. And many months later decided to take the easier path. What I mean by that is I had in my mind the assumption or the belief that it should be a book and the most important component of that entire book on healing was the disclosure of childhood abuse childhood sexual abuse in my case from age two to four and the tools and approaches that had most helped me to heal from that. That was really the  that is the core of the book that I had intended to write. There is a lot more to it. There is a lot more surrounding it. There are many concentric circles as you might say but that was really the key piece. And   And I do not want to interrupt you but I want to say clearly thank you to you. I have shared that outside of this moment but it is so important what you have done in sharing this and putting it out there. And that takes courage. As we all know courage is awful feels awful and you have done it and it really matters. Please continue.  Thank you for saying that. And to try to tie this together I ended up releasing it as a podcast after conversations with my girlfriend and understanding that books take a long time especially my books because they are the size of phone books. And in three to five years people would die whether of natural causes or suicide or otherwise or they might psycho-emotionally shut down. And there would just be so many losses in terms of that extended protracted writing process that I decided to put it out as a podcast. The question was How can I make this as easy as possible for myself? Because I knew it was going to be fucking hard. I knew the whole thing was going to be excruciating on multiple levels. And so I constantly asked myself How can I make this easier? How can I make this easier? Do not do a book do a podcast. How can I make the podcast easier? Do not make it a monologue make it a conversation. How can I make it easier? Do not commit to publishing it. Have the conversation recorded and reserve the right to never have anyone listen to it et cetera et cetera et cetera. And both in preparation for that and after that spent a lot of time  I know I have not directly answered your question but this is getting around to it.  Sure.  Both before and after that decided that I needed and wanted to have safety nets in place. And to prepare myself for this to prepare my team to set rules such that I would be as likely as possible to hold my footing because I have been re-traumatized by exploring this in the past. And I attempted to do writing related to this and it caused severe problems in my life for many months. So I was prepared to be destabilized and I wanted to decrease the odds of it being catastrophic. So I began to commit to certain practices and also sessions with people one of whom is named Jim Dethmer D-E-T-H-M-E-R. He has been on this podcast. A very important piece of the work that I have done with him has been related to identifying unsaids uncompletes or uncompleteds and so on that represent withholds that would include grudges and trying to engineer some form of closure. And the closure could just be letting it go in some very visceral sense in some way that feels complete because the easiest way to take things off your to-do list or to finish things on your to-do list rather is to remove them from your to-do list. So you are actually catching me at an unusual point in my life if you look at it from the perspective zooming out of the rest of my life. I have had a life full of grudges and full of anger. It just so happens that you are catching me at a point we are having this conversation at a point where I have done since this podcast came out if I am remembering correctly last September September 2020 and for people who want that story you can go to tim.blogtrauma. I will not belabor it here. It is intense and it is not for everyone but for several months prior to that up to now when we are recording as I look at the calendar late February this has been constant work. Do I still have grudges? I think the answer is yes. So let me try to if it still makes sense sort of do a quick search function.  Actually I want to ask you before we do that just what is the process that you have gone through? I certainly do not mean to retell the story because what you are saying is so valid about that when we have to tell and retell and retell traumatic stories but what have you done to close loops?  I should specify and I am glad you are asking that the work was far beyond the aspects of my life or grudges related to the trauma. And that I think and a lot of this is speculation almost all therapy is speculation if we are being honest with ourselves that I had many at the time adaptive responses to the abuse. And there were other examples of abuse that I did not even get into in that episode. But I had certain adaptive responses to that to survive as a child who could not defend himself and had had very little agency right. And those adaptive responses at some point became maladaptive. They outlived their usefulness and they became very unhelpful at best and very damaging and self-destructive in other cases. And I think that rage and anger and a mindset that really defaulted to offense is the best defense which I still believe on a lot of levels and that is actually a line that I attribute to a lot of the best athletes I admire but I   Right. But it is    what that meant is that anger which on some level I think in that offense and that attack default was a by-product of the in some ways the trauma that I experienced but the problems that it created and the grudges that stuck for long periods of time were not directly related to the traumatic event. If that makes sense does that make sense?  Well I think it does because what you are saying is that when you were so  you are in this position and I am no therapist we need to be careful but it sounds to me that you are in this defenseless position you are coming up with not just stories about it. When you are so young I mean for heaven's sake you barely understand the stories of what the world is and you are still trying to make sense of this evil and this unprotectedness and all of that you take on these new  this way of being in the world. And part of it sounds like this is too strong for what you have said but it is like almost a predatorial positioning. It is not like I am going to destroy you but it is a sense of threat. I remember a therapist I went to describing it this way. They said There is two states you can be in. You can be in a what-is-this state? And then you can be in a what-the-hell-is-this-state? Her words not mine. And   Let me if I could just bookmark that for a second. So I would say I certainly was not  I am not sure if this was if I am hearing it correctly but I was not predatory. I was highly weaponized if I felt I needed to retaliate or defend myself. So it was very much in the vein of Bruce Lee right? And I am going to mangle this but he has a quote along the lines of You graze my skin I pound your flesh. You pound my flesh I break your bones. You break my bones I take your life. Right? That was the mentality. And put another way. There is a Major Holdridge retired this is US Marine Corps has a quote. And it is Sometimes it is entirely appropriate to kill a fly with a sledgehammer. And I think that that was my feeling. If someone inflicted pain on me I felt it was my obligation to return it upon them tenfold a hundredfold. And I think there is actually still a place for that but as a default it wastes a tremendous fucking amount of energy. So not to take you off track. I would like you to continue.  No no that is not off track it is important. There is a big difference I think you are right between predatorial and highly militarized. It is more like a trigger ready to trigger. You are like Do not mess with me. I am fine. I am good here. But if you mess with me I am coming after you. And I mean at least it makes sense to me. This is a minor example but I remember where I was growing up in England and I was walking down the street one time just in the downtown absolutely doing nothing but walking. Two people walking towards me I did not even think did not register. And one of them I was probably about 12 at the time. He was 16-ish I would say. Two of them just kind of almost arm-in-arm together and then he just punched me in the face just straight in the nose just broke my nose just hard. And I was so shocked and I had turned around and they were just laughing and they just walked off. And that was it. There was nothing in me ready to respond to that. There was nothing I was prepared for. But I remember years later as an adult I mean I had not even thought about the experience but somebody they did not hit me but they went to kind of pretend hit me when I was an adult when I was in a mall. Almost the same situation two people walking towards me and I just lost it. I did not actually have a fight or anything but I just was so ready to because of that pre-programming and that experience. And of course it is not very helpful to have that pre-programming in there but it is an example of how when we have had an experience in the past and it can as you already said outlive its usefulness. Anyway that is what I am hearing in you is like Yeah I was ready to fight. I could not protect myself before but I was going to protect myself going forward.  Yeah. That is the thrust of it. And do I have grudges? I am sure I have a whole laundry list of grudges I am just struggling to pull up one specifically right now.  But I still want to go back I know I am bothering you with this but what did you do? You said that you have been doing things to remove them and I just want to know because that seems like such a valid and relevant thing. How do you close up these loops and these things that have been dragging? What have you actually done?  Well there were many things. So if there were say commitments that I had not completed and that was exacting some cost on my system then I would either take a look and make a list and decide which of them I would complete or cancel or renegotiate in some fashion. So I could sort of wipe that category clean of any debts that were consuming any bandwidth. Then you would have for instance withholds meaning unsaids things I have not said to people. So if someone consistently does something that is driving me fucking bonkers or more accurately and this is also language modification that I would do that I am using to make myself bonkers right?  Mm-hmm .  Assuming some locus of control for how you respond to these things. So not A B and C is making me anxious or pissing me off but I am making myself anxious because A B C has been a shift that is somewhat separate but also interrelated. Having a lot of uncomfortable conversations using frameworks fairly simple templates similar to non-violent communication and having what Jim would call clearing conversations to take those things that are unsaid and say them in some fashion. So that those are not constituting some type of loop. These imaginary arguments that at least certainly I am a master at formulating incredibly compelling arguments and then if they said this I would say this and then if they said that I would say that and Oh my God I would just rip their faces off and debate and what a mighty victory that would be. I mean these types of fantasies that consume incredible amounts of calories incredible number of calories. I wanted to remove those from the program and that entailed having a lot of conversations. To be truthful ended up being fewer conversations than I expected to have a significant impact on energy reserves because I have had a lifelong battle with chronic fatigue for many reasons including two severe bouts with Lyme disease growing up on Long Island. But energy management has become more and more important to me than time management. They are related but energy management that is the parent resource that determines all other resources. In the same way that I think it was Maya Angelou who said now I might be misattributing so somebody will be able to find this quote but you mentioned courage courage is the mother virtue every other virtue at its testing point depends on courage. And I say that simply to underscore the fact that much like anything else there might be 10 conversations you feel like you need to have or should have to close open loops and really it is two or three of them that are going to deliver 99 percent of the relief. And I found that to be true. So those are a few of the approaches and people can find the clearing conversation format which can be a bit stilted and odd on the Conscious Leadership Group website conscious.is. You would also be well-served just by looking at various templates for Nonviolent Communication. And separately used quite a bit of the questions offered in The Work by Byron Katie which I highly recommend to people for stress testing beliefs around some of the grudges or some of the unsaids. And in several cases just came to the conclusion that the core beliefs that I was using to enable myself to be so pissed off actually were very hard to defend. And I was like   Like what?  Well for instance there've been a few examples in my life where entitlement has carried a huge charge for me. There are very few things in life that bother me as much as what I perceive to be entitlement. Self-righteousness also probably equally irritating to me or that I use to annoy myself. I generally have very poor response to both of those things. And so my general belief in life is  and Amelia Boone is actually the one who uttered this quote. She is a multiple-time world champion in World's Toughest Mudder and also an attorney and just all around superstar in many respects. And her quote I believe it was in Tools of Titans originally when I asked her what she would put on a billboard is No one owes you anything. Just start with that assumption and you will be much better off in life and I agree with that. So entitlement let us just say my belief is  and I do not want to put words in Byron Katie's mouth but if we take a belief to be a thought we take to be true. Let us just say my belief is  and this is a real example let us say my belief is Greg is entitled. If my belief were you are entitled that is not my belief but let us just say it was. My belief is you are entitled because I helped you with A B and C and then I asked you for help with D and you not only said you could not help but did it in a way that I took as very rude. But it never happened but let us just say that is the case.  No but in that example what I rather suspect is you are describing many interactions you actually have.  I do not actually expect reciprocity when I help someone. So this actually happens the other way around more often than not where someone has done me some favor I did not ask for with a book launch and then comes to me with some huge ask and gets extremely pissed off when I say no clear boundary. It is more frequent the other way around. But let us make it a real example. So I am not going to use names but there are cases where I feel like I have gone above and beyond to help people when they have asked for help not related to book launches or anything like that and then there is something I consider to be very small very very small with respect to an ask and I am given a no but it is delivered in a way that I take to be unnecessarily rude when my ask is delivered very   Politely.  From my perspective very politely et cetera et cetera.  You feel slighted.  Yes. And then I will have a sentence like so-and-so is entitled. So the way you might work with that in Byron Katie's The Work is you would ask questions like  and I do not find the first two as helpful as they might be otherwise there are lots of different ways to do this but Is it true? Number one. Number two Can I absolutely for sure know this to be true? And I am going to get these slightly off but the gist is what is important. Number three Who am I and how do I feel when I believe this to be true? And then Who would I be and how would I feel if I did not take this to be true? Okay those questions three and four I find very powerful. And then the next step that I tend to take is what people would call turnarounds and turnarounds involve playing with language and then forcing yourself as a thought experiment to come up with evidence to support new statements. For instance let us just say all right I am not going to use your name we will say Mark let us just say it is a Mark Mark is entitled all right. We could turn that around by saying Mark is not entitled and you could even use the opposite like Mark is generous and then you force yourself to come up with and it is best to do this in writing three to five points pieces of evidence that you would use if you were in a debate and trying to make that case. And then you could have not Mark is entitled but I am entitled and then you come up with three to five and three to five is arbitrary but it is just a nice kind of clean range. And then you could go on to perform multiple other turnarounds. And by the time you have done that if you are really committing to doing it seriously with an open mind it starts to diffuse a lot of reactivity. So that would be an example of doing The Work and all of that is available for free online if people go to Byron Katie's website.  Yeah. What you have just done is you have given us specific tools as always but around this subject of decluttering and getting out all of  specifically we have been talking about grudges but pain and all these things that we hold onto and how they clutter us up. I am not going to necessarily have you answer this question it could be rhetorical. But what percentage of your energy has been spent in the course of your life   Oh God it is going to be bad. Yes go ahead.  Yeah no actually now that I am asking you I kind of do want the answer. I said it was rhetorical then I changed my mind. What do you think it actually is? What percentage of energy is just spent   Yeah what percentage.  Holding grudges having stories about people that may or may not be true just all of that clutter that we are holding we are caring we are processing everywhere we go there it is with us. Yes it is not in a sense making the email we are working on next harder. But of course it is because it is using up all of this hardware RAM in our supercomputer brain and soul  Well I am going to answer the question. I would add to that it is even more damaging in my mind because you develop habits of constructing certain types of stories and those pathways and I am not going to make a neuro-biological case for this I am sure one could. But suffice to say if we become habitually good at creating stories about being victims then it will become easier and easier to later construct stories about us being the victim. If we create stories around certain people having certain traits and we reinforce those over and over again and we have selection bias and begin to pick out all of the evidence points that condemn these people it becomes easier and easier over time. And therefore the habit perpetuates the bad habit if that makes sense. So to answer your question how much of my life energy? Oh God I mean if we just took Tim from 15 to 35 let us just say I shudder to even hazard a guess 60 percent I mean 70 percent it is high. I mean just in terms of ongoing stories that the vast majority of the time are never acted upon or most likely do not reflect reality because I am not actually engaging I am not clearing these conversations I am not fill in the blank it is an embarrassingly high number I would say. It is astonishing that I have been able to get anything done.  And not just anything right? I mean even in the period you are describing you still will have appeared  well were highly productive but that is the kind of rebate and why effortless state is such a vital part of really what as I now understand better about this a different way to live and to work. It is like it is not the task itself that is hard in many instances it is all of this stuff all of this rubbish that is slowing us down that is getting in the way that is making relationships twice as hard sometimes 10 times as hard as they need to be because of all of this clutter. And as we learn to remove that we start to find  I mean what kind of productivity tip are we talking about here? I mean this is better than any other productivity hack that you can ever come up with a 60 percent 70 percent return of your capability and energy suddenly back that is like a massive upgrade.  So save me Greg McKeown. What do I do? What do we do? The listeners are like tools I need some principles or something. God save us.  Well I mean   It is a huge cost. And I feel like I am in probably a better place than I have ever been at this point in time. I mean knock on wood so I do not jinx myself but there is still incredible room for improvement. If we look at all skill development along the spectrum of let us just say unconscious incompetence conscious incompetence conscious competence and then unconscious competence where you can execute without having to analyze and crunch everything cognitively I feel like I am still very much in the conscious incompetence realm. I am just like Oh my God look at this circus this panopticon of fantasy horrors that I create for myself every fucking day this is ludicrous. Now I am just aware of the clown car that is driving through my head all day. So what   Yeah what could we do about it?  Yes what are some tools or if tools is not the right term principles anything that we can start to experiment with?  Yeah look well one story that comes to mind and I may have actually shared this last time did I talk about the moment when I was staring back at myself in the stormtrooper costume? Is this one that   Yes you did mention the stormtrooper. We can revisit it and   Well let us revisit very briefly. The point was that I am suddenly looking at myself in a stormtrooper costume in the mirror this is an expensive movie quality suit and in that moment I am just like what am I doing? Like why am I standing here? How did this moment happen? There is not   Just as some context because you are not on Fifth Avenue spinning a sign selling used watches or something. This was for Halloween you had always thought this was what you wanted and now you are let us just say 40 years old something like that I do not know.  Yeah exactly. And I suddenly  Well how am I here? Well as I am pausing to think about it I realized well it was when Return of the Jedi came out. Yeah we are talking 30 plus years before that my older brother Spencer had said to me well would not it be so cool to have a movie-quality stormtrooper costume? And I am like young enough impressionable enough and of course all the hype around the movie I loved that movie and I just held on to that for 30 years. Now that is a lightweight example given the weight of the things we have been talking about but it still illustrates how long things can stay with you. And as I am standing there I am like there is no part of me that actually wants this consciously. So it is just all subconscious. And so that became a shorthand for Anna and I that if I get caught up on something if I get fixated on something she will say Look is this a stormtrooper? And even that question is very helpful for me symbolically because being focused on something is a super strength. I mean that is a super skill it is incredibly valuable unless you are focused on the wrong thing and then it is a classic example of making your life much harder than it needs to be because you are pursuing something now in this case 30 years. Yes maybe this is a pretty trivial example although if you add up the actual energy that was being drip by drip over 30 years it is still an immense amount. But to just ask that about other things we have other goals that we have we have emphasized grudges but it is not the only type of a clutter that can get into us but we can just ask is this something that we need anymore? Could I just let go of it? Would that be possible to release this?  Question for you.  Yeah.  Just to get concrete. So during your experience with the medical crisis with your daughter did you apply this to anything specific you can share?  Yeah that is a good question. The thing that comes to mind when you say that is that perhaps the most practical skill for getting into the effortless state amidst that crisis was gratitude. And I almost do not want to say it like that because people think Oh I have done gratitude we know. But what I learned about gratitude was this if you focus on what you have you gain what you lack. And if you focus on what you lack you lose what you have.  Oh that is good. Can you say that again please?  Yeah. If you focus on what you have you gain what you lack. If you focus on what you lack you lose what you have.  Yeah that is outstanding.  And so one of the practices that I learned at that time but have codified a little better now and this is classic BJ Fogg Tiny Habit recipe.  Just for people who do not know BJ Fogg so BJ Fogg is a fascinating guy writer professor I do not know if he is still teaching at Stanford   He is.  But has done a lot of interesting fascinating work and practical work related to habit formation and behavioral change and things like that.  Yeah he is so great. I just had him on the What is Essential podcast and we did this really interesting intervention where we talked about what was essential for him. He identified that wanted to have the three-day weekend he is never done that he kind of works all weekend and he does not  and then halfway through after we identified it I said Okay well man you are the habit king man so now you have to solve that for me. Like You know what you want to do now now teach me how to do it. Anyway it was a really fun conversation. So coming from that this is the specific habit recipe as he would call them. Habit recipe you say After I X I will Y that is the format. And so I started saying Okay well after I complain I will say something I am thankful for. And here's what I learned immediately was I complain a lot more than I realized. I think of myself as a positive person and I actually think I am even now but my goodness these just subtle complaints all the time i just see what is going wrong with something. And so you can have so many good things happening but you focus on something that is not going right and so that was the first thing I noticed. The second thing I noticed was how fast you can change the mood if you either say something you are thankful for afterwards or you catch yourself and do it anyway. So even if I was saying something I was thankful for not even I am thankful for you or something you have done the people around me would instantly light up. It was a different mode so it had an immediate effect. It was one of the fastest things I have found for getting back into the effortless state. And so we have started all sorts of habits in the family with this if somebody is complaining I will say okay that is fine. You have got to do three things you are thankful for. You have got to put the energy back that you just took out. And you can imagine I have got four teenagers that necessarily love this game.  They must love that.  But Jack my son one time  actually often they will just do it sincerely and so on but one time he is just like Oh okay fine I am so thankful that Dad wants to play this dumb game with me. And it made everybody laugh and then suddenly we were all already back in the state and we went on and did the other things we are thankful for. I mean literally to me this type of gratitude and thankfulness is so powerful. I used to think of it as a soft principle. It is like made of titanium it is so powerful and you can even have a bad attitude about it and it still works. I mean we have done all sorts of things to build on that and so here we have all this stress and challenge that we have of COVID and being isolated and because of Eve we were not just isolated for six months we were on complete lockdown. Everyone else is out but we just cannot even risk because of the treatments she was going through. And so one of the things we did is we started it is this star chart game it does not sound so exciting but we gather together you come up with a prize you will want something you are going to do or something you are going to buy or something fun it does not have to be that expensive. And then there is a series of spaces that we will catch each other doing the right thing and if you do you say okay well star for you and anyone can give them to anyone. Most of them are still Anna and I but even the kids can give them to each other. And you go and draw and when the star chat is full you get that thing you get to do that experience whatever. It is so positive and you cannot take a star away there is none of that there is no downside here it is all upside. And actually what again could sound I suppose trivial is I think anything but and to give a little context of why it is so powerful. Barbara Fredrickson called this the broaden-and-build theory. And what she extrapolated which I think is genius is that we do not have good things happen to us and therefore have good emotions. She says you have positive emotion and that leads through a process to good things. So the place to start  and again I suppose this is confirming of what the idea of effortless state first is that if you can get positive emotion going then a whole series of upward momentum happens. So she identified it this way she said well first it is the positive emotions so you are feeling good gratitude can do that and it is one of them. And then you start to have more optionality more options of what you can do and what possibilities exist and what good things are here. And so because you are have options it means that you are more likely to connect with other people and so you build relationships. And so why she calls it the broaden-and-build theory is that as you are in this upward momentum this positive cycle you are actually increasing capability therefore are better able to handle whatever the next challenge is. For us I suppose it is even in the pandemic but there'ill be something else afterwards. And she can contrast that with as soon as you get into negative emotion that leads to a reduction of options right? We know that it is fight flight freeze fall down it is very few options that we are going to have. Or what effect does that have on your relationships? It strains them all. What does that do? It weakens your whole system for whatever the next challenge is and so this sort of doom loop can take place. And so I really see at the pivot point being within this choice to see what is right here. A little bit like putting on  I am not a fly fisher actually but I have heard and done the research and I am confident this is true that something you can do if you want to be a great fly fisher is that you can wear polarized sunglasses. And it is something about the way that the lines are in a polarized set of sunglasses that they kill off the way the sun reflects on the water. And so the impact of this is that you can see the fish under the water. So the fish were always there but you could not see them before and now you can. And that is really what this habit recipe this specific thing this leaning into gratitude in a very deliberate way a conscious way starts to do. You start to see all the assets that are there. So then you can build on them then you can do something with them. What good is here and to keep shifting back into that gear whether you are dealing with crisis or just even in normal life. And so for us now  and I am not always great at this I still fall into this. If I leave this conversation it will be easy to find something that is wrong to complain. But if I take this other path  and of course if I do that it is all predictable you start on the downward cycle. But if I say What is going right here? And I catch someone doing the right thing it just sparks the whole thing positive. And really which do you think is easier? Is it easier to be on a downward loop or in this upward momentum? And so this is one of the reasons I see this as being such an important practice for effortless state.  With the concentric circles  actually before I get back to the concentric circles I first want to say you are inspiring me to revisit the 21-Day No Complaint experiment that I did many many years ago. I wrote a blog post about it which was inspired by Will Bowen. I think that is how you say his name who was a preacher or a minister in Kansas City who gave his congregation purple bracelets. And every time they complained they had to switch arms and start the clock again with the aim of getting to 21 days of no complaining. And he wrote a book called  Complaint Free World I want to say and I did that experiment. And just like you mentioned number one you notice Oh my God I am just the poster boy for complaining. This is outrageous. And secondly how quickly you begin to reap the benefits of decreasing your complaining. It is truly remarkable. Just with that said concentric circles. Why is the outside of effortless state which is the center you have effortless action and then effortless results. Why are the actions separate from the results?  Well effortless action is to do with saying Okay if I want a result one time how can I make it easier to achieve like this project this thing? An example for me in my own family to start there my son chose when he was about 12. He decided okay I want to be an Eagle scout. And his goal was to do it by the time he turned 14 which is it is a bit of a stretch. And we went on this journey together and we did it other than the dreaded final not just even the final project which was a fairly big thing you had to build this 180-foot fence and bring in people from the community 40 people go and do it on a day. And it was actually pretty fantastic. But then what is dreaded is the final report. And there are people I know who have done everything else and then they do not get the final report. Then they put it off. Seriously it happened to somebody I knew he would done everything but that final report. And he finally put it in barely a week   37.  No you have to do it by the time you turn 18. And he would done it one week afterwards. And so he never got an Eagle Scout because they would not do that. A 100 percent stick was on this which I suppose they have learned they have to be because if you procrastinate for three years you could do it for 30 and so they have discussion point. We start moving into that category and we would not it is weeks it is not months or years but weeks we just start working Oh yeah we have got to do this. And it just starts feeling overly burdened. And so then I literally sat down with him and was like Okay how can we make this effortless? How can we make this so we can actually get the thing done? And there were a series of questions that we followed with that. I mean one is what does done look like? Just like actually naming it. Well we are taking a binder to the Scout office and delivering it and they sign that it is done. That is how we will know it is done. Well what are the minimum steps required to do it? Some people want to go the extra mile but they are not even going the first mile. And that is what we were doing. And we had seen and I am not knocking this. We have seen some amazing really unbelievable final projects reports rather the writeup. We would seen them in wooden boxes and gorgeous  it was incredible like the Rolls Royce of reports. And I think that was a big part of why we could not make any progress which is like Ah we just do not have this in us with this stuff we do not have energy for this. And so we said Okay we say What is the minimum number of steps? We looked at exactly what it asks us to do. We need to have the photos printed up print it up. We are going to have them written on you do not even have to write essays on them. We are going to have the minimum number of descriptions he needs to do the work and a minimum number of steps possible. And so we did that. Next question. What is the very first most obvious step to doing it? The risk of these kinds of projects is if you are worrying about the thousandth step and you have not actually physically taken the first one. The first physical step is we need to actually get a three-ring binder we have got to get that. And we have to go and find one in the house and get it. That is the first step. And in that way just actually started doing the tiny one-step-at-a-time minimum things required to get there. And that reminds me of a story. We sort of know some of this story many people have heard part of it but I went and interviewed the person behind it. His name is this really his name is Mike Evangelist and   That is an amazing name.  Is not that amazing? And he is in Silicon Valley. Yeah. Mike Evangelist. He was involved in DVD burning like before it was a mass thing. These are like 35000 machines. They did like professional equipment. It is a thousand page manual to learn how to use it.  The DVD burner?  The DVD burner system. Back in the day exactly. And then they are trying to work out a bit more affordable way of doing it and on the cutting edge. And so Apple reaches out to them and says Look maybe we can do something here maybe we can buy the company. They do a deal and they bring them in. They want the software that they have been creating. They would given it a couple of weeks. They know they are going to meet with Steve Jobs and they have a couple of weeks to simplify this thing. This is going to go on it is going to go on the Mac that is the idea. And so they have to try it. They take this thousand-page binder and they reduce it and reduce it. They take all this complex stuff and they reduce it and reduce and they are proud of what they have. And they think okay this is so so much simpler than we had before. And they go into the meeting and this is the part people know but the backstory is really important. Steve comes to the meeting and they have all of their slides. They have got everything ready for the presentation and they are talking about it and they are discussing and as Steve starts talking they start to get more and more embarrassed about their presentation and what they are going to do. And finally Steve just walks up to the whiteboard and he just goes Look this is the software it is going to be one button. You are going to draw your file into it and it says Burn.' That is it. That is the application we want to build. And that is what they built. And that is what went in. But here's the point. And I really liked this from Mike Evangelist he said sitting there he learned he was doing simplification wrong. He was going from the complex to the simple. What he really needed to do this is his phrase Start with zero. You have got to start with zero and say What are the minimum number of steps to get to completion? I like that story but that is really what we were doing with Jack and his project. It is not What are other people doing and let us go smaller it is Let us start with zero. What are the minimum number of steps to do it? What you want is completion. And if you do not complete it then if you do not complete it then it is not done. I mean not saying something so circular but you have got to get it done. That is its own achievement. And if you do not get it done perpetually because you either have too many steps involved or because you do not take the first action or  I have to share this it is one of my favorite stories that came across in the research. Have you heard of the story of the Vasa?  I do not think so. Can you spell that for me? It might be the Queen's English. That is throwing me off.  W-A-S-A Wasa. The Wasa.  W and it starts with a V. V-A-S   No no no. Did I say that? No W. W-A-S-A.  I definitely do not know that story but please continue.  The Wasa. Okay. I am going to read the whole thing to you because the details really matter. Is that okay with you?  It is   You are the first to hear about this.  I am excited.  Okay here we go. Well you are not the first to hear about it. You are the first to hear about the way I write about it. Here we go. 400 years ago Gustav II the King of Sweden saw the vital need to upgrade his armada of ships. He wanted to protect the people from the growing naval powers that surrounded him. His attention was drawn to building a giant military warship and he found a shipbuilder Henrik Hybertsson tasked him to build what became known as the Vasa. I said it wrong. It is V-A-S-A Vasa.  Which was not because I knew the stories it was because I cannot understand that Queen's English. Please continue.  This project was of utmost importance to King Gustav so much that he allowed a whole forest of a thousand trees to provide the lumber for the project. He opened the royal coffers to he assured Hybertsson that he would have an almost unlimited budget to complete the project successfully. Unfortunately the King did not have a clear vision of what the final product would look like or rather he kept changing his vision of what the final product would look like. At first the ship was to be 108 feet long with 32 cannons on deck. Later the length was changed to 120 feet even though the lumber had already been cut to the original specifications but no sooner had Henrik's team made the necessary adjustments that the target shifted again this time the King decided that the ship needed to be 135 feet long. The cannon requirements changed as well. Instead of 32 cannons in a single row he asked for 36 cannons in two rows plus another 12 small cannons 48 mortars and 10 more similar caliber weapons. Tremendous effort was exerted by some 400 people to make this happen. But even as they approached completion the King changed his mind again asked for 64 large cannons instead. The stress of the news is said to have given Henrik a fatal heart attack. Still the endless project continued this time under Henrik's assistant Hein Jacobsson. Budgets continued to escalate. The effort continued to expand and the King continued changing the end goal. In an utterly non-essential addition for a gunship. He asked for some 708 sculptures which would take a team of expert sculptors more than two years to complete to be attached to the sides of the bulwark and the transom of the ship and so it was. On August 10th 1628 the Vasa left Stockholm port for its maiden voyage still unfinished. And before it had been properly tested to ensure it could survive the conditions of the high seas. Meanwhile the King had found the time to plan a celebration to commemorate the expedition. There were fireworks there were foreign diplomats there was pageantry and as the ship sailed away the gunports were open and the guns were pointing out so that they could fire a salute to the dignitaries on shore. Then suddenly a gust of wind caught the sails of the ship causing the massive vessel to tilt severely over to one side. As the cannons tipped into the sea water entered in through the gunports despite a strenuous all-out effort on the part of the crew water almost instantly flooded into the gun deck and into the hold further destabilizing the ship. Tragically it took just 50 minutes for the Vasa to completely sink taking 53 crew members with it. They died less than three quarters of a mile from the shore. And so it was the most expensive naval project in Sweden's history sailed less than one mile before being buried in the sea all because the King had made the project almost impossible to safely complete by constantly redefining what done looks like. That is the story.  That sounds like a lot of software projects.  It does. And it sounds like just so many projects. That is really what the part of what effortless action is about. It is saying look if you have a thing you want to do you want to do it one time you want to actually get it done and you do not want to kill yourself doing it. Then there is a series of things that you can do. I have covered two or three of them. You can pace yourself. You can make sure that that is what that section of the book is really about. Your question was how does that distinguish itself from effortless results? This is literally my favorite thing in my research for Effortless was this final section which is a little too bad because sometimes people do not get to the end of the book. Effortless results. The difference is this. Effortless action's about the thing one time. That by definition is a linear result. You are getting it one time you put the effort in once and you get the result once. Effortless results is all about residual results. How can you construct things that produce you put the effort in once you might even put a little more effort in than if you just want the result once but you put the effort in because you are going to get the result 10 times a hundred times a thousand times. I mean actually it sounds like a total exaggeration to say a million times but actually it is not. There is plenty of examples where people have constructed systems that keep producing results so very many times over again and again. And really why effortless results I think is such an exciting subject for me and my favorite thing in this is because I realized how many things I was doing were linear results. One time you do it you go you do a keynote. You have built the system to make that as effortless as possible. The results seem to be good but it is done one time you got one time impact and one travel one thing. And that does not make it a bad thing of course but it is an example of like me just discovering why am I doing anything that only produces results one time? I have got to change this ratio massively. I mean this is again I get for me personally. One of the things I came away with that I have done simultaneously to the book is launch an academy essentialism.com. And the whole reason I did it because I am just like look build it once do it once and it returns 10 years from now or even more than that. A friend of mine I would say colleague and mentor to me Stephen Covey. And he passed away unfortunately a few years ago but his impact has gone on significantly. And the reason for that was not by chance it is because he knew the risks. Because one of his friends and mentors had died young and he took it all with him. And so it was because of that that Stephen says Okay well I am going to write The 7 Habits because then it can exist beyond me. I am going to build a company. He did not really himself want to do that work but he built it so that the system would continue on and on into the future that the residual results is an era of so much upside possible. It just reminds me of Benjamin Hardy who I just had on the What is Essential podcast. And he was sharing this principle of Who?' not How?' And it really hit me as such a great succinct summary of this idea that we ought to be thinking not just How do I do a thing and not just hit a wall and feel Well I have got to go on the long journey to figure out how to do this myself' but just Who has already solved this who already knows how to do this? And that was one of my favorite parts of researching Effortless was coming across a rule that Warren Buffett uses when he is hiring people. He is deciding who he is going to work with who he is going to partner with the best people in the world he is trying to find and he uses three principles. He says It is integrity it is intelligence and it is initiative. And he adds that If you do not have the integrity then the other two can actually be a problem for you. But that really has stood with me when we think about who not how and then specifically using what I now called the three Is to assess who would be a great person to work with. So anyway just offer that as a thought about how to produce even more effortless results as you try to take this next journey with the podcast itself.  It also makes me just reflect on how many of these principles are on some level embedded into your thinking if you just shift the timeframe from short-term rewards or short-term outcomes to long-term outcomes. And brings to mind something that my friend Naval Ravikant who is been on the podcast several times has said which actually I should say more accurately typed since his Twitter account is very popular at Naval N-A-V-A-L. And it is along the lines of If you would not work with them for a lifetime do not work with them for five minutes.  Oh man that is good.  It just checks so many boxes that you could view as discrete problems to be solved. But if you just keep that overarching principle in mind even if there are exceptions right? I mean perhaps if you are at an Airbnb and you break something you need to fix you are not going to work with this plumber for the rest of your life necessarily but those are the exceptions that prove the rule as opposed to the other way around.  Well I just think that puts into my mind this idea of very long-term thinking again and the importance of it. One of my favorite examples of this residual thinking where you are not just thinking about yourself but beyond yourself is Stephen L. Richards and his wife who decided Well we want to try and take time out every summer go on a family vacation and so on. And of course most people have that type of thought but theirs grew into something different where they said Well what if we could choose a place one time that every single summer afterwards we would not have to go through that journey of Well where are we going to go?' And What are the dates?' and so on. What started as  it might sound not such a profound question or decision has gone on and on. They chose this one location and here they are. I was talking to their grandson who himself is now elderly. This has gone on now for 95 years. They are long since passed. Their grandchildren have started passing away. And so they still have great-great-grandchildren who will meet at various times through the summer. So it is the same location. People have invested in different cabins and all this. And he said On any given day through a whole period like the whole three-month summer if you go to that location you will find between 30 and 100 people that come from the same Stephen Richards that started it. To me that is a powerful example of effortless results the residual results deciding for a long time into the future.  And Stephen L. Richards for those who do not know was a prominent leader in the LDS Church in the Latter-Day Saints Church. Is that right? Is that the correct Stephen L. Richards that I am thinking of?  Yes no you are absolutely right. And his grandson is Stephen R. Covey and it was his brother John Covey that I was speaking to that told me that story. And so it was really amazing to see that sort of intergenerational impact.  And for those people who have bookmarked the Gordon B. Hinckley book that you mentioned earlier I was able to surreptitiously tap on my phone silently which is actually a trick. I put my phone  for those people who are experimenting with podcasting I keep my iPhone on do not disturb mode so that if there are items that pop up in the conversation I can search them on my phone without recording any audible noise. Teachings of the Presidents of the Church by Gordon B. Hinckley was the book within which I believe there is the essay that you alluded to earlier in this conversation. And thinking of books I had to wonder when I read your first book Essentialism it is like well how do you edit? How ruthless must you be when you are editing a book called Essentialism? That is setting high expectations for the copy editors and the editors and certainly for the author in this case you. So in this second book Effortless was there anything that  any darlings that you had to leave behind? Anything that was left on the cutting-room floor that was particularly difficult to leave out?  There is so much that you go through in the editing process and in some ways I feel like there is two three whole books that were written and discarded on the way to this final project. And most of those I feel really good about but there is one that still just I always wonder whether I made the right decision or not with it. It is a particularly powerful story of a mother who is with her very sick son at the very  what turned out to be the very end of his life. And she was sitting next to him in the bed. And then as literally life is sort of draining out of him she climbs up into the bed just to be right next to him knowing that the end is really close. And hears him say and these turn out to be his very last words sort of in that in-between phase when you are still here but somehow not fully. He just said It is all so simple mom. It is all so simple. To me that sort of message that sort of moment is of great value because I think that the spirit of that is if there is  just look at anything you are doing that is making life more complicated than it needs to be where you are overthinking it where you are overstraining where you are overexerting where you are overthinking and you may find the very thing that is going to help you move forward. It may be as simple it may be as easy as that.  It is all so simple. Just pausing on that. It is so easy in a sense difficult in other senses to default to straining to feel like you are not doing enough if you are not straining if you are not redlining if you are not pushing to failure in some way. It is all so simple. That is a great story. I mean it would make a great mantra for that matter. And that in my mind sort of begets a question that I may have asked you in the first conversation that we had on this podcast but I will ask it again just in case there is a different answer or if you want to add another answer. The billboard my listeners my long-term listeners are probably sick of hearing this but sometimes every once in a blue moon it pulls out a thought-provoking answer. If you had a billboard here we go metaphorically speaking to get a message a quote a question an image anything out to billions of people and if you prefer a push notification to all of their phones what might you choose for that?  Yeah you did ask me that last time and I love this question. And the answer I gave to that before I remember was Light. Just that one word and what I meant by it was to choose light versus darkness in our life to look for the light to pursue it wherever we can. As I think about that question now with the journey that has gone on over these last couple of years I feel like the word would be the same but with a second meaning. So I think still it would be light but in this sense now that whatever has happened to you in life whatever hardship whatever pain they pale in comparison to the power we have to choose what to do now in this next moment. And in every next moment we have a choice to take the heavier path or the lighter path. And so that is what I mean now when I think of that word light there is a lighter way to do life. One of the things that I came across that I loved in the research was that now can be measured. That neuroscientists and psychologists have assessed in various ways the amount of time that makes now now and it is between two to three seconds. And I mean that has profound implications to me. The word now comes from Novus homo which means a new man or a man newly ennobled. And so if you connect all these themes together it makes for such a profound thing that in this moment whatever's gone before in this moment we have a choice. In that two to three seconds we have a choice. Profound things can happen in two three seconds. We have talked about some of them. You can say Thank you for something. You can say I am sorry. You can say I forgive you. You can say Let us start over. You can say Let us move on.  Or you can just pause for three seconds.  You can just pause.  And breathe.  You can breathe for three seconds. And so in all of these ways we can use this next moment to find this other alternative type of light.  Choosing the light not just in the sense of tone or benevolent charge but also in the sense of weight whether that be physical emotional psychological or otherwise. That is cool. I have never had a guest revisit that question use the same billboard but with an entirely different yet complementary meeting. That is very cool. I quite enjoyed that. Well we should not expect any less from Greg McKeown the author of as many of you have already gathered Essentialism subtitle The Disciplined Pursuit of Less and his new book Effortless subtitle Make it Easier to Do What Matters Most. You can find him on Twitter GregoryMcKeown M-C-K-E-O-W-N on GregMcKeown.com and certainly on all the other social that we will link to in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast. Greg is there anything else that you would like to say request of the audience any closing comments that you would like to add before we wrap up?  I just want to thank you Tim for what you are doing. It really does matter in the world. And it is just all over the place that I hear from people that are really tuned in and really get a lot of positive from the work that you do. And of course people see the upsides I am sure they can see Oh it is great to have that kind of impact in the world and so on but they will not see the downsides or the sacrifices or the things that you have given up for the things that you have gained. And I just wanted to say genuinely thank you for what you do and for having me on today.  Thank you Greg for saying that. And it is entirely my pleasure. This has been a lot of fun. I have copious notes in front of me and I really think that at the top of the pyramid  it is all so simple. It can often be so simple and we just have to take the time to look for it. And that is something that you have done and I greatly admire your thinking. I enjoy your writing and wish you and yours all the best. And thanks for taking the time to speak with me today.  Thank you Tim. Interview with Greg McKeown on The Tim Ferriss Show podcast If you do not prioritize your life someone else will.  Greg McKeown Greg McKeown is the author of the New York Times bestseller  The Disciplined Pursuit of Less and the founder of McKeown Inc a company with a mission to teach Essentialism to millions of people around the world. You could say that tidying orders the mind while cleaning purifies it. - Marie Kondo Marie Kondo  is a Japanese organizing consultant author and entrepreneur. She developed a revolutionary method of organizing known as the KonMari Method which consists of gathering together everything you own   