 Jerry welcome to the show.  Thanks Tim. Great to be here.  I really appreciate you making the time. I thought we would start with the beginning of Is This Anything? And in the I suppose you could call it the introduction or the preface another book pops up which is The Last Laugh by Phil Berger and I would love to just know how that book entered your life?  How did I find that? I really do not know. But I still have it. I have the copy that I bought wherever I found it. I mean I was in high school and I did the absolute minimum you could do to survive in high school. I never read anything outside of high school except magazines car magazines comic books and Esquire because I do not know in those years early '70s Esquire was really full of character and about encouraging male boldness and inventiveness in lifestyle and just life in general. They were very sophisticated and it was everything I wanted to be. I wanted to be urban and I wanted to be smart and smarter than I was. I wanted to have this cool adventurous life. And they were very encouraging to that. I do not think there is anything like that around today but that was essential. The same with that book The Last Laugh it was just like whatever made men in centuries past become explorers. I do not know how they became that. I guess I remember reading about explorers clubs in 17th 18th century London. I have two sons and a daughter and that is the thing I really wanted. If I could pass along  the two things I would want to pass along would be ethics and boldness in life. But that does not answer your question of where I got the book. I do not know where I got it.  It is okay though. The genesis story is secondary. It is really the context that you are providing. And just as a quick side-note a friend of mine Cal Fussman used to write the What I have Learned interview series in Esquire   Yeah I remember that. I remember that.   back when it had that and maybe still does on some level that character that you are describing that boldness. What was it inside The Last Laugh that grabbed you so much?  So if I look back at my whole life starting about second or third grade it was all this inexorable march towards this pursuit of the comedy arts. There was nothing else about comedy. Albert Brooks did an album or did an article in Esquire called School For Comedians and it was a parody  and I had no idea it was a parody. He grew up in L.A. and he was making fun of what comedians might need to learn to be comedians. And it was an early '70s Esquire article. I had no idea it was a parody. I mean I was just Oh there is a school? I just wanted to learn about this world. The Last Laugh really took you deeply into the world. It is a completely hermetically sealed world that is frankly unrelated to the rest of the entertainment industry. It is really unrelated to almost all other creative arts. It is a very sealed ecosystem the world of comedy particularly stand-up comedy. I was desperately thirsty for any scrap of data about it.  Now you have much like an Olympic athlete of sorts with training logs and workouts and so on you have 45 years of hacking away as it is put in the book's description on yellow notepads. So you have preserved all of this. I would love to speak or to hear you speak more accurately a bit about your writing process? And in the preparation that I did for this I read in The New York Times and I am just going to read this short bit. You can fact correct this if need be but here's how it reads. I still have a writing session every day. It is another thing that organizes your mind. The coffee goes here. The pad goes here. The notes go here.  You cannot do anything else. You do not have to write but you cannot do anything else. I would love to hear you elaborate on that because it actually sounds very similar to what the fiction writer Neil Gaiman has as his first rule of writing as well.  Oh really?  Yeah. But what does that look like for you? What do your writing sessions tend to look like if we look back over the last I do not know 10 years because I am sure it is changed over time?  No it has not changed.  It has not?  The only thing that is changed is the coffee which I did not know about coffee in my younger years. I think I discovered coffee after I had kids and I did not have time to have long meals with my friends anymore. But we could meet for coffee. Then I realized Boy this coffee really gets you talking. And I thought Maybe I will do a show where you just talk with coffee. And that is where that came from the Comedians in Cars show. But my writing sessions used to be very arduous very painful like pushing against the wind in soft muddy ground with a wheelbarrow full of bricks. And I did it. I had to do it because there is just as I mentioned in the book you either learn to do that or you will die in the ecosystem. I learned that really fast and really young and that saved my life and made my career that I grasped the essential principle of survival in comedy really young.  you learn to be a writer. It is really the profession of writing that is what standup comedy is. However you do it anybody you can do it any way you want but if you do not learn to do it in some form you will not survive.  When you sit down is it an empty page? Is it bits and pieces that you have noted through the week as observations that you then flesh out? What is actually in front of you when you start?  What is in front of me is I am usually about 15 or 20 pages of stuff that is in various states of development. And then there is a smaller book of just really really random things. Like when you are on a cell phone call and the call drops and then you reconnect with the person they will go I do not know what happened there. As if anyone is expecting them to know anything about the incredibly complex technology of the cell phone they offer this little I do not know if it is an excuse or an apology. They go I do not know what happened there. So anyway so I do not know. So that is an example of something in that my little tiny notebook that I do not know what to do with that. But it is just so stupid to me and funny. So that to me is like an archery target 50 yards away. Then I take out my bow and my arrow and I go Let me see if I can hit that. Let me see if I can create something that I could say to a room full of humans in a nightclub that will make them see what I see in that. There is something stupid and funny about that to me. That is the very very beginning. So then I will write something about it. It will be if I am lucky it will be a half a page or a page on a yellow legal pad and I will write that. Then in the session the next day if I get around to it I will see it again and I will see what I have and what I like and I do not like. And as any writer can tell you it is 95 percent rewrite. So I have two phases. There is the free-play creative phase. Then there is the polish and construction phase of and I love to spend inordinate really I mean it is not wasteful to me because that is just what I like to do amounts of time refining and perfecting every single word of it until it has this pleasing flow to my ear. Then it becomes something that I cannot wait to say. And then we go from there to the stage with it. From the stage the audience will then  I imagine it is a very scientific thing to me. It is like Okay here's my experiment and you run the experiment. Then the audience just dumps a bunch of data on you of This is good this is okay this is very good this is terrible. That goes into my brain from performing it on stage. Then it is back through the rewrite process and then new ideas will come. It is just millions of different kinds of development. It is just that. So you are just trying to get  you are just going to that place of creating fixing jettisoning. It is extremely occupying. It is never boring. The frustration I am so used to at this point I do not even notice it. And it is just work time. It is just work time. Which and I like the way athletes talk about I got to get my work in. Did you get your work in? I like that phrase. One of the reasons I was looking forward to doing the show with you is I know that it is something you are very interested in.  The craft?  Yeah the systematization of the brain and creative endeavor or  I really think when I am working it is very much like when you are watching a pitcher working. On stage in that we are going so that is the difference. So basically it is onstage and offstage it is the desk and then the stage. And then back to the desk and then back to the stage and that is endless.  Yeah the process and the repeatable process the experimentation like you phrased it is extremely interesting to me. And if we took or take that cell phone example the dropping of reception that is an observation. It seems to me that you are a real connoisseur of questions. Whether those questions are being used as part of a bit or possibly as prompts. You mentioned the coffee in part leading to Comedians In Cars in a Harvard Business Review interview you also mentioned that it is important to know what you do not like. A big part of innovation is saying You know what I am really sick of? For you that was talk shows where the music plays somebody walks out to a desk shakes hands with the host sits down. And What am I really sick of? being a departure point for innovation. I would love to hear about any questions if there are questions that you use as prompts to help elicit observation or materials for yourself.  No that part is somewhat having a very cranky nature and being a sensitive kind of  I do not know if it is perception but you are just provoked by a lot of things. If you are lucky enough to have that the next thing you must do is nurture and protect it and never lose it. The enemy of it is success. Success is the enemy of irritability and crankiness because now you have money and you can remove the difficulties from your life and that is not good.  How do you contend with that? Because you have had certainly you have I would imagine you have had to do things to offset in that case the creature comforts and so on that come along with the amount of success that you have had?  Yes.The thing I did that really solved almost all of that issue is I got married.  Okay please elaborate.  That one you will never run out if you get married and if you have kids then you have got a goldmine.  So you mentioned just a few minutes ago about wordsmithing until you get everything pleasing to the ear and really obsessing over the prose. I have read that one of your explanations for the success of all of your television was that The show was successful because I micromanaged itevery word every line every take every edit every casting. And then later on If you are efficient you are doing it the wrong way. There are a lot of questions I could ask about this but I suppose one is I understand the logic of it but for such a long period of time obsessing over the details like that did you not find yourself at risk of burnout or just hitting a point of overwhelm or did that not happen to you?  Are talking about the series now or just   We are talking about the series.  Oh the series is a  if you want to look at the comedy arts is the only thing that interests me creatively I think or the only thing I am any good at. But if I look at the different comedy arts if I was to break it down let us just say into the basics of a standup comedy a television series or a movie I would analogize those to different vessels on the water. So a TV series is like a pretty big boat that you can run with a couple of people. A movie is a yacht. There is so many people it is a beautiful thing there is a lot of money involved. Everybody wants it. Everybody thinks it is the ultimate way to go across the water. Standup for me is a surfboard. It is just you you paddle out and you try and catch the energy and you are all on your own. You can do it and go home and nobody but you really even knows what happened. I think the more people you add to the vessel the faster you are going to struggle to maintain its progress through the water. For sure the TV series got to a point we did it nine years and the way I was doing it that was as far as it could go before it was really going to stop cutting through the water in that beautiful way that it was doing. That is why I pulled out of it before I had to before anyone wanted me to because I did not want to be on a boat that was starting to struggle. I did not want to have that experience. Even more than that I did not want the audience to have that experience. I wanted to complete this gift to them in a way that they would always go Oh I was given a lovely thing one time in the '90s and it was just lovely. I wanted them to have it like that. No excuses no if onlys no It did go on a bit maybe longer than it should have. I did not want to I just wanted them to have this lovely gift. That is why I stopped the TV series. I could also describe the TV series to you as a weather event that has an energy that gathers and becomes cyclonic. But every storm blows itself out and that storm was about to run out of energy. So was I. It is the same thing because I was at the center of the storm and I could feel the slowing of the cyclonic curve the funnel.  Is that something that you had a role model for? Is that something you have simply perceived? Because it is very rare for someone to step out like Rocky Marciano. Usually they go a bit too far they get slapped around a bit or they end up signing baseball mitts at Caesar's Palace or whatever it is. Did you have any model for that? Was that something you decided entirely on your own?  The closest I had and I would never compare myself in any way shape or form was The Beatles. The timeframe of The Beatles was nine years. They broke up for different reasons. We had no discord on my show like they struggled with but the portion size of The Beatles just felt so right to me I thought and they were together about nine years and we were together about nine years. There was something about adding that other digit to go to 10. If people said to me How long did you do that series for? And if I said 10 years. I could just hear people go Wow 10 years. Just the portion size just felt too big to me.  You mentioned I guess irritation as a wellspring of comedic material. Is it irritation or is it sensitivity in the connotation of a very sensitive scale where you are just perceiving more? Is it a dissatisfaction or a irritability or is there   I think your five senses have been made a little too good and that is not quite comfortable. I have a friend actually two friends it was really weird and they are married this is a really weird story. And they both suffered from this breakdown in their hearing. There is a bone in the hearing canal that I guess it is like a  I think it looks like a little wishbone or something. There is all these little fine bones in there.  Yeah the stirrup all these tiny bones.  Yeah. So both of them the husband and the wife. First the wife and then the husband six months later. It is a very rare condition. So anyway they both had to get this very delicate surgery on their inner ear and they replaced that bone with a piece of titanium that is made to do the same thing. And it is actually this fantastic cure for this problem. And so they both have these titanium ears now. And when they first got it their hearing was too good and it was a little uncomfortable for them and I think now they have adjusted to it fine. But it reminded me of how I feel like my senses are my eyes and my ears and my skin and I just feel everything just a little more than I would even like to. Yeah. I think that is just a kind of a genetic thing but I do not know another comedian that is not the same and just has this hair-trigger reaction to anything that irritates them. And a lot of it is visual I think. And I think I mentioned that in my introduction that I think jokes come from a kind of intense visual acuity.  You did. Mm-hmm .  Yeah. So I think that is part where it comes from.  If we imagine  well we meaning the lay audience imagines comics in our minds' eyes. You have these sort of hypersensitive catlike creatures who might be very difficult to put into any type of group. But yet you mentioned a lack of discord on the show which I am not a Hollywood wonk but I have a little bit of mileage and that seems to be not altogether common. To what would you attribute that lack of discord?  I do not like discord. I do not like it and I am fearless in rooting it out and solving it. And if anyone's having a problem I am going to walk right up to them and go Is there a problem? Let us talk about this. Because I cannot stand that kind of turmoil.  That approach to conflict resolution is very proactive. It is not like you are being passive aggressive. It is not like you are conflict avoidant. Is that something you got from your parents? Is that something that you just came out of the womb having that direct addressing of discord or problems?  I do not know where I got that. I feel like if you break the human struggle down to one word it is confront. And so I kind of approach everything that way. Just the act of the confront is like  what do people always say? Admitting you have a problem all that nonsense. I did read some pop psychology books. I was very much a searcher in my younger years yoga and Zen and a little Scientology Transcendental Meditation Buddhism. I read a lot of stuff looking  I do not know what I was looking for. I think I was looking for a working philosophy I think is what I was looking for in life to apply. And I kind of formed my own little  I do not know if religion is the right word but I definitely created my own belief or operating system.  Operating system.  I think operating system would be the best term for what I have created because it is very pragmatic. It is not faith-based in any way. But that is one of my biggest principles is confront.  Are there any other examples that you could give from your operating system any other guiding rules or principles or anything that stuck from that seeking period?  Well my guiding rule is systemize. What is the problem? The problem is  like my daughter. My daughter is very creative. She is extremely bright. She is got an incredible head on her shoulders and I have seen myself in her at that age. She is way further advanced than I was at that age but she does not know  She has a creative gift. Okay? So I say to her When you have a creative gift it is like someone just gave you a horse. Now you have to learn how to ride it. You got to learn how to ride this horse. I have seen people that are born by the dozens and dozens I have seen people that were given black stallions and it usually  if you have a black stallion like from that movie and you are born and they just put you on it  and that is what happens. They just put you on it. And you either learn to ride this thing or it is going to kill you. And we have many many examples of that. So she is trying to write this thing. She is struggling I cannot write. I keep putting it off. So I explain to her my basic system which you already talked about at the top of the show which is if you are going to write make yourself a writing session. What is the writing session? I am going to work on this problem. Well how long are you going to work on it? Do not just sit down with an open-ended I am going to work on this problem. That is a ridiculous torture to put on a human being's head. It is like you are going to hire a trainer to get in shape and he comes over and you go How long is the session? And he goes It is open-ended. Forget it. I am not doing it. It is over right there. You have got to control what your brain can take. Okay? So if you are going to exercise God bless you and that is the best thing in the world you can do but you got to know when is it going to end. When is the workout over? It is going to be an hour. Okay. Or You cannot take that? Let us do 30 minutes. Okay great. Now we are getting somewhere. I can do 30. I am trying to teach my son who knows how to do Transcendental Meditation how to do it. You know? I assume you know about that.  I do. Yeah I practiced this morning.  Okay so  I cannot do it 15 minutes. Okay let us do 10. Let us do 10. Let us come up with something you can do. That is where you start everything. That is how you start to build a system. So my daughter  so I said to her You have to have an end-time to your writing session. If you are going to sit down at a desk with a problem and do nothing else you have got to get a reward for that. And the reward is the alarm goes off and you are done. You get up and walk away and go have some cookies and milk. You are done. If you have the guts and the balls to sit down and write you need a reward at the other end of that session which is Stop now. Pencils down. So that is the beginning of a system that to me will help almost anybody learn to write which is something I have kind of wanted to teach in a way because I think it is so simple. I think exercise is pretty simple too but people do not  they do not come up with good simple little systems. They just try and do it and to me that is  you are going to fail.  Yeah. The simple does not mean easy and the point you made   No no no. Not easy    is to    but simple.   so important. The incentives. Right? Having a reward. Having a defined format. How long did your daughter end up choosing for her writing duration or how long   I told her    have you chosen?  I told her Just do an hour. That is a lot. She says I am going to write all day. No you are not. Nobody writes all day. Shakespeare cannot write all day. It is torture.  Yeah. If you taught a class on writing what other lessons might you have or resources or anything exercises? Because I am imagining that your daughter could sit down she says All right I have an hour. And then you ask her how her writing session went and she said Well I did not have any idea what to write. So you would have  I do not know what age the students would be in your course but what else would be a component of your class on writing?  Well I would teach them to learn to accept your mediocrity. No one's really that great. You know who is great? The people that just put tremendous amount of hours into it. It is a game of tonnage. You know?  Totally.  How many hours are you going to work per week per month per year? You might even want to chart that. Or with your exercise if you want to get in shape. I could not get in shape. I started out as a jogger in the '70s and I would run three miles a day. And then I got older and I got married late and I had young kids. And I really had to get in shape and I picked up this book by Bill Phillips called Body for Life.  Body for Life yeah.  And it is really really  it is such a system for a primitive brain and I do it to this day. I think it is a work of genius this book. And it really got me in shape because he broke it down to Here's what we are going to do. In minute one here's what you are going to do to minute five minute 12. And this is going to end in 45 minutes. Or whatever it is. And every minute I know exactly what I am doing and that turned the key for me. And all of a sudden I was getting in shape because I never had to ask What am I doing now? Or What are we doing next? It is like you have got to treat your brain like a dog you just got. The mind is infinite in wisdom. The brain is a stupid little dog that is easily trained. Do not confuse the mind with the brain. The brain is so easy to master. You just have to confine it. You confine it. And it is done through repetition and systematization.  So let us talk about feedback in the experimental loop that you mentioned earlier which was desk stage desk stage desk stage. One form of feedback would be audience feedback and I am curious what other forms of feedback you have.  There is no other feedback if that means anything.  Okay got it.  Well okay. Here's a little  a fine point of writing technique that I will pass along to you writers out there. Never talk to anyone about what you wrote that day that day. You have to wait 24 hours to ever say anything to anyone about what you did because you never want to take away that wonderful happy feeling that you did that very difficult thing that you tried to do that you accomplished it you wrote. You sat down and down and wrote. So if you say anything  it is like the same reason  have you ever heard the thing like you never tell people the name that you are going to give the baby   Sure.   until it is born? Because they are going to react and the reaction is going to have a color. And if you have decided that that is going to be the baby's name you do not want to know what anybody else thinks. I will always wait 24 hours before I say anything to anyone about what I wrote so you want to preserve that good feeling. Because let us say you write something and you love it. And then later on that day you are talking to someone and you go Hey what do you think of this idea? Blah blah blah. And they do not love it? Now that day feels like I guess that that was a wasted effort. You always want to reward yourself. The key to writing to being a good writer is to treat yourself like a baby very extremely nurturing and loving and then switch over to Lou Gossett in Officer and a Gentleman and just be a harsh prick a ball-busting son of a bitch about That is just not good enough. That is got to come out or It is got to be redone or thrown away. So flipping back and forth between those two brain quadrants is the key to writing. When you are writing you want to treat your brain like a toddler. It is just all nurturing and loving and supportiveness. And then when you look at it the next day you want to be just a hard-ass. And you switch back and forth.  When you had come offstage and feel like you had really nailed a set you just killed would you ask for feedback from other comics who you might respect who are there? Would you do something to celebrate instead and not   Well you just got feedback. You do not need to   You do not need to ask the professionals?  That is the paradise of stand-up comedy. You do not have to ask anyone anything. Stand-up comics receive a score on what they are doing more often and more critically than any other human on Earth. Even a pitcher he is not on the mound for an hour-and-20-minutes straight having his pitches judged by the umpire. And by the way some of those calls are opinions of the umpire that may or may not be true. Every opinion the audience gives you is 100 percent accurate.  Right. How they feel is fact.  Suffer that pain or have that advantage.  When you did well much like after checking the box of doing an hour long writing session would you reward yourself or was that not part of the process for you?  I reward myself constantly I mean but there is no greater reward than that state of mind that you are in when that set is working if you can extricate yourself from yourself which is the goal in all sports and performance arts. If you get out of your mind and are able to just function on your sense technique that you have there is no greater reward. But if you want to have an ice cream sundae go ahead. It is going to pale in comparison.  Yeah. Did you have a long-term plan? If we go back to the early days did you have any type of long-term career plan for yourself or was it really the ball in front of you and executing on that one next step and then career emerged from that approach or something else?  Are you asking me if I had a backup plan if stand-up did not work out? Is that what you meant?  No. I am asking you if you had a long-term career plan within the world of comedy.  No. I did not even know if you could make a living as a stand-up comedian unless you were George Carlin. So I did not know anything about it. And the truth was there really was not a world an infrastructure like exists today. We did not know if there was any jobs out there even if we were able to learn how to do it. We had no idea of what we were doing. It was completely blind leap of faith out of the plane with the parachute hoping there was not laundry in there.  What is the feeling? I mean you mentioned it but I would love as someone who is hypersensitive for you to describe that feeling that would make an ice cream sundae superfluous. Right? That feeling of getting that feedback. What is it in the body? What is it  or in the mind? However you want to answer that. What does it feel like to you?  I sometimes will describe it as math and music which is kind of the same thing. Music is so mathematical as is stand-up is extremely mathematical. So I mean I certainly do not have to tell you what  that you are just looking for a state of mind. You are trying to maneuver yourself into a state of mind that you know is your highest function level. But there are many levels below that that are good enough to get the job done so that you can call yourself a professional. So that is all there is. It is musical it is very rhythmic and musical. It is for me. I am looking to get myself in a rhythm and then to get the audience in a rhythm very much like a conductor I think would feel. A conductor has a piece of music I have a piece of music in front of me and now I have to get the symphony to be doing it the way we know it can be. And then the audience comes along and supports that and it is this absurd struggle. And I really think being a conductor or a surfer is the best analogy because the forces that you are attempting to corral are so much greater than you. The wave has so much more strength than you have. All you can hope to do is navigate within it. And that is the goal to just get to that very brief very transitory perception of mastery. It seems in this moment that I am completely mastering this audience but it is only a moment. It is only a moment. I could not stay up there very long. And even an hour is not a long time.  Totally.  It is not a long time. And it takes years and years and years of work and study and practice to be able to do that to do the hour. The hour is really the standard in my business. A lot of people can do 20. Some can do 35. There is a lot of really good guys at 45. An hour an hour 15 I think again I will go to my favorite which is baseball for analogies. It is the complete game. Can you finish the game? And that is the hour 10 hour 20. That is nine innings of mastery.  Yeah. You need to have not just a lot of material but a lot of practice and tonnage as you put it to perform at a high level for that period of time and you have   And manage their energy and yours.  Totally.  It has to ebb and flow.  And that is just to piggyback on the analogy you used very much similar to sports. And I have had a lot of athletes on the show and even some surfing legends like Laird Hamilton that'ill say you should call surfing paddling because that is what you are actually doing most of the time. What you get to show at the end of the day is the cover shot surfing the big wave but that is really the output of a lot of tonnage.  Right.  And I know you have been quoted as thinking of yourself more as a sportsman than an artist. And for a lot of athletes routine is super key to managing energy and putting in the reps and producing good results. There is a quote from you in The New York Times and the quote is I am not OCD but I love routine. I get less depressed with routine. Aside from the writing sessions are there any other routines for you that are particularly important as scaffolding or automatic behaviors?  Yeah. Exercise weight training and Transcendental Meditation. I think I could solve just about anyone's life and I do not care what you do with weight training and Transcendental Meditation. I think your body needs that stress that stressor. And I think it builds the resilience of the nervous system and I think Transcendental Meditation is the absolutely ultimate work tool. I think the stress reduction is great but it is more the energy recovery and the concentration fatigue solution which is of course as a standup comic I can tell you my entire life is concentration fatigue. Whether it is writing or performing my brain and my body which is the same thing are constantly hitting the wall. And if you have that in your hip pocket you are Columbus with a compass.  I was chatting with Hugh Jackman on the podcast and he is also a  devout seems like an odd word to use since it can be used quite secularly but proponent of TM. What does your weekly schedule look like for weight training? When do you do it? And do you do TM twice a day? Or do you   I do it at least twice a day but I will do it any time I feel like I am dipping   Energetically.  Yeah yeah yeah. If I sit down and the pen does not move for like 20 minutes I know I am out of gas. Why is not the pen moving? My weight training routine is three times a week for an hour a session but I am into that. I have been into that. I mentioned the Bill Phillips Body For Life program   Body For Life.   the HIIT training. So it is three times a week of weights and three times a week the interval cardio training. And there are a lot of days where I want to cry instead of do it because it really physically hurts. But I just think it is very balancing to the forces inside humanity that I think are just they overwhelm us. We are overwhelmed by our own power. And you got to put that ox in the plow make it do this stuff that it does not want to do. It just keeps it  what the hell do oxes do in the wild? I cannot imagine they were happy.  Checking Twitter just developing neuroses.  Yeah. So put it in the harness. I mean I do not know. A lot of my life is  I do not like getting depressed. I get depressed a lot. I hate the feeling and these routines these very difficult routines whether it is exercise or writing and both of them are things where it is brutal. That is another thing I was explaining to my daughter. She is frustrated that writing is so difficult because no one told her that it is the most difficult thing in the world. It is the most difficult thing in the world is to write. People tell you to write like you can do it like you are supposed to be able to do it. Nobody can do it. It is impossible. The greatest people in the world cannot do it. So if you are going to do it  What you are attempting to do is incredibly difficult. One of the most difficult things there is way harder than weight training way harder what you are summoning trying to summon within your brain and your spirit to create something onto a blank page. So that is another part of my systemization technique learn how to encourage yourself. That is why you do not tell someone what you wrote. And be proud of yourself treat yourself well for having done that horrible horribly impossible thing.  I would have to imagine and maybe this is just a projection because I hope that when I have kids which I do not have yet that this will be true for me but that being kind to your creative self and offering positive reinforcement for yourself through the process would affect how you parent I would have to imagine.  Yes.  Or is that   Yes. Unfortunately we seem to have lost the Lou Gossett side of parenting.  Pesky Child Protective Services. What do they know?  But yeah it is similar. You want to be very encouraging but you also want to explain There are laws in life that you need to know about or it is going to hurt. I think one of the better lines I have come up with over my life is that pain is knowledge rushing in to fill a void with great speed.  Huh. Could you say that one more time please?  Pain is knowledge rushing in to fill a void. You do not know that that post of your bed was not where you thought it was but when your foot hits it that knowledge is going to come rushing in really fast and it is going to really hurt when your foot hits that post because that was a piece of knowledge that you did not have that you are going to get you are about to get.  You were talking about Black Stallion and learning to ride the black stallion lest you be broken yourself by your superpowerspotential murderers. I have struggled with depression for decades and have found some respite in the last five or six years for a whole host of reasons. But aside from the writing and weight training is there anything else that has contributed to your ability to either stave off or mitigate depressive episodes or manage?  No. I still get them. I still get them. The best thing I ever heard about it was that it is part of a kit that comes with a creative aspect to the brain that a tendency to depression seems to always accompany that. And I read that 20 years ago and that really made me happy. I realized well I would not have all this other good stuff without that. That just comes in the kit that you have a tendency to depression. But I think it is fair to say that I do not know a human that does not have the tendency. I am sure it varies.  Yeah I have a number of friends who are in comedy and a lot of them are afraid of getting any type of treatment or taking antidepressants because they worry that it would rob them of their comedic insight. I do not know if that is something you have run into yourself or is it more that you accept it as a natural byproduct or companion to the sensitivity?  I would agree. A chemical intervention to stabilize your mood I would be nervous about that also. And besides which as you know as we all know there are many other better remedies that  basically a pair of running shoes is probably better than any of the drugs they have on the market depending on the severity of course.  Yeah. Or at least make sure that you are adding those elements into your life since I think we all know people who take antidepressants and are still depressed so it is worthwhile to tick off the bigger boxes behaviorally speaking.  Yeah. I do not think depression is really a creative source. I think irritability and crankiness is but not depression.  Right.  Depression is just an annoying thing we have to deal with.  So you gave me a quote. I will ask you one more question and then we can   We can go a little more. I am enjoying this so much. Let us go a little more.  All right. Let us do it. So following up on depression I would love to ask about failure just to keep this bright and shiny. Can you think of how a particular failure or apparent failure set you up for later success? In other words do you have a favorite failure of any type something that seemed catastrophic at the time that in fact set you up for great things later?  Yeah yeah. I have a couple really good ones. And that is another thing I try and teach the kids. When something horrible happens I think of all the things I would trade if you could take your experiences and ask to trade them in the last ones I would trade would be the failures. Those are the most valuable ones. But when I moved to L.A. I was only doing comedy four years but I had built up a pretty good reputation in New York. And New York was really in those days still very much the minors to L.A. which was the majors. And so I went out to L.A. and people talked that I was coming and that I was one of the hot guys coming out of New York. And I was only doing it four years. I was 25 years old. I mean really still just starting. And The Comedy Store was the club in L.A. that you had to break into that was the club and the guys that worked there and the women were killers. I mean these people made the room just shake with laughter. It was very intimidating to go on there. And I went on there and I did very well. And in those days you would call and they would give you spots if you were good and I would never get spots. I would get like one spot a week and one spot a week is like one push-up a week. It is like forget it. Do not even bother. And so I asked to meet with Mitzi Shore who was the owner of the club and the person who ran the whole thing there. And she said to me I am the kind of person that needs to get stepped on and that is what you need. You need someone to step on you and I am going to be that person. And she said If I had four spots available and you called in I would give all four spots to this other guy. She mentions this other guy. And I sat there in her office and I nodded. I nodded and I said Well I will not mention the name of the guy she said she was going to give the four spots to. I said Well if maybe he cannot do all four I would be happy to take any of the ones he cannot do. And I walked out of there and I never worked at The Comedy Store again. And saying you are not working at The Comedy Store in L.A. it is like saying I want to be a baseball player but not the majors. Not the majors of the United States. I am going to ply my trade someplace else. You know what I mean?  Lithuania.  Yeah. And so from there I went from  I hope it does not sound immodest  from being absolutely at the top of the heap in New York City to playing at discos in the basement in L.A. to like eight people. But my resentment and hostility to her I would say I was a three day a week guy in terms of my writing discipline in those days. And I went from three days a week to seven right there. And I was like Okay this is I was angry. I was angry. I was frustrated. I was resentful. But I used that. It was just fuel for me. She was not stopping me. Nobody was going to stop me. But when someone is that hostile to you that can be a very good thing if you are tough if you are tough enough to eat that shit and say She is not stopping me.  That is a great story. It makes me think of one of my friends Alexis Ohanian co-founded Reddit. And at one point early on they were super excited about  of course their company their baby they would put all of their waking hours into it. And they met with some Yahoo executive who was basically just fishing for inside information. And at some point in the meeting this exec said Oh there is your traffic? Oh that is a rounding error for us. And so Alexis   Oh God.   and his guys took a huge  they made a poster that said You are a rounding error and put it on the wall in their office. It worked.  Yeah.  It worked. So what then transpired after you went from three days a week to seven days a week? When did you get a glimmer of hope andor vindication after just doubling down?  The Tonight Show saw me and every comedian in the world wanted to get on The Tonight Show in the '70s and '80s. It was the only way out of the clubs to real gigs was to be on The Tonight Show. The clubs was you are working for free. Free. Zero. That is not really the object. The object is to get paid. The object is to be a professional. So when you are on The Tonight Show you are going from the service road to lane one in five minutes.  No more Applebee's. Yeah yeah.  In five minutes. And I told that story in the book too what that felt like. My favorite sporting thing  I mean I am a baseball maniac but the hundred meters in the Olympics is this thing I love. I love the hundred meters. And that is what happened when you did The Tonight Show in those days. When I see Lindsey Vonn at the top of a mountain or I see those guys kicking their legs when they are in the blocks I know what that feels like. I know. And I am very grateful that I know that because if you are an adrenaline junkie which I am there is no good comedian that is not that is a big treat in life to know how that feels that I am going to change my whole life in the next three minutes.  How many times did you rehearse that three minute segment of material? I mean I would imagine you must have done it a thousand times before you   A thousand times a thousand times.  Yeah. Did you ever have another conversation with Mitzi Shore or did you ever convey any message to her or have any communication?  I did. I did. When I got my TV series in the '90s I moved up to this fantastic house in the Hollywood Hills that overlooked all of L.A. And every day I would drive down the hill to go to the studio to work on the show I would see Mitzi taking her walk on a nearby street that we happened to have in common. And I would always give her a nice look. I would not wave or honk but our eyes met many times.  Newman! Newman!  Many times. And you know what? Maybe she was right. Maybe she was right. Maybe I did need someone to step on me.  Why did she respond that way? That just seems so aggressive. Did you   Because I would never be the type of broken-winged bird that she wanted to have in her little chicken coop of dysfunction that was The Comedy Store in those days. I was not built like that. The whole reason I wanted to be a stand-up comic is because I wanted to say to myself and to the world I do not need you. I can do this myself. And The Comedy Store was filled with people that needed her and she is going to  the comedy world in those days was a druggie  it is a very dysfunctional world the comedy world because you are taking these people that cannot fit in they have this one skill and then you put them in a situation where they can get anything they want. So whatever dysfunctional chemical sexual you are lazy you are broken you are messed up now you have no structure around you to fix it. You know what I mean? You are out in the world. You are completely on your own. It is designed to break human beings stand-up comedy. It is a perfect way to break a person psychologically.  I have only been to The Comedy Store once. I was brought there by a friend. And I went into one of the back rooms I am sure you would know the name of this room. But they listed off a whole lot of old names. I want to say Sam Kinison and a bunch of others. And they said This was the green room blah blah blah blah blah. And there was this huge table with a mirror top with thousands of scratches on it and not from fingernails right? You just think My God. if you do not have rails to stay on I mean pun intended I guess the environment is just designed to destroy.  Yes. That is part of the fun also   The moguls yeah.  It is like you are a fish in the Hudson. It is a toxic environment. The attrition is brutal. You never have to say I do not get why people like this comedian. Do not worry. Do not worry. You do not have to comment on it. The environment itself will correct  it is a self-correcting ecosystem of pure toxic water.  The self-sufficiency or desire for self-sufficiency that you gave voice to the proving to others that you can do it on your own seems to be a very sharp contrast to a lot of entertainers I know including comics who seem to have a lot of codependency right? They need the audience to validate like they need life support if they had respiratory collapse. Was that perspective and that I suppose just character or constitution rare meaning your particular ability to   I have to say that the constitution is kind of rare. But I also have to say I do not know anyone who made it over a long period of time that did not have it.  Yeah.  And that is another thing that kind of leads me to the weight-training aspect. I think it builds your constitution.  Mm-hmm . Yeah. Yeah the weight-training  I just want to give credit where credit is due with Bill Phillips  I read that book a long time ago. This was before my second book which was on physical performance. And I was really impressed because it is to me first and foremost a book about behavioral modification and behavioral psychology and it really nails those elements really really well. And if I think back across the hundreds of interviews on this podcast whether it is Bob Iger and the world of business and heading Disney or an athlete or otherwise if you look at the people who have really performed at a high level for decades weight-training seems to be one of the constants or one of the near constants.  Yeah because you are deteriorating. You are just trying to bend that curve a little bit. I am 66. I should not be performing at this level at 66. I should be over. So you have to cheat the biology.  Yeah. 66. I suppose I could have tried to do the math. I never would have guessed. Do you just wake up some days and find that number to be unbelievable to you? Or is it a foregone conclusion I guess because you are in your own body and go year by year?  I find it funny and I find it really makes the game fun because I know this should not be happening. I am getting away with murder. That is another thing I believe in. We have talked about systemizing. Gamifying is another thing I am very big on. Let us make this into a game. Whatever the problem is let us make it a game. So to me it is a fun game. I would not say this around my family but I do not care if I drop dead tomorrow. I still feel like I played the game well you know?  Yeah.  That is all I want to feel. I just want to feel like I played the game well.  What would be an example of gamifying? I mean I have read of course about Seinfelds productivity secret marking the crosses on the calendar which I guess some people   That is not really a game. That is more of a stat  I think stats are good if you want to improve anything. My trainer Adam Wright and I always like to play this game well this was the maximum amount of weight you did three months ago for this many seconds or whatever and then it is like  so it is a game now. Let us see if I can keep the reps going for 30 seconds. Last time was 25. So it is a little game. Again this goes back to the human brain is a schnauzer. It is just a stupid little contraption that you can easily trick. As soon as you tell me I did it 25 seconds last time okay let us see if I can do 30.  Yeah.  That is not wisdom. That is not intelligence. It is a stupid little machine. It is going to do that every single time. Every time you tell someone your last best was 25 seconds you are going to try for 30.  Well thinking back to what ox do when they are not in a yoke and how disquieted they would be if they were checking Twitter all day   Yeah oxen in the wild.  Yeah. In the world of dog training I know a couple of really high level dog trainers and one of the expressions you hear it is kind of this mantra like you would find in the military or something which is a tired dog is a happy dog and just ensuring that your dog is properly exerted right?  Uh-huh . Yes.  I think there is a lot to that as a human also.  Yeah yeah.  So if you are looking at gamification in the let us just say the fitness realm are there other ways that you have applied that to your creative or professional work? I guess you have these logs so in a way I mean you have.  Yeah but I do not score myself creatively. I do not believe in that. This kind of gets into my thoughts on material. I do not know if this will illuminate this for you but one time I was  I love to go on stage at Gotham and hearing about the vaccine today got me very excited that maybe I will be going back there soon on 23rd Street in the city. That is where I like to play with material. So I will go there and I will go on stage I will do 20 or 30 minutes just working on material. And then I like to take questions from the audience. And when I perform for gigs the audiences are too big to really take questions. It is too difficult. But in a room of a couple hundred people you can take questions. So one night this guy says to me he says When you go back to the same city twice do you ever worry that they are going to see the same show you did last time or how do you know what you did? How do you know when it is time to take a piece of material out of your act that you have been doing it too long and it needs to be retired and you should do something else? Kind of reasonable questions from a regular person. And I said So these pieces I was doing tonight I said do you think that you could think of things similar to this? And the guy says Oh God no not in a million years. And I went Yeah that is what I was thinking. So the point of that story is if I am going onstage and I am doing these bits however long it took me to figure this stupid bit out and however many years I have been doing it which I do not even know just be glad I am doing that. It is a good thing. It is a good thing. This goes to my nurturing side of the equation. If you are getting onstage and standing in front of a group of strangers and trying to make them laugh God bless you. I do not give a shit what you do. I do not care if it is old stuff new stuff. I do not care if you are dirty if you are clean. If you are going to stand up there by yourself and try and make me laugh I love you and I am not going to criticize anything you do beyond that. I am not going to criticize it. And you should not criticize yourself either. So in other words to go back to do I gamify it? No. It is always a win. If I got up there and tried to do it I win even if I did not reach what I am trying to reach. Even if to me it is a four out of 10 show I still pat myself on the back for it.  It is still a win.  It is still a win.  When you hear the word successful who comes to mind for you and why? Could be parents but could be outside of parents. Could be anybody but for you when you hear that word is there anyone who is really a sort of paragon of what you would consider success or someone you have looked up to as someone who is successful?  Well that is a pretty broad term.  Hyper-broad. It comes down to kind of how you define it. also.  Yeah. I do not know if I mean it as a joke but I say a lot these days survival is the new success. And I am a big  look Tim what do you want me to tell you? In my business if you are 60 or even if you are 55 and you are getting paid to work paid well you have crushed it. So stand-up comedy I would move this piece of our conversation next to the toxic ecosystem of this world when you have seen the attrition that I have seen it is like In the Heart of the Sea. You know that book? Ron Howard made the movie. When they are dropping like flies and the handful that small handful  Somebody asked me the other day How many people whose careers were made on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson are still working? I did not want to answer the question. Longevity is what I  because you had it. You know what I mean? You had it. You had it. So once you have it you can only lose it. You can only fail to take care of it. And that is when we get to health and work ethic and managing yourself so that you do not break. Because they are trying to break you. I always tease my friend Jimmy Fallon that this is like a sick experiment these talk show gigs. Let us take a human being put them in a studio for decades doing an hour of television a day and let us see what breaks. It is sick. It is a sick human experiment. It is like a Pope job. It is like they just do it till you are dead.  The forever Skinner box.  Yeah.  Oh God. Yeah that is brutal. Brutal.  There is a fantastic book about stand-up that I read during the virus called Seriously Funny and the guy writes only about comedians of the '50s and '60s. And the introduction of that book which is like 20 pages long and he goes through Woody and Lenny and Joan Rivers and all these great people and how it broke one after the other. One after the other was broken by it. They are either worn out or their brains cracked or their psychology cracked. It just took them apart. It is a very very difficult profession to sustain in. So just to survive to me is the game. That is my concept of success. Did you beat them at their game? They designed this thing to kill you. The travel. Do you realize what it takes to travel to go to the airport in your 50s and your 60s to fly on planes to go to strange cities to go to hotels to put on a suit to go out on stage at eight oclock at night and run around and yell and project your physical energy for an hour in front of thousands of people? They are trying to kill you. So I have made it into a game. It is like Mitzi. I am going to step on you and I went No no. I am going to step on you. That is the game we are playing. That is life. Life is they are trying to kill you. You get this free ride till you are let us be generous 43 and then God goes You know what? I am going to move on to the people in their  16 to 23 and I am going to give them my best. If you want to hang around you can hang around but I am not giving you anything anymore. It is on you now. If you want to stick around go ahead but I got nothing for you. You figure it out.  So this caught my attention because I am exactly 43 so perfect.  We got to end on that. That was great.  Yeah.  God is happy to  I am not going to ask you to leave but I got nothing for you. I am going to start giving these 15-year-old girls amazing stuff. And the boys I am going to give them crazy  that is my focus. My focus is 15-year-olds turning them into superhumans. You? Done with you.  Yeah. I am the eight-foot sturgeon in the Hudson barely limping along.  Yeah. No one's going to ask you to leave but we are not giving you anything. No food. No help. There is no help.  So survival is the new success. If you have time for one or two questions then I can bring this to a close. I need to go do some interval training eat some lentils. This is a question that sometimes hits a dead-end and I will take the blame for that if it does. You have already given a bunch of possible answers to this but if you had a billboard metaphorically speaking that could get a message a quote an image question anything out to billions of people what might you put on that billboard?  Back in the '80s I had a friend who was teaching a comedy course at The Improv on Melrose in L.A. and he asked me if I would come in and talk to the class. I said sure. And I went in and there was I do not know maybe 20 people in the class. It was in the afternoon. And I went up on stage and I said The fact that you have even signed up for this class is a very bad sign for what you are trying to do. The fact that you think anyone can help you or there is anything that you need to learn you have gone off on a bad track because nobody knows anything about any of this. And if you want to do it what I really should do is I should have a giant flag behind me that I would pull a string and it would roll down  just work.  Just work.  Just work.  Yeah. I love it. Well that is I think an excellent place to wrap up. Jerry people can find you on all the socials Twitter Instagram Facebook JerrySeinfeld. The new book Is This Anything? Which features your best work across five decades that is nuts in comedy and it is a fascinating book and a hell of a ride. I highly recommend people check it out. For anyone who is a student of creative process it does not have to be comedy but craft whatever that craft happens to be I think you are a real exemplar of just doing the work but doing it in also a systematic way which is a particular species of working that I think makes a beautiful case study. This has been so much fun for me. I really appreciate you taking the time Jerry.  Thanks. I love talking with you Tim and your podcast is the best.  Oh thanks so much. It really makes my day to have the chance to have a conversation with you. I have had the bass riff from Seinfeld go through my head all day in prep for this and it is a real gift that you are showcasing and sharing your notes with the world over such a period of time. I mean it is I think something that will really provide like you said just work but nonetheless will provide so much help to and inspiration to people who are just setting out unlike the 43-year-old eight-foot sturgeons those 15-year-olds 15- to 20-year-olds. I will let you get back to your day but this has been great. And please do let me know if I can help in any way or with anything else.  Oh it is been a great pleasure Tim. Great pleasure. And thank you for the kind words. It is much appreciated.  Absolutely. And to everybody listening we will have links to everything including Is This Anything? in the show notes as per usual at tim.blogpodcast. And until next time thanks for tuning in.   