 Yeah. That is how I feel when I listen to my own playback in this podcast. And I am thrilled to finally have you on the podcast. We are going to run out of time before we run out of material and   Yeah that would be nice. That would be a good thing!   that would be a good thing! And I want to start in maybe an odd place. And that is asking if you could describe to my audience who Sandy Notley was.  Well I grew up in a small town in Northern Alberta. I heard you and my producer talking about cold in Minnesota and I was smirking in the background. I thought You guys do not know what cold is. When I went to college there about 60 miles away we had 30 days in a row one winter where it did not get above minus 40. So anyhow I grew up in this small town and in the province of Alberta. So that is the Canadian equivalent of a state. And we had a provincial government the equivalent of a state government. And it was all conservatives Progressive Conservative Party. Every seat in the house was Progressive Conservative except one New Democratic Party member socialist Grant Notley who was the leader of the NDP. And he was not elected so much because he was a socialist I do not think because most of the people in my small town were conservative but because he was a really good man. Anyways he was the only opposition in the entire province for a decade a decade or more. His wife Sandy Notley was a New Englander and somewhat of an anomaly in our small town. And she was quite outspoken a New England intellectual. And she was our librarian in our junior high school. And all the delinquents and me as well and maybe I was in that category hung out in the library weirdly enough because she treated us like adults. And I started to work for the NDP when I was 14. I ran for vice president of the party when I was 14. That was my first public exposure but she was a good guide for me. She introduced me to a lot of books. I was an omnivorous reader but mostly I read science fiction. I did not know what the hell to read. I used to spend all  I would hide the books I was reading behind the textbook in class and read away during school. But I was reading mostly science fiction. And she started to hand me books that she thought would be good for me. She introduced me to Ayn Rand interestingly enough despite the fact that she was a socialist not Ayn Rand obviously but Sandy Notley. She said she thought I would be smart enough to see through Rand. Huxley Orwell Solzhenitsyn a lot of serious material and I felt a real friendship with her and her husband. And I worked with the NDP for four years. So she was a pronounced influence on me. And that is Sandy Notley. And her daughter Rachel Notley who was a friend of mine a girlfriend of one of my close friends at one point became Premier of Alberta. Many years later she was defeated in the last election which was only about three years ago but she followed in her father's footsteps and became Premier of the province. So that is that story.  On your website you have an extensive list of recommended books. I have looked at it. I have looked at it multiple times it is close to 100 I would say. And they are put into different categories different genres. Are there any books on that list or can you think of books that were introduced relatively early in your life some of the early exposures that have stood the test of time for you?  Huxley and Orwell I would say Solzhenitsyn as well I read One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich when I was 13 or 14 that was one of the books Notley recommended. And so they certainly had an impact on me.  What was that impact if you do not mind me following up?  Well I started to think in broader terms as a consequence of being introduced to books like that and started to think more seriously from a political perspective and psychological perspective I suppose. It was my first introduction into serious thought. And it was extremely exciting. I mean I read a lot of English literature until I was about 25. And then I started reading nonfiction more once I started my graduate studies. But it opens up a world of ideas and that was really exciting to me incredibly exciting to me.  And the reason I am asking so much about books is I am really fascinated by you. And I am fascinated by everyone I have on the show but the formation of your   Well that decreases my pleasure at being the object of current fascination!  Well right now you are the most fascinating person in the world to me. And I find that books are a wellspring of value for listeners because it is something they can model very well something that they can reach out for. So let us   Yeah. Well people can get a whole education if they read those 100 books that I have at my website. I mean you are not going to get an education in every discipline but there is a whole education there under recommended books. That is been fun because lots of people have  that is been an unbelievably popular list. It sells hundreds of books a month   I believe it. I believe it.  And people email me constantly and say Well you introduced me to Dostoevsky. Thanks a lot. They are so enthralled. If you are psychologically minded and you like the darkness to some degree if you like Gothic imagery and film noir and that sort of thing Dostoyevsky's an unbelievable treat. And he is so incredibly deep psychologically enthralling. Crime and Punishment is an absolutely engrossing novel as well as being a stunning work of philosophy.  Another name that shows up not once but several times in that list is Nietzsche if I am pronouncing that remotely correctly? I always wondered.  I never know. I pronounce it like it was my burden Nietzsche. I know that is wrong. It is Nietzsche I believe. But I never get it right.  So I have read you highlight in a sense or at least mentioned that Nietzsche had pointed out that most morality is cowardice if we are making the leap from this list of books to specific ideas. Could you please elaborate on that?  If you do not have the courage to commit a crime it does not mean you are moral for not doing it. It just means you are afraid. You can see this I suppose to some degree in mob violence people riot because they do not think they will get caught. And so they are not law-abiding under normal circumstances because they are moral. They are law-abiding because they are afraid of punishment. And so Nietzsche was very careful to distinguish mere obedience from morality. And he thought of obedience not always as a form of cowardice because it can also be a source of discipline. But not committing a crime because you are too afraid to I mean it is probably better than committing a crime but it does not speak to the essence of morality. And I have talked a fair bit about this is that there is a certain utility in being able to do virtually anything and then to control yourself. And that is something I learned in part from Nietzsche I suppose. The best people I have ever met were dangerous people but they keep themselves in check. I have a close friend who is been a real rock to me over the last couple of years. He was also born in Northern Alberta. He came from a pretty poverty-stricken background tough guy worked in lead smelters and oil rigs. And he went to university which is where I met him. And then he was a social worker for a long time. And he is tough as nails. He is worked with delinquents all over Canada and he is a good disciplinarian. But he is also a very compassionate person. He is a moral person as far as I am concerned because there is a real danger to him but he keeps it under control. And he is not a coward. He is not afraid. He is not weak.  How do you cultivate or suggest people cultivate  you can tackle either  both the ability to keep yourself in check or under control and to be courageous? And just to provide a little context for the question when I see you in the many interviews that you have done there are instances where people are very adversarial and aggressive. And one thing that has struck me is your ability to maintain composure while still standing up for and not rolling over with respect to your arguments or your positions. How do you cultivate that? Or how have you cultivated that?  Well I have an advantage I suppose in that I am a clinical psychologist. And I have spent 20000 hours although I am not practicing anymore. I have spent 20000 hours listening to people and maintaining my composure sometimes under very stressful circumstances. And so I have had a lot of practice doing that. And then I did do some TV work at a local station here for a couple of years and I had a good producer. And he helped me realize that anger plays very badly in a public forum like video particularly. Now I did not have a tendency then I suppose to fly off the handle either but it is not useful to lose your temper. It is not useful. I mean I am boiling inside. I am a very emotional person way too much. So it is not like it is not stressful. It is unbelievably stressful but I can detach myself from that to some degree. And I am really curious I suppose. That is another part of it. I like to watch. And when people really go after me this is where the clinical practice is handy. I can snap into a different mode. Which is Okay I do not know what you are up to. So I am just going to watch you. And then I am going to figure out what you are up to. Because I can usually figure out what people are up to if I want to. I do not do that all the time because I actually do not want to know sometimes what they are up to. I mean look. Lots of people have treated me extraordinarily well do not get me wrong. And normally when you talk to someone you accept their persona. You do not look behind. But if people mistreat me in some way or become adversarial then I am able to look behind the scene and think and see what they are up to if I can remember to do that.  Do you look behind the mask or see what is behind by deducing where they are trying to lead you with the breadcrumbs? I mean I have seen you do that very effectively. What other forms does that take or might that take?  It is really hard to describe. I think it is useful to draw a distinction between thinking and paying attention. If you are thinking you are walking down a programmatic trail. If you are paying attention you just open your eyes and let your mind go where it will and ideas will occur to you. They will pop up in your field of consciousness. And for me that is often informative. I will get insight that way. I suppose I am paying more attention to nonverbal communication and to facial expression and posture and tone of voice. And I can pick up patterns I suppose.  You mentioned earlier that at times you are boiling inside. I certainly have experienced that personally. Now anger how would you distinguish  and I intuitively know these are different but I would struggle to maybe on the spot separate the two anger and resentment. Because one of your quotes that I have here in front of me with my notes is Consult your resentment. It is revelatory. And I would love to unpack that but if you could walk us through?  Yeah. Well in my new book I have a chapter  Do Not Allow Yourself to Become Resentful Deceitful or Arrogant. It is the evil triad as far as I have been able to determine. Resentment in particular it is bad. It is a bad emotion. It is useful you can learn a lot by noticing that it occurs. Resentment tells you one of two things. One is that someone's treading on your territory and something needs to be done about it. Or that you need to grow the hell up and stop complaining. And it is hard. It is not necessarily obvious when you feel resentful which of those it is. But you need to figure it out because you can harbor resentment for unlived life for a very very long period of time. And all it does is corrupt you. It hurts you. It hurts you physically because it is a stressful emotion. Anger is a stressful emotion because your body hyper-prepares for action if you are angry because you might get into conflict. So that is a dangerous situation. And so you burn off a lot of psychophysiological resources in anger. If you are resentful there is probably something you need to say. There is certainly something you need to figure out. And so you can use it as a guide to further development. It is very much useful to a metaresentment-free existence. And that means I suppose that you are taking up enough space. There is always a struggle between your domain and the domain of other people. Everyone competes for everyone else's attention. Everyone competes for everyone else's time. You compete for your own time. And if you are resentful it is highly probable that well as I said either you are not standing up for yourself sufficiently or someone is legitimately on your case. In which case well you need to do something about that or live with the consequences which is very unpleasant. It is not optimal. Sometimes I suppose it is unavoidable. But generally there is something that can be done about it. Maybe you need a new job. Maybe you need a new partner. It is easy for people to think that they are better than they are. And it is not surprising that everybody wants to think that. I probably want to think that about me. So then you will get angry about something. Maybe your partner puts you down in public does not show you the respect. Maybe you are married say a husband wife owe each other a certain amount of categorical respect sort of independent of the individual personalities. If you have decided that you are going to devote your life to someone and vice-versa they are now in a category that requires a certain amount of respect to maintain the relationship over time that is good for your partner. And it is also good for you. Maybe you have taken a shot in public and you are really angry about it. But you do not notice it because you want to think that you are better than you are. That sort of thing does not upset you. And so you do not say anything about it. You do not do anything about it. And then you do not fix it. And that is a mistake. It is much better you could say to your partner Look we were out for dinner tonight and you said something snarky which I did not think was appropriate. Now I might be hypersensitive and touchy and immature and maybe you hit me in a weak spot. Or maybe you are playing some power game. Why do not we figure that out? Now that is messy. And people do not like conversations like that. And I think that is one of the things that is peculiar about me. For one I do not know why exactly but I do not like that. I will not let those things go.  So the peculiarity is that you will open those conversations? You do not have an aversion to it?  Well I have a horrible aversion to it and I do not like conflict. But I have learned and this is partly I suppose clinical training but it is not just that. Some things if you do not address them they just get worse. And I have been able to see where things are going to go. It is like what I mentioned to you earlier that if I watch someone I can generally figure out what they are up to. I also can see where things are going. If I walk into someone's house and there are things out of order in a particular way if I pay attention to that that is often indicative of something not right in the relationship. Maybe the kitchen is a mess. It is like there is food that is not fresh in the fridge for example or there is packages up in shelves that have not been opened for two years or since the wedding let us say. That is too much chaos in the kitchen. Something's wrong. Well what is wrong? Well there is something wrong in the domestic relationship. The bargaining about who does what in the kitchen has not been thought through. And so you have to have those fights to put things in order. And if you do not then you end up with a worse fight in the future. And so the reason that I call things out as far as I can tell the positive reason who knows what the negative reasons are is because I do not want more conflict. I would rather have genuine peace which is very very very hard to obtain. People generally obtain peace by sweeping things under the carpet. I have another chapter in this new book called Do not Hide Things in the Fog. And that is what it concentrates on is pay attention to your negative emotions. Resentment particularly it is so informative. You find out where you are immature. Well do you want to? Probably not. Who wants to find out that? Or you will find out who is oppressing you. And maybe then you can learn to stand up for yourself.  Well let us dig into the new book. I want to do it in a particular way which is starting with a quote of yours that a close friend of mine has committed to memory now. Please fact check me on this. Perhaps it is Abraham Lincoln or Oscar Wilde or one of the other ubiquitous attributions on the internet but here we go. And I am fond of this as well It seems to me that the purpose of life is to find a mode of being that is so meaningful that the fact that life is suffering is no longer relevant. Now I have a follow-up just to segue from that but is that an accurate quote?  Well I do not know if it is an accurate quote but it sounds like something I probably said.  Accurate sentiment more or less?  It is accurately attributed.  All right.  It seems to me that it is true. I mean it is not necessarily the case that you can do it.  All right. Yeah. So this   Right. That is hard to do. And that of course it is hard I suppose in proportion to the suffering that you are undergoing. And it is not necessarily the case that you can always manage it. But sometimes you can manage it and it is good if you can.  And so I want to use your book as a  prop is not the right word a vehicle for exploring this. One of the books that you often reference is Man's Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl.  Yes. Sorry I am going to stop just for a sec because I thought about some other things. So this is partly why I have a certain conservative bent I suppose. See people need to search for meaning because they get corrupted by suffering if their life is not meaningful. That is how it looks to me. Because you cannot torture an animal forever without it lashing out. And so if your life is nothing if there is nothing in it that speaks to you there is still going to be suffering. You cannot talk yourself out of that. And so then I see people tearing down traditional structures let us say or they are casual about them. Another rule in this new book is Do not casually denigrate social institutions or creative achievement. Well why social institutions? Well I have counseled lots of people who were lost. And so if you came to see me and I was your therapist I am very practical. I would say to you Okay. Well let us look at your life for a minute. Do you have an intimate relationship? What about your family? And that could be married with kids or it could be the family of your birth your siblings and your parents and so on. How is that functioning? Do you have anyone there? Do you have a job? Or maybe a career even if you are fortunate? At least a job that keeps body and soul together? And maybe where there is some chance of advancement and hope? Do you know how to use your time outside of work productively? Do you take care of your mental and physical health? Do you manage the temptations drug and alcohol use and that sort of thing? Do you manage those temptations effectively? Are you as educated as you are intelligent? Those are standard patterns of activity in the world. Do you have kids? Do you have a wife or a husband? Do you have a job? I mean it is mundane in some sense and you can look beyond all those standard answers for meaning. But if you are overwhelmed by life anxious and suffering that is a good place to start. Put that together. Why? Well the answer to that is because that is what people do. That is what people do. That is the best we have been able to manage. And if you do not have that because you are a human being like other human beings you are going to suffer for it. And so attacks on that assaults on that are not that helpful. Unless you have a better  I have this friend. He is an atheist and he is wavering about this. He was born a communist. He was raised in Poland. And he had objected at one point to the Christmas traditions of his family who were also atheistic. And he objected on the grounds of logical coherence. Why are we doing this? Well do not do it. Well then what happens? Well then you have another weekday. You lose Christmas. Well great. It is like now you are logically coherent wonderful. But you have lost Christmas. You do not want to throw these things away. And I see this sometimes with young people when they are talking about getting married. We do not need to get married. We do not need a piece of paper. It is like really? That is the depth of thought you have put into this? It is like you are not going to mark this permanence with conscious awareness and social celebration and the sanction of your community and a beautiful ceremony? That is just nothing? You can let that go? Well what are you going to replace it with? Nothing. You can say it is I do not want to be married in a church. I do not believe in God. Fair enough. But good luck filling in the hole.  So what is the template for constructive criticism of a social institution? In other words if there is a wrong way to do it where you are creating a void and not offering a better solution what is the better approach or what might be?  I got well-known I suppose in part because of my injunction to people that they clean up their room. My closet by the way is a mess. I have not been able to clean it up for three years. So there is this English common law principle with regards to the distribution of power. I think it is English common law that there are certain responsibilities of the family and the community and the town and the state and the federal government and the international organizations but you want to have the most proximal level possible take responsibility for a given enterprise. And I think that is a good philosophy personally. You want to make changes start with what is under your control. Start with changing those things that will hurt you if the changes go wrong. There is a good one and it is better I think to put your life together than to go worry about parading around and being a social activist. I think most of that is fraudulent. And I think it is appalling that students learn or people learn to do that mostly at universities. I think it is appalling. Fix up your own life. And that does not mean you should not be involved in the community. But I believe that you have to earn that right not because there is something more wrong with you than wrong with anyone else. It is just that if you operate at a level that is beyond your competence all you are going to do is make catastrophic mistakes. Practice locally till you are competent. And then if you dare well move out a little bit. As you mature you gain some  when I used to work for the NDP the socialists back when I was 14 or 15 one of the things I came to realize I think I realized this when I was 16 and went to university. It is like I woke up one day and I thought I have this ideology in my mind about how the world should be structured. I woke up and I thought What the hell do you know? You do not have a family. You do not have any experience. You do not have a job. You are a pup. I mean I was smart enough. I verbally could hold my own. And my head was full of ideas I could defend them. But at the same time that I was a socialist kid I sat on the board of governors for the local college. And almost all the people on that board were local businessmen. Most of them immigrants because Northern Alberta was an immigrant  it was only 50 years old. Everybody had moved there. It was a new place. It was the end of the frontier literally. We were at the end of the railway the northernmost tip of the North American prairie. And there was all these conservatives sitting on this board and me. And what I found was I actually respected these people. My ideology my explicit ideology was antithetical to theirs. But when I interacted with them one-on-one I thought These people have made something of themselves. And when I talked to the activists I never got that impression. I thought You guys are resentful as hell and you do not know anything. You have never done anything. But you are noisy and self-righteous. And so that put a lot of cognitive dissonance  that filled me with cognitive dissonance.  I was going to go to Viktor Frankl but I would like to pull a hard left just to follow.  Always a dangerous thing!  It is a dangerous thing depending on the country you are in especially! And we will come back to Viktor Frankl because I would like to ask about him. But first I would like to go to Aldous Huxley and possibly Hunter S. Thompson. So I was interested to see Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas by Hunter S. Thompson on your list of suggested books and Island or The island  I do not know if there is a the in the title  by Aldous Huxley. And going into or down the rabbit hole with your videos and interviews I noticed that you seem to have quite a familiarity with the research done by Rick Strassman with intravenous and in DMT. And also the psilocybin research at Johns Hopkins with Roland Griffiths Matt Johnson and their entire team. But in the clips that I have seen there is not really a lot of context. There is snippets that I have found. What has been the context for introducing those to your classes or in your lectures? Or what is interesting?  Well I did my PhD in alcoholism. So psychopharmacology. I mean I have got a PhD in clinical psychology but my research was for years eight years nine years was all drug and alcohol abuse. I concentrated on alcohol but that was okay because alcohol is like water. It crosses the blood-brain barrier like water. It bathes every cell. It has polysystemic effects. And so if you study alcohol from the psychological and pharmacological perspective you have to learn the function of the systems that all drugs affect. All drugs of abuse affect fundamental motivational or emotional systems. That is why we take them. Although with the hallucinogens it is more complex like the benzodiazepines and barbiturates and alcohol. They are anxiolytics. They reduce anxiety. Alcohol also has a dopaminergic effect for some people like cocaine or amphetamines. There is the analgesics like heroin or cocaine. Cocaine is also analgesic. The psychomotor stimulants are analgesic as well. But the big categories are pain-relieving anxiety-relieving and psychomotor stimulant. And most drugs of abuse fall into those categories. And then there is the hallucinogens which are a whole other universe. And so I am well-versed in psychology and the physiology of drug and alcohol use. And so that is the context. That is part of it anyways. I am also interested in religious experiences and for one reason or another and it is a bottomless mystery there are agents that reliably produce religious experiences and no one knows what in the world to do about that. That is for sure.  There is a study ongoing at Hopkins also that is looking at the effects of serotonin to agonists like psilocybin's effects on worldview of religious leaders of different faiths which I find is   Is that right? How are they doing that?  They are doing it with as I understand it administration of probably 30 milligrams of synthetic psilocybin. I would have to check in   Wow. That should definitely be illegal.  Should be illegal or legal?  Well it is no wonder it was all made illegal. I mean it is Pandora's box.  In what respect? What would your concerns be with that particular Pandora's box?  Well look what happened when psychedelics were introduced into the culture in the 1960s. It was revolutionary. No one knew how to regulate or control it. And I do not mean control by clamped down. I just meant no one knew what to do with it. I mean it knocked Timothy Leary off to the side sideways. And I had Timothy Leary's old position at Harvard. He had the same position as me yeah. So that was interesting.  I mean the social dynamics are very different in the sense that yes there are a lot of risks psychological in rare cases physical with psychedelic use. But I am very involved with the phase three trials both for psilocybin and MDMA-assisted psychotherapy quite separately.  Is Griffiths running that?  Griffiths is involved. So they would be one site for the phase three trials.  Yeah well he is the real scientist.  He is great. He is a close friend. And he is   I met him at a conference on awe.  He is an excellent scientist with a lot of exposure to psychoactives expert in caffeine metabolism and all things caffeine among other compounds. I mean you have spoken in the videos I have seen at least of the changes in openness and personality traits. Would that not be a positive thing if that is a consequence of opening Pandora's box with   It depends on how neurotic you are.  Yeah. Okay.  No. I mean it technically. This is the technical discussion. Openness is not much fun if you are high in neuroticism because you continually undermine yourself. Openness is creativity but let us not be all pollyannaish about this. There would not be variation in creativity if it was not dangerous. There is lots of people who are very low in openness and there is a reason for that. Now it has advantages. Open people occupy a particular niche. They are on the edge.  Jordan would you mind defining openness in this particular context?  Sure. Well people who are open there is creativity essentially. Creativity and verbal fluency together make up openness. Now it is also associated with verbal IQ. There is five personality traits extraversion it is positive emotion neuroticism that is negative emotion. Agreeableness that is compassion versus predatory aggression something like that. Conscientiousness that is dutifulness orderliness. And then openness which is intellect interest in ideas and creativity. And you might think the more of that the better but no. That is not how nature works. You can undo yourself by being open. People who are open have a hard time catalyzing their identity because they are so protean. They shift shapes constantly. They are interested in everything. It makes it very hard for them to pursue one thing. And my observation is that if people are high in negative emotion so they are prone to anxiety for example then being open can be a curse because along  when you expose yourself to something that is unknown that extraversion and openness can drive you forward as a function of curiosity and engagement. But the uncertainty you pay a price for it physiologically. Because when you face something uncertain like when you are angry your body has to prepare for anything. And that is expensive and physiologically demanding. And so open people they flip things upside-down all the time and that is dangerous. It is not like it is not necessary do not get me wrong. It is necessary. This chapter I made allusion to I said Do not casually criticize social institutions or creative achievement. I picked those phrases very carefully. We need social institutions but they become corrupt. And so we need creative revolution but it can get out of hand. And so there is this constant war between the strictures of tradition and the transformation of creativity. And you cannot say who is right you can just talk it out. But the psilocybin you take one dose and have a mystical experience and you move from 50th percentile openness to 85th percentile with one dose. It is a major neurological rewiring. It is stunning. It is stunning. And you could say well that I am sure there are things about that that are good. But Jung said Beware of unearned wisdom.  It is a good quote. It is a good quote. I mean yeah.  It is a good quote. Jung really puzzles me because it is never clear to me how he knew the things he knew and that is one really good example of that.  On the openness just to explore this a bit further it also seems  again I am not a clinician but speaking just as someone at least involved on some level with the science   And as an open person.  I try yeah.  Oh there is no doubt about it. Given what you do you are entrepreneurial and you are interested in ideas. Your cardinal personality trait undoubtedly is openness. And if you can manage it it is a great trait.  On the one hand you have disqualifying criteria for becoming a subject in the psilocybin studies schizophrenia being one of them or a family history of schizophrenia which seems to overlap with some of what you were saying earlier right? There are risk factors if you are swimming closer to the bank of the river that is chaos.  Yeah. If you are schizophrenic you should stay away from amphetamines. It is pretty obvious that the  whatever the hallucinogens do is not the same as schizophrenia. People think that. You can induce paranoid schizophrenia in normal people by overdosing them on amphetamines but still it might not be a good idea if you have a family history to mess around.  Yeah. It seems to possibly accelerate the onset not that they are the same thing. Although these drugs used to be referred to as psychomimetics. But that is since been somewhat disproven in terms of neurological correlates just looking at fMRI scans and so on. Now on the other hand you have acute anxiety in some cases chronic but acute anxiety in say terminal cancer patients which Hopkins has also  is a population Hopkins has worked with. And in those cases the shift to openness can be life-changingly positive despite   Well I do not know if it is the shift to openness exactly or if it is the religious aspect of the experience.  True. True. Absolutely. I mean if you have ego dissolution that can do something for a fear of death quite aside from the openness.  Oh yeah. I also think that is phenomenal research. It is unbelievably interesting. And it is certainly the case that  I firmly believe that the world is not the way we perceive it. It is deeply strange. And I do believe that the hallucinogens reveal that. And I do not think that attempts to drive them underground have been particularly fruitful. One of the consequences of the War on Drugs is now we have like 500 psychoactive chemicals instead of 20 or 30 because chemists keep chasing the laws. And so making it illegal does not look like a good solution. That does not mean we have a good solution.  Yeah 100 percent agreed. I mean if you just look also at black market synthesis of something like MDMA of deforestation in Cambodia or you have chemicals being dumped at Holland which is a real nexus for production. If you legalize and regulate and tax that as you would any other industry then many of those problems cease to be problems not to make it sound easy. But I agree with you is I suppose what I am saying. I have to ask before we go to Viktor Frankl. If you are able to put words to it in what ways do you think reality is deeply strange? Can you elaborate on that in any way?  There is a narrative aspect to it. There is a religious aspect to it. There is a meaningful aspect to it that we do not understand. We cannot understand it scientifically or we have not enabled to. The scientific viewpoint excludes that to some degree. And I think the best evidence for that probably does come from hallucinogenic experience. Now clearly people have a biologically instantiated religious instinct. Now it is possible that that only speaks of our peculiar biological nature that it does not reflect broader reality as such. But if you go deep enough into the psyche it becomes increasingly difficult to separate what you discover from reality. Now people can clearly have individual subjective religious experiences. Most scientific phenomena are objective. Many people have to experience the phenomenon at the same time. You have these religious experiences that can be induced by hallucinogens let us say. Each person has their own particular experience but everyone has an experience that is similar and we do not know what to do about that category of experience. And then we think in stories and we see the world through a structure of value. I think that that has been proven beyond a doubt by neuroscientists and psychologists. And the fact that we see the world through a prism of value seems to indicate that there is something about value that is real. And so that is partly why things are deeply mysterious. I mean Rick Strassman he terrified himself right out of the DMT research as far as I could tell because all his subjects came back and said Well I went somewhere else and saw aliens. He is like Well it was a dream. No sorry. It was not a dream. It was way more real than any dream. In fact it was actually more real than life. Well what do you do about that?  Especially when it is every subject or almost every subject and not one   Yeah. Exactly. Yeah exactly. No one knows what to do with that. We do not know what to do with that at all. And yeah I mean it is beyond comprehension.  It is deeply strange. One of the images that I paused on in one of your lectures online is an older lecture I believe was a side-by-side comparison of two drawings. Or I should say a piece of artwork of the Scandinavian tree of life and the Peruvian Amazonian tree life. And if you do not mind taking a moment just to describe that? Or I could try to recall it. It was really striking. And then you shortly thereafter had a drawing your son had put together and the overlap was really hard to wrap your head around in some respects.  No. The drawing my son made yeah I have it in my office. He was about six when he made it. It is stunning. On one side there is a forest full of pine trees. And then there is a river running down the middle. Then on the other side there is a town. But the town is all mushrooms like Amanita muscaria mushrooms so all the houses have mushroom caps. And so there is order on one side and chaos on another and the river runs between them. And then out of the river grows a beanstalk. And the beanstalk stretches up to Heaven. The clouds are there and St. Peter is there by the gates. It is not like my son had any particular Christian religious education. He did not. We did not go to church and I saw him draw that. And I thought That is unbelievable. I cannot believe you drew that because it is a shamanic drawing. It is chaos and order. Those are the two subsets of existence. Right at the point they meet out of the river grows the tree of life it reaches up to Heaven. The shaman they climb the tree of life then they go to Heaven. And Mircea Eliade and people who studied the shaman many of them thought that if the experience was drug-induced that somehow it had been pathologized. That was not part of the actual tradition but I think that is completely wrong. People have been using psychoactive drugs to transcend their consciousness for God only knows how long. One of the most interesting hypotheses I ever encountered I think that was Terence McKenna. He thought that psilocybin mushrooms and human beings coevolved. So who knows?  The stoned ape hypothesis. What is furthermore interesting is that we are not the only species who seeks altered states of consciousness.  Yeah. I have a little book about animals who seek out psychoactive experiences flies even. That is why Amanita muscaria is called  what is it? The fly  fly agaric.  Fly agaric? I did not know that.  Because flies will go eat it and get stoned. Yeah yeah yeah. Even flies. Reindeer.  Even flies.  Yeah it is very strange. It is very very strange.  It is very safe to say that we do not know what to do with that. I would like to ask you   Yeah. Well we also do not know what to do with things we do not know what to do with. That is the problem with opening Pandora's box is that if your life's reasonably well-conceptualized and then you have an experience that indicates to you that you just do not know what the hell's going on at all. It is like well what do we do then?  In fairness this is maybe a subset of what you are describing but a term I was introduced to by Roland was ontological shock. And for that   Yeah.  Yeah for that reason these are not compounds to be taken casually whatsoever.  Well ontological shock produces post-traumatic stress disorder. There is a whole literature on  they do not call it ontological shock. It is generally termed something like disruption of fundamental axioms. But it is exactly the same idea. When one half of that is terror and the other half is awe and that is why trips can go bad. Because you can get the terror side of the ontological shock.  Which is also why the therapeutic wrapper that is used by say Hopkins or by MAPS who is working with the MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is so important because these compounds can retraumatize or traumatize if used in an irresponsible context or even if used responsibly. Quite frankly that risk exists.  Right. Well because even the safety precautions that are put in place they can certainly decrease the probability that the trip will be negative. But that does not mean they alleviate the ontological shock. They do it at the moment so it does not go astray during the trip. But there is still the long-term sequelae to consider.  I need to use that word more sequelae. That is a great word. You mentioned your son was not  these are not the exact words you used but brought up religious. You have also described knowledge of the stories in the Bible as Vital to proper psychological health. And you have a lecture series called The Psychological Significance of The Biblical Stories so people can dive in there. But for those who have not studied the Bible is this a study you recommend to everyone? And if so why?  Well I do not know if I would recommend anything to everyone. Our culture grew out of the Bible. It is grounded in the Bible for better or worse. And so if you want to know who you are and why you think the way you think like you think you know the way you think you think you think. You do not or very rarely. Thoughts are greater than you are in some sense. I mean and it is very rare that you think something that someone else has not thought. I cannot remember who said it it might have been Alfred North Whitehead Everyone is the unconscious proponent of some philosopher. So yeah. So now thought exists in the hierarchy value especially in relationship to value. And the more profound the thought the more it deals with fundamental values. And the fundamental value is one upon which many other values depend. That is the technical definition of a hierarchy. I can give you an example. So for example imagine you are in a committed relationship. And you and your wife have an arrangement to do the dishes. And it is her turn and she does not do them. Well that is a minor league ontological shock because well it has implications possibly for her honesty and perhaps not maybe she was tired that night. God only knows. But it is a deviation from what is expected. And generally those things are knitted up pretty quickly. And whether or not your wife does the dishes when she is supposed to once really does not destabilize you that much because not much else depends on it. Now if she did it 10 times or something like that well then you might start to question her commitment to your agreements. And then you might question her honesty. And then you might question your relationship. You can go down a rabbit hole pretty quickly. But if your partner has an affair that tends to be quite a shock because you have modeled your plans for behavior and even for perception of the world on the assumption of fidelity. And if that assumption is demolished then all those plans dissolve. And then the uncertainty comes rushing in. And that is very hard on you psychophysiologically. Anyways there is a hierarchy of values. And the deeper you go the more the values look religious almost by definition. In fact you could say that that is a definition is that the deepest values are religious. This is something I tried to impress upon Sam Harris. Now he did not like the terminology religious. But to me it does not really matter because you can replace it with okay deep then have it your way. We have a word for the deepest values and that is religious. And so what happens when you encounter those values? Well you tremble. And you might think Well not me. It is like well all that means is that you are protected to a degree you cannot possibly imagine. And one day maybe not maybe you will be lucky and you will go through life without being knocked ass over teakettle so to speak. But perhaps not. You might run into someone malevolent for example. And then the scales will fall from your eyes. So anyways the deepest values are religious. And our religious document is the Bible. And the Bible is an absolute mystery. So I do not care if you are atheistic or not. I mean this lecture series was for everyone. And lots of people have watched it. Weirdly enough it packed the theaters that I was lecturing in with all the bizarre things. And it is mostly young men coming to listen to some half-baked psychologists talk about religious matters for an hour and a half. The deepest questions are religious questions and the Bible is the best answer we have. And if you do not like that well fine do better. Good luck. I mean there is wisdom in that book that is unbelievable. That story of Cain and Abel I have a whole lecture on Cain and Abel. That story is one paragraph long and you can think about that for the rest of your life. It is the first two human beings. Fratricidal murder with a genocidal twist all packed up into a story one paragraph long. And it is all resentment. It is like Cain's sacrifices are rejected by God. Okay what does that mean? That is easy. You make sacrifices to improve your future. And you do that on the basis of faith. You believe that if you conduct yourself in a certain way fate is likely to smile upon you. Because why else would you make the sacrifices? And sometimes that does not happen. You make the sacrifices and the reward is not forthcoming. And will that make you bitter? Well in all probability. How bitter? How about bitter enough to destroy the ideal? That is all packed into that story. I do not understand it. I do not understand how that is possible. I have a scientific hypothesis. As a story is transmitted across time everything that is superfluous gets stripped away because it is not memorable. And then all that happens after thousands of years of playing telephone is that what is absolutely not forgettable is retained. But I do not think that is a comprehensive hypothesis. It is partially true. And I think the story of Cain and Abel when it opened itself up to me it just knocked. I never recovered from that. I do not think.  When you think of stories and you use stories and you tell stories very effectively when you talk about say Pinocchio you use biblical stories. You are very engaging as an interpreter and transmitter of stories. When you are working on say Beyond Order this new book How do you think of composing your stories or your messages so that they are not lost so that they have some durability or transmissibility?  Mostly when I am writing I am trying to figure something out. Although as I have written  as the period of time over which I have been writing has lengthened I am spending more time communicating the ideas and less time figuring them out. When I wrote my first book which was Maps of Meaning pretty much all I was doing was trying to figure something out. It was just an exercise in sustained thought. And I worked on it from 1985 to 1999 about three hours a day. And I thought about it especially when I was in my 20s all the time. I was thinking about it 13 hours a day. And the ideas were just running through my mind at a rate far higher than I am capable of now. I was trying to figure something out. I was trying to figure out  I was trying to understand malevolence I suppose among other things. But when I wrote the last two books I was trying to communicate some of what I thought I had learned. A lot of it is still trying to solve a  to answer your question when I lecture for example and I usually do that without notes I have a question in mind. It is like okay well in the biblical lectures for example the first one is I think it is about two hours long on the first sentence of Genesis. The question is well what does this sentence mean? And so the lecture is an exploration of what it means. And I am trying to think it through. And at the same time I am communicating that process of thinking it through. And that is what I am doing with my books. The books are written to me which is why I think I have gotten away with giving advice. The books are not really advice.  or if they are I am included in the population of idiots who needs the advice. So these are things I have not  the last chapter is Be Grateful in Spite of Your Suffering. I have had real struggle with that. So although I know perfectly well that resentment regardless of the cause is not productive it is certainly understandable.  Grabbing what you just said and maybe going to a somewhat meta-level I am going to shoehorn in Viktor Frankl because I do not want to leave that loose end for listeners. Frankl talks about the desire to finish his book as one of the sources of meaning that got him through the concentration camps. Did your book and I do not know the timeline for having worked on it serve a similar purpose over the last 18 to 24 months?  Yeah absolutely. Yeah absolutely it was a life raft. I was devastated when I finished it which is a common experience with people. And it speaks to the nature of human motivation. We often think Well once I get to point B that is where you are headed everything will be okay. It is like no that is not the case at all is that now you need a new point B. Because I do not work at the university anymore and I do not have my clinical practice anymore and so those are losses of structure for me. And I have the book to anchor myself while I was so ill. And it was invaluable  and still is for that matter.  I want to ask you about the title Beyond Order. But before I get to that I am just planting the seed. I would love to ask you and this is a question that several friends of mine wanted me to ask some version of. And I would like to hear your answer. And that is how would you recommend someone think about meaning or constructing or finding meaning if they have reached the pinnacle of competence or a high level of competence in a certain area? I have a friend. I will not name him because I do not know if he would want this public. But I asked him some version of this. And he said Well at some point you have to either find God or have kids. And having kids is easier. So I had kids.  Well that speaks to what we discussed earlier. There is many domains in which to obtain competence you can find a new domain. But kids for sure that is like look life is quite straightforward in some ways find a partner and stick with them. That is hard. Try to make yourself into better people if you can. iIt is a challenge. Have kids have grandkids. Thank God I have grandkids. Thank God I have kids. They are of unquestionable virtue. And so then if you are lucky you have other projects. And you are healthy enough to undertake them. With regards to how people should search for meaning well it is the first thing I do. Well like I said with my clients is I do a scan of their life. You mentioned it at the beginning when you introduced me I have a program Self-Authoring at selfauthoring.com that helps people with this. It helps you write an autobiography figures out who you are. It helps you assess your personality traits positive and negative. And then it helps you make a plan for the future. And people have found that useful.  Why Beyond Order? What is the genesis of that title? How did you arrive at that title?  Well the first book as far as I can tell in the world of value so let us think about value for a minute. If you move towards something you value it. Otherwise you would not move towards it. There is an old joke about the chicken is why did the chicken cross the road? And the answer to that is well he thought the other side was better. Well that is the case. We need a gradient of value to organize our action. And what you have to prioritize because you cannot do everything at once and so you do the thing that is most important right now now. And that means you are in a world of importance. And that is a value world. And the value world as far as I can tell has two broad components. The Daoists talked about it as yin and yang. And broadly speaking it is order and chaos. And order tends to be represented with masculine symbols and chaos tends to be represented with feminine symbols. That does not mean order is male and chaos is female. And I have been pilloried for this even though it is hardly my proposition but the idea of the patriarchy it is a use of masculine symbolism to represent order. You are in order when what you want to happen happens when you act. And so that is reassuring because not only do you get what you want but the fact that you get what you want indicates that your theory about how to get what you want is true. And every time you fail you do not get what you want. But you also undermine the validity of the theory that you are using to organize your perceptions and your actions. That is partly why people do not like to fail because you do not know how far back that can echo how far down your hierarchy of presuppositions that can echo. If you are clinically depressed every minor failure means you are a worthless human being. And you never know when a failure is going to demonstrate that. It can in any case. There is chaos and order they are the two great domains. And you have to contend with chaos. Because too much of it overwhelms you you drown in it. It is the flood. And that happens when your life gets beyond you. And you are somewhere where no matter what you do nothing you want happens. It is a domain of terror and pain. Now it is also a domain of unlimited possibility. Because outside of what you know is everything you do not know. And there is untold riches to be gathered from the domain of everything you do not know. But that does not mean it still needs to be managed it is dangerous. Now the domain of order is the same way. If order becomes too extreme then everything becomes cramped. It becomes totalitarian. And then that starts to pathologize. That is the dying king. The king who is dying for lack of the water of life is the old tyrant who can no longer see beyond his own presuppositions. And so my first book concentrated more on pathologies of chaos. And the second book more on pathologies of order. They are a matched set in that regard and so far as I was successful at doing that. The liberal types they are very sensitive to pathologies of order. And the conservative types are very sensitive to pathologies of chaos. But they are both right. It is just there is no final solution to that problem. You are stuck with it. It is an eternal existential concern. That is why mythological language is standard across people. It is no matter who you are no matter when you live you always have to deal with the fact that some things escape your competence. And no matter where you are and no matter who you are you have to adapt to the fact of the existence of a value structure that is shared across a social group. It is the fundamental. So those are fundamental constituent elements of human experience. And we have symbols for them. And we all understand the symbols. So for example in Pinocchio I am not going to go into this because it is too complicated. But no one balks at a puppet going to the bottom of the ocean and being swallowed by a whale. Why? It makes no sense. There is nothing about that that makes sense. Right? It is obviously not an empirical description of the objective world. But it is so clearly real that a four-year-old can follow it. It is a mystery. The whale breathes fire in Pinocchio. It is a dragon. And why? Why is that? Well we face dragons forever. That is what a human being is. It is a creature that faces the dragon. The dragon can burn you to a crisp but it has what you need. That is the world. it will burn you up but it has what you need. And so then the question is how do you stop from getting burned up and get what you need? And the answer to that is that you mold yourself into the hero. And that is a religious story. And you would say Well is it true? And the answer to that is It depends on what you mean by true. And that is a weasel answer in some ways but it is not. It is because it is such a deep question that it cannot be put forth without discussing the definition of true. So it is as deep a question as what is true. I would say that part of the cultural war is a criticism of the motif of the hero. That is Derrida's phallogocentrism. Western culture is phallogocentric. I would say human culture is phallogocentric. I think Derrida was wrong about that. It is human culture. It is man so to speak against nature. Although sometimes it is man against culture. And sometimes it is man against man. It is man against nature. And we try and test the hero. And maybe that story is not true or is not correct. But that is us. And if it is not correct well then we are evolutionary abortion because that is who we are. And I would say Well before you throw it aside maybe you should try it. You do not have a better option anyways. What does it mean to try it? Mostly I would say It means two things. It means to practice love. And that means assume that things are valuable and act according to that assumption. And that requires truth which is do not say what you know to be untrue. And when I tried to unpack the first sentence of Genesis in the context of the broader biblical narrative what appears to be happening is that there is a proposition that God is guided by love and uses truth to create. It is something like that. And maybe love is something like the wish that all being would flourish. There is not a better story than that.  What effect do you hope your new book to have? I know that might seem like a lazy question but I am going to keep it broad. I am just being interested to hear your thoughts. What would be a successful effect for this book? Looking back 12 months from now 24 months from now?  Well it would be lovely if it had the same effect on people as the last book appeared to have. I mean it is comforting to me to read through my YouTube comments oddly enough because that is not generally a place people would go for comfort. Untold numbers of people have said to me in person but publicly in that way that they put their lives together at least in some ways. You talked about Viktor Frankl. When I wrote Maps of Meaning I said Well I was interested in malevolence. I was deeply affected by the accounts I would read of what happened in the Second World War in Germany and what happened in Soviet Union and in China. These horror shows that characterized the 20th century. Constrained malevolence. And so if you study malevolence you start to understand what the opposite of that is. The opposite of malevolence is something like the hero's journey. It is easy to be cynical about that. But well it is not that easy. Because if you are cynical about that then you undermine your own life. And everyone knows this. This is the other thing that is so interesting. Everyone knows this. You never teach someone you love to lie. You are always appalled. If you have a son or daughter you are always appalled if they do not tell the truth. You know in the deepest part of your heart that if you do not tell the truth the world falls apart. And that is actually true. I talked about unearned wisdom. It is no trivial matter to understand that. Dostoevsky said everyone is responsible for everything that happens to them and everything that happens to everyone else as well. And that is an insane statement. And he was a very extreme person but it is also true. And I think that is part of what people get a glimpse of when they have a hallucinogenic induced religious experience. There is a lot more rested on you than you think. And you know that. You do not wake up in the morning berating yourself for telling the truth. You wake up at four in the morning berating yourself for violating your conscience. When classically at least in some strains of Christian thinking conscience is associated with Christ or with the Holy Spirit. It is the voice of God within. And I am aware of all the criticisms of ideas like that but it is pretty it is really something that you cannot control your conscience. So what is it exactly? It is not you. You are responsible to it. It holds you accountable. It transcends you. So what is it? Well if you think it is nothing well violate it for a while and see what happens. So I hope what I wrote in Beyond Order is true. And if it is true it should do some good because what is true does good. At least that is the hope.  Jordan I think we are running up on time. I want to be respectful of your schedule. I have sincerely enjoyed this conversation. I am glad you exist. I am glad you are right. I' 12 more rules for life. And I encourage people to check it out. Is there anything that you would like to add in terms of closing remarks or any question to my audience a request of my audience anything that you would like to say?  No. I have been thinking about  my book is coming out on March 2nd and I have been thinking about what to do about that. And I think the most appropriate thing to do is to thank people the people who have watched my lectures and listened to them and who have bought tickets to my lectures and who have bought and read my book. My family has received an unbelievable outpouring of support. It saved my life. So I appreciate it.  Thank you so much Jordan.  And thank you too. I appreciate the conversation. Onward and upward.   