 Hello boys and girls ladies and germs. This is Tim Ferriss and welcome to another episode of the Tim Ferriss Show. My guest today is Mary Karr marykarrlit on Twitter. She is the author of three award-winning best-selling memoirs The Liars' Club Cherry and Lit. She is also the author of The Art of Memoir one of my absolute favorites which lays bare her own processes she breaks down the craft of memoir and Tropic of Squalor her latest volume of poetry. A Guggenheim Fellow in poetry Karr has won Pushcart Prizes for both verse and essays. Other grants include the Whiting Award PEN Martha Albrand Award and a Radcliffe Bunting Institute Fellowship. Karr is also a Peck Professor of Literature at Syracuse University. You can find her online at marykarr.com on Twitter marykarrlit. Mary welcome to the show.  Hey Tim. Thanks for having me.  I appreciate you putting me at ease when I mentioned that I have copious notes in front of me and that is usually an indication that I am nervous and  Not you. You do this all the time. You are going to kill it. It is going to go great. I am convinced.  Thank you. And you reassured me by saying I make really good waffles.  That is what I do.  Like a nonna.  I am like a nonna. You have got to think of me as a nonna out here in podcastville.  Let us rewind the clock as a first step in podcastville. And maybe we can talk about nonnas in the family lineage of sorts. And I want to talk about or have you speak to a guy redoing your mother's kitchen and holding up a tile? Could you perhaps elaborate on that please?  Yeah. Right after my first memoir was published we were having my mother's kitchen retiled. My sister and I were there and yeah the tile dude pries off a tile and he holds it up and it has a little round hole in it. He looks at my little fluffy-haired gray-haired mother and says Miss Karr this looks like a bullet hole and my sister says Mom is not that where you shot at daddy? And she says No that is where I shot at Larry. Over there is where I shot at your daddy. So people ask me why I wanted to be a memoirist. I am like Why would you make stuff up when that is who your mother is?  So for those who have no context I would like to provide a bit more context where was this kitchen or where is this kitchen for that matter?  This kitchen is in southeast Texas. It is a town that I write about to protect the mayor and the school principal and the people who did not sign off on what I said about them I call it Leechfield. But really it is east of Port Arthur Texas a small town in East Texas. I call it the Ringworm Belt.  Which I have also heard you describe as a swampy town. So moisture humidity ringworm. As a former wrestler I can say those things combine to produce ringworm.  Exactly. Yes. No that is it. And industrial like a lot of oil refineries all around. So not Vienna not Paris in the '20s I guess is the way I would put it.  Now I am going to hop around like Memento the movie if I must. And I must because that is my way. You have written extensively about your childhood. You had in many respects an extremely difficult painful childhood. We will probably unwind some of that. Now you have written extensively about it and you have also mentioned about writing memoirs. And if this is a misquote please call me out.  I have said it is hard. Here' everybody I know who wades deep enough into memory's waters drowns a little. And certainly in your book you paint a high resolution picture of just how painful that can be. And certainly an element might be catharsis but it is painful. And I would love for you to speak to the catalyst for beginning to publish this type of work. Write and then publish this type of work.  Well you know the publishing is nothing compared to the writing I think. Publishing for me was great because they gave me money and I did not have any. So that was good. But yeah I think I had a flamethrower on my ass. Can I say ass on your show?  You can say ass. Not only are three-letter words allowed four-letter are allowed as well.  Oh there we go. Yeah. So I was a weird little kid and my mother was Catholic and nervous and married seven times twice to my daddy. Both my parents drank hard. It was Texas. Everybody was armed and we were a loud combative house. So I loved my parents. I mean that is what I should say. I do not think anybody who is read anything I have written about them would challenge that. But it was not a safe childhood and yes it had its fair share of blows. I mean look I was born in the richest country in the world. My skin color is something the whole country privileges. I am a college professor. I grew up skinny and my teeth came in relatively straight. I have a lot of advantages. So whatever I went through a lot of people and people I grew up with and loved had it way worse and did not make it. So I think I was haunted. I was a haunted little girl. I tried to kill myself when I was a kid. When I was still in grade school I took a bunch of aspirin. It said pain relief and I thought Okay this is what I want. And so I did not have a choice. In some ways not having a choice was a lucky thing because I went into therapy very early. After leaving school without a diploma I managed to weasel my way into college and had a really kind professor. His wife kind of took me under their wing and urged me to go into therapy when I was 19. And so I was sitting in rooms talking to codependent social workers starting when I was a kid. And all of that helped. But I guess I have been really blessed with a lot of outside help. I am a big big fan of the mental health professional and the librarians and English teachers and those kind souls you meet along the way.  So you have kind souls that you meet in person. You mentioned a few and I want to talk more about weaseling into college in a few minutes. But I have read a lot about your reading if that makes sense.  Yeah. I read a lot yeah.  And some might envision in their mind's eye the childhood you described as a family of illiterates. Nobody picked up anything other than People magazine. But that was not the case.  No a huge advantage.  I would love for you to just describe that a little bit. And also if I could tag on an additional piece of that question I have heard you describe finding and reading poetry as Eucharistic. I would love for you to just speak to that as well.  Yeah. I started reading poetry when I was a little girl and you know reading is socially sanctioned disassociation. They will not let you drink or use heroin when you are a little kid but you can disappear down a valley of Winnie the Pooh or Charlotte's Web. And in some ways the poets I read I think poetry really captured me early. And my mother who was a painter had gone to art school in New York and was enormously well-read. There were books all over my house in a place where the nearest bookstorethe bookstores in my town sold bibles as big as station wagons and little dashboard iconsbut there was not a lot of literature to buy. But I found a home in the little library. It was a three-block walk from my house and I could disappear down the snowy valley of a book and I was somewhere else. And so poetry saved my life. I mean my best friends were poets. I think the way people worship saints and have crosses blessed I felt that way. And if you think about the idea of the Eucharist we were not Catholic we were atheists. My father was a union organizer and said church is a trick on poor people to get their money away from them. And my mother was the kind of Marxist lady who was very smart and just a little bit of a loose cannon. So we were not churchy in the Bible belt. And yeah when you read a poem you put it in the meat of your body. I mean you are a body person. I am a body person. I feel like you take somebody else's suffering into you and it changes you. It transforms you. I had this idea of being a poet starting when I was five or six years old that I wanted to be a poet. It was the strangest thing because there were no poets around. No one I knew had ever met a poet.  What was the feeling that elicited that desire? Was it just the sort of tangible brilliance in some type of wordplay? Was it a kinesthetic reaction to the aesthetics of certain poets? What was it that produced that desire?  Wow. You said it better than I could Tim. You win. It is not a joke that I used the Riverside Shakespeare as a booster seat. That is literally what happened. When I had to reach the table I sat on this giant edition of Shakespeare my mother had that was very water-stained. It was a book that I read very early and I started memorizing not Shakespeare poems but the speeches from Hamlet and Romeo and Juliet and Macbeth and Richard III. I would memorize these speeches and say them to my hung-over mother and she liked it. I got her attention that way. To say she was not nurturing I mean Lady Macbeth is probably not nurturing the way my mother was not nurturing me. Her disinterest in being a mother was profound let us just put it that way. She once said to me early on when I was getting sober she was supposed to watch my little boy who was then a toddler when I went to an AA meeting. I came back one day and she sighs I cannot keep him. He is just too I mean I was gone for an hour and a half. She said I just do not do kids. I was so mad. I said Mother you had four children. What do you mean you do not do kids? You do not cook. You do not clean. You have not had a job in 40 years. What exactly do you bring to the party? And she thought for a minute and she said I am a lot of fun to be with. I forgot to do anything for any other living human being but I am fun to be with which was not untrue. So I guess I had an aesthetic sense. She played music. She played opera. She played blues. Janis Joplin grew up in my hometown or rather I grew up in her hometown since she was older. Her brother would be in my high school carpool. So there was a lot of music I listened to. And I think poetry was part of that. The form the shape. You know what it felt like Tim? I felt less lonely. I was a lonely person and I would read these poems and I felt like someone understands me. Someone knows what it feels like to occupy this body. I remember trying to tell other little kids in my neighborhood about it about poems that I liked. There is an E.E. Cummings poem I once tried to tell some girls about in my school. In just-spring when the world is mud-luscious and the little lame balloonman whistles far and wee and eddieandbill come running. And it is spring and the world is puddle-wonderful and the goat-footed balloonman whistles far and wee. Something like that. I cannot even remember it but it is so long ago.  That is pretty good for not remembering.  I can remember little bits of it. But I remember these girls in my school just going What are you talking about? Like that does not make any sense. And I am like What about it does not make any sense? It is about it being spring. And she is like Well what is the mud-luscious? Like that is not even a word. I mean No it is like muddy and luscious and delicious. And it is like How is mud delicious? It is like No. You all are not getting it. And I thought they were messing with me. It seemed so obvious to me how great this was. And so I learned to shut up about it very early. By like third fourth grade I learned just do not. You like this stuff. Nobody else. Your mother likes it. Your sister likes it. Your daddy likes it. Nobody else is going to like it. And you shut up.  One expression that I think was in The Art of Memoir. I have read it in other interviews. And again I am probably going to paraphrase here but that poetry should disturb the comfortable and comfort the disturbed.  Yes. I wish that were my line. Is not that a great line?  It is so good. Where is that from? Or do you recall where you learned it?  Yes. I know. I know vaguely where it is from but I cannot remember the guy's name. You can Google it.  We will find it.  It is an early 20th century maybe 1920s to 1950s journalist a guy. So I am sorry. I wish I could take credit for it. But yeah all art should disturb the comfortable and comfort the disturbed. And all therapies should and most foods. You know it is not a bad goal to shoot for at the beginning of a day.  How did you weasel into college?  How did I weasel into college?  If you could flash back? Because I would imagine that there is some listeners like me who are just in their mind's eye seeing this little girl sitting on Shakespeare and out of focus behind her head in the same kitchen are bullet holes in the tile imagining the experience and the experiences. Although truly you have endured some horrific things. But wondering how does someone in that position get into college especially when they are missing at least based on some of my homework for instance 87 days of school in the sixth grade? Things like this. How on earth does someone get into college? Was it your wielding of words in an essay that just unlocked it? Was it something else?  I won an essay contest when I was in high school I remember. I think it was from the National Council of Teachers of English and I had some professors. Actually my mother had gone back to graduate school and got me a recommendation from this teacher of Chinese history who felt me up sexually assaulted me in his office and then wrote me a recommendation. So maybe that helped. Actually what I think helped when I look back on it was I opposed the Vietnam War and I wore black armbands on Moratorium Day. That is the kind of thing that where I grew up I remember my the football coach pinning me up physically pinning me up against the lockers by the front of my shirt and holding me against the lockers and threatening me essentially to take my black armband off. So I did things like I did not stand up for the American flag. I mean I do not know. I thought I was Colin Kaepernick or something. It did not win me any friends. Let me just say that. But I later found out when I got to my school and I had to have a lot of jobs to go there because it was a private school. It was Macalester College. It is a very good school. And I later found out that the assistant principal of my high school who had thrown me out a lot for things like my skirt was too short. One time he threw me out for not having a bra on. And I said What makes you think I do not have a bra on? Then he called in the gym teacher to look under my shirt and confirm in fact I did not have a bra on. So I was a pain in his ass. And I later found out that he called Macalester and told these people in the admissions office that I was a bad citizen that I would not stand up for the pledge of allegiance and stuff. Well they hear this old redneck assistant principal and they hear about this little girl who is doing this and they think She sounds great.  She is perfect!  She is perfect. So I actually think my misbehavior that got me in so much trouble and made him hate me so much I once had an algebra teacher reveal to me He really is after you. You are not paranoid. He wants you out of here. And so I do not know how I got in. I do not know how I got it in. It was clearly a mistake. I made a D in art my senior year and my mother was a painter! I mean all I had to do was slap art on something and I would have gotten a B. I could not handle the pressure. It was too hard. So I do not know how I got to college. But once I got to college I have got to say while everybody else was complaining about their parents and I do not know that you were not supposed to smoke pot in your room or whatever they were mad about I was like This is great. All these people read books and they will talk to you about them. I made straight As and I got a scholarship. It was just shocking to me that I might succeed at something.  What about the environment aside from people who read books and are willing to listen if it was the environment maybe there are other variables led to the straight As? Was it being outside of your home environment? Like what was the recipe that contributed to that sort of conversion of sorts from defiant to straight As? Maybe you were still defiant it but you got straight As.  I was not defiant. I wanted to please people. I think I had a lot of jobs. I had one of those hairnet-wearing jobs at the food service ready to go in at like four in the morning. You cooked scrambled eggs and washed dishes and stuff. So I think in some ways I had to organize my time but I had been living with a bunch of drug dealers before I went to college out in Southern California. We moved out there. Initially we lived in cars and stuff. A couple of us were slinging dope mostly pot and psychedelics although one guy had robbed a drug store. I was hitchhiking one day from Laguna Beach to San Clemente where my friends were surfing. And I got picked up by a guy who really scared me. I thought he was going to rape me and had to jump out on the side of the road. And it is interesting because there were six of us who lived in that house when I left home. And of the six four went to jail and two of those were dead before they were 20. Only me and one other guy who is still my best friend Doonie wound up getting sober. We both kind of made it quote-unquote. Him in construction in Southern California and me doing whatever it is that I am supposed to be doing. So I was scared. I was scared by how dark thingsthat I brought the darkness with me. You get to Southern California from where I grew up and you are like Where has all this been? Everybody's orthodontured. People's teeth are great and nobody's missing any digits or anything. Everybody looks so amazing and everything's so beautiful. And you are like God I have never seen anything like this. Golly. So you would think everything would have been great. But as you know when you have a lot of trauma growing up you bring the darkness with you. So I had this idea after I was hitchhiking and I got scared. I had to jump out. I went to jump out of this guy's car. It was a Volkswagen and that had no backseat and it had a bunch of garbage in it. And I pulled up on the handle of the door and it just went floppy round and round and round like it was locked and I could not get out. And so the window was open. Stuck open would not go up would not go down. And I stuck my arm out the side of the window and opened it from the outside and jumped out and went down this embankment on the side of the road. And I was really scared. You know how those moments of trauma are. I was scared like I had been when I was a little kid and there were bullets flying around my house. And I thought I know. I will go to college in Minnesota. That was the other thing. Everybody in Minnesota is so damned nice. Have you ever been there?  I have. I have spent time there.  I used to have a joke an unkind joke. I would say If you are not a virgin when you get here you will be when you leave. It was just everybody was so damned nice. Oh my God. I would never seen such nice people in my life. Yeah. And still I got there and I did extremely well for two years and I won all these prizes. Then I dropped out because I could not handle the prosperity. I could not handle the success. So it took me a while to finally start getting sober I guess. I guess that was a lot of my problem.  Which we will definitely talk about. I want to dig into that. And also I am going to ask you just to plant a seed about how those mentors initially convinced you to go to therapy. But first I am going to bounce around chronologically. Because from these origins I have in the process of doing my homework read about your graduate seminar at Syracuse described as hyper-selective and certainly a writer and poet of great note at this point right? Lots of people know who you are. Lots of people love your work. Lots of people love you describing the craft and process that goes into your work. How do you select the students who make it into your graduate seminar? Or how did you?  I mean I do it. I wish they would just give me a wand and I got to pick all my people. But interestingly I have been teaching there gosh 30 years something like that. I only teach in the fall. I commute from New York City. So we do it based on the work. We do solely based on the writing. My colleague George Saunders has gotten so famous that he attracts a lot of people and we have a lot of people who teach there. Arthur Flowers. Juno Diaz has taught there. We have gotten up to 1200 applications for 12 positions.  You end up with these 12 gems of assorted colors and kinds. What is day one class one? What does that look like?  Oh you are thinking when I teach my memoir class yeah.  That is right.  I used to do this thing. Yeah that is so funny. I used to do this thing where I would stage a fight in my class with someone who was opposite from me. And so let us say like my colleague George Saunders who is just the sweetest guy I cannot even tell you. I was in the car with him once and there was a bug on his shirt and I was like George there is a big beetle on your shirt. And he would be like Well he has to be somewhere. I would be like Kill it. And he is like this Tibetan Buddhist with this amazing practice just the sweetest guy. So George comes in and starts arguing with me that my classroom is in fact his classroom and  This is in front of all the students?  In front of all the students. And it is for them it is the first day of school and it is like having their parents fight. And I script it so that I say only nice conciliatory things. I back up he walks forward. He is bigger than I am. And then it ends with him throwing the papers up and telling me to go fuck myself or something. Andor telling me to go hang maybe I do not know if you can say the F-word can you say the F-word?  F-word is not only allowed but endorsed  Okay good.  since I grew up on Long Island you are in good company.  I feel so much better! Just telling me to go fuck myself. And then we asked the students to write. So let us say there are 17 18 students in this class or 20 somewhere between 15 and 22. And they are all smart and they are all young. They were all incredibly juiced on adrenaline and cortisol because they were scared and it is a public scene. And they do not really know each other that well. And they do not know us that well. So they are all extremely alert. They are hypervigilant. And we ask them to write down what happens. And everybody writes something just a little different. Interestingly people will describe me in very aggressive terms. Like even though I am the one backing up and I am saying Well I can clear out during the break George but like I do not understand why you are so upset. And he will say You do not understand why I am so I mean and he walks forward and I am backing up and my head is down and I am every conciliatory gesture I can think of. And people will say She stood her ground like a bulldog or She had military strength facing off against him. And one year I did it with my student assistant who was an undergraduate just a beautiful young track star Betsy. And Betsy just threw her papers up in the air and was screeching at me. Well she is this kid and here I am this professor with fancy clothes in a position of power. So people would in that class of undergraduates assume that I had done horrible things to Betsy that hadin one class there was a young woman. One of the ruses I set up is that I leave my cell phone on so I can start to argue with George before he comes in and then ask the students How often did he call? How long between each call? And ask them to guess things or remember things about time. And some people say He called three times. Some people will say He called once. Some people Four times. So all those details are very influenced by who they are. The young woman with sickle cell anemia will have this enormous compassion for me because I will say I have to leave my phone on I am waiting for medical results. And she will assume I am waiting to hear if I have some awful ailment. And she sees George as a complete beast. And me as this woman perhaps ill who dragged herself to class while everybody else in the class thinks What a diva she is answering her phone in the middle of class. She cannot wait an hour to get medical results? I mean come on. So there are always people in class who have eidetic who have those perfect memories. I remember one kidoften they are musiciansthis kid was a jazz saxophone player who was very famous in Brooklyn for giving these amazing house parties. I think he made a living giving house parties for like I do not know years. So this kid had this amazing memory. We had a script and he remembered the script exactly. He remembered what George had on. He remembered where we stood. He remembered that I would backed up every step. And then when he wrote it he wrote it exactly as it happened he did not miss anything. And he said George was the aggressor but I wonder what she would done to make him act that way. I guess the purpose of the exercise is for you to realize that you remember through a filter of who you are. Memory is not a computer. It is not a perfect storage system. Obviously we even these fine minds of these young people very alert and paying attention in their first class and wanting to get everything right and do well misremember. But what is more what I want them to think about is how they are not just perceiving things but beaming the world the landscape into being with whoever they are inside. It is important as a writer of anything to realize what kind of filters you are strapping on that prevent you from seeing what is going on.  I would imagine that is an opening exercise that a lot of your students remember speaking of memory for a very very long time. What other exercises or aspects of your teaching it could be in any setting do many of your students remember or have stick out for them would you imagine?  I think a lot of practice things a lot ofI think it is important as a writer or as an anything to develop habits. I mean you talk about this in 4-Hour Body 4-Hour Workweek you have developed a lot of practices in your life to shape your life so that you are kind of operating to constantly be growing and developing. And so things like keeping a commonplace book just keeping a notebook where you write down beautiful pieces of language.  What is a commonplace book? That is where you capture the sort of beautiful turns of phrase that you encounter?  Yeah things you read. So you might copy poems. You might copy over here is something you overheard on the street. There was a guy standing on my street. This is like a couple of years ago when I first moved into this apartment screaming Murder or suicide? at the top of his lungs. And everybody was walking around the street walking around him. And it was early in the morning and I walked up to him and I said Excuse me sir. He was screaming Murder or suicide? Murder or suicide? And I went up to him and said Sir is not there like a third alternative? Like is not there a door number three? And that little encounter I wrote down but things I overheard  Hold on hold on. That is too much of a cliffhanger. So what happened when you said that?  Well you know what was beautiful I was going in to get a pastry for a friend of mine who was visiting from London. I got him one. I thought I would bring him a pastry when I came out. But when I walked into the bakery he was looking at the sky with a curious look. He was thinking like Is not there a door number three? Is not there another? Gosh there might just be a door number three. But mostly what I write down are pieces of language or things poems that I read paragraphs anything so that you are just constantly copying in longhand. You cannot type it. You are constantly copying things that are beautiful. You are constantly guzzling beauty you are guzzling the beautiful language. So that you are kind of steeped in it like a fruitcake in good brandy.  Is the value of the commonplace book and using it this way in the writing down? Or do you have some approach to review or using that later?  I mean the great thing about them is that if you get on an airplane or you are going along you sort of know what you are reading but I have also been doing this. A poet named Stanley Kunitz who was a Poet Laureate in like 1978 or something told me to do this. So I have been doing this since 1978. Also every time I give a lecture I put the quotes I use in the lecture on index cards. And so I have like I have been teaching for 40 years. I mean I have 40 years of index cards with quotes on them. It is oddly satisfying. I do not know what it is. But it is just like a sit-up you do. It is like a push-up you do. It is something you do not really I often do not look back. I think it is in the writing down. I think it is in the practice. And it is kind of it is like an altar. You are making an altar for yourself every day.  You know I wanted to might as well  altar. Could you speak to the importance or utility of prayer in your life?  Yeah. I mean I am a pray-er. I was an atheist my whole life and I got sober in 1989 and believe me I drank my share. I did my part. I remember some guy I went to high school with telling me my mother was still alive I was home. And he says You do not even drink anymore. You do not even smoke pot. I was like No Jack Lantern I do not do that stuff anymore. He is like Why? I was like Well it just did not agree with me. It made me do things that I did not want to do. And he says I just think you are a quitter. I just think you are a quitter. I just think you gave up. I mean what is smoking pot going to do? You are never going to rob anybody's television or anything? I said Well that is true. That is true enough Jack Lantern. But you have had this job pumping gas since the 11th grade.  Please tell me this guy's name was actually Jack Lantern.  His name was Jack. We call him Jack Lantern because of a sad tooth thing he had and because we were not ones to stand on ceremony. And he said I said You have had this job since the 11th grade. And you are 50 years old and you have an ambition deficit disorder. So by my yardstick But he would say Jack Lantern he would say Do not call me that no more. I am like What do you want me to call you? Like that is your name dude. That is been your name since you were 15. That is your name.  What does prayer look like for you? What is praying?  I think it started off I think poems are my first prayers the ones that I read. Like I said I felt less lonely. So I started praying not out of any virtue. I did not believe in God. I had no religious training whatsoever. When I was a little girl people would say would talk about Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny. I thought they were kidding. I thought They do not really believe this horseshit. I mean I figured out pretty early on by the time I was like six or seven people were serious that they prayed when people were not looking at them. I could not believe it. It was shocking to me. And Daddy would say Well you know folks are ignorant you know what you going to do? And so I had not a religious bone in my body but I did notice when I tried to stop drinking that I could not like that I tried to stop drinking for two or three years. And I tried by myself and I tried drinking only beer. And I tried drinking only alone. I tried drinking only with other people. And I tried drinking only wine. I tried really with food. I tried drinking weekends. I mean I just somehow I had crossed some line where I just could not I could not stop drinking. And I went to get help. And I sat in church basements and I hated everybody I saw who was sober. I just hated them. They just seem like the guy selling incense at the airport I just did not like them. They just did not look fun. And I justthey were so nice too. It was like getting to Minnesota they go Hi! Welcome! I would be like Oh God I hate these people. And finally the last time I drank the last night I drank I would gotten together for like it was the longest amount of time sober I would had since I was 15. And I would gotten together 90 days sober by going and sitting in church basements and talking to people who were sober. And I got a 90-day chip. And then I had to give this talk. I had to give a poetry reading at Harvard.  Sorry to interrupt. Just since I do not have much familiarity. When you say 90-day chip is that some like literal token that you were given because it is  It looks like a poker chip and so you get one the first day you go in then you get one at 30 days and 60 days and 90 days. So this was for me an epic accomplishment. I mean there was no time that I ever ran the hundred-yard dash and that was as important to me as that 90-day chip. And I was happy that I was sober. I felt better. I was sleeping better. My kid was better everything was better. And I had to give this poetry reading at Harvard College. And I was nervous. I would never given a reading without drinking. The reading went okay. I was teaching at a bunch of places including one class there. And I went out with some of my students. And the next thing I know it is three oclock in the morning and my car is spinning out on Storrow Drive in Boston and I am going towards this concrete and I somehow did not crash the car and I somehow got home. And so at that point everybody had been saying You have got to get on your knees and pray. And there was this great heroin addict a recovering heroin addict Janice at this halfway house where I did volunteer work. I drove people to meetings basically. And I would pick people up and drive them to meetings a lot of disabled people. And Janice said Just get on your knees. And I am like Janice you know I do notwhat kind of God wants me to grovel and go Oh God you are so great ooh?' And she said You do not do it for God you asshole in that Boston accent. You do not do it for God you asshole. I am like Well who am I doing it for? She is like You are doing it for yourself. Just get on your knees. Just say Help me stay sober.' In the morning get on your knees and say Thank you for helping me to stay sober.' And so I would be like Okay. So I get on my knees Help me stay sober. At night I would say Thank you for helping me stay sober. Well some weird things started to happen. I mean sometimes I would literally shoot the finger at the light fixture because I just thought I hate this. And you know what is terrifying about praying? Is the loneliness of it. I always tell people young women I sponsor You show more faith praying when you have never prayed before then any nun. To sit in that silence with all your fears and all your self-doubt is so scary and hard. If you have a big loud head like I do. And like I have a big inner-life and my mind never has anything good to say. It thinks it can kill me and go on living without me. Something started to happen. I would have these moments of quiet. And the only way I can describe it is it was south of my neck. It was like in the middle of my chest. If I was living my life with my head like yammering at me like a chihuahua all day Do that do not that stupid bitch. Put that down pick that up go over there. I mean it was just Eat this do not eat that. Call him. I hate him. You know like just these moments like in the middle of my chest would be like this broad expanse of quiet. And I remember one particular day our little shitty car broke down. My kid was a toddler and he was I had to pee. We were on the road. It did not break down I had a flat and did not have a spare a working spare. It was rush hour. We were on Memorial Drive we are trying to get home. And I just in that moment and what I normally would have done I would have been there throwing the jack around and trying to get the car jacked up and in a state of indignant fury thatI did not believe in God but I believed that there was fate that had doomed me to misery and that the guy with the Jaguar would always get my parking place right before I pulled in. And I believed I had a head that had memorized the bad news and spewed it out all day. And I remember that day it was the sun was setting. I just got out on the side of the road. I got Dev out of his car seat and the sun was going down and he was looking at me afraid that I was going to be angry. And I just sat there and he said he was hungry and I did not have anything to eat in the car. And I am sitting there. And I said Let us just look at the sunset a minute. And then we will go we will walk and we will get some help. And we were just sitting there looking at the sunset and this truck pulls up with these Goomba guys from this 12-step meeting. And they have ginger ale they have a jack they have a way to tow my car. They give Dev potato chips and it was just like all I have to do is just find some space in my body and just wait for a minute. And so I started to notice things happening when I was not bent over the day like a dog over like a bone that was about to be stolen. You know like when I could just sit there for a moment. And so I began to get a space in my body and I began to get I began to hear not the voice of God. I would call it I would have some leanings. Like I would be thinking I should have just killed myself. Like literally this is what I would be. I should have killed myself. My husband would marry some nice girl who wore barrettes and my son would have this great mother and his life would be better if I were not there. And I would hear this voice in my head that was like You need a sandwich. Why do not you get a sandwich? Why do not you make yourself the biggest sandwich you can make? And I would be like Ooh great idea. I just started to have these small good ideas that were not like anything I would ever heard when I was afraid before. And yeah then I had all these crazy spiritual experiences. And one of the things I had this great sponsor Joan the Bone God I loved her she was so great. She was a kind of girl who lived in Alaska and would go to the bar when it was like 50 below in a tutu. She was just like a bad-ass. Like she was just and she was a Harvard social theorist too I have got to tell you she would just all that  Joan the Bone?  Joan the Bone all that and a bowl of biscuits yeah.  Sounds like a mobster. What is the origin of the name? Do you have any idea?  I just called her that that was my nickname for her Joan the Bone.  Oh I see. I see all right.  Joan the Bone. And Joan would tell me things like I was such an ingrate. She would say You have to make a gratitude list. And so she would call me and say What is on your gratitude list? I would say I have all my limbs. She would say No. Okay. Here's what you are going to do. You are going to make a gratitude list every day this month for every letter of the alphabet. And you are going to call me and read it to me. I said Shut the fuck up. I am not going to do that. She is like Yes you are or else I will not talk to you anymore. I would be like Okay. So I just started trying. I just started trying instead of sitting there with my arms crossed and my lower lip stuck out and my baseball cap pulled down over my eyes I just started trying shit that people who were happier than me suggested I should try. It was so simple. And I started to get a sense. And so one of the things I said to her she said You have got to pray for what you want. What are you praying for? I said I pray to stand it. Not to kill myself not to  Just stand it.  Just stand it. Just to get through the fucking day. That is what I am praying for. And she said Okay well you got to pray for what you want. What do you want? I said I made 9000 this year. I would like some money please. She said Well why do not you pray for money? I am like You cannot pray for that. And she is like Well why not? I said Okay. So I would literally get on my knees in the morning and say Keep me sober I would like some money. I am not even making this up. And I would get on my knees and say Thank you for keeping me sober. I would still like some money. Three weeks later after I started this is a true story and you can look it up. I get a phone call from a guy who says he is from this foundation. He is giving me 35000 that I would never applied for asked for that somebody just put me up for. And I so thought it was I thought it was my friend George playing a trick on me and say You know fuck you George. And I hang the phone up and the guy calls back and he has me on the speaker phone you can hear people laughing maniacally. So I have never gotten money from prayer again. But then Joan the Bone says Well you must believe that there is some sort of God. I was like No because they were meeting to give me that prize before I had stopped drinking and started praying. And she said Jesus Christ. And I would also talk to her all the time. So I would say How can there be a God because look at the Holocaust? How do She is like God did not do the Holocaust people did the Holocaust. What are you mad at God for? People did that. God did not do it. That has nothing to do with God. So that is how my prayer life started. It is a bizarre story.  I like bizarre. So Ignatian exercises. Does that mean anything to you?  Yes. Yes. I became a Catholic. I became a Catholic and I do something I practice a kind of spirituality called Ignatian spirituality which when you become a Jesuit you go away to the Jesuit place or the Jesuit-making place. So you go to Jesuit school and then they give you these 30-day exercises. And the purpose of the exercises is to find God in all things. So like this electionjust turned around to look at my screen to see if we had a new president. So this election for instance.  Just a side note somebody just sent me a text before we started recording and said the entire country has electile dysfunction which I thought was pretty clever.  Oh my god Jesus Christ. Why did not I think of that? Oh my God it is so great.  That was a clever turn of phrase yes.  Oh my God. No it really is.  So finding God in all things.  Finding God in all things. So that means when the car breaks down instead of thinking your cruel fate has come to hurt you so what you do actually Tim is in the morning I do a prayer and meditation thing for 20 minutes. Before I do centering prayer for maybe I do not know five six seven minutes. And then I read a scripture and I meditate on the scripture and then I have a bunch of people I pray for. I have a list of people I pray for and things I pray for. And then at night I do something called the examination of conscience where you it is not like going over your day and making a list of good things that happened or whatever and then repenting for the bad things. It sounds like that but it is not that. What it is is you kind of press play on the recorder of your day. So you think I woke up and so what did I do? Where was I what mindset was I in? And you close your eyes and you try to review your day literally like you are watching a movie. And moments where you see moments of grace or luck or even something a good sandwich something yummy to eat or you are supposed to savor those moments and occupy those moments. And it is a very body-oriented exercise. You are supposed to smell. What do you smell? What do you hear? What do you taste? How do your clothes feel? You are supposed to really recreate that moment in a sensory way and thank God for the grace or the gift of that. And then you press play again and you see moments where you turned away from God or your best self did not act. And you say I want to do better next time. Instead of snapping at Siri because she does not understand me I love me for myself alone. Tomorrow I would like to be more patient. Help me to be more patient. So what it does is it made those moments of gratitude. And I also keep a list or a journal of those things and a prayer journal. I do not keep a journal journal but I keep a daily prayer journal. And I just will highlight some of those things. Like for me today right now Steve Kornacki's haircut which I know he does himself. I do not know. The guy who delivers the big map thing on MSNBC. I just like the guy. I just like him. Every time I see him I feel like I am spending the night at my girlfriend's house and he is her nerdy brother who is like secretly hot.  I had this flash of panic because I was like Oh fuck. Here's somebody important. I am not saying he is unimportant but I am just saying Oh God here's another name that I have to pretend I know because I am on the podcast.  No. He is the guy who delivers the darn what the electoral map says on MSNBC. So if you are a liberal you are like a nut and you watch this the way other people watch other things. And yeah so he is this really nerdy math goop guy who wears khakis and a clip on tie and has this really bad haircut. And I just have a complete crush on him. I just crush on him. I do not even like young men. I do not. I really do not. You have to have some hair coming out of your ears for me to want to date you but this guy just does it for me. I just like him. I just like him.  So wait a second. Tie that together for me. Does that have anything to do with the prayer journal?  Yes.  Or were you just confessing that? Oh okay.  No no. It is I have a crush on this guy who is on TV every night and it tickles me to see him. It is kind of a little thrill. It is a little thrill to see him. It really is. It is so stupid but it is also it makes me feel like a child. It makes me feel like I am in junior high school. And so there is something innocent and sweet about it. It is also the fact that he is so dorky I like. I just like that.  So you have a prayer journal you have the commonplace journal.  Right.  Do you have any other journals?  No that is it.  Those are the two.  The prayer journal I only actually write and it mostly looks like a list. Do you know what I am saying? It is mostly like a list of things. Like the lady at my drug store my pharmacist who they were all out of the pneumonia vaccine. I get pneumonia a lot. And she went out of her way to call me and say I got you the pneumoniaif you can come in right now we had a cancellation I can do Just kindnesses moments of kindness but also moments of presence and awareness of God. A lot of people feel it in nature. I feel it a little bit in Central Park which is all the nature I have. You are out in  I am currently in Austin Texas which is home base for me.  Shut the front door.  Yeah. I have been here for three years. I live in the Republic of Austinthe Republic of Texas.  Love it.  One of my favorite t-shirts not everyone's going to get this but is a shirt with the Texas flag which says Most likely to secede on it which I quite like. Yes so I am in Texas.  How did you wind up down there?  Although a lot of Texans would argue that I am not in Texas but  Yeah I know right? Listen do you have a weapon? If you have a weapon you belong.  I do.  Goddoggit good for you. What do you have? Can I ask? Can we talk weapons for a minute?  As far as weapons?  Yeah.  Yeah sure. I have a 7mm Rem Mag hunting rifle. I have a Glock 34 which is a 9mm handgun.  I know what it is. I know what a 9you think I do not know what a 9mm gun is?  Oh you know what it is of course. I am not explaining it for you. I am explaining it just like getting on your knees not for God it is for you. I am explaining to the listeners. So 9mm Glock 34. I have an MP 45 and a few other firearms that I do not use much.  Do you hunt?  I hunt but infrequently. And that started in 2012. I always had a very negative association with hunting just given my exposure to it.  It is kind of a great thing.  Yeah. I had a very negative association because I saw very irresponsible hunting on Long Island.  Of course you did. We have all seen it. Yeah. Oh yeah.  And then in the process of working on The 4-Hour Chef and learning to forage I felt it was incumbent upon me to hunt if I were to consume animal protein so I had my first deer hunt with an incredible hunter and conservationist named Steve Rinella. And that really completely shifted my lens on how ethical and responsible hunting could be. Now in Texas you have the whole spectrum from responsible to machine gunning hogs from helicopters which I do not partake in. Although people could argue it is an invasive species et cetera et cetera. But yes. So I do hunt infrequently probably let us just call it once every year or two I will hunt.  You know those javelina hogs are fun to shoot. I am sorry to say it. I am embarrassed to say it but I have shot a javelina hog. So I am anti-gun but pro-hunting. So does that make sense?  It does. I mean I am just imagining these backwood kiwis in New Zealand hunting hogs with knives walking into the woods barefoot which is a real thing. I know one guy who did that. So you can be pro-hunting while being anti-gun. I think that is possible.  No but I mean if I were to hunt I would hunt with a gun but it is funny. One of my best friends is a young writer named Phil LaMarche who is one of those guys who kills stocks his freezer with bow-and-arrow-killed venison. And he called me this week and said a veryhe would just killed a deer. And he said The longer I hunt the only thing I hate about it is the killing.  I think there is a lot of shared sentiment to that by a lot of hunters. Yeah. It is  Yeah so much reverence for theI mean the most reverent people I know about the natural world are practicing many of them are practicing hunters.  True fact. Well I want to use this to tie a bunch of things together in the most awkward fashion possible because I have been trying to force fit a segue somewhere so I might as well do it here.  Yeah do it.  And that is to hear your description or explanation of how some of your wordsmithing came to be part of what I enjoy so much about your writing is that you have thiswell as let me get this right Time critic Lev Grossman said in his review of Lit Karr seems to have been born with the inability to write a dishonest or boring sentence. That is high praise. Now  Love him.  The least boring sentence is for me and God I wish I could remember it but you take what seems like this sensitivity to language and poetry to create sentences using catshit sandwich metaphors and so on which also seems to me and you tell me if this is warranted or not but to be a very Texan thing also. I mean it makes me think of a trial lawyer in God-knows-where in Texas right? Who gets up and just demolishes some slick trial attorney from Los Angeles in a complete mismatch. Right? I mean just dismantle someone with these really clever turns of phrase. Where does that come from or how did that develop in you? Because I do think it is one of your superpowers.  Well I think growing up in Texas it is a storytelling culture. Texas idiom is poetry as far as I am concerned. And I had two great practitioners. I am a seventh generation Texan on my mother's side and fifth generation on my daddy's. So my daddy was a great barroom storyteller. I mean he was a union organizer for the oil chemical and atomic workers Local 1242. And he was just funny as a crutch and told these amazing tall tales like out of Mark Twain but he also spoke in poetry. Like he would say like a woman with an ample behind he would say She has a butt like two bulldogs fighting in a bag. And for him that was a compliment. There was nothing insulting about that. He used to call me I am a little skinny thing he used to call me a Gimlet ass Pokey you need some tallor on that ass. You got you a Gimlet ass. I do not even know what that is but I knew it was not good. A little flat butt. Or he would say It is rainin' like a cow pissin' on a flat rock. You can scan that by the way It is rainin' like a cow pissin' on flat rock. It is  Wait. What do you mean by scan real quick?  Well I mean like Shakespeare is iambic pentameter or my first love poem that was ever written to me. I saw you on your horse today. Your eyes like eggs your hair like hay. That is like iambic pentameter. It is dah dah dah dah. So it does not matter what it is but you can hear it when I say it right?  Yeah totally.  That It is rainin' like a cow pissin' on a flat rock. And that you hit that flat rock. For one thing it creates a whole landscape in which cows piss on flat rocks and people stand around and marvel at it and go My goodness looky at that. And then you attribute that to the rain. It is a metaphor. It operates way beyond the bounds of propriety. It is not how you talk in church. You are not supposed to talk like this. So the minute you say this and somebody laughs at it you have them. They are in your boat. They have transgressed by laughing at your joke. Well Daddy was just the master of a story but he was also a poetic imagery. I mean to me that poetry I grew up I was steeped in it. My mother who was an enormous reader who read everything Chinese history and Russian novels and philosophy and just read everything was just the master ofI remember when she was dying she had all these old men who were always trying to marry her which why? But she is dying. She is actively dying. And one of these old boyfriends has come to see her at the hospital in Houston and the nurse bends over and says Miss Karr your husband's here to see you. And she said Well he must look like shit. He is been dead 20 years. And I mean she just cannot stop herself from saying the most horrible thing you have ever thought. And so I think between the two of them and just growing up in Texas the idiom the language I grew up with is epically beautiful. And the need to not be boring when you speak. People will Imma stomp a mud hole in your ass. That is so much better than I am going to whip your ass. It is just like Yeah right. Or my friend Doonie got in a fight once with a guy in a bar and he told the greatest story about it. It was actually the guy he decided to stab. He went out in his truck and got a knife and came back with like a Swiss Army knife. And he starts chasing this guy who was a state congressman by the way I will not tell you his name. But he starts chasing him around this bar. Well to brandish a weapon in a place where alcohol is served is a mandatory I think 10-year sentence seven 10 some bigit is frowned upon. And he is chasing this guy around and somebody says to Doonie at one point That is a little bitty ol' knife you got there. He said Well notice he do not want to get stabbed by it. And then he runs out. And then we hear the siren. So here it comes Woowoowoo! And he runs out. He gets in his truck. And one of those mall cops security guys runs out and Doonie says He stands in front of my truck in front of my headlights and he is got a belt buckle that will pick up HBO and he holds his hands up and goes Halt! Halt! And Doonie just puts it in first gear and hits the guy. I mean he does not hit him hard but he knocks him down and then leaves and gets pulled over and is convinced he is going to prison for brandishing this weapon for trying to hit this guy. But anyway it turns out he had to call the guy to apologize. The guy's daddy knew Doonie's daddy. And he said All he wants you to do is apologize and Doonie's like Apologize? I will blow the guy. Are you kidding? I do not want to go to jail. Of course I will apologize. So but here's the punchline of the story and this is what makes Doonie still my best friend since I was 15. So he calls the guy up and the guy answers and Doonie goes I am so sorry man about last night. I am so sorry. And the guy says You almost killed me. And Doonie says Man I am so sorry. I did not know it was you. Do not you want to say that though the next time somebodyI did not know it was you. The next time you do some horrible thing.  Next time I get in a really stupid argument with my girlfriend that is what I am going to use.  Do not you want to say I did not know it was you honey. I do not know. Only in the state of Texas do you have that story. It is just got all the elements of a Texas story. How could I not love it down there? I mean oh my God.  Let us talk about revision.  Okay revision.  Revision. This does not have to be serious.  I am a big revisor. I am a big revisor.  You are a big revisor. But so you have said Anyone who has read a rough draft of anything I write is just shocked at how bad it is.  It is terrible.  What does the process look like? I mean I know this is a veryhopefully it does not sound like a really naive question because I know that there are many many aspects to revision. So I will lead with just a bit. This is from writermag.com but  Can I make this sentence less boring? More interesting? Prettier? More colorful? More true? So that is a teaser. What does your revision process look like? Because I have read that you threw out something like 1200 pages.  Threw out 1200 pages of Lit. Yeah. Finished pages too that is not draft. And that was written over about I want to say five or six years. And I remember when I threw it out Tim I was so upset. I had beenwell first off they were about to hang me. I was so late. I was like seven years late on a contract. I mean theyand so I finally my agent called me and said You are going to have to I said You know what? I will sell my apartment and give the damn money back if they do not shut up and leave me alone. It is just going to take me a minute. So anyway so I would sent them I do not know I would sent them like 130 140 pages. And my editor at the time estimated that I would thrown out 1200 pages. And let me tell you when she said that they sucked as bad as I thought they sucked I mean I knew they sucked when they sent them which is why I did not want to send them. I wanted to keep working on them. So I just I went to bed for like two days and I watched Dr. Phil reruns and a lot of cooking shows. And I ordered a lot of curry. I think I had a whole pizza at one point and slopped around in my bathrobe. And then I called Don DeLillo who is one of the people I call it is like the nuclear button who is just one of the great novelists and who also happens to be a friend of mine. And I said Don I think I am writing a He is like What are you crying about? I said I think I am writing a bad book. And he said Well who does not? And I thought about that. And I thought God he is right. Tolstoy's written bad but I mean people I read every writer I know has written a bad book. So okay. So okay. So maybe it is just going to be a bad book but it is the book that standing in line to be written. And I think I became willing to fail to just say what happened. So basically what it looks like is just clawing through a line at a time or a sentence at a time. I think one example I give in The Art of Memoir is that when my mother is driving me to college and I think the sentence I started with was something like Mother drove me to college in her yellow station wagon. We stopped every night at the Holiday Inn and got drunk on screwdrivers. I cannot remember. Might have said puking drunk on screwdrivers. And so I somehow was able to remember being in that car. The thing about my mother's yellow station wagon was that it did not have an air conditioner. So at that time you could buy an air conditioner that strapped under the dashboard. Well it would build up condensation. And when she turned right and I was sitting in the shotgun the water in the air conditioner would spill out onto my bare feet. And it was icy icy cold water. And I remembered that we had stopped and gotten a bushel of peaches in Arkansas and she was drinking vodka. Driving drinking vodka and orange juice and eating thesewatching her eat a peach. When you are 17 years old to watch your mother eat and show any desire for anything is just so horrifying. You just want to die. There is just nothing uglier than watching your mother eat a peach when you are 17. You just think My God woman. Shut your mouth. Take a smaller bite. Jesus it is not going anywhere. But the smell of the peaches and being in theand suddenly I remembered that I had a copy of One Hundred Years of Solitude that I had got it was her book but I had started reading and she said Read it aloud to me. And I remembered reading that book and driving and I remembered theyou grow up around these Texas dirt farms. I mean there is plenty of corporate farming in the state of Texas but then you get to the Midwest and it is just so organized. It is just there are not the rusted cars in the yard and the refrigerator on the porch. It is these rows and rows of corn and these big cinnamon-colored silos. And I remember driving into that landscape up to that college and reading that book and thinking I could be a writer. I somehow was able to remember those details and occupy that body in space and time and remember how disgusted I was by my mother and how terrified I was that I would not do well at school that I would fail. I would been such a screw up. I would been arrested the year before with a bunch of kids and there was a bunch of dope and some of them went to jail and I did not because the judge was a guy who had known my mother when she was a reporter for the local newspaper. And I still remember sitting inshe came to pick me up wearing a leopardshe had leopard skin pajamas. It was July 4th. And she had on a beaver coat with a mink collar and those leopard skin pajamas on this hot night and Kountze County Texas and here sits this judge behind thisthis liver-spotted judge with these palsied hands and every meal he is ever eaten on his tie when she came to pick me up. And he said I remember your mother. She was the most beautiful woman I would ever seen. And she said Oh you old fool. I mean I was just like Oh my God Mother get me out of here. Sucking up is underrated. So anyway yeah I think it is memory. I do an exercise with myI just did it the other day for a colleague of mine Dana Spiotta wonderful young novelist I teach with. And she is teaching an undergraduate class there are 90 kids in the class. I said I want to do this writing exercise. She said Well the writing it is been uneven. But I said Trust me everyone will write well. And you have them focus on a room they grew up in and to try to occupy the smell to try to remember a room you were in where your mother's cooking your grandmother wherever you had a good meal when you were little and try to close your eyes and smell that because smell is the most primordial memory and the most emotional memory and it is stored way back in that snake brain hypothalamus we have that is where all the trouble starts. And you try to get in that memory and interrogate your body about what you can smell taste touch and then finally what you want what are you yearning for and what is keeping you from getting it? Maybe it is a bite of the brisket or some of the barbecue or daddy's oysters coming up out of the fryer or what is going to keep you from getting it? It is my big-footed sister who as Daddy said Nothing ever got between her and a bag of groceries. She is going to get all the oysters and I will not get any. And so it is really more about trying to occupy a former self because I think as you know just as in trauma the body remembers. The body also remembers beauty. It also remembers pleasure and love and those other things too.  So the body keeps the score. And if you go excavating for these memories sometimes there are costs associated with that.  Total horrorshow.  I have read that while you were working on The Liars' Club that you would suddenly fall asleep in the middle of the afternoon as if you would driven all night and you had sobbed you would really suffer. What did you do to cope with that pain? And I should just say you and I were chatting before the recording about trauma a bit. And I have recently described some of my childhood sexual abuse and the podcast that I did related to it did not seem to exact a horrifying toll but the process years before of trying to write about it and getting a very very rough draft brutalized me.  Of course it did.  And just left me paralytic for for God more than six months in some ways.  I am so sorry.  Yeah thank you for saying that. And I am horrified by the experience and also fascinated by it in a way because I do not know why those two things should be so different. And I would just love to hear you expand a bit on the price that you have paid or your experience with dredging up a lot of these memories or recalling them putting them down and why writing seems at least in my experience to be so different from some other forms of expressing these things.  Well I mean because you are alone. You are alone. I mean that is for me where the prayer and the God comes in. I do have a sense now that I did not have a back in the day. I mean by the time I started writing Liars' Club how old was I? I do not know 35. I would been in therapy for 16 years. And I would also had a prayer practice fora meditation and prayer practice for some years. I had not converted I was not a Christian. I was not Catholic but I was about to become Catholic. And I was very active in recovery programs and I had a sponsor and based on all of those efforts I had done a lot of the processing and recovery. I had flown down to Texas when I was 23 years old and got my mother drunk on margaritas and told her You tried to kill me with a butcher knife and it is not because I was a bad kid and it ruined my life. What the hell was wrong with you? What was going on? I had a lot of that work and I tell people when they tell me they want to write a memoir about some horrible stretch of childhood or some awful period of trauma maybe they do not maybe they do not right now. When I was drinking my idea of medicating myself or anesthetizing myself that was all I knew how to do. That was what my parents told me to do that was all they knew how to do was try to drink it away. My daddy was in the Battle of the Bulge. I mean he went in at Normandy and he came out at Buchenwald. That is plenty of trauma plus being married to my mother would have been simple. There was only one person with a weapon as opposed to the Nazis. So I am a big fan of a hot bath I am a big fan of nutritious food I am a big fan of cardio. Even now I mean I am 65 I do not do five dance classes a week but I get up in the morning and I walk four miles and then I do Pilates three or four times a week and I take a dance class a couple of times a week. All those things keep me in my body. When I am in a lot of pain I take care of myself. When I was drinking I felt like I had this screaming baby that I was holding and I was screaming at it all the time to shut up. I am not dealing with anything like that. I am so much happier now than I have ever been in my life. I am 65 years old I have never been so happy in my life. I have never been less good looking had less social power had any of the things that you would think would make me happy joyous and free. I wake up every day feeling lucky to be alive and feeling loved and not every day. I mean I wake up plenty of days and I am mad as an old stump piss ant but most of my days are pretty lit up and it is a lifetime of practice. So I tell a lot of my students my young students who want to write about sexual assault or trauma various kinds Well why do not you get some treatment for this first? Why do not you treat your heart first treat your body treat yourself with a lot of care and see if this is what you want to write about right now. Something you can write about maybe five years from now or something.  What advice would you give yourself about therapy if you were talking to your 19- or 20-year-old self and how were you first convinced to go to therapy? I remember you mentioning that long ago in this conversation.  I did not have to be convinced. I mean here's the other thing. There were not a lot of people saying Gee I wish you would stopped drinking. I mean I led a pretty isolated existence the way a lot of people who grew up the way I grew up do. I mean my idea of telling somebody how I felt I remember right before I stopped drinking I remember I was teaching well all over the academic ghetto around Boston but I remember specifically one day at Tufts I was copying something for a class and I had dropped my kid off vomiting out the side of the car before I dropped him off at daycare. And then I drove to Tufts and I was xeroxing something and somebody said How are you doing Mary? And I was like I want to blow my fucking brains out. And that was my idea of telling somebody how I felt making a glib socially awkward statement to somebody I hardly knew and I had been in therapy than for a while but I was also drinking every day everything I could get my mitts on.  What is good therapy to you? Because therapy is a term that is extremely broad it is like saying medicine right?  Yeah exactly.  There is so many different specialties. What has proven to be good therapy for you?  I think it totally depends on the person.  Yeah for you.  I mean for me the difference in therapy and recovery I think in therapy I am the baby and they are the mommy and that model especially when I first started I just felt like I needed a lot of nurturing and I had great therapists. My first therapist when I look back on things he said and did was insane he would have been fired. He told me to go down after he would been seeing me nine months and confront my homicidal suicidal mother about all this horrible stuff she would done to me. And I did it and he said I will not see you until you do it.  Wow. In for a penny in for a pound.  I know. I look back on it I was like He was crazy. I had a great therapist when my son was a baby who was a psychologist PhD psychologist and who really helped me try to learn how to be a mother when I had not had one and all the feelings that come up around what you did not get when you were a child when you have a child the protection and stuff. I mean it is funny my son watches me with his daughter now and it just gives me nothing but a stroke and I said Let me just tell you I was not this good with you. I was crazy about you and I loved you but I did not have what I have now that I have with her. I do not even break a sweat going in there. I babysit one or two days a week and I was in Prospect Park this week and I had taken her across the park in a stroller and a thunderstorm broke out and I mean pouring rain. I have never shared DNA with somebody this good-natured as this baby. This baby coos smiles laughs never cries. I mean sleeps eats is just the best-natured kid. I used to babysit in high school and college so I have taken care of a lot of babies and she is just the easiest kid. I get across the thing it is pouring rain and she starts screaming crying like she is being beaten. And I take her out of the stroller and I hold her and she calms down I go to put her back in the stroller and she just starts screaming crying again. Well it is two miles across a muddy field in the pouring rain and I have got a stroller and a bunch of crap and I have got this 27-pound screaming unit and I just had no problem doing it. And when I was 40 years old 35 years old it would have been like being beaten with a hose. And I just thought you know what? Daddy was in the Battle of the Bulge this is not that hard. I just had the physical energy even at my age that I did not know I had to do it. And I got back to the house and I went to fold up the stroller there was four inches of freezing water in the bottom of the stroller that I had been putting her in and she was soaked through to her skin. Now I understand I could have just emptied it out and put her in the stroller and wrapped her up in a blanket. But I did not know what it was but I just thought Well I will get her home and it will be fine. I did not feel like Oh my God Oh my God I am a terrible mother and I am going to wind up trying to stab her with a butcher knife which is how I felt when my kid was that age. I did not know that I was not going to be my mother I did not know that. So scary.  That is scary. Yeah. Super scary. And it sounds like and please correct me if I am wrong but that you have learned in some form or fashion or maybe many forms and fashions to wear the world like a loose garment. I would love to know if you agree or disagree with this.  I would not say that.  Okay. So at your first confession  Absolutely not no. Uh-uh .  the priest said to you Wear the world like a loose garment. What does that mean?  Well I mean I think the problem is not whatever your mind is telling you the problem is the problem is the fear. And for me the solution to fear is curiosity and presence. And I cannot be terrified and curious at the same time. And so when I was walking the baby across the field just all I was was physically uncomfortable. I mean I was thinking Gee can I shove this thing and get everything and get all this stuff And so I went crossways across a mud field so I am shoving the stroller and carrying her. I did not know physically if I could do it. I was dubious I thought Maybe I cannot do this. But all I had to do was do it. I thought Well if I get tired I will sit down it will rain on me a minute and then I will get up and go again. That is what we will do. But I do not know. Here's the way I put it. I tell people it is like I have a trick knee. It is like most of the time I walk fine I run fine I can squat more than my body weight and do advanced Pilates an hour and 10 minutes and I am tough as a boot. But there are days that I do not feel that way or there are moments where my knee goes out and I fall on the ground and all I have to do is honor those moments. And I have a heating pad I have a weighted blanket and my kids have a pit bull I will bring to stay with me who while an idiot is my little comfort animal. I call people I still have a sponsor I still have a therapist who I do not talk to all the time but I did not have to be convinced to go into therapy. I knew I needed it but when I first started it as you know it was just so damn painful. And for those of your listeners out there if you are having a hard time I just want to say it is like you lance a boil and the infection's draining off and if you can just get by that it is going to tell you that it is endless but it is not endless. There is a bottom to it. Did you ever smoke? You never did.  I was never a smoker no.  Yeah you are just such a jock. You are such a specimen. You are such a specimen Tim.  Ah well we are all specimens. It depends on how we look on the autopsy table.  Exactly.  But I was born premature so I have respiratory issues in my left lung and that was part of it. So I had a lot of breathing issues growing up to begin with and secondly sports saved me. So sports kept me out of a lot of trouble.  Yeah. I was good at sports and then I quit and I am much more of a jock now than I was then.  Why did you ask about smoking?  I was going to ask you about smoking because when you quit smoking there is a phenomenon that happens it is also when you quit drinking but somehow it is more intense when you smoke. You will have a craving for a cigarette and the craving is as intense as it was the first day you quit. It is as overpowering but if you just keep note of how long the craving lasts and how many of them there are there they are as intense but they are not as long and as frequent. So it is the same thing about suffering when you first start therapy or you first lance that boil and you are unearthing some of the painful things you grew up with.  Yeah that is .  It is as intense the first day and you just feel like Oh my God I am in the burn ward and I just got snatched out of the fire and every ounce of me hurts and I want to run screaming down the street like my hair's on fire. And it just will not last as long as it did the first time.  Yeah excellent advice.  And so for your listeners if you are just looking at hard things that you grew up with or you are trying to quit smoking trying to quit drinking trying to recover from trauma I promise you I will send you money if this is not true that it will get easier. It is not linear and there will be those days when it is as painful as the first day and you will think But I am no better than I was but you are it just does not feel that way.  Yeah. Excellent advice and just a few more questions. I am having so much fun I could go forever.  You got a lot to do dude.  Do I? Do I though? I do not know.  Where in Austin do you live?  Well I spend most of my time downtown for recording and then live in the burbs outside of that but I love it. I love it in Austin.  Beautiful.  And expect to be here for quite some time. I wanted to move here right after college I did not get the job.  Those morons they screwed up.  Yeah. Possibly. I also think that that could have been in everyone's best interest.  Really?  I think I make a quite terrible employee in most circumstances.  Me too.  But at the time and I did not expect this to lead here but at the time that I was not given the green light to get an offer from Trilogy Software way back in the day it seemed like a death blow right? It seemed like the end of the world because I had put a lot of eggs in that basket. I did not want to do anything that was recruiting on campus really otherwise and I listened to and watched your Syracuse University commencement speech.  Oh that is so nice of you.  And then I read a transcript and I think this is from the speech unless it was mis-transcribed but here's the paragraph. Almost every time I was super afraid it was of the wrong thing and stuff that first looked like the worst most humiliating thing that could ever happen almost always led me to something extraordinary and very fine. So my question is could you give us an example of that that comes to mind? It could be something humiliating it could be a favorite failure anything.  Oh I will tell you one. When I first did a moral inventory and recovery that they encourage you to do I had a lot of resentments against God.  When you say they this is in a 12-step program?  Yeah. And Joan the Bone   Joan the Bone right.  One of the things I really resented God for my son who was just this little beautiful blonde-haired blue-eyed and a tank of a boy a natural athlete when he was little he was sick all the time. I mean he would get a cold and he would get these sinus infections his fever would go to 105 we would rush him to a children's hospital in Boston it was terrifying. We were always rushing to emergency rooms because his fever was so bleeding high and just so terrifying. And so I never slept I never slept and I was depressed. I was probably postpartumly depressed and I was drinking. By then I decided drinking would help me take care of a sick child. Great idea Mare. it is like the bad mom in the after-school special. And when it came time to do Ignation Spiritual Exercises where you are trying to find God in all things where is God in that? Where is God in a sick baby? I will tell you a secret. When I actually looked at my life and the decisions I was making I would have kept drinking. If I had had one of those playboy babies that sleeps 12 hours a night and never is sick and just coos and cuddles I would have kept drinking. If I had had my granddaughter who is the easiest 12-hour-a-night sleeper eats everything you give her laughs at everything you do I would have kept drinking. I could not physically drink the way a real alcoholic needs to drink and take care of a kid who was sick all the time could not do it and work and make a living. I could not do all those things it was too hard. And so I do not think God sent pathogens into my infant son's body I do not know how any of this works but when I ask where God is in this my own physical discomfort forced me to get sober. So my sister died this summer very suddenly of pancreatic cancer in less than a week.  I am sorry.  Yeah I am sorry too. And we were not in touch. We had a terrible childhood and we had not been really in touch for seven years and that was my choice. And I remember saying to my therapist Is not it going to be terrible when she dies? She said Yeah it is going to be terrible anyway. And although it is horrible that she is dead I feel my love for her. I do not have to defend myself against my love for her the way I did when we were estranged. I can cherish and remember all the times we were there for each other all the ages we were in each other's lives. And yeah I would give anything for her to be alive but I still think our not being in touch was the best thing for both of us I do not regret that. And there is this amazing gift to me of being in touch now with her son and her husband and her stepchildren. I would give anything if she were alive but there are gifts in this suffering that are real spiritual gifts. I practice when things happen that I find very disappointing my son had a film coming out his first feature film coming out at Tribeca Film Festival and it is a global pandemic and so there is no Tribeca Film Festival and he is raised somehow all this money and put years worth of work in and moved Heaven and Earth and you know what? The film's being released he is got a great distribution deal he just won best director at FrightFest and it is unfolding just the way it needs to unfold. It is getting curious about where the light is just being curious about where the light is.  Yeah getting curious about where the light is and the all-powerful reframe and it is really incredible what can happen as you said when you really get curious in the face of fear.  I have to say on air Tim because I have to say it. I have so many young people who come to me about sexual assault so many young men who have come to me my students young writers young poets and your being open about this on this podcast has just been such a gift to all these young men.  Thank you.  So good for you so good for you. So a horrible thing that happened to you that is being used to help give a lot of people hope and it is going to prompt a lot of healing.  I hope so. And I have seen a lot come out of the woodwork and it is been simultaneously and I know you have experienced this certainly it is been simultaneously appalling rewarding and brutal in a way. I mean it is all of those things. I mean there is a lot of pain and beauty in it. And I will just mention that of my closest male friends and there really are not that many I do not collect friends like little porcelain tea cups or whatever people collect. I have a fairly small-ish circle and I would say 30 percent of my closest male friends reached out to me after that podcast to describe their own experiences with sexual abuse that I knew nothing about and these are people I have known for a very long time so I hope there is healing. I certainly hope so.  Of course there is. We are living. Look we are not curled up in the back wards of mental institutions and we both could be.  Yeah. Very true very true. Well Mary we are going to talk again and I want to ask  Okay honey bun.  one more question  Okie doke.  which sometimes is a dead end and I will own that if it is.  Okay then.  But we will see where it goes. The question is if you could put anything on a billboard metaphorically speaking to reach billions of people however many you want a word a phrase a question a quote a poem anything what might you put on that billboard?  Oh my God that is so hardcore. Oh my God.  It is aggressive it is aggressive it is aggressive.  It is hardcore it really is. It is a little javelina hog there is a pack of javelina hogs running out of the bushes at me. What would I put?  And it does not have to be the one and only. This could just be the first billboard.  The first billboard. Put down that gun you need a sandwich. You need a sandwich and a hot bath. No I know what I would put. I would put 90 percent of what is wrong with you could be cured with a hot bath. That is what I would put.  I love it. I love that. Well Mary this has been so much fun.  It is been a hoot.  I have really really enjoyed this. People can find you at your website marykarr.com. That is MaryK-A-R-R.com. Twitter marykarrlit L-I-T. Is there anything else you would like to say suggest ask request of the listeners?  Let us all heal let us all heal as a country no matter how different we think we are. We are all suffering souls and we all want to heal this ribbon country of ours. So that is what I am wishing for all of us I am wishing everybody a lot of love and light today and a big nice cigar.  Hear hear.  Hear hear.  Get curious. Look for the light.   Thank you Mary.  All right you take care. You go do you.  I will. And to everybody listening we will link to everything that we have mentioned in the show notes at tim.blogpodcast and until next time thanks for listening.   