 I am Tim Ferriss author entrepreneur angel investor and now TV host. I have spent my entire adult life asking questions then scouring the globe to find the answers. On this show I will share the secrets of pioneers who have faced their own fears. We will dig into the hard times big mistakes tough decisions and how they got through it all. The goal is not to be fearless. The goal is to learn to fear less. Welcome to  Fearless. I am your host Tim Ferriss and on this stage we will be deconstructing world-class performers of all different types uncover the specific tactics and strategies they have used to overcome doubt tackle their hardest decisions and ultimately succeed on their own terms. So let us take a look at my guest by the numbers. 17 minutes four seconds. His world record setting breath hold if you can believe that. It is true. 44 days. How long he survived without food in a plexiglass box. 63 hours 42 minutes and 15 seconds. The amount of time he spent encased in a block of ice. For nearly 20 years he has risked his life for your entertainment. Please welcome to the stage world-renowned illusionist and endurance artist David Blaine.  How is it going Tim?  Watch your step. So David I have wanted to have this conversation for years now.  Yeah I am excited.  Yeah we are going to have fun tonight. And I thought one way we could start is with a video that maybe does not represent the most fun but I think is a good video nonetheless.  Awesome.  This is as close as I come to doing a magic trick.  You are doing good. Here we go. Working the next set of cuffs from behind.   a little bit of air. You guys get ready.  There are some bubbles   Are you ready?  Go go. Go.  Divers are in.  Just relax relax. We got you David. You are all right. You are all right.  The divers are in the sphere.  Okay David. Just relax. We have got you. Come on up. You are okay. You are okay.  They brought him up.  Mandy-Rae Cruickshank got David out of the bubble.  Okay.  So that is a terrifying video. What happened in that particular situation? Why did things go sideways?  In training when I had worked on that the record was I believe at the time was nine minutes. And I would never gotten up to nine minutes. I got to seven minutes and 47 seconds dry no oxygen just breath holding. And I figured if I would starve myself from in the sphere my metabolism everything slows down I would be able to miraculously hold my breath much longer. And it did the opposite effect. So when it came time to do the stunt I had handcuffs on. I was strapped at the bottom and I just started to convulse. They jumped in to get me and you cannot see in the video and I was like No. I held my finger up to stop them   I got this.   because I thought I could keep going but I am blacking out. And luckily they did jump in because he had to take these things off to pull my head above the water.  The shackles.  Yeah.  Seems like one of the main dangers of any type of breath hold training is you feel fine until you are not.  With some of it. But when you black out I learned that Navy SEALs as part of the training what they do is they make the SEALs comfortable with blacking out underwater so what they do is they strap them to 45-pound plates and make them walk the bottom of a pool. And they walk until they black out underwater. And then they get pulled to the top and they are brought back and they are fine but that makes everybody not afraid of drowning.  Right.  You have no fear because you have already blacked out underwater.  You have already experienced the worst case scenario.  Yeah.  At you gave a great presentation it is been a hugely popular talk. But what I remember personally was with a small group sitting in the audience and having you   And you held your breath.   train people. So check this out guys. There is maybe roughly 15 people in the audience.  You got up to almost five minutes I think.  33.  Oh okay.  I remember very specifically. But there were people in the audience who got past five and these were people completely untrained. My breath hold record for me was around 45 seconds. I have lung issues and I got to three minutes and 33 seconds. And there were other people who just kept truckin'. And that was maybe 15 or 20 minutes of exercises?  Yeah 20 minutes total. That was scarier than any of the stunts that I have ever done talking at that conference.  Oh talking at that conference.  The stunts are easy but I was in front of 500 of my favorite people you being one of them. And I had never given a public talk where I was not doing magic so just to stand there and have to talk in front of everybody that I respect so much I was like three days three nights and sleep. So that was its own stunt.  It is all relative right guys? He is not afraid of that but he is afraid to talk in front of 500 people. So whatever your fears might be it kind of puts it in perspective. What was your childhood like? How would you describe your childhood early childhood?  I grew up in Brooklyn with a single mother and we did not have much. She worked multiple jobs but she was so incredible because she allowed me to dream imagine. And also do you see I have leg braces on?  Oh yeah.  I was born with my feet turned in so I could not run fast and I could not swim fast so at the age of five I was on the YMCA swim team and that is where I started to learn to hold my breath because in order to keep up or even be faster than the other kids I learned how to swim without breathing. So all the other kids had to learn how to do this and I would just swim straight across and that is where I started to develop an ability to hold my breath.  Wow.  But back to my mom I could ask for nothing more amazing because she was the best gift that I could have had as a child. And she would walk me through the park all the time and even if I was late for school. One time I was walking through the park and I was late and she was walking me before she had to go to work and I was like Mom look. There is King Kong. And instead of her saying No no. We are late. Let us go. She said Where? She engaged. So we walked all the way over and it was just a log a tree that was down. But the idea that she let me imagine and believe and did not want to stifle that that is what made her so incredible.  How were you introduced to magic or magic tricks?  When I was about five years old my mother gave me a deck of cards and I would carry it everywhere that I went. It was like a treasure to me. And I would go to the library and wait for my mother to finish work and pick me up and one of the librarians one day walked me through a simple book of magic self-working stuff. And when my mother came and I did it to her and she went crazy I became obsessed with doing magic and getting her reaction and then getting her friends' reactions. I never did it for the other kids because they would have been really difficult.  Brutal.  Yeah. So I was lucky I just did it to my mother.  That is a tough crowd.  Yeah.  Did you want to be a magician from that point onward? Or what did you think you were going to be when you were little? What did your mom think you were going to be?  When I was five I said to my mom I am going to be a magician one day. And she went That is amazing. So .  You stuck to the script.  Yeah stuck to it.  How has she affected how you live your life today?  She was so brave. She got sick when I was a teenager and fought cancer. And she fought without a complaint. She was very tough but the way she approached suffering and death was almost like she was so graceful about it that I was curious. The suffering that she endured and how she found so much beauty out of it. I think that was one of sort of planted the seed to what is there on this other side of enduring things that are   And not viewing it as just a bad thing. And you were with her when she passed?  Yeah she died in my arms.  I cannot even imagine.  I remember at that moment I felt like my body was one big twig and it was snapped. And I became really afraid to connect like that to anybody else.  Besides the putting the arm around her or not wanting to necessarily connect in that way did anything else change?  I think also at that point that is when I became fearless because at that point I felt like I had nothing to lose. So when I was 19 or 20 or something like that I was at the airport and my bag was missing and I saw a whole bunch of identical bags coming out and there was all these guys dressed in identical jumpers and I was like I think you guys have one of my bags because I have the exact same bag. It was a TUMI bag. They said Go ask him. Knock on the window. And it was a limousine a while limo parked out front with tinted windows. And I knocked on the window and the thing rolls down and Mike Tyson's there with his fist up. He is like You got a problem? And I was like Holy shit no. Mike you are like my favorite person. And I grew with da-da-da. So he says Jump in. So I jump in the limo with him and we drive to the hotel he is staying at and I am doing magic to him and it is amazing. And along the way he says to me he says You know I was not supposed to be the heavyweight champ. I was not tall enough. I did not have long arms. He is like But I had nothing to lose and when you have nothing to lose you have everything to gain. And that was like another great piece of information from Mike Tyson.  These types of encounters just blow my mind because if I look at their chronology at 18 I think it was and I do not know if this was a milestone or not but I believe this is when you jumped a turnstile got in some trouble for that?  Yeah.  Could you tell people   I was doing magic in restaurants and it started as a waiter where I would do magic and then people wanted to come back and just see me do magic so I started walking up and down Park Avenue and trying to get different fancy restaurants to let me do magic to the people that were dining and then they would tip me. As I started doing that I started getting hired by wealthy New Yorkers to do their parties and things like that. One night I jumped over a turnstile and that is when Giuliani was sweeping everybody so I got locked up. But as I was going there I kept breaking out of the cuffs for the cops so they liked it.  Cops love that by the way. I am kidding.  They actually did.  Oh did they?  Yeah. Yeah yeah.  So you are like Hey guys. These are not working. How did they respond to that?  No no. They were all good. They know that I am not really a threat so it was good.  They know they just have to go through the motions.  Yeah. So I get put in central booking and central booking is crazy. It is like everybody is in and out of Rikers so it is like a tough room and you are being moved from one cell to another and there is like 40 guys in there. And I am like Oh man. I am going to get my ass kicked. So the four biggest guys are sitting on the ground playing spades. So I walk up to them and grab the deck of cards from them. I am like Let me show you something. They are ready to kill me and I start doing magic. And then what happened was they started to go crazy and these are the toughest guys in the cell so then the whole cell is around me 30 guys or 20-some guys all going crazy. And then the guards come in and everybody was reacting to me doing magic. They were all going crazy again. I was like Whoa. So these people on Park Avenue these super powerful people and then in prison these guys the reactions are so amazing and so similar. I want to show that. So that became the impetus for the first TV show which was called Street Magic.  You know the guys that do three-card monte right?  Right.  All right this is that game for you right now.  Not for me bra   No no. No money no money. This is just pretend. It is the three cards used for    a joke.  Hold your fingers like this. Hold your fingers like this. Look watch. This card right? Remember diamonds. Forget ace just diamonds. Hold it pal. What card do you have?  What?  What card is that?  Can I look at it?  Yeah name it. Name it. What is it?  Ace of diamonds.  Diamonds just diamonds. Look show it to them make sure it is all right.  Bingo bango.  All right show it to them too.  Bingo bango.  Bingo bango cool man. Hold it like this. Look. Lower lower lower. Watch. This one same thing. Just remember hearts. Forget ace just hearts. Watch this switch. Ready?  Uh-huh .  See I switched it. Look I will do it again. See it switched back. It just switched twice so quick you did not see it.  Sorry.   off my shoe homey.  Sorry sorry.  Yeah it switched twice. I will do it slow so you can see it. Look here's the move. See how the borders line up?  Do not put it on the bottom .  Look no I am teaching you. I am teaching you right now. That is how I do it. Hold it tight.  I got it tight.  That'ill make it impossible because you know the move. I have diamonds. Ready?  Right.  Without looking at it what would you bet on hearts or diamonds?  I as not betting as not got no money.  All right but pretend. Would you bet hearts here or hearts here? Or could I impress you if the heart was on top diamond was on the bottom?  The heart's on top because you had the heart.  Turn your hand over.  Nope.  Go ahead turn your hand over.  .  Everybody thinks they are so different but really there is also generalities among people so you can really look at a group and you can estimate which person's going to react a certain way and you get better and better the more you do it.  Now I have heard   It is kind of like what psychics do. Sorry to interrupt. Psychics basically when you walk in they profile you right away and they have done it so many times that they can cold read what you do where you are from what you are looking for whether you are skeptical whether you are not. You just learn to read people.  Read the cues.  Yeah.  What are some lines or approaches that you use when you just cold approach somebody?  There was a magician named Harvey Cohen that I used to love. He taught me so much and he would approach people when he would do magic and he was very fumbling with the cards but while he was fumbling cards he was secretly loading cards in your pocket and doing all this stuff so he would approach with this non approach. It was not like Look I am a magician. I am going to amaze you. It was almost like he could not hold the cards so you would be hoping that he was going to succeed. And then at the end when you thought everything had gone wrong and there is two cards in your pocket and one on the  so it was the approach that I always like to do in magic is the opposite of what a magician would do because I always imagine if somebody could really do magic they would not really have big patter. They would kind of be fumbling and they would say Look at this thing and just do something.  Right.  So that was always the approach simple. Simple and understated I think is the best approach.  At what point did you go to acting school? You did go to acting school?  Yeah. I went with Bryan Callen who was amazing. I learned so much from him. He was incredible.  How did you decide to go to acting school?  You know there is a famous quote that Orson Welles said but it is from Robert Houdin where he says A magician is just an actor playing the part of a magician. At that time I was a close-up magician. There was no business in it. There was no way to make a living at it. So I figured I would study acting and take it seriously and maybe apply it to magic and see what happens. And it was a really valuable year because what you learn in acting school is living truthfully in a given imaginary circumstance. So it is interesting because when you apply that to magic it is like instead of these are just tricks you almost believe what you are seeing on some level. Not believe it like Ah how did I do that? But you kind of play into that as opposed to this silly patter and this silly trick. And I feel like the magic comes to life that way. It makes a performance more interesting. One of the best things Bryan taught me there he was an early mentor to me one of the quotes that his dad gave to him is Always surround yourself with people that will inspire you or help you grow. And that was just a great piece of advice from him. I took that very seriously and pursued people that I looked up to or that I admired and tried to learn things from them since I did not have really a father figure or anything like that.  Did you look for father figures throughout that adolescent period or was it   Yeah.   more surrounding yourself with peers?  Early on I would read about all the people I looked up to and that was like my college was finding people that did things that I was really amazed by and then learning as much as I could. And then what I started doing is I started finding all the books on Nobel Prize winners. And then in literature specifically and then I would read what books they recommended. And then I would read the books that they recommended. And on the back of that book it would be what this book was influenced by. So I started going through lots of that stuff.  The original hyperlinks bibliographies.  Yeah.  Yeah. When did you start fasting and why?  I have been obsessed with fasting since I was a kid but I think it started when my mother gave me Siddhartha to read the Hermann Hesse book. And I read it when I was 11 years old and in it he fasts and he stands and he does these things where he sees the world in a different way and he realizes that he can control his body with his mind. So that was the beginning of the seed of the curiosity. And then loving the way you feel when you fast. Colors change. The blues become vibrant. You notice the sky. You become more emotional. So I took everything away and it was incredible.  The fasting Siddharthas one of my favorite books.  Really?  Oh absolutely. And I remember   Have you guys read that? It is amazing.  It is a short read. It is a short read and I remember at least in two instances he is trying to court this noblewoman I think she is and he is also trying to get a job with a merchant at one point. And they ask him because he is effectively at least acting the part of monk at the time they say What can you give? What can you do? And he said I can think. I can wait. And I can fast.  Yep.  And he talks about the value of not being beholden to food. And he says For instance if you ask me to work for you right now and I needed food I would have to say yes to whatever you offered me. But he is Since I can fast I can think about it more rationally. But I have done seven and 10-day fasts. I have never gone as far as you have but it is incredible when you click over from carbohydrate dependent to pulling on your fat stores. Cognitively everything changes. It is very very interesting. You cannot go back to how it was before in terms of viewing food and so on.  Yeah that is true.  It is totally different. Looking back over your stunts all the magic the endurance feats which ended up being more dangerous than you expected or scarier than expected?  Probably the 44 days with the water fast in London in a box because I think I went into mild organ failure and I dropped 33 percent BMI which was well documented but the recovery on that I think to this day it still screwed up my metabolism and my weight goes up and down really fast and it did real damage.   vitamin deficiency. So the pigment leaves.  David Blaine who has been there 44 days. No food only water.  I lost 60 pounds in 44 days.  The plexiglass diet.  Not recommended in any way shape or form.  Not recommended. Your dietician will not have this on the multiple choice options. What did you are refeeding look like after that?  That was the really interesting part. After I did the 44 days I was rushed to the hospital where I stayed for I think two weeks. When they started refeeding me I think my phosphate levels jumped out of control and I almost went into shock and died. And that was the refeeding syndrome.  Yep.  We published the paper in the New England Journal of Medicine about the refeeding syndrome which is because most hunger strikers in the past they do it and they are very anti-government it is for a statement. Whereas I just did it as a performance piece and therefore I was willing to give all my blood and all my urine to doctors and let them use it as research. So it actually became useful in a sense that there was a real documented study of the prolonged effects of fasting.  44 days.  Or starvation technically yeah.  Were there any of your performances on the flip side that you thought were going to be very difficult or very scary that were easier than expected for you for whatever reason?  Nope.  What does magic mean to you because you do so much more than illusion and magic. You really have a full-stack performer kit at your disposal. But what does magic mean to you?  For me it is just a beautiful performance art. It is something where  and it is also you learn a really difficult skill. It defies logic. And then you have an immediate reaction to it. So it is something you can do almost anywhere anytime. And it is also a constant pursuit of information but information that is not readily available. So it is like you have to dig up history. You read about a guy that had done something from 100 years ago. He died took his secrets to the grave. So you spend years trying to understand how he did it and it is trial and error practice repetition. And then finally all of a sudden you are able to do these things that you had only read about. One was called The Human Aquarium which is about a guy that could convert his body into an aquarium where he could store creatures. Yeah I am not kidding.  This is a real trick?  Yeah. Another was a magician   So wait he would put a sturgeon in his mouth and regurgitate it?  Well anything. Yeah anything that could live in water and land. Then you also find there is another guy that was The Human Dragon and he could drink kerosene. It would float on top of a gallon of water in his stomach and then he would blow fireballs out of his mouth igniting a huge fire and then just when you thought that was the end he would use a gallon of water that was stored in his stomach and put out the fire. Of course one time he did it wrong and died and took his secrets to the grave.  Inadvertently.  Yeah but I see the footage and I am like I want to do that. So I spent 20 years trying to figure it out and I could not because nobody had the secrets. So I was like Oh man. Maybe this is not such a smart idea to do.  We are going to pull up this video involving an icepick.  You can see how complex and how dangerous to take an object and put it through your hand is. And especially where David is doing it there is a whole complex of arteries there.  You want me to pull it out?  Yeah.  Gnarly.  Oh.  Nothing. Just a hole. But nothing just a hole.  There is not any really blood on this thing either.  Nothing. Explain that one Dr. Reuben.  Okay.  I do not think that deserves applause. I think that deserves like You are out of your mind.  Condemnation. Off the stage.  But ironically before I leave I brought another thing similar that I have an x-ray of that I will show you that I recently learned. So I will show it to you before I go which is a little crazier than this one I think.  The only way that I can even begin to approach talking about that is let us assume that it is totally real you actually figured out how to put that through your hand. That is the only place I can go with it. What is your self-talk when you are practicing that?  Houdini used to do this thing where he would push pins through his face and then pull them all out swallow razorblades pull them out threaded but there are ways to do things that are real that you would assume it cannot be done because you would assume that you are going to bleed but there is a way to  And I started with acupuncture needles just trying to see if you could go straight through. I had x-rays taken MRs done the whole thing so I could know where all the blood vessels and everything lie. And then I found a sweet spot and just started slowly figuring out how to go through the hand.  Is there any particular trick or stunt that has obsessed you for a long time that you have not yet been able to figure out?  Yeah the craziest one. I have been obsessed with the idea of sleep deprivation. No but when you do sleep deprivation like the Native Americans would do it and you get this really incredible hallucination.  Dream quest.  Yeah. So I have done five and a half days with no sleep and for me hallucinations start to really kick in at 55 hours from standing up the whole time and it is a really rough environment. And even though it is scary it is also like you are having these dreams and these nightmares but you are awake. But the North Koreans used it as a ultimate form of torture on the Americans when they were hostages and many of those hostages came back tweaked for life. So what is the breaking point?  The risk-benefit   Right.   analysis may not be in your favor. I remember at one point one of my favorite parks in New York City Bryant Park was that where you were on top?  Yeah.  I was going to stand on this pillar for a day and a half with no food no water and nothing to catch me if I fell. My legs are numb. My back is numb. But at the end of this hour I am going to jump. I am going to jump straight down. Hopefully I will survive.  I remember reading at one point that talking about hallucinations the buildings became like wolf heads or something?  Yeah animal heads. Yeah. When you look back and see the shapes of just normal buildings and you suddenly think Wow that looks like a lion. I was up there for 36 hours but I started hallucinating at hour 30 but just light hallucinations so the buildings that were behind me that were perfectly flat I started looking at was like Wow I did not know those buildings were lion heads. So the people down below   That is a light hallucination?  Yeah that is light. So the people below that were working on the thing and the people at ABC suddenly decided that there was no way I was going to hit my target so they built this huge thing of boxes. It was enormous which pissed me off. And I ended up jumping and hitting the mark but that was during mild hallucinations.  Have you ever learned anything from your hallucinations? Very curious. Not trying to imply that have to   Yeah. Yeah yeah. For sure.  Just curious because I am in my mind comparing to say some descriptions of the psychedelic experience but it is different.  No. Yeah also you have that as well but one of the things that I did learn is that out of anything that I did that was extremely difficult when your brain starts to go when you start to lose control of your mind there is nothing as horrific imaginable. It is like I never understood when somebody has mental illness I never understood how severe that is. But when I go through those things and it is all of a sudden the world becomes scary because you do not have control anymore. And I learned that now anybody that I meet that has any kind of mental illness in any way I am extremely compassionate to. Not just compassionate I am like This is the craziest thing ever.  When that starts to set in have you developed any strategies to cope with it?  That is interesting because basically what happens is your brain is trying to trick you. So the brain knows that you need sleep so the brain can recover and your immune system recover everything is built  what happens is when you are staying awake even if you have people helping you your brain is coming at you with your biggest fears and anything that is your weakness your brain is trying to say this is happening to you and you need to go to sleep otherwise this is going to get worse and worse. So you start seeing blemishes appearing all over but they are not there. You see your hand change into spider webs. Everything that would freak you out so you would decide I cannot do this anymore is going so you have to do it often enough and have a very sensitive careful team around you that are guiding you almost that teach you how to override what your brain is trying to tell you to do.  That is pretty wild.  Yeah it is pretty wild also a trained skill.  Do you have any fears? What are you afraid of or what makes you anxious? Anything?  First I used to be horrified of insects. I would see a cockroach ahh! But I think I learned that from my mother because she was really afraid of bugs. But then I went to Botswana Africa and I was sleeping in this little tent with these hippos circling the tent all night and you are there by yourself and you are in this little tent filled with spiders and all these bugs and they become your good friends because these hippos could chomp you in half in one second.  You are mentioning something that I think is really worth underscoring because it seems to have come up a couple times which is if you are afraid of something you can try to think your way out of it or you can just expose yourself to it and inoculate yourself with these small doses.  Yeah.  If someone for instance Cato who was considered the perfect stoic and he cared how people judged him at one point. He was very concerned with how other people felt about him so he started wearing odd-colored clothing and so on so that he would get ridiculed. He did it on purpose so that he could practice not caring about being embarrassed about things unless they were truly important. And practicing poverty similar idea. Even say if you take Seneca or some of these other famous stoics and they would take a certain period of time and eat the cheapest of food sleep on a hard floor   Sleep on a bare floor   Exactly.  .  So that they would know is this the condition I so feared is what they would ask themselves. I want to pull up some audience questions from Twitter. This is Tykoe. What are somewhat average things that you cannot do despite all attempts?  Dance. Karaoke.  Karaoke God. Yeah that is a tough one. Not much I always do Nothing But a Hound Dog. I do not know why. It is like my default. I am like I cannot do karaoke but that is my go-to.  It is like wearing the odd clothes so you can be a stoic. We should just go out and karaoke until we are .  Be hard watching at least I am. The next question is somewhat related to what we were just talking about. What is your secret reserve of strength when you feel that your body or mind cannot push through?  That is a really good question. What I do is a lot of it is based on numbers. And I run it across the board. If I am going to run a 10k I make sure that I get not just to the 6.2 but I will go always further like maybe to seven. Or I will pick a number that is important and then I have these superstitions that if I do not get to this number something terrible's going to happen. So by committing to this almost superstition that is based on numbers you can use the halfway mark like Okay I am going to get to 22 days of a fast but I know I have 44 days so first I reach the 22-day mark and then I start counting backwards. I say But I already did half so now I can pretend I am starting fresh so I have 22 days to go so let me get through another 11 days. And it is basically just breaking it down in little chunks but making sure that you get to that finish line.  Did not you do something or have a very similar superstition when you were a kid in school really like your school bus? You had to do certain things pull a leaf off a tree or   Oh yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah yeah. Yeah I would stop and there would be a leaf that was just out of reach when you would jump and I would just keep jumping and jumping and then I would have to put something down until I got that. It was just little things. But it is weird because for me it was almost like training because I would set a goal that very difficult and then I just would not quit until I got it. And part of it was the superstition of doing this ridiculous thing that has no meaning but just not quitting until it is done.  This one's from Facebook. This is Patrick Mukuka Zgambo. I like this question. I have 90 days to practice to perform a close-up magic event. What skills should I focus on to maximize my results in such a small timeframe?  The way I do it is not the way others do it but what I like to do is I like to commit to something and put myself in the hot seat because I already committed to doing something that I am not ready for. Like your thing when you did   Sure.   a week to get ready to do something so you are all in because you have no choice. So even just when I do certain big magic stunts or feats I announce them before I do them and then I work diligently to get there. So I would say find a few things that you really like work on them research them learn how to do them. And they are going to be very messy.  Yeah.  Keep working until you start to figure out how to do it among friends and family just let me try this. Try it try it over and over. And then go out maybe to a friend's part or wherever you are and try it over and over and over and over. And after you fail a few hundred times you might start to become okay at it.  Yeah. And I find also with a lot of these questions like this and you made a great point people are looking for more information or some type of particular way of training but what they really need is just social accountability and the incentive. So if you publicly announce it you will figure out how to make it work.  You are committed to it.  I have a buddy A.J. Jacobs. He lives in New York. He is a writer for Esquire really good guy. And he could not lose weight despite all of his attempts. And he was not obese. He described his physique as a python that swallowed a goat. Just middle-age paunch.  Like in The Little Prince.  Yeah. And he wanted to fix it. And he had all the diet books he just was not doing it. So he is a Jewish guy. He wrote a check I believe it was to the American Nazi Party for 1000 gave it to either one of his best friends or his wife and said If I do not lose 20 pounds by the end of next month I want you to mail this in. In which case his name would be on the record public record as having donated to this organization. Lo and behold he lost the weight. So I think the accountability is such a huge part of it. What are you learning right now? Josh Anderson on Facebook.  What am I learning currently? What I am working on is I am trying to figure out how to put together a stage show because I have never really conquered that and have not done it in a way that I feel is right yet so I have been working just getting up on little comedy stages and trying out different things. And the idea of being able to do something in an intimate room and then also in a bigger room that is my goal. So that is the thing I am working on diligently and I am most consumed with right now. And it is a big learning curve.  Yeah.  You need to do thousands of shows before you really figure out what you are doing.  Yeah.  So it is hard to get that time and space necessary. But that is my big goal.  Working on your material in a way   Yeah figuring out how to work that  yeah.  I remember watching Comedian the documentary with Jerry Seinfeld and also another up and comer. It was so sobering and reassuring to watch because you see Seinfeld who is one of the biggest stars in the world at that point and then he goes back to work on new material as a standup. And you just see him bomb. You see him bomb in these little venues and he just forgets his lines and he just sits there on stage and he is like Wait a minute trying to remember his lines. It is just excruciating but it is reassuring in the sense you are like Okay this guy it is not like he just wakes up in the morning with a finished one-hour set.  No.  You just have to put in the time to hone it and refine it. When you think of the word or hear the word successful who is the first person who comes to mind for you?  My mother. She was a school teacher and she came from a very powerful family. Left her family moved to Brooklyn. Decided to do social work and teach and things like that. And she was really incredible and really cared about doing and helping and giving. So to me that is the greatest thing you can do. She was in that regard extremely successful.  What is success to you personally?  When you give as much as  I think Bill Gates is a great example because he is made so much money but he basically figured out that he can figure out how to give better than most institutions can so he directs his money outwards. It is not like I want to have so much it is like I want to amass this amount so that I can give it to the right places. I think that is really important. For me personally it is one of my favorite stories around Thanksgiving whenever I can I go to BAMC which is the Brooke Army Medical Center and I go into the burn unit there where all the kids that are burnt from the war and just terrible tragedies. So every year that I would go I would try to get everybody that I can and one year there was a kid named Victor who was 21 and a really handsome kid that got blown up in a Humvee and when he was rushed to the hospital he had basically been burnt exactly on half of his face and the top of his head. But half of his face was completely burnt the other half was perfect. And he would not go out. He would not interact with the other people. He stayed in his room. He was more angry that he was suddenly burnt on half his face than the actually losing the fingers losing the ears all that stuff. And I asked the nurse Have I done everybody? She said Yeah but there is one kid but he will not see anybody. He will not even talk to the nurses. He will not meet with the therapist. Nothing. I said Bring me to him. She said No no no. He will not see anybody. I said Just bring me to him. So she asked his mother who was standing in the room with him all the time dying inside and the mother is like Sure. My son's not going to talk to him but sure. I walk in and he is stone faced. He will not even look at me. And I grab his hand which people do not touch him like that like nothing's wrong. So I grab his hand Let me show you something. Hold your hand out. And I start doing magic to him. And all of a sudden because I am not treating him like he was disfigured suddenly I see him interested. Then I keep going and he cracks a little smile. And I see his mother when that happens bawling in the corner but holding it in. So I am fighting my hardest not to cry. Anyway I completely finish doing magic to the guy. I put my hat on his head because you should not do it because it is open wounds and I leave the hospital content that now I have done magic to everybody including the guy that did not want to see me. And then I decide to come back the next morning the day after Thanksgiving and the mother comes out and she is bawling. And she says to me when she sees me she is like Right when you left my son let the nurses put him in a wheelchair and he went out with the other guys and he started his physical therapy. So it was just that little bit of treating him like there was nothing  So I came back the next year and he had had all this  he looked really good. He had all this reconstructive surgery and it was in Texas and I took him out for dinner and then to a strip club. We had the time of our lives. It was amazing.  Wow. It is hard to follow that up with just about anything. What is your if you have one your end goal with magic? What keeps driving you?  I think the ultimate goal is just I always wanted to just bring magic to the people. Just bring magic in a good way or in a new way or in a different way. So that is the end goal. Maybe we should try something in here.  Yeah you could try something in here. You guys want to try something live? All right. How should we begin?  Can I take the x-ray? One of the new things that I have been working on might be hard to see but I will let you hold this up. This is an x-ray. Can you all make it out somewhat? Can you all see what that is? Yeah there is a sword that I recently learned how to push all the way inside like a sword swallower basically. And I learned it to work on one new trick. So if I could  yeah good. So here's my little  now you guys are seeing this when it is brand new. And this is much bigger than the one in the picture. The one in the picture is actually pretty thin. And the esophagus is very very thin so I am going to try to push this down inside. And lots of people assume when sword swallowers do what they do that it is a trick but it is really not and I recently learned that in studying this. I do not know if I am going to succeed but we will try. You have got to come closer though to make sure it is real.  Okay. Yeah that is real.  I am not going to have him try it yet. I am going to give Tim a week to learn it. Let me give this  it might have some food and stuff  no I am just kidding. Shall we try this one other thing?  Yeah.  Yay.  I will let Tim help. This is something else I have been working on which is a strength thing. Just because you are the closest do you want to help with this?  Sure.  Do you mind? You will have to jump up on stage. I will give you a hand here. Good. So one of the things I have been obsessed with is just feats of strength. But Tim can you mix the deck? Shuffle it up.  Not very good.  Let him shuffle too.   too.  I am like my  skills are   But you agree they are all shuffled. There is no order nothing like that. Yes?  Mm-hmm .  So Tim. I am going to give you a quarter of the deck.  Okay.  Just   Tear it in half?  Yeah tear it in half. Exactly.  Oh God. Here we go.  All together so it is one neat rip. Here make it neat all together.  Oh my God I am trying.  You are going to mess this up. No but put them like this flat. And then rip it so it is one unit. Otherwise you are ripping one card at a time.  That is the only way I can do it.  So it is difficult.  It is difficult.  So I am going to teach you the technique right now. The idea is this. So see I pinch here and then it is almost pretty simple. See.  That was very cool.  But okay you know what which half do you want?  This one.  Okay so take that. And now do this for me. Pick up a bunch of cards put them on bottom.  Yep.  And put them on the bottom. Good. And do it again pick up a bunch put them on bottom. Great. Now every time you do that the top and the bottom card and the middle cards everything is going to change. Understood? So every time you do it the order changes. Yep? This time I want you to do it behind your back. So behind your back I want you to cut the deck complete the cut and then keep them behind your back. And they are slippery. Do not let them spill. And take either the top piece or the bottom piece and hide it in your pocket. Either the top or the bottom it is up to you. And we do not need the rest of the big pile. Good. So here's the idea. Can I give you these?  Yes.  Just to show you that they are shuffled you did mix everything up correct?  Yes.  Yes. I am going to have you just choose one from inside. Actually we will do a few. So here you just reach in and pull one or two. One is fine. Now let me just say something. Most people would go for the obvious card like the ace of spades or even the king. You did not do that. You shifted. You went to a card that was not obvious.  What card was it the seven of spades? So when you chose you had the choice and you shifted around and pulled one but behind your back you did not know what you chose. You just pulled a card without looking and hid it in your pocket correct? So you have half of a card in your pocket and there is another half of a card in your hand.  You want me to take it out?  Sure. Let everybody see. Put them together see if they fit.  David Blaine everybody. If you had a huge billboard could put anything on it something short meaning get a message out to the world what would you put on it?  The last thing that my mother said to me is God is love.  What does that mean to you?  To me it means that love is the ultimate God so loving everything and everybody and not being filled with hate or animosity or fear and trying to find love  to me that is the ultimate in life.  David Blaine you are amazing. Guys give it up for David Blaine. Thank you David. Thank you guys.   